Migori county education stakeholders have come out to defend Education CS George Magoha over calls to sack him for insulting a local official. The stakeholders from Nyanza region said they stand with Magoha, urging President Uhuru Kenyatta not to fire him. Peter Odondi, chairman of the National Parents Association Migori chapter, said Magoha may be abrasive, but as a cabinet minister and administrator, he has delivered effective policies. Odondi said when Magoha joined the ministry, he ensured the Competency-Based Curriculum was rolled out and books sent to schools. “We are satisfied with his performance, he is a good performer but he should swallow his pride and apologise since one wrong can’t undo what he has done,” Odondi said. His sentiments were shared by Migori Knut secretary Caleb Opondi who said those calling for Magoha to be fired had gone to the extreme. The two said Magoha also managed to streamline free education funds and included public administrators like chiefs and their assistants to ensure 100 per cent transition. “He managed to put in place transition, which is good despite most learning institutions lacking infrastructure, with dining halls turned into dormitories in extreme cases,” Opondi said. He said Magoha should tone down on his abrasive style and not insult or intimidate juniors, who may be senior education officials. Magoha is under seige as calls are increasing to remove him for publicly calling a colleague an idiot. Several stakeholders including senators have called on the President to take action against Magoha for insulting the county Education chief in Uasin Gishu, Gitonga Mbaka. Magoha was touring a primary school on November 6 and was dissatisfied with hygiene and tidiness. He blamed Mbaka who tried to explain and even had written a report on the situation. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is investigating Magoha's public behaviour. Mbaka recorded a three-hour statement on Wednesday in Eldoret. Already the Public Service Commission has stripped Magoha of all human resource responsibilities and transferred them to Education PS Belio Kipsang. Magoha is unapologetic and says he won't relinquish any part of his docket unless the President orders him to do so. Edited by Kiilu Damaris