Sugarcane farmers in South Nyanza have joined their counterparts from Western and Nyando Belt in supporting Sugar Regulations 2020. They opposed calls by the Council of Governors and the Senate Committee on Agriculture to reject the regulations. The farmers – drawn from various associations, including the Smallholders Sugarcane Farmers Association of Kenya – vowed to sustain nationwide demonstrations against the leaders. They warned that they will send them packing come the 2022 election if they do not back off. Last week, farmers from Western and Nyando belts termed “selfish and mischievous” the move by governors and senators to reject the regulations being fronted by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. The Council of Governors' Committee on Agriculture and that of the Senate held a meeting to deliberate on issues affecting the sector in Mombasa on Friday. They rejected the reforms, with the lawmakers summoning Munya to respond to queries raised. But meeting in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay county, the farmers dismissed the leaders as enemies of progress. Smallholder association's organising secretary Vitalis Okinda said they support the document because it will fully benefit them. He noted that for the first time, the sector has reforms that will help it rediscover its former glory. The farmers accused the governors and senators of advocating policies that directly hurt them. “The governors and senators are not cane farmers. How do they speak on our behalf? We are fully supporting Agriculture CS [Peter Munya] for the Sugar Regulations," Okinda said. "It’s now mandatory for millers to pay cane farmers in seven days. We want its implementation as soon as yesterday." He asked the leaders to cite specific areas they feel undermine farmers' welfare. “We don’t want politicians to mess up with our sweat," Okinda said. The senators and governors had warned Munya against initiating new regulations in the sector without involving county governments. They accused the Ministry of Agriculture of developed a legislative and regulatory framework without involving the counties. Edited by Francis Orieny