Several chief officers in Wajir have been reshuffled in a bid by Governor Mohamed Abdi to improve service delivery at the grassroots level. Employees must focus on serving residents to ensure benefits reach the grassroots, Abdi said as he made the changes on Wednesday. Abdullahi Hassan is the new Finance chief officer while Rahma Dekow takes over at the Economic Planning department. Abdirahman Abdille is the new Revenue and Resources Allocation chief officer. His colleague in the Public Health and Sanitation docket is Aden Omar. The Education and Vocational Training is Yussuf Dayib while Nur Sheikh will be in charge of Trade. Bare Amin was moved to Manufacturing, Investment and Industrial Development also as the chief officer. The county executive members of the affected departments are required to be in charge of the handing and taking over, according to a November 4 letter from county secretary Abdullahi Maalim copied to the governor. “They should ensure reports are submitted to the office of the county secretary once the exercise is complete and not later than Monday, November 9,” the letter states. Abdi had early this year during the mid-term performance review of the executive, chief officers and county public service board members, said the surest way of earning public trust is when the team works and attends to the needs of residents without favour. He said he was keen to deliver on the promises he made to the electorate and warned he would not hesitate to "crack the whip if need be on those out to sabotage his administration". The governor stressed the importance of employees giving value for the money earned as salaries and allowances. “Each one of you, be it a CEC, a chief officer or even a director, has his job cut out. You know what is required of you at all time. You should remain professional and adhere to set standards,” the county chief said. He said people should do their work without somebody necessarily monitoring or pushing them. "When you fail to deliver on the ground, you are failing me." Abdi urged the new CPSB members to be impartial and honest as residents expect high levels of integrity. The county chief presided over the swearing-in of the board members at the county assembly chambers. During the signing of performance contracts mid last year, Abdi warned that those who failed to comply would be shown the door. At the same time, he said those who met set targets would be rewarded. "Employees have free will, but they must be wary of the consequences," he said.  - mwaniki fm