Kenya has launched a direct weekly cargo flight from Mombasa to the United Arab Emirates. The inaugural flight, a Dreamliner 787, which is a passenger flight re-purposed to carry cargo, left Moi International Airport Mombasa on Wednesday night with 30-tonne cargo of fresh produce, ornamental fish and sea food. It was destined for  Sharjah Airport international airport. Mombasa has for a long time been doing business with Middle East countries. The flights will promote trade efficiency and timely delivery of Kenyan exports from the coastal city of Mombasa to the Middle East, KQ management says. KQ will initially run one weekly cargo flight from  ferrying mostly tropical fish, fresh produce, seafood and other cargo. It will gradually increase frequencies and destinations as demand grows, CEO Allan Kilavuka said. Speaking in Mombasa,  Kilavuka said the national carrier is committed to support the export and tourism business from Mombasa. “We have seen opportunities and we believe there is viable business in Mombasa. We want to support the business community in this region,” he said. He said two Dreamliner 787, which have been repurposed to carry cargo, will be deployed to serve the coast region. Initially, all export cargo from Mombasa destined from Middle East nations was being transported from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. “For those who do not know, this is a Dreamliner 787 passenger aircraft, which has been repurposed to carry cargo. It is not the right equipment for this business, but we have to start from somewhere,” said Kilavuka. He said this shows the level of commitment they have in supporting the cargo business from Mombasa. “We have all the intentions to continue flying produce from Mombasa to different parts of the world. We want to support the export business from the region,” he said. Plans are also at an advanced stage to start direct passenger flights from Mombasa to other parts of the world, said Kilavuka. He said they are reviewing the proposals. “We are looking at the business case around passenger services from Mombasa to other parts of the world. If it is makes business sense, well start it as soon as soon possible,” he said. Kenya Airports Authority commercial manager, Jack Bwana, said the authority will do it's best to support airfreight business not only in Mombasa, but across all the airports in Kenya. “At Moi International Airport, we have already ear-marked a location where the second ultra-modern cargo handling facility will be built and the ground breaking will be done soon,” he said. Others present during the function included Mombasa County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, Mombasa county agriculture executive Tendai Lewa among others.