The Kenya Medical Association (KMA) has said the virus is still infecting and affecting healthcare workers across the country. KMA noted that since the reopening of the economy in August, Kenya has witnessed a steady increase in Covid-19 cases and fatalities and positivity rate. In a statement, KMA president Dr. Were Onyino said that since the virus struck the nation in March, 1,500 healthcare workers are infected, and many are fighting for their lives in hospitals across the country. The Association noted that the counties have not fulfilled the HRH recommendations by the Ministry of Health on the ratio of health workers to patients. Said the situation will soon be unable to handle the health burden occasioned by the pandemic and the other medical needs. "With reduced numbers of healthcare professionals on the frontline, there is an increase in the workload and a high incidence of burnout, mental and physical exhaustion," Onyino said. He said that up to date, the Covid-19  health workers' compensation package approved by the Cabinet has not been effected. The association leader added that many frontline workers do not have a proper medical cover despite their daily commitment to save the lives of Kenyans. "The incentive to care for patients is slowly dwindling as health workers explore other opportunities. The time to act to improve health worker conditions and curb community transmissions now. Any delay will result in more expensive interventions in future and longer time to build back better." He also said that the death of Dr. Daniel Alushula, a senior orthopedic surgeon in Kakamega who was instrumental in the provision of surgical services in Western Kenya is a big blow to them. KMA's Request to the Government 1. Hire more health workers to ensure every Kenyan has access to the highest attainable standard of healthcare, as envisioned in the constitution. 2. Provide adequate and quality personal protective equipment to all health workers. 3. Implement the compensation plan for health workers and pay salaries on time. 4. Equip Covid-19 isolation facilities to respond to the surge in infections. 5. Coordinate testing contact tracing and surveillance of Covid-19 infections.. 6. Fast track the formation of a constitutional Health service commission to sort the perennial health workers' issues and ensure quality health services. To curb the community spread of Covid-19, the association has recommended the following as “circuit breakers” to stop the cycle of transmission: 1. That the government bans all large gatherings including political rallies for a period of no less than 30 days. 2. That the government enforces adherence to the Ministry of Health guidelines for bars, restaurants, and clubs especially for those operating in total disregard of the guidelines. 3. That the government reinstitutes strict restrictions on movement within counties that are experiencing a spike in infections. 4. That the government enforces strict compliance to public health measures including physical distancing, hand washing, the mandatory wearing of masks, and testing in keeping with the Swiss–cheese approach of curbing the infections. 5. That the county governments improve access to Covid-19 testing and equip health facilities to accommodate and care for Covid-19 patients, particularly those in need of critical care. 6. the government ensures strict adherence to Covid-19 preventive measures in schools through linking them to healthcare service.