Kenya will get a polio vaccine listed by the World Health Organization under emergency use to address the rising cases of the disease in areas of low immunisation coverage. The nOPV2 vaccine by Indonesia’s BioFarma is the first to be listed for emergency use amid outbreaks in several parts of the world. The emergency use classification for polio vaccines paves the way for a potential listing of those manufactured for Covid-19. Polio or poliomyelitis is a disabling life-threatening disease caused by the poliovirus. The virus spreads from person to person and can infect a person’s spinal cord, causing paralysis. It lives in infected people’s throat and intestines. The WHO says the last steps in ending the disease are proving more difficult despite a reduction of cases by 99 per cent in the last 30 years. Outbreaks of circulating vaccine-derived polio have risen— a form of the virus that can arise in areas where vaccination coverage is low. “cVDPVs are rare and occur if the weakened strain of the poliovirus contained in the oral polio vaccine circulates among under-immunised populations for long,” the WHO said. “If not enough children are immunised against polio, the weakened virus can pass between individuals and over time genetically revert to a form that can cause paralysis. According to the global health agency, type 2 cVDPVs are currently the most prevalent form of the vaccine-derived virus. Kenya last reported the vaccine-derived poliovirus in April 2018, when Kenya Medical Research Institute scientists found live polioviruses in sewage samples from Eastleigh estate in Nairobi. Based on risk analysis, Mombasa, Nairobi, Lamu, Tana River, Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit, Kilifi, Turkana, Isiolo and Mandera remain vulnerable to the vaccine-derived polio. Unicef and WHO said cases of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus have increased nearly five-fold globally over 2019 levels, with evidence of international spread. The two UN agencies said more than 60 planned polio vaccination campaigns in 28 countries, including Kenya, were suspended this year due to the Covid-19 lockdowns. About seven million children in Kenya are under-immunised against measles while about 2.6 million in 11 counties did not receive booster jabs against polio. “We cannot allow the fight against one deadly disease (Covid-19) to cause us to lose ground in the fight against other diseases,” Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said in a statement. The WHO says the emergency use listing procedure involves a careful and rigorous assessment of available quality, safety and efficacy, targeted use of yet to be licensed vaccine, treatments or diagnostics for response to a public health emergency of international concern. The process begins with assessment of phase II and phase III clinical trial data and additional data on safety, efficacy and manufacturing quality. “WHO prequalification will assess additional clinical data generated from vaccine trials and deployment on a rolling basis to ensure the vaccine continues to meet the necessary standards of quality, safety and efficacy for broader availability,” the agency states. Poliovirus enters the body through the mouth and spreads through contact with the faeces of an infected person or droplets from sneeze or cough of an infected person. According to the US Center for Disease Control, about one out of four people with poliovirus infection will have flu-like symptoms that may include sore throat, fever, tiredness, nausea, headache and stomach pain. 