@magatinews The anti-graft agency has launched 23 county-focused risk assessment programmes and aims to cover the country and end the graft "epidemic". Ethics and Anti-Corruption officials say the CRA's purpose is to seal loopholes through which public money is often siphoned. EACC commissioner Rose Macharia said the agency wants to ensure systemic holes through which executives loot funds are identified and sealed for good. The move follows sustained efforts by governors to secure immunity for themselves within the Building Bridges Initiative. On Monday, commissioners visited Nyamira where they launched the first scheme of the CRA. The commission aims to reduce spiralling cases of graft in all 47 counties. “We are alive to the fact counties are not immune to misconduct related to fiscal expenditure," Macharia said. "The purpose of this CRA is to provide proper and concrete advice to them on how they can strengthen systems of governance and management. We believe this will enhance services and performance," she said. The commission wants to partner with all agencies and the public to confront the epidemic of corruption in the country, Macharia said. "Fighting graft is now multifaceted and every Kenyan has a role in the fight," the commissioner said. Nyamira county where the programme was launched has been on the EACC radar over irregular staff recruitment. Already, some staffers have been arrested and a case is ongoing at the Kisii law courts. In Kisii, the commission is investigating the irregular procurement of a fire engine and massive recruitment of staff. The commission is also probing a health insurance programme in which more than Sh7 million public funds were allegedly lost. Going forward, the EACC aims to examine systems, policies, procedures and practices in all counties. Macharia said CRA is part of the commission's preventive strategy to enable public institutions to detect, combat and prevent corruption. The programme will also examine unethical practices in the management of public resources. At least 22 counties have already benefited from the programme. Speaking in Nyamira, the commissioner urged residents to support it. She said significant steps have been taken against graft in many counties through CRA. "We are proud of this," she said. The five-member CRA team in Nyamira will be led by supervisor Emily Chege, an economist and team leader and auditor Stansilas Ondim. Others include alternate team leader, Isabella Nguchara (supply chain expert), lawyer Judith Langat and ICT expert John Mwatsuma. They will submit a report. The CRA will cover all the functional areas of the county executive and assembly, Macharia said The commission cites key areas as conflict of interest in procurement and recruitment, payments for works not done, use of revenue at source including teaming and lading, fraudulent acquisition of public property, payment of incomplete works and nepotism. (Edited by V. Graham)