Juja Farm residents in Juja, Kiambu, will soon enjoy a smooth road after the government started construction of their main road. The road has been in a deplorable state for decades, causing untold suffering to residents and investors in the transport industry. The 7km road, which is an extension of the 75km Gatundu-Juja-Juja Farm road, is funded by the government through the Kenya Rural Roads Authority. Roads Principal Secretary Paul Maringa, who spoke during the launch in Juja town on Tuesday, said the initial budget for the road was Sh3.3 billion but it was enhanced to Sh3.9 billion to facilitate the extension. The contract has been awarded to H Young Construction Company and the project will be complete in six months. “This road is very critical in opening up Juja Farm area to spur growth. The population in the are has grown immensely, with investors putting up industries and real estate developments. The road will be of great benefit to all,” Maringa said. The PS said the road is part of the Sh30 billion Mau Mau roads that are being constructed in Kiambu, Murang’a and Nyeri counties to open up the regions. "The road is a major bypass through Ma-store, Athi and Gatuanyaga in Thika and has been a perennial headache for the residents of Juja Farm estate,” he said. “We will first do seven kilometers to Juja Farm, and then in the coming budget we shall extend the construction to the remaining 28km through to Komo, Githima and the Garissa Highway,” Maringa added. It will only accommodate smaller trucks for its durability and will have weighbridges to prevent heavy trucks that ferry building stones from destroying the road. Other roads being constructed in the subcounty are the extension of Kenyatta road and the tarmacking of the Bob Harris road. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro said road users will be relieved after years of complaining over its poor state and empty pledges by politicians. Last year, former Governor Ferdinand Waititu launched construction of the road in Juja Farm. But work never started.