Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, a Tangatanga loyalist, has said the Building Bridges Initiative report will save the country from tension and conflict every election year. "If you ask for my honest thought about it (the BBI) my opinion is that it is good, it is a win-win document. "Creating the office of the Opposition leader in Parliament definitely removes from the streets the constant pre-electoral skirmishes that we witness every five years," he said. BBI, Maangi said, will stop the early campaigns by those who lose in the presidential polls. "There is nothing good seeing an opposition figure having people from his party earning while he is idling at home. In the new arrangement, he would now be handling the day-to-day operations of a shadow government. This will wean him off from running the streets agitating for a rerun," Maangi said. Maangi welcomed the BBI proposals increasing funding to the counties. "It is definitely a welcome relief and nobody has a problem with this. I don't think anybody should have any problem with it," he said. The staunch supporter of Deputy President William Ruto said, however, that the issues raised by the DP are valid and should be addressed. The Kisii deputy governor spoke to journalists at his Ogembo home in Bomachoge Borabu. He said Tangatanga supporters were not rejecting BBI in total for “it contains very forward-looking proposals” helpful to the country. He asked that proponents of the document — ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta — to agree to candid conversations ahead of the referendum. Speaking in Nyeri last week, Ruto said that he was not opposed to the document but wanted an inclusive debate on key issues he outlined at the Bomas of Kenya when the report was unveiled. “As a leader we do not want to sacrifice aspirations of Kenyans on the altar of leaders sharing posts. Instead, we want a document which encompasses all issues related to the common mwananchi which must dealt with," the DP said. On Friday, Maangi said it is important that all voices be heard in the process to make amendments to the country's Constitution.