Minority leader Michael Ogada on Thursday tabled a notice of impeachment against Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. He listed four grounds, submitted signatures of MCAs and evidence in support of the allegations in the motion. Ogada said he will table evidence to support the grounds next week on Thursday. " We will not keep on watching and waiting forever. We ( Nairobi MCAs) have made a decision to bite the bullet and make sure normalcy is brought back to the city," said the Embakasi MCA. "The only thing we can do as MCAs is to send him home and the people to bring us another governor and then we move on. The residents must see services being delivered," Ogada added. Some of the grounds listed against Sonko include; 1. Gross violation of the Constitution (Violation of the County Government Act 2012, Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015 ), Public Finance Management Act, 2012 and Constitution) a) Violation of the deed of transfer by continued willful refusal to execute the statutory warrants essential to release of funds from the County Revenue Funds which has grounded services in NMS and the county Executive. b) Undermining the authority of the county assembly by failing to implement resolutions from the county assembly. c) Flouting the principles of the public finance management  act on public procurement of goods and services where the procurement process of the Dandora Stadium was flouted by the Procurement Regulatory Authority. d) Violation of deed of transfer by the refusal to hand over the necessary documentation to enable Kenya Revenue Authority to undertake optimal revenue collection under the transferred functions. e) Sabotaging the deed of transfer of functions by refusing to provide NMS with crucial information necessary in aiding the carrying out of the transferred functions] f) Unilaterally and arbitrarily issuing waivers in total disregard of the law as waivers should be granted by the CEC for Finance g)Use of conditonal grants from the National Government by diversion or negligently causing to be diverted conditional funds. He diverted  us of road levy and bursary funds to pay for garbage collection contractors and lawyer , contrary to the Bursary fund regulations and the approaved budget. h) Failure to copmly with regulation of the public finance management that has compromised the provision of health services envisioned under Part Two of the 4th Schedule of the constitution  2010, inter alia most crucial provision of health services during the ranging pandemic. 2. Abuse of office a) Intimidated, molested and harassed officers of the county executive including blackmailing CECs and Chief Officers with one year contract. b) Using public funds to pay for his daughters travel to New York to allegedly attend the county first lady’s conference held during the Commission on the Status of Women 2018. 3. Crimes under national law a) Governor has committed crimes under National law, specifically the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act, which crimes he has been charged for in the Anti-corruption court. 4. Gross Misconduct a) Persistently and willfully using, publicizing and publishing abusive and unbecoming words and language, as evidenced by his social media posts and numerous rants that demeans the office of the Governor. b) Being on record admitting he was intoxicated and not in the right state of mind while signing the deed of transfer. In his own words “ Hawa watu wa state house waliniconfuse na pombe kwanza by the time I was meeting the president for signing I was just seeing zigzag.” This allegation of impropriety on the part of statehouse imputes improper motive on the Office of the President and brings disrepute, ridicule, hatred and contempt to the office of the President and Governor. c) Failing to professionally perform his constitutionally sanctioned duties owing to his constant absence from office even before he was barred from accessing the office. d) By drawing a salary and hefty allowances and enjoying the privileges of the office he holds, while failing to diligently report to work and being absent before being barred from office.