In an interesting turn of events, Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa says his office acknowledges and considers the contentious broadcast rights endorsement from embattled Gor Mahia Secretary General Samuel Ochola. Gor were among the four top-flight clubs opposed to the seven-year deal between Football Kenya Federation and StarTimes but Ocholla went ahead to sign the deal to the dismay of club chairman Ambrose Rachier. Ochola's actions saw him earn a suspension for insubordination with his boss, in a letter insisting that the endorsement he signed at Kandanda House was null and void. However, during the unveiling of the partnership on Thursday, Mwendwa maintained that Ochola was an elected official and his signature meant the club had given the deal a clean bill of health and vowed not to turn back. "Gor have given us the endorsement and we will go with that. The document was signed by a bona fide elected official and we will treat it as official. They will sort their internal issues later," he said Mwendwa, who insisted that the federation had exclusive rights to the partnership which contrasts Rachier's version, called on the trio of Ulinzi Stars, Mathare United and Zoo FC to raise their concerns with the league committee. Rachier has had a firm stand that clubs cannot cede their broadcast rights and should be allowed to independently negotiate with StarTimes. "According to our constitution, all rights to the league belong to FKF and we have exploited them to bring a partner on board. We have written to the three clubs and encouraged them to sign so that we can move forward in harmony. They are our members and if they have issues, then we invite them to share with the committee but should not hold the rest at ransom, " he added. In the meantime, newly appointed league committee chairman Azu Ogola said he anticipates local action to scale to the next level courtesy of the financial benefits they will reap from StarTimes. "The sponsorship is positive and a welcome relief for clubs who have been hit hard by the economic effects brought by the coronavirus pandemic. It will help clubs meet their day-to-day financial obligations as well as go a long way in ensuring the welfare of players is well taken care of. We will ensure that a large chunk of the money goes to clubs rather than meeting administrative costs, " said the KCB FC chairman. The deal, alongside that of title and Radio, sponsors BetKing and Milele FM respectively, will see each club bank at least Sh10 million per season. The winner of the league will pocket Sh 5 million and will enjoy a rare moment of hoisting a gold-coated trophy which, according to Mwendwa, will arrive in the country from Dubai in 25 days time. Further, all the club's apart, from the champions will divide amongst themselves Sh 5 million depending on the how they place in the standings at the end of the season.