ODM leader Raila Odinga gave up some of the BBI proposals he initially supported as he and President Uhuru Kenyatta reached out to the opposing groups. Raila spoke on Thursday as indications emerged that Deputy President William Ruto felt that the revised document had addressed most of the issues he raised. "Most of the issues he raised have been addressed. Although there are a few other people who are still unhappy progress has been made. It is not too late to build further consensus," said his spokesman Emmanuel Tallam. Although Raila wanted the current IEBC commissioners re-vetted, it is understood that he gave up that demand after a series of meetings with various interest groups. He dismissed insinuations he was caught off guard in the changes made in the Bill to implement the BBI report "We wish to clarify that Raila was party to the changes and in agreement with the contents of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. "He used the KICC event to highlight the contested proposals that found their way into the Bill as well as those that were abandoned and also to make the point that not all views, however strongly held, including his, were accepted into the Bill and it should not be a reason for actors to oppose the process," his spokesman Dennis Onyango said. He said his take on the IEBC changes was not the only one that was not factored in the final Bill, which was unveiled in a ceremony led by President Uhuru Kenyatta. On this, Raila said he also gave up his call for the Senate to vet and approve nominees to constitutional and independent offices. It has also emerged that the DP was becoming isolated after other key party leaders including ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka rallied behind the BBI referendum. The DP met governors Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Stephen Sang (Nandi) and Stanley Kiptis and former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjiri at his Karen home. Details of the meeting were scanty but a source told the Star that the DP held private talks with the four leaders as part of his broad consultations on his next course of action. The DP was a no-show at thekey BBI event on Wednesday when Uhuru and Raila launched the collection of signatures. His absence sent signals that he could be warming up to rally the NO vote, a  political duel analysts say could potentially drain him ahead of the 2022 General Election. If he opposes the vote, Ruto would be running against the State machinery, a year to the 2022 presidential contest. He had on Wednesday tweeted that he was still hopeful there was some room for consensus. However, it is unlikely the Bill could be reopened up for amendments after signature collection kicked off. Mudavadi who had initially raised some concerns said his party had gone through the final document and concluded it was satisfactory. “We have again taken a detailed study and analysis of the Bill and we are satisfied that the bill has been revised, edited and realigned to incorporate new proposed amendments, some of which we indeed had proposed,” he said. Mudavadi said the Bill has demonstrated a significant shift from the earlier proposals and for that reason they are encouraged by their insistence and that of many others such as the church that consensus was given a chance. Kanu chairman Gideon Moi hit the road and started popularising the document when he visited Narok. The Baringo senator teamed up with Tiaty MP William Kamket,  Kanchory Memusi (Kajiado Central) and former Interior minister Julius Sunkuli in Narok to drum up support for the document. “Much of the public resources have been stolen and that is a fact. It is now envisaged in the BBI that it will be bye when we pass this and that is why we are here supporting it,” Gideon said. The Kanu chairman said every Kenyan will be forcefully required to disclose how he acquired his wealth. He spoke when he launched the BBI signature drive in Kilgoris town in Narok County. Kamket hit out at Tangatanga for failing to attend the launch at KICC saying that they were not ready for constitutional change. "It is good that Kenyans have showed these leaders that whether they like it or not, the journey to get a new Constitution is unstoppable," said Kamket. Memusi said those opposing the new document are "enemies of this country". "Nobody should have reasons not to support the constitutional change because the interests of all the people are catered in the new document," said Memusi. Despite the latest BBI proposals having addressed some of Ruto's concerns, some in DP's camp remain unappeased. Among key issues Ruto had raised which have now been expunged in the final Bill include the creation of the Police Council chaired by the Interior CS and political parties nominating IEBC commissioners. However, the DP's foot soldiers have now narrowed down on the expansion of the Executive and bloating of the Legislature as among issues that they say make the BBI proposals untenable. They have also termed the distribution of the 70 new constituencies as biased. On Thursday, some of the members of Ruto's think-tank including former Senator Johnson Muthama(Machakos),  Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki warned the BBI proponents to brace for a bruising No campaign. “We have no option other than to rally Kenyans to reject the Bill which seeks to serve the interests of just two people,” Muthama, an influential member of Ruto's inner circle, warned. Muthama insisted that unless a window of consensus is reopened to thrash out some of the radical proposals, which would overburden Kenyans, promoters should be certain of a No card. “If they won't bring the Bill back for consensus, then we will have no option other than to rally Kenyans to reject it. It is either there is consensus or we shall reject the Bill,” Muthama insisted. Kindiki told the Star that if the promoters of the BBI referendum become “naughty and choose to be obstinate” by ignoring key and justified proposals, then a No campaign will emerge naturally. The former Senate Deputy Speaker said the BBI promoters have a choice to avert a No campaign by building consensus or face the consequence at the ballot. “If the sellers of the BBI referendum proposals ensure that they have incorporated the views expressed by various sections of society after the release of the proposals, there will be no need for a No campaign,” Kindiki, a key Ruto point man from Mt Kenya East, told the Star. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr insisted that any constitutional amendment Bill cannot be reopened for changes by any other parties once the promoters cause it to be published. “A popular initiative, once it is drafted into a Bill by its promoters can only receive a vote of Yes or No from the county assemblies and Parliament,” Kilonzo said.