You work in an office building where the overhead sun seems to penetrate the roof right on to your workstation and burns the back of your neck almost every weekday. Even the fan set rotating at the highest speed doesn't help apart from circulating air to tricking your brain to think you're cool. In the evenings, the cold in your house makes you think you're practically sleeping under the stars. Whenever it rains, you hear the bang of raindrops amplified as if you were walking outside under a large umbrella. Any of these scenarios sound familiar? Perhaps exaggerated but not off the mark in principle. Over the recent past, roof insulation has increasingly become a primary concern in both commercial and domestic applications in Kenya. Often ignored or overlooked because of knowledge gaps, budgetary considerations or unavailability, this simple instalment can play a crucial role in making buildings more comfortable. Depending on the material used and the method employed, good roof insulation can provide an effective barrier against external air, heat, cold or noise. Roof insulation also plays a crucial role in reducing heating and cooling costs for residential and commercial buildings. The notion that these materials are not locally available has been debunked. Many still think that you can only get these materials from the US or China and wait weeks while you make an order. However, thanks to Jumbo Chem Kenya limited, you can get them locally and within hours. Jumbo Chem Kenya Ltd is a leading manufacturer of sustainable solutions in building construction and packaging using the latest manufacturing technology of the highest international standards. Where to find them Located at Go down 1, ICD Road off Mombasa road, Wall Street Business Park, Jumbo Chem Kenya Ltd is easily accessible. You can also call +254 202 102 513 or +254 786 210 251. You can also send an email to info@jumbochem.co.ke Roof insulation solutions It is vital that roof insulation is put in correctly without compromising its effectiveness. Jumbo Chem Kenya Ltd offers quality solutions in insulation with products including the following. Super Heavy Duty Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Super Heavy Duty Roof Insulation is double-sided reflective foil insulation, with a 10mm thick 100% closed-cell polyethylene foam core, that provides the benefits of radiant barrier, reflective insulation and a moisture barrier. It protects your roof space from heat build-up due to radiant heat penetration by acting as a heat barrier to protect all services within the roof space from drying out, cracking and degradation due to solar heat gain. It is a cost-effective insulation that is suitable for use in metal deck roofing system in residential, commercial, industrial and horticultural buildings where temperature variations are moderately/relatively high and where there is a need to reduce the disturbing rain noise Heavy Duty Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Heavy Duty Roof Insulation is double-sided reflective foil insulation, with a 5mm thick polyethylene foam core, that provides a radiant barrier, reflective insulation and a moisture barrier. It protects your roof space from heat build-up due to radiant heat penetration by acting as a heat barrier to protect all services within the roof space from drying out, cracking and degradation due to solar heat gain. It is a cost-effective insulation that is suitable for use in metal deck roofing system in residential, commercial, industrial and horticultural buildings where temperature variations are moderately/relatively high and where there is a need to reduce the disturbing rain noise. Double Aluminum Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Double Aluminum Roof Insulation is a 3 in 1 reflective foil insulation solution combining the benefits of reflective insulation, a conduction barrier and a moisture barrier. The product reflects up to 97% of radiant heat and provides high resistance to heat conduction making it the ideal insulation product for both hot and cold seasons.It is suitable for use in metal deck roofing systems in commercial, industrial and horticultural buildings. Can be used in residential buildings, manufacturing facilities and warehouses Regular Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Regular Roof Insulation is light duty double-sided reflective foil insulation, with a 2mm thick polyethylene foam core that provides a radiant insulation, a conduction barrier and a moisture barrier. It is a cost-effective insulation that is suitable for use under timber and metal trusses in residential and commercial buildings where temperature variation or heat level is minimal or where ceilings are in use Flat Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Flat Roof Insulation is a semi-rigid board, made of low density, closed cell polyethylene foam. It is ideal as an under or over roof membrane insulation. It does not break and can take the weight of ballast or pavers if the roof area is also subject to pedestrian traffic. The product can be easily cut and shaped to suit a variety of geometries. Jumbolene® Flat Roof Insulation is available in a range of thicknesses to meet required R-values. Fire Rated Roof Insulation Jumbolene® Fire Rated Roof Insulation is a 3-in-1, high quality double reflective roof insulation, designed for use in buildings where fire risk is high. It meets the highest international standards in quality and has been tested for compliance with applicable requirements of ASTM E84-15; Test for surface characteristics of building materials (UL 723, UBC 8-1, NFPA 255). Wall/Container Insulation Jumbolene® Wall Insulation is a semi-rigid insulation foam consisting of fire retardant low density, closed cell polyethylene foam. The product offers effective thermal insulation against heat gain or heat loss. Jumbolene® foam has an ideal strength to weight ratio, unmatched versatility and ensures high performance and exceptional energy efficiency in a wide range of applications. It is ideal for all internal and external wall systems including concrete, metal, brick, stone and timber wall applications, internal cavity walls, pre-fabricated structures, cold stores and cool rooms. Get quality insulation today Visit Jumbo Chem Kenya LTD at Go down 1, ICD Road off Mombasa road, Wall Street Business Park or call +254 202 102 513 or +254 786 210 251. You can also send an email to info@jumbochem.co.ke