What next after the unveiling of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) now appears to be the new political battleground sharply dividing the country’s political class. Since the launch of the report, two camps have emerged – one pushing for amending the report while the other is fronting the report as it is. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies are leading calls to pass the document as it is while Deputy President William Ruto's brigade have been pushing for amendment.. A spike in Covid-19 cases has put President Uhuru Kenyatta in a dilemma on whether or not to reimpose restrictions to stem the spread of the disease. The President indicated he is faced “with a very difficult time” of deciding what to do following a sharp increase in cases after he lifted tough restrictions in August. The world is experiencing a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and several countries have already reintroduced even tougher restriction measures. Regions in Italy, France, Spain and Germany are introducing curfews and tougher social-distancing rules in a bid to avoid a return to full-blown lockdowns. Four members of Parliament have left the country to observe the United States elections pitting President Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo, who is vice chairperson of the Justice and Legal Affairs committee; Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni – chairman Constitution Implementation Oversight Committee; Balambala MP Abdi Shurie – member of the CIOC; and Kisumu Senator Fred Outa left the country yesterday. The delegation of four is expected to be in the United States for about five days, their trip being among the first since Covid19 disrupted travels. Rent waiver is the latest battleground between Nairobi Metropolitan Services director-general Mohamed Badi and Governor Mike Sonko. Badi says Sonko has no authority to give rent waivers to those residing in county government houses since housing is one of the transferred functions. Two weeks ago, Sonko gave a six-month rent waiver extension for tenants, citing Covid-19 financial challenges. In his October 23 notice, the governor accused the Kenya Revenue Authority and the NMS of harassing vulnerable county tenants over rent arrears despite their suffering as a result of Covid-19. The Senate Liaison Committee has accused the EACC and ODPP of failing to take action on 60 files it has investigated and established that the country has lost billions of shillings. Speaking during a retreat in Naivasha at the weekend, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang said no action had been taken a year after they had completed their investigations. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka also took issue with the Executive for "ignoring Senate summonses to address critical issues". Leader of the Majority in the Senate Samuel Poghisio said state agencies were notorious for sending junior officers who could not make decisions, a move that was adversely affecting the work of the Senate.