Chief Justice David Maraga has said he has no regrets for the judgements he has made in his career, as his retirement from the Judiciary approaches in January next year. Maraga said all that matters is that he carried out his duties with fidelity to the law of the land. He said he has strived not to subvert justice by dancing to the whims of individuals on ego trips. “If I endeavour to please everybody, I will do no justice. As a judge, I am bound to decide cases on the merits of the evidence presented before the court. I have to act in accordance with the law when making my judgements,” Maraga said. The CJ was part of the bench that annulled the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 and ordered a rerun because of the flaws at the polls. And last month, he told the President to dissolve Parliament over its failure to implement the two-thirds gender rule. The President has yet to act on the advisory. Maraga said as he begins his journey to retirement, he goes home a happy man.  He said he is a devout Christian who has had no desire to appease those in power by subverting the law. The Chief Justice spoke at Borabu in Nyamira on Friday where he presided over the opening of the Borabu Law Courts. The courts will help clear the backlog of land cases filed by the residents. Maraga said once he steps out of the Judiciary, he will find more time to spend with his natives in Nyamira. “I will definitely be freer and be roaming around often to enjoy your company and continue to do what God has destined us to do,” Maraga said. Maraga said were it not for the prayer warriors who had been praying for him, he could not have made it. “I owe you for the unwavering prayers, coming this far shows I have people who believe in the power of prayers and who have not ceased to pray for me,” he said. In his tenure, Maraga said judges have made rulings that may have touched those in authority the wrong way but said that is the pain of justice. “That is what we call justice and we must be ready to accept it,” Maraga said. Also present was Borabu MP Ben Momanyi who praised the Chief Justice for his unwavering loyalty to the Constitution. “I recall in his latest advise to dissolve Parliament he was literally taking food away from my table but that is what it means to stand by the law,” Momanyi said. Law Society of Kenya South Kenya president Wilkins Achoki urged Uhuru to facilitate the swearing-in of the 41 judges recommended by the Judicial Service Commission. Ochoki said more judges are required to help clear the backlog of cases in the law courts. 