Experienced top-flight defender Wilson Anekeya says he is ready to start off the new season when the Football Kenya Federation Premier League resumes after a long break occasioned by the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The fullback, who currently plies trade for FKF PL newbies Bidco United following his move from Zoo Kericho on October 19, will be looking forward to a new exhilarating experience as coach Anthony Akhulia shapes his team around him and 10 other new players brought in by the Thika-based side to make the squad more competitive. Anekeya believes that the team is strong enough to challenge for a decent finish in the top tier and has warned opponents to underrate them at their own peril. Although Anekeya appears to be focused on a higher prize, coach Akhulia, on the other hand, is definitely taking a bypass from pressure and has chosen to take a more cautious approach after pointing out during an interview on October 26 that his main goal this season would be to maintain a slot in the Premier League. "It's our maiden season in the BetKing Premier League. Our target is to maintain consistency in the top tier. Over time we can be able to challenge for silverware," said Akhulia. Akhulia signed 11 players with KPL experience including Stephen Waruru who was acquired from KCB, Noah Wafula who previously turned out for Tusker and AFC Leopards, Luke Ochieng (Western Stima), Batts Awita (Nzoia Sugar), Anthony Gathu (Murang'a Seal), Edwin Mukholwe (Nairobi Stima), Piston Mutamba (Wazito) and Victor Ayugi (KCB). Bidco will kick off the season away to Posta Rangers in Machakos on November 22 as per the tentative fixtures. The youthful coach has, however, admitted he is under intense pressure to deliver results as Bidco gears up to face more experienced and seasoned sides in cut-throat competition. Their first baptism of fire will be against giants AFC Leopards on November 28, exactly a week after their date with the mailmen. "Of course, I'm under pressure. As a coach in the top tier, you have to deliver positive results. The fact that I am the youngest coach also weighs down on me," said Akhulia.