Before the Covid-19 pandemic half of Kenyan children suffered abuse, now Covid-19 has made an already bad situation worse. Child protection lobbies have expressed worry over the surging cases of violence against children and exploitation during the pandemic. According to the lobbies, there is an alarming violence pattern with the poorest and most vulnerable members of society being hardest hit both by the pandemic and the response. This came up during the virtual launch of a three-year Joining Forces Alliance child protection project on Thursday in Nairobi. The project seeks to strengthen child protection and response systems, and improve protection in resilient families. Speaking during the launch of the Sh1.2 billion European Union-funded project, lobby leaders said some measures put in place to contain the virus have further increased the risks of physical, sexual and emotional violence against children. According to the Ministry of Social protection and the United Nations, the pandemic has exacerbated an already bad situation. Justice Martha Koome, chairperson of the Task Force on Children Matters, National Council on the Administration of Justice, said there is a spike in the violation of children's rights countrywide. She called on the JFA to ensure that children get justice when abused and commended the police for having a front desk where children's violations are reported and action taken. “I applaud the national police for being at the forefront of protecting children, being the first response when there is need. Children's lives are being totally upended. I appeal to families everywhere, and leaders at all levels, to protect our children,” Koome said. She said the commission is committed and willing to join and support the JFA and other children's rights agencies. Collective responsibility is key in the fight, Koome said. European Union Delegation in Kenya Deputy Ambassador Katrin Hageman said figures by the Ministry of Health show that children are directly affected by the effects of Covid- 19. She expressed concern over rising gender-based violence, adding that the project will be first implemented in Nairobi, Bungoma, Busia and Kakuma refugee camp. “JFA has been allocated resources that will be able to cater for 78,210 children who will be direct beneficiaries of this project,” she said. Hageman said the initiative has been launched at an opportune time when the government is also implementing similar projects. She praised the government for mitigating the effects of Covid-19 by putting into place appropriate containment measures as well as ensuring availability of resources to manage the pandemic. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya