Kenya Basketball Federation are hoping for better logistical preparedness ahead of the second leg of the Fiba Afrobasket 2021 qualifiers in February next year. KBF treasurer Peter Orero, who headed the delegation to Kigali, Rwanda, said that they will prepare the team adequately for the coming challenge. “We want to get things rolling early. Despite playing with nine players, the team did well and this was a clear indication of what we can do with a full house,” Orero noted. Kenya were placed third behind Senegal and Angola in the Group B matches despite missing their dependable players Preston Bungei and Tom Wamukota. Also, skipper Griffin Ligare missed the first two games against Senegal and Angola before returning for their ultimate tie against  Mozambique, which was also their only win. Coach Cliff Owuor admitted that in Ligare’s absence, he did not have an out and out playmaker, relying on Eric Mutoro and Victor Bosire to fill the void. Wamukota, a reliable centre who pulled down a record 18 rebounds during Kenya’s 74-68 victory over South Sudan in the January pre-qualifiers in Nairobi, did not come home to train with the rest after the end of the Rwandese league. Instead, he went for an international tournament in Kinshasa, DR Congo where he was subjected to the country’s quarantine protocols by the time the tournament was held, thus missing out. The enthusiastic Bungei, 25, was not cleared by FIBA Africa since he could not produce a permanent Kenyan passport. He revealed that the federation will bring home France-based Joel Awich and Sebastian Ododa from USA. The duo are children of former national team stars Lynette Awich and Sebastian ‘Stanza’ Ododa — both based in America. “If we get the two players and train well, we will easily sail to the AfroBasket championships next year,” said Orero. “We will bring home all the players based abroad in January so that we can have everybody training together for the assignment as our focus is to return the team to the African map.” “It was unfortunate that Bungei could not play despite our efforts but we will definitely have him in February. We eventually secured his passport but Fiba said the technical meeting had already barred him,” he explained. Morans lost their opening Group ‘B’ game against Senegal 92-54, went down to Angola 83-66 in the second before owning Mozambique 79-62 in the last. Orero said captain Mutoro, Tyler Ongwae, Ronny Gundo, Ariel Okall  and Valentine Nyakinda gave a good account of themselves as well as Desmond Owili, before he sustained an injury. Okal said: “We need to prepare better for February.  We have to train hard and work on our game plan. If we had a full house we could have beaten anyone.” Victor Bosire added: “Let all our guys come. Angola for sure is falling and then we battle Senegal. We need to just rest like two weeks especially now that the league is not there.”