Three Nairobi Jubilee Nominated MCAs have been summoned by the party after being accused of disregarding party positions in various matters. The MCAs, Ann Thumbi, Silvia Museiya and Millicent Jagero are to appear at Jubilee Headquarters in Pangani on Friday at 10:00 a.m before the Disciplinary Committee. The three female MCAs are affiliated with Governor Mike Sonko. Thumbi are Museiya are allied to Deputy President William Ruto. At the centre of the summons is the much-contested Nairobi City County Appropriation Bill, 2020 that had been earlier rejected by Governor Mike Sonko. “You are hereby required to appear on November 27, 2020, at 10:00 a.m when the complaint against you will be heard by this committee at Jubilee party Headquarters in accordance with the Jubilee Party Disciplinary Committee Regulations, 2017,” reads the letter from Jubilee Party. The letter dated November 24, 2020, It is highlighted that complaints had been raised by the Nairobi County Assembly Majority Whip Paul Kados on November 4, 2020. The female MCAs have been accused of disregarding the party position expressed in a memorandum from the Governor on the Nairobi City County Appropriation Bill, 2020. They have also been accused of actively campaigning, opposing and frustrating the budget estimates for the Financial Year 2020-21 contrary to the party’s position. The vocal legislators are also said to have undermined the party’s leadership both at the National and County levels and mobilizing while openly associating with those opposed to the Party’s position on FY 2020-21 budget and Governor’s Memorandum. However, Thumbi are Museiya claim the summonses have nothing to do with Governor Sonko or the budget but their decision to support DP Ruto. They have been publicly seen attending  DP Ruto's functions and anti -BBI forums. Museiya, who is a lawyer by profession and the Assembly’s Education Committee chairperson told the Star she will honour the summons but she knows it has to do with her stand against the Building Bridges Initiative. “I can clearly tell what this is about and I know it is about my stand against the BBI. But I will appear before the disciplinary committee,” she said. On her side, MCA Thumbi who is a nurse by profession claimed the charge sheet by the Jubilee Party reads like fiction and alleged the contents therein are stranger than fiction. “It's interesting that out of an assembly of 122 members, only two of us are singled out for 'having opposed' NMS budget, never mind that members from other parties too did the same for strategic reasons. Again, out of a county assembly that has 66 Jubilee MCAs, only two of us, are being pursued!” “This clearly, has nothing to do with the alleged NMS budget that flopped on the floor of the house, nor even recently but in a distant past,” Thumbi said. Spilling the beans, she alleged that there is an ongoing collection of signatures in an attempt to impeach Governor Sonko. MCA Thumbi said that she foresees being dewhipped from committees as part of the “ punishment” from the party. “ For this, I am ready. I will face my accusers' mano o mano. I'm not shaken. I won't be intimidated. Alluta continua !! God, above all,” she said. Thumbi came out to the spotlight last year in August after Governor Sonko told mourners that she had a son with the late Kibra MP Ken Okoth.