World Health Organisation has expressed concern over the worldwide surge of measles, with the disease having killed more than 207,500 people globally in 2019 alone. The cases in 2019 were 869,770, the highest number reported since 1996 with increases in all WHO regions. WHO says that deaths jumped by 50 per cent from 2016 to 2019. Of more concern is that necessary efforts to control Covid-19 have resulted in disruptions in vaccination and crippled efforts to prevent and minimize outbreaks. In Kenya for instance, immunisation for MV1and MV2 declined drastically from February level of 79 per cent and 45 per cent respectively, increasing the number of susceptible children. Kenya has currently reported a 33 per cent disruption in general vaccine coverage due to Covid-19. According to the global health agency, the surge in cases and deaths is attributed to failure to vaccinate children on time with two doses of measles-containing vaccines (MCV1 and MCV2). In Kenya, supplementary immunisation campaigns are conducted periodically among children less than five years or 15 years based on the number of susceptible children. “We know how to prevent measles outbreaks and deaths. These data send a clear message that we are failing to protect children from measles in every region of the world,” WHO DG Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus said. “We must collectively work to support countries and engage communities to reach everyone, everywhere with measles vaccine, and stop this deadly virus.” Kenya is among 28 countries that suspended vaccination campaigns die to Covid-19 disruptions resulting in 2.6 million children missing booster jabs with another seven million estimated to be under-immunised. WHO now says that failure to vaccinate the children now would lead to a resurgence of the disease, resulting in as many as 200,000 new cases annually around the world within 10 years. “These alarming figures should act as a warning that, with the Covid-19 pandemic occupying health systems across the world, we cannot afford to take our eye off the ball when it comes to other deadly diseases,” .” Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance CEO Dr. Seth Berkley said. Berkley added: “Measles is entirely preventable; in a time in which we have a powerful, safe, and cost-effective vaccine nobody should still be dying of this disease. Covid-19 has resulted in dangerous declines in immunization coverage, leading to increased risk of measles outbreaks.” In October, a study by Kemri-Wellcome Trust Research Programme estimated that the chance of a measles outbreak in Kenya at 40 per cent. Kemri said the increased risk of an outbreak can be overcome by conducting a supplementary immunisation activity with 95 per cent coverage in under-fives. Experts now want countries to prioritize measles catch-up immunization with urgency through routine services to mitigate the risk of outbreaks and ensure no child goes without this lifesaving vaccine.