Persons living with disabilities may soon access free assistive devices if a motion is adopted in Parliament. The motion by nominated MP Dennitah Ghati seeks to compel the government to provide assistive devices and required medical items free of charge to persons with disabilities. Ghati on Thursday said this will range from wheelchairs, crutches, diapers, walking aids for those who are visually impaired, drugs for those who are mentally challenged, sunscreen oils and talking computers. According to the 2019 census report, 2.2 per cent of Kenya's population live with disabilities. This is equivalent to 0.9 million people. The 2019 census report however indicated a sharp drop in disability prevalence at 3.5 per cent as compared to 2009 with a disability prevalence rate of 3.8per cent. The 2019 census further indicated that 1.9% of men have a disability compared with 2.5% of women. There are more people with disabilities living in rural than urban areas with a prevalence rate of 2.6 per cent (0.7 million) of people in rural areas and 1.4% (0.2 million) of people in urban areas. Ghati said it is very unfortunate that in this modern society, persons with disabilities are still facing a lot of discrimination, especially from their relatives. “Madam Speaker I visited a place and found that just because of consistent and persistent needs, a person with a disability had been confined in a room with animals,” she said. “We cannot talk about the rights of living a dignified life when those with disability are discriminated. The government must help them access mobility devices among other facilitation,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Ole Sankok who said it is unfortunate that Kenya still has persons with disabilities crawling on the roads to access markets and schools. “ It is dehumanizing and it is pathetic. We need these Assistive Devices provided for our people to be able to live a dignified life. Students cannot be crawling to pit latrines in school because this lowers their self-esteem. This condition has subjected them to very harsh conditions,” Sankok said. He said disability has become a burden to many families because many are forced to stay home so that they can take care of their kin with disabilities. Kathiani MP Robert Mbui said, “All of us are potential candidates for disability. Just like it supports other vulnerable groups, the government should support persons living with disabilities”. Mbui said it is ironic for the government to give a monthly stipend to the elderly and orphans yet discriminate against those with disabilities. “The elderly and orphans get a stipend but when it comes to persons with a disability we are told the government only focuses on those with severe conditions. We must remind them that any little form of disability disorients someone’s life,” he said. Vihiga Woman Rep Beatrice Adagala said it is heartbreaking to hear the narratives of how persons with disabilities are being treated in the country. “Getting these assistive devices has been a challenge that has seen some people take advantage, we must as a house rise to the occasion and see this bill passed to help our people,” she said. Isiolo North MP Hassan Oda said many persons with disabilities cannot access basic rights like a right to education for such children. “The issuance of Assistive Devices to them for free will be a boost to accessing their rights because even the constitution directs that they be treated with dignity and facilitated to access education and other facilities,” he said. Oda said it is unfortunate that some communities perceive disability as a curse thus many with the condition will be hidden from the public. But Seme MP James Nyikal said the issuance should be done in a progressive manner as the government would claim it has no money to cater to their needs. While seeking an amendment to the motion, Nyikal said if adopted, it would play a key role in easing the burden of disability to many families. “The Proposed Amendments by Nyikal are great, but they have great budgetary implications hence must be approved by the Committee on Budget and Appropriations if the proposed motion by Ghati is to be effectively implemented,” Tharaka MP George Murugara  said.