At least 1,000 youth from Teso North constituency will benefit from a new partnership between the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) and Chamasiri Technical Training Institute. The partnership will see the youth trained in various technical courses. Area MP Oku Kaunya said he will empower school leavers with skills for self-employment. Kaunya said youth unemployment is a ticking time bomb which leaders should fight against. “I will continue to advocate for quality education and acquisition of skills as a means to eradicate poverty,” the MP told the Star. “In our pursuit for youth empowerment, we have launched the training of 1,000 youth in plumbing, electrical installation, fashion and design, welding, mechanics, beauty and hairdressing among others.” The training for 1,000 beneficiaries will kick off in January 2021. The first time MP said, in his strategic development plan, he intends to train the 1,000 youth in skills acquisition. Another 500 will pursue diploma courses at the Chamasiri Technical Training Institute. Two weeks ago, Chamasiri TTI graduated 119 students who pioneered the NITA training in welding and tailoring skills. “We will continue to pursue more partnerships with NITA, the Ministry of Labour and other organisations to provide employment for our youth. We request that the Ministry of Labour establishes a NITA mentorship and skilling centre in Teso North to offer our youth with skills,” Kaunya said. When Labour CS Simon Chelugui toured Chamasiri Technical Training Institute on October 30, the CS said youth unemployment was on the rise and the Covid-19 pandemic had worsened the situation. “While our country has been having unemployment challenge, especially among the youth, the current Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated this situation,” the CS said. “If there is ever a time that we needed to invest in our current youth, that time is now. The youth need information on skills, occupations and economic sectors that are in high demand. This information will help them make informed career choices.” Official data shows that about 800,000 youths enter the labour market every year after graduating from learning institutions above the secondary school level. The data also shows that the youth constitute 80 per cent of unemployed Kenyans. Players in both the public and private sectors have indicated that unemployment in the country may worsen as Covid-19 cases continue to rise since businesses are crumbling as government streamlines its expenditure because of low revenue.