The football fraternity in the country has had a sigh of relief after the Ministry of Sports permitted the resumption of football activities with the Kenyan Premier League set for a November 27 kick-off. The government on Monday gave Football Kenya Federation the green light to stage competitions, behind closed doors and in adherence to the Ministry of Health Covid-19 containment measures. The decision comes exactly eight months after the government imposed a ban on sports activities, forcing FKF to cancel all competitions. AFC Leopards and Posta Rangers will set the KPL ball rolling this weekend at Nyayo Stadium and Ingwe captain Robinson Kamura could not be happier after months of uncertainty. Kamura said Covid-19 served as an eye-opener for local players who at one time had to rely on the goodwill of fans to make ends meet. “We are all elated with the news. The pandemic left us devastated because we went for months without an income. We had to depend on donations from fans, who at one time withdrew their support after some got laid off from work,” said Kamura. “Now that the competition is back, we have our eyes firmly fixed on the title and possibly a place in the CAF Champions League at the end of the season.” FKF dispatched a circular on Saturday asking clubs to avail a list of players and officials to undergo Covid-19 tests beginning yesterday with Bidco United, Kariobangi Sharks, KCB, Sofapaka. Bidco’s Wilson Anekeya has echoed Kamura’s words, terming the news as the best ever in recent months. “We thank the government for that wonderful decision, but moreso we thank God for protecting us throughout the pandemic. The news can’t have come at a better time for us at Bidco. We are now gearing up for the new season and hope to maintain our slot in the top tier by securing a top ten finish,” said Anekeya. Mathare United Women’s assistant coach Anne Aluoch said a return to action was long overdue. “We take the news positively. The federation’s decision to split the league into two zones has made it even more competitive, but we will battle to remain in a good position,” said Aluoch.