Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto on Saturday launched a drive aimed at collecting over 100,000 BBI signatures. Rutto said the drive is targeting 200,000 signatures in the Southrift region in support of the building bridges initiative (BBI) constitutional amendment bill. The Chama cha Mashinani party leader was accompanied to the event by Isaac Kanu secretary general Nick Salat. Others were nominated MP and KNUT secretary general Wilson Sossion, Chepalungu MP Gideon Koskei, National vision party elections director Benard Koros, former Buret MP Paul Sang and Nyangores MCA Andrew Maritim. Bomet county commissioner Susan Waweru and the five Deputy County commissioners also attended the meeting. Rutto disclosed that the process being spearheaded by the local administrators is set to be completed in a record three days. While reiterating the exercise is non-contested, Rutto urged all residents to turn out in large numbers and append their signatures in support of the document. He expressed optimism that by Wednesday next week they will have collected more than 100,000 signatures in both Bomet and Kericho counties. He restated that the drive will free for all and that no one will be coerced into appended their signatures. "We are hopeful that by the close of business on Wednesday when we shall be returning the forms we shall have collected the required signatures in our region and so we are asking everyone to sign it," he said. Noting the reception among the residents was encouraging, Rutto joked, "The conversation among the residents on the boundary reviews is becoming interesting, people are happy about the addition of wards and constituencies which has been proposed in the document and this tells you everyone is ready to support it." Sossion asked teachers to support the document saying he was ready to mobilise them to append their signatures. "We do not care who becomes the President in 2022, what we are asking our people is to support the process," he said. Salat on his part said the final document captures the aspirations of all quarters and that the Constitutional review was not a preserve of a few hence the need to support it. Koros echoed the sentiments saying Kenyans passed the 2010 Constitution despite the flaws in it with a vow to amend it later, and this is now the right time.