Tob Cohen’s widow Sarah Wairimu wants the court to declare her trial for the alleged murder of her husband a mistrial. Last Friday, she argued in a court application the case against her is founded on hearsay and built on a malicious investigative process. After he went missing for two months — he was said to have flown to Bangkok — his body was found on September 13, 2019. It was in an underground  water tank at his home along Farasi Lane in Loresho. Wairimu, his former secretary, said through her lawyers the aim of the case is to deny her the right to inherit her matrimonial properties after the death of her husband. Wairimu, who had a rocky marriage with the Dutch businessman. is accused of masterminding his disappearance and murder. She denied the murder charges. Wairimu lodged a complaint in the Constitutional and Human Rights division of the High Court in an effort to quash the charges. According to court papers obtained by the Star, Wairimu claims the investigative agencies and the police violated the Constitution in mounting the case against her and arresting her without a warrant. She claims the case is corruptly influenced by politicians and other actors who had been eying her matrimonial property once the health of her husband started failing. Further, she complains the police confiscated her phones without a court warrant. She says they accessed her private conversation, including privileged communication with her lawyers, breaching her right to privacy. Wairimu says the DCI and its operatives seized her house, vehicles and other properties, claiming the house was the scene of a crime. She claimed the intent was to hand them over to Cohen's relatives, depriving her of her right to inheritance. Upon her arrest, she says, the police staged a media blitz, publishing details of the case. Their actions denigrated her image in the eyes of the public and deprived her of the right to be presumed innocent, she says. The prosecution has not supplied her with evidence against her to enable her to prepare a substantive  rebuttal in defending herself, Wairimu says. Along with her petition, she requests the court to order the DCI to release her vehicles, the house and its furnishings, as well as dogs Major and Snow. Her lawyers argue that the petition raises weighty constitutional questions that deserve to be heard and determined by a three-judge bench. The court directed  the DCI, DPP, police IG and the Attorney General to respond to the petition in seven days. The case is scheduled for mention on November 31. (Edited by V. Graham)