A Lamu doctor has narrated how he was fired by the county government after he went public and disclosed his Covid-19 status. But Lamu county denies the claim, saying the medic's short-term contract ended. Mohamed Mbarak, 39, a medical officer attached to King Fahad Hospital in Lamu island said he was humiliated and intimidated by his employer once he went public. In July, Mbarak was among six medics who tested positive for Covid-19 in the region. The medics were among a group who contracted the disease after attending to a 60-year-old woman who later died. A post-mortem showed she had died from Covid-19. Mbarak, who was hired in April, said his intention for revealing his status was simply to create awareness about the disease. “I tested for Covid-19 shortly after we attended to the woman and the results came positive. I was not shocked being a medic. I knew what to do. I went into self-isolation for three weeks. I tested again and I was negative. I was declared safe and was able to mingle with friends and family again,” Mbarak said. It is during his time in isolation that he took to his social media pages to announce his status and urged the public to be cautious as the disease was real. “I just wanted people to know that the disease was real and I had been affected but overcame. I was urging people to observe all protocols as advised by the Ministry of Health,” he said. However, on August 8, the medic received a termination letter from the county government. “The letter had been backdated to July 17, informing me that my contract had been terminated. Upon following up on the reason behind my sacking, a senior county official told me that it had to do with me going public about my Covid-19 status,” Mbarak said. According to Mbarak, the official said they perceived his announcement to be politically instigated with the intention to tarnish the image of the county government. “I was actually told off and informed that I was being used by enemies of the county government to destroy its image. I was shocked and disappointed because I am not a politician. I am just a medic doing my job. Nobody listened to me and I lost my job,” he said. The father of two is currently working as a medic with an NGO in Lamu. He however feels the manner he was treated was malicious, unjust and unprofessional. “My life has definitely changed. My family has had to make huge adjustments and life has not been easy but my biggest regret is the manner in which this whole matter was handled. I don’t believe I was accorded fair treatment,” Mbarak said. The medic is now among a group advocating for the formation of a commission to look into and ensure the rights of medics are safeguarded. Lamu Health executive Anne Gathoni said Mbarak’s contract had ended as per the required terms. She denied allegations that the medic was fired for declaring his Covid-19 status. “Dr Mbarak had come in on a short-term contract. At the end of his probationary period, his contract was not confirmed. However, this also coincided with the time Lamu had started reporting Covid-19 cases, and he happened to be among health workers who were infected. He was accorded the necessary support, including leave and offer of an alternative isolation space,” Gathoni said. She said the medic went through the isolation period without symptoms and went back to complete his probationary period. “We have had more than 20 health workers infected with Covid-19 so far. Therefore it's absurd to claim he lost his job due to Covid-19,” Gathoni said. Edited by Henry Makori