The Nyandarua County Emergency Response Committee on Covid-19 has urged residents to observe government's health protocols to stay safe following the surge in infections. The committee noted that there was a problem especially at burials and in matatus where the recommended capacity is not observed. The committee met on Friday to assess the Covid-19 situation in the county and explore ways of averting more infections. Nyandarua Health executive Njenga Mungai said 156 people had been infected with the virus in the county, 100 male and 56 females. The good news, he said, is that 126 have recovered. Five people have died Mungai said there were three positive cases in hospital. One patient was on oxygen support while 31 patients were in home-based care. He praised Nyandarua medics, a few of whom he said had been infected and recovered, for staying in the front line in the war against Covid-19. “We shall continue to ensure they are provided with enough PPEs and requisite allowances to enable them work comfortably,” he said Mungai urged residents to observe Covid-19 protocols at burials and not exceed 100 people and 15 at the grave site. He said people should avoid public meetings. Acting county secretary and Finance executive Stephen Njoroge said Nyandarua navigated successfully through the first wave of the pandemic. “People should take utmost care. We don’t want to burry residents every other week. We must do all it takes to stop any new infections,” he said. Kaimbaga assistant county commissioner Stephen Illimo said the government was taking strict measures against public service vehicles and bars that are not observing the Covid-19 regulations. Nyandarua Inter-Faith Fellowship chairman Bishop Josam Kariuki said the church had been compliant and urged church leaders to continue taking at least two minutes of their sermon to educate followers about Covid-19. “But we have a problem at burials and I urge the clergy to ensure the government advisory is adhered to,” Kariuki said. Edited by Henry Makori 