Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has hit out at DCI boss George Kinoti for allegedly scheming to revive the PEV and ICC cases as part of a plan to undercut Deputy President William Ruto ahead of the 2022 polls. He said Kinoti, several other State House officials along with some in the Interior Ministry are behind the efforts to revive ICC cases in order to fix Ruto. Sudi claimed that Kinoti and his team had schemed to send lawyer Paul Gicheru to the ICC and also revealed that a top police officer had also been sent to the ICC as part of the plan. The MP also claimed that that Kinoti and his team had also schemed to sideline Ruto in government and cause differences between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Sudi said most of the corruption cases had also been instigated to undermine the DP but without success. Sudi said the Kiambaa church was located in his constituency and no efforts would succeed to use the PEV violence cases to revive ICC cases or restart violence between communities in the region. The MP claimed that the DCI had paid some individuals to travel to Nairobi and write fake statements to revive the PEV cases by claiming they had been threatened. The government on Monday made a surprise U-turn and announced it’s reopening cases on the 2007-08 massacre, with victims of the horrendous Kiambaa Church ready to testify. The move came more than seven years after the government officially announced that there was no evidence to prosecute perpetrators of the bloodbath that left more than 1,100 people dead and 650,000 forced from their homes. It also comes exactly three weeks after lawyer Paul Gicheru surrendered to the ICC in what others claim is an attempt to revive the crimes against humanity charges against Deputy President William Ruto. Kinoti said 72 murder cases, 44 land displacement cases and 118 of threats linked to the 2007-08 post-election violence had been lodged. The DCI boss vowed to do whatever it takes within the law to bring the perpetrators of the post-election violence to book, saying that would happen “very soon”.