All is set for the collection of at least one million signatures to back amendments to the Constitution as proposed in the Building Bridges Initiative report. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are set to kick-start the drive in an elaborate ceremony to be hosted at KICC, Nairobi, today. The move technically shuts the door on further amendments to the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The BBI secretariat co-chaired by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed (National Assembly Minority Whip) and former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru said they intend to get one million signatures within seven days. Junet said the bill was ready for publication by the government printer, after which copies would be distributed to the public to keep them abreast of the proposals. Chiefs will take charge of the drive, under the stewardship of the national government administrative structures in the counties. The BBI promoters say the involvement of national government administration officers is to ward off personal interests by politicians. Raila’s Okoa Kenya bid flopped in 2015 over unverifiable signatures—a situation the proponents seek to reverse by ensuring the BBI drive is managed with military precision. Coordinators will be appointed in every county and constituency to work with the government machinery to get the signatures. The same team—largely composed of unelected personalities—will be expected to canvass and explain to voters what is contained in the bill for buy-in by members of the public. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi, who is the chairman of Raila-led ODM party, said the officers were settled on amid concerns some politicians were keen on derailing the process. “We don’t want politicians who are likely to break Covid-19 rules. Some were already forming committees. It is the coordinators who will decide on the teams that are going to help them execute this job,” the Suba South MP said. “We don’t want people with vested interests to start forming committees. If there will be a need for serious campaigns, then that is the point elected politicians will come in. “Once we collect signatures, the politicos will definitely engage the people. Most of the coordinators are not holding elective positions." The IEBC on Tuesday, following a request by the secretariat on November 18, approved a template that the BBI promoters will use in collecting the signatures. Persons agreeing with the proposed amendments would be required to state their name, ID number, county, constituency, county assembly ward, polling station, phone number, and email addresses. Thumbprints or signatures would be appended on the form, details that the IEBC would verify entry by entry. “To enable the voter verification process and to ensure completeness of the supporters’ records, all the fields in the said approved format/template should be duly filled,” IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati told the BBI team. The launch of the signature drive was last week halted. This was mired in claims dismissed by BBI proponents that the move was to pave the way for consensus following issues raised by Deputy President William Ruto, the church, Muslim leaders, and pastoralists. Their contention is largely on the proposed Kenya Police Council, Judiciary Ombudsman appointed by the state and election of women senators. Critics also raised concerns about gaps in the BBI report, especially on matters bordering on agriculture. But Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata said most of the concerns by various groups were considered in the final report and the bill. He said the matters touching on coffee, tea, potatoes, rice and milk are now embedded in the document. Raila, after a meeting with Mt Kenya leaders on Monday, said it was time to move the BBI issue to the next level—signature collection and referendum. He said proposals that required minor editorial changes had been considered by the secretariat. After signature collection and approval of the same by the IEBC, the bill would be forwarded by the polls agency to the 47 county assemblies. Two counties—Nandi and Kericho—have moved to the Supreme Court seeking interpretation on whether they can amend the bill when it comes before them. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth dismissed those opposed to the BBI, saying they were being dishonest. He said they cannot justify their claims if the proposals are looked at clause by clause. “If taken item by item, there are gains such as the ward fund and increased resources to the devolved units; let those criticising point out what is lacking,” he said. Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya (National Assembly Majority leader) said, “We are committed to this process. We will walk with the two principals to the end.”  Edited by F'Orieny