Kenya will use seven sectors to lessen greenhouse gas emissions. The sectors are energy, agriculture, waste management, transport, industrial process, land use change and forestry. This is in response to decisions adopted at the 19th and 20th sessions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The parties agreed to increase their ability to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and cut greenhouse gas emissions in a manner that does not threaten food production. Each country is expected to prepare, communicate and maintain successive nationally determined contributions that it intends to achieve. Kenya being a party to the agreement, has to announce her intended nationally determined contribution. On Thursday, a source familiar with the process told the Star that Kenya’s intended nationally determined contribution was at an advanced stage of being revised. It will then be taken to the Cabinet. Cabinet members may endorse or reject it. “We will be announcing a new figure. But it may be rejected by the Cabinet,” a source, who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal from bosses, said. In 2015, Kenya Committed to cut emissions by 30 per cent. The country then said her greenhouse gas emissions were relatively low, standing at 73MtCO2eq in 2010, out of which 75 per cent are from land use, land use change and forestry and agriculture sectors. The emissions were due to reliance on wood fuel coupled with the increasing demand for agricultural land and urban development. Other significant emissions are from the energy and transport sectors, with waste and industrial processes contribute negligible amounts. Kenya strives to be a middle income country by 2030. Development is expected to increase emissions from the energy sector. The country has pledged to continue making investments to adapt to climate change through expansion of geothermal, solar and wind energy production, and other renewables and clean energy options. Kenya is also striving to achieve at least 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. 