The death of Matungu MP Justus Murunga (pictured) as sent shock waves through the corridors of power. One group especially worried had apparently had decided to defy government directives on containing Covid-19. The group, largely made of lawmakers, had opted to only use face masks when in Parliament and even discouraged people coalescing around their movement from observing social distancing, wearing masks and avoiding public gatherings. Corridors is told that the MP's sudden death has shaken the group. They appeared with face masks in a briefing on their colleague's death. Still on masks, is Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai aware that some police officers in Nairobi's Eastlands area are preaching water while drinking wine? The officers ironically have no masks, yet go about arresting those not wearing them, saying it is the perfect cover to net those breaking the law. Over the weekend, they rounded up hundreds of people who wore no masks. This raises questions about whether the officers are immune to the virus. To cap it all off those arrested parted with bribes ranging from Sh200 to Sh500 to secure their freedom. A water parastatal in one of the counties is on the spot over its lavish spending on some of its staff in the top management. The entity is said to have recently bought a Sh19 million top-of-the-range vehicle for its board chairman. But the organisation is not doing well financially. At the moment, an ultra-modern office is under construction for the board chairman. This is said to have caused disquiet among staff who are wondering whether it is really necessary. A little birds has whispered to Corridors that those who have tried to raise questions have been threatened with transfers to remote offices. Trouble is brewing at one of the public universities whose vice  chancellor's prospects are said to have taken a worse nosedive compared to his predecessor. And his predecessor was loathed and disparaged by most staff, especially lecturers. The VC is allegedly pushing unprocedural changes, some of which border on breaching not only the university statutes but also national laws. It is whispered that the VC has connived with the council to deny staff a substantial amount of money for pension payouts. Academic staff are worried the university may go down the drain if the VC and his cabal of advisers are not stopped.