Several MPs have praised President Uhuru Kenyatta’s State of The Nation Address made on Thursday. Uhuru addressed the issues of the economy, the Covid-19 pandemic, education, peace, security among other matters. The legislators said the address highlighted key issues that will stir Kenya’s economic growth in the post-Covid-19 period. Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang’ata said he was happy with matters concerning agriculture and youths. “I'm very happy with the titling project and the issue concerning young people because the government is going to ensure they benefit from various incentives,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who said Uhuru must be congratulated for a good speech, and more specifically on the issue of BBI. “He has encouraged the leaders in this country to build consensus around the national conversation that is going around and I want to believe that even as we move forward, we're going to ensure that the BBI document through consensus is built and the document is opened up for our views to be put in,” Malala said. He said in such a way, they will ensure that the document of the day is one that is going to unite Kenyans as encapsulated in its nine-point agenda. “I am happy about the gains of the youth because the President has elaborated in a very detailed way how he is going to ensure that they are going to ease ways the youth are going to carry out business in this country and therefore, it is a win for us but the most important thing is how we are going to actualise the speech into action,” he said. Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina said it was important for the president to outline some of the achievements under his government. “One of the things which he made very clear and which I support is on the role of the Big 4 agenda. It is not just for the government to pour money but also to create a good environment for people to be able to work,” he said. Ole Kina said parliamentarians are fond of pointing fingers on what has not been done but when the developments are highlighted, it enlightens them on the progress made. “The State of the Nation Address is key because it also guides future discussions and what needs to happen. He talks about reducing the interest rate to 7%, and that should trickle down also to the commercial banks now. I wish he would have added more and try to reduce the interest rate because then that will force commercial banks to be able to lend money to the citizens of Kenya,” he said. Fatuma Gedi said, “I take home the issue that when it comes to national security, that the nation is sound in the region, as we're now looking at this region which is getting extremely volatile. It is extremely important and of course the promise and the future that he has seen for this country.” She said she is sure that when the country heads for a referendum on BBI proposals, the country would have built consensus. “With the discussion that we are having on the table, it is evident that the president is committed to bring in people to get an inclusivity piece through the support of the composition of BBI,” she said. Dagoretti North MP John Kiarie said the head of state had captured what is ailing the country. “The big question now after this is whether we are giving the right remedy to the problems that the President has very well articulated because on the side of articulating the problems, Kenya understands where the problem is,” he said. He said the president was very careful to not tell the nation that there is a 'hypodermic needle' that will be injected on Kenyans and everything is going to change. “He painted a very rosy picture of a resilient economy, a strong economy of a country that is that is honouring its international obligations, but we've got to remind ourselves even as we talk about our national values, the heat that we have gotten out of Covid-19 beyond being a health hit,” he said. He added, “We have also been hit economically when we talk about meeting our international obligations. Our biggest international obligation that we ought to be meeting is our international debts that are growing every day as we take loans” Babu Owino said the president had focused on matters concerning the youth which will be addressed through the BBI. He said for instance formation of the National Youth Commission was going to take care of the youth interest in the country. “The seven-year tax holiday is key to the youth doing business because this will give them sufficient time to grow business-wise," he said.