Kenyan international and Tusker FC attacking midfielder Boniface Muchiri has narrated his ordeal in the hands of an agent who abandoned him in the USA, where he underwent trials with a fourth division side, Reno 1868. Muchiri, who has since jetted back into the country, disclosed how he travelled abroad without a single coin and had to rely on the goodwill of a friend he met in the US to survive. “While in the US, I fully depended on the host club who only provided food and accommodation. I had to remain behind in the building as my teammates went out to shop because I was totally broke, having travelled without a single coin,” said Muchiri. Victor Osanya, who owns Ascension Agencies, that facilitated Muchiri’s travel to the US, however, insisted that he gave the player some pocket money when he was just about to leave the country. “Muchiri is not telling the truth. I remember very well giving him US$200 at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport before he boarded the plane to the US,” Osanya said. Muchiri further said that Osanya failed to assist his mother as he had promised after it became clear that he won’t be earning a salary in the US while waiting to be confirmed as a Reno player. “What annoys me most is that even after Osanya promised to assist my mother in my absence, he never offered her any help. I called my mother to ascertain if she had received any money from Osanya only to find out that he had not sent even a single penny despite initially having convinced me he had done so when we talked over the phone,” said Muchiri. Osanya, while claiming that the contract between him and the player was devoid of a financial clause, said he had gone out of his way to help Muchiri’s mother to roof her house, adding that he even chipped in when the player lost an infant. “Ask Muchiri if I never purchased roofing material for his mother. Let him tell us if I didn’t chip in when he lost his six-week old daughter. I’m surprised he is not appreciating all that,” said Osanya adding: “I actually spent close to Sh500,000 to facilitate his journey to the US. I facilitated everything including his passport and visa. I went ahead and housed him in an apartment I had rented for players in my agency. Is there any agent who does all that here in Kenya?” posed Osanya. Osanya confirmed that Muchiri sent him an email on Friday informing him that he had terminated his contract with the agency. “Hello...I thank you for everything that you guys did to enable me realise my dream. I take this opportunity to really appreciate everything. I just want to inform you that I want to terminate my contract with your agency,” read the mail in part. Muchiri further lashed out at Osanya for neglecting him after he sustained a groin injury in the US, adding that he had to find ways of treating himself after assistance from Osanya was not forthcoming. “I was forced to apply ice cubes to the injury in an attempt to contain the pain after efforts to reach Osanya proved futile,” said Muchiri. Meanwhile, Muchiri now says he has put all his misfortunes behind him and is ready to battle tooth and nail for a slot in the starting lineup as Kenya prepares to take on the Comoros in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers double-header. Muchiri was handed a fresh berth in the national team by the newly appointed head coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee after a groin injury he sustained in the US late last year ruled him out of competition for the better part of the concluded season. He was conspicuously absent from the Harambee Stars squad that edged Chipolopolo of Zambia 2-1 in an international friendly match at Nyayo Stadium a fortnight ago. The mercurial forward now says he is ecstatic about the call up and has subsequently thanked Mulee for the surprise move. “It’s a pleasant surprise. I’m totally excited... I’m extremely happy. I wish to thank ‘Ghost’ for affording me the opportunity,” said Muchiri. 