A political broker who has been previously operating around Harambee Annex is broke. The former provincial administrator’s lifeline could have been cut after DP William Ruto (pictured) scaled down his political activities. The broke broker's efforts to schedule meetings with political players to meet the DP flopped after Ruto reportedly barred leaders from his Karen residence for political issues. A group of political aspirants from Western Kenya is said to have been stranded in Nairobi last week after a last-minute decision thwarted their meeting with the DP. The influential political player who lost his job a decade ago has been hanging around Harambee Annex, purportedly facilitating meetings between politicians and the DP. Those close to him say he could be facing eviction from his rented house over arrears. A youthful Nairobi MCA who used to live a lavish lifestyle has separated from his wife. The two are now living apart because of the man's illicit relationship with a vocal nominated Jubilee MCA, whose details are now the subject of gossip in the assembly corridors. The MCA is an ardent supporter of the transfer of county functions to NMS. The MCA’s marriage turned sour after his parents got wind of his infidelity. The man’s parents have even confiscated a top-of-the-range car that they bought for the county lawmaker to shore up his public profile. While the country is alarmed that a whopping Sh224 billion has been stolen by Kenyans in three years, games to loot, even more, are afoot. The latest scam involves a partisan office leasing arrangement by one of the bigger government ministries. A pre-arranged deal saw a prominent city lawyer canvass to be the only one qualifying in a deal worth hundreds of millions of shillings involving the lease of office space. Those who had cheaper and more modern facilities were stunned as the deal went to a predetermined beneficiary. A senior officer was transferred for questioning the matter. Panic has gripped a board chairman of a state corporation and a senior staff member after they realised they are on the radar of the EACC for suspected abuse of office at the institution. A bird whispers to Corridors the two are lovers, and have been running the institution like a family property. The woman is said to have a posh office, which is way too luxurious compared with those of her top management colleagues. It is spacious and has waiting rooms for guests. It has a sophisticated desk and an ergonomically engineered chair with the latest electronics. With the sleuths closing in, the couple is said to be working overtime to clean up the mess.