'Reformed' Pokot warriors in Tiaty, Baringo county have vowed to drop their illegal guns, shun backward cultural practices and turn to Christianity. For many years, Tiaty was disturbed and dangerous, while the marginalised Pokot community was accused of aiding frequent banditry and cattle rustling. “We are now ready for a total change, we are tired of being branded weird names like armed bandits and cattle rustlers,” reformed warrior Kapeta Karani said. Karani was speaking during a missionary church service held at the remotest Kongor village porous volatile border of Kapedo and Turkana county on Tuesday. He was backed by fellow reformed warriors,  Loserokow Kolinyany, Micah Dungere and Lokolinyang Lonyakow. “I have led many raids since I was a teenager but gained absolutely nothing, but I became rich since I surrendered my gun and irrigated my farm,” Dungere said. He said all the animals he stole from the neighboring communities were lost by drought and disease. “Some were also struck by thunder and lightning,” he said. He said he got inspired to venture into agriculture by "God sent" individuals  officials from World Vision Kenya who toured the area three years ago. They also said a few individuals in the community still practice the outlawed cultures like FGM and early marriages. The church mission was convened by Pastor Samson Chesiny and Mzee Stephen Chesire of the Eldoret African Inland Church fellowship church. It tries to reform the ‘uncivilized’ residents  in Chesawach, Kulal, Kongor, Akoret, Rotu, Kapau and Kamurio villages in Tirioko ward. Last month, Baringo commissioner Henry Wafula confirmed that peace has been reclaimed in the county. “The gunshots have reduced since I came in January 2018 and it is our prayer that the ceasefire lasts so our people coexist peacefully,” Wafula said. He said already Pokot warriors have  willingly surrendered 37 illegal guns and urged the to continue doing so. Wafula praised the warring communities for voluntarily turning over their weapons and focusing on development like farming and education. “For sure the area of Tiaty was for many years perceived as disturbed and insecure place” Tirioko  MCA Sam Lokales said. Lokales said the conversion mission resulted after several stories in the media about serious cross-border attacks among the warring Pokot, Tugen, Turkana, Ilachamus, Marakwet and Samburu pastoral communities. The counties worst affected by frequent raids and killings are Baringo, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Samburu and Laikipia. “With the coming of the missionaries, our people now enjoy peace - they can work their farms and our children can comfortably go to school and dress well,” Lokales said. Surprisingly, he said majority of residents valued the ancient cultures, “so that they didn’t have any clue about Jesus. Of course, they only knew their God as Tororot," he said. He also praised the Catholic, the Apostolic church and the Islamic denominations for venturing into the locality, adding that religious institutions were still few and scattered. “I appeal to the other religious denominations to now feel free and touch the ground. We Pokots are now peaceful and welcoming,” Lokales said. He called upon the government, friends and investors to feel free and get to  know the place, saying people have already known the fruits of peace. Before religion arrived, insecurity was rampant and and area lacked  education, healthcare, infrastructure and water. Many school buildings and dispensaries were turned into shopping centres and homes “but thank God they are now being put into good use,” nurse Clara Lotow said. She said learners are joining schools in numbers and pregnant women are receiving services in health facilities. (Edited by V. Graham)