A Murang'a man who was sentenced to life for slashing his mother's hand got some reprieve after the court reduced his term to 20 years after winning his appeal. Zacharia Gichuki was convicted on his own plea of guilt in 2018 for causing grievous harm to his mother. He appealed the sentence on grounds that the plea of guilt was equivocal and that the lower court failed to warn him of the consequences of pleading guilty. He also contended that the trial magistrate failed to consider that he had an underlying psychiatric problem and did not comprehend the proceedings. "I thus find that the plea of guilt taken on the latter date was unequivocal. It must follow that the appeal against conviction is without merit and is hereby dismissed," the judge ruled. The court further considered that Gichuki was unwell but not insane at the time of the offence and he was a first offender. The court, however, took into account the gruesome injuries suffered by his mother. "I concur that the offence called for a deterrent sentence, the judgement reads." "The upshot is that the appeal on conviction is dismissed. The sentence passed against the appellant is set aside. He shall instead serve 20 years imprisonment", Justice Kanyi Kimondo ruled. However, the prosecution contested that the plea of guilt was unequivocal. It argued that the facts and the exhibit disclosed all the elements of the offence, and thus the sentence handed down was lawful. The court heard that Gichuki was first charged on May 22, 2018. However, the facts were not read out on that date for reasons the court ordered that a proper charge be filed. The complainant (his mother) was still in hospital. The court also ordered that the accused be examined by a psychiatrist to ascertain his mental status. In a judgement delivered by Justice Kimondo on November 17, he noted that he had seen an original report dated June 29,2018 by Dr. J. Mburu, Consultant Psychiatrist. He concluded that the appellant was not fit to take plea. Following the doctor’s recommendations, the appellant was committed for treatment at Mathari Referral Hospital. A letter from the relevant Principal Secretary is on record. On December 3, 2018, Gichuki was presented afresh to take plea. By that date a new medical report from Mathari Referral Hospital confirmed Gichuki was fit to take plea. He was charged on January 21, 2019, that he attacked his mother with a panga while in her house for no reason severing her hand. She also suffered multiple cuts on the neck and shoulder and a fractured leg. 