A case filed by an Italian businessman who was deported has been certified as urgent by a Mombasa court. Justice John Onyiego scheduled the matter to be heard on Wednesday after perusing the application filed on November 18 by Albert Marchesi through a Mombasa-based civil society group. “Having perused the notice of motion, together with the affidavit, I’m satisfied that the application is urgent and should be heard on priority basis and therefore inter-parties will be heard on Wednesday," he said. The judge directed the Commission for Human Rights and Justice to serve the respondents within three days. The human rights organisation wants the court to order respondents to produce Marchesi before court. The respondents include immigration officer in charge of Moi International Airport, Director of Immigration, Interior CS, Tourism CS and the Attorney General. The petitioner further wants the court to determine whether the arrest, incarceration and repatriation of Marchesi without being arraigned was in violation of the Constitution. The civil society group also wants a determination of whether the detention of the foreigner for more than 24 hours was legal and whether the immigration officer followed laid down legal procedures. They want the court to declare Marchesi as not a prohibited immigrant and he be allowed to enter and remain in Kenya. According to the application by CHRJ through their lawyer Maurice Mkan, Marchesi arrived in Kenya on October 29 to bring medication to his ailing friend. However, upon reaching the airport, he was arrested and detained for two hours as the police confiscated his passport and other travel documents. After some back and forth, Marchesi was deported to Italy without being taken to court even though he had been informed that he would be charged. The Italian through a sworn affidavit said he had never violated any Kenyan laws to warrant his denial of entry. He said he has been coming to Kenya since 1995 when he came as a tourist and later to do business importing Italian food products. He said he established a residence at Manda Mgina estate in Bamburi area, Mombasa county. Edited by Henry Makori