A new app that allows Kenyans to access doctors from their smartphones has been launched. The health-tech platform, Vezeeta, was launched on Wednesday and will allow medical access to Kenyans across all the 47 counties. It will be operational all the time every day. On the platform, patients will be able to search, compare and book doctors in less than a minute. The application launched in Nairobi comes amid reports of patients opting to self-medicate while missing on treatments, such as dialysis sessions and cancer treatments, for fear of contracting Covid-19. "While self-medication could have few advantages, especially when dealing with well-informed patients in the management of their chronic conditions and minor ailments, it is far from being a completely safe practice," Dr Jacob Shaban of the Aga Khan University Hospital said in May. He advised patients to take advantage of the teleconsultation option. Vezeeta is available for both Android and IOS users via Google and Apple App stores. To book a doctor, one is required to download the app on their smartphones, sign up, choose a medical speciality, area of interest, region and insurance cover and proceed to select their preferred doctors. Nana Frimpong, Vezeeta Vice President for Africa, said the platform will provide Kenyans with an opportunity to access doctors across various disciplines on their terms. Users will be able to access expert medical advice from the safety of their homes and receive professional guidance on identifying and dealing with Covid-19, without risking exposure. “As the Covid-19 outbreak continues to present complex healthcare challenges to the public, we see our role and responsibility as a health-tech leader and trusted partner to ensure that the well-being and health of our patients remain uninterrupted,” Frimpong said. The platform presently has over 30 specialities ranging from chest and respiratory, dentistry, dermatology, neurology, orthopedics and Ears, Nose and Throat( ENT) among other areas. All the medical experts on the platform are registered under the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council. “We believe that through this initiative, we are supporting not only the government but also empowering Kenyans to make more informed decisions on their healthcare choices and improve access to doctors in general,” Frimpong said. Vezeeta is present in five other countries — Nigeria, Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon.