Entertainment joints risk being closed once again to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Bar operators have been accused of abusing existing protocols by operating way past the stipulated curfew hours. “We are getting densely populated bars staying longer hours than they are supposed to,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said on Monday. “Our wish as a government would be to keep every place open so that business can continue, but clearly, there are some measures that might have to be taken.” On Monday, 724 more people tested positive for the virus from a test sample of 5,085, raising the virus caseload in the country to 56,601. Fifty-five patients were on supplementary oxygen, out of whom 45 were in general wards. Ten are in high dependency units. On Monday, the CS confirmed 14 more deaths, raising the fatalities to 1,027. However, 248 people recovered from the virus, 178 from the home-based care programme and 70 were discharged from various hospitals. The number of recoveries now stands at 37,442. In the last one week, there has been a sharp increase in cases, with a high of 18 per cent recorded on Saturday, 15 per cent on Sunday and 14.2 per cent on Monday. During the week, close to 100 died. “This has been the worst week that we have faced in our Covid-19 history.  That tells you something. It tells you that you need to be a lot more careful,” Kagwe said. “We need to rethink some of the measures that we have taken, we need to think about what to escalate and what to de-escalate in terms of the country’s openness. It's going to call for sacrifices once again if we're going to save lives. We cannot afford to continue on this trend of 100 lives in one week as a result of Covid-19.” The CS called on hospitals that do not have oxygen at the moment and ventilatory support to source for them urgently as numbers of admissions continue to rise. “It is important. You don’t need to have an oxygen plant in every clinic and hospital but you do need to have oxygen because that is the primary care when one begins to get infected.” Counties that lack enough isolation beds, ICUs and high dependency units will also be required to boost their capacity. The CS ruled out the possibility of inter-county transfer of patients. Already, private hospitals like the Aga Khan and the Nairobi Hospital have run out of beds, an indicator that the pressure will turn to public health facilities across the country.