A first-term senator seems to have lost favour with everyone in his political circle and is an isolated man. The lawmaker, who has been on the receiving end for his recent wheeling and dealing, got the shock of his life. He was blocked by security during a major meeting addressed by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and ODM leader Raila Odinga (pictured) because his name was not on the guest list. Insiders tell Corridors all MPs from his party were admitted to the high-level meeting. After making several calls at the gate, he drove back to the city, a dejected man. *** It appears the chickens may soon come home to roost for a Mombasa-based businessman. Pressure is mounting on the authorities to rein in the fellow said to bribe anyone who questions his business operations. The man is said to owe the Kenya Revenue Authority millions of shillings in arrears, including Pay As You Earn, which he reportedly has evaded to a point of now paying staff salaries by M-Pesa. Those in the know whisper to Corridors they want to take up the matter with the concerned agencies, or rather expose those protecting the businessman as he appears untouchable. *** Kisumu residents are living in fear of contracting Covid-19 following violation of containment rules, especially by bar and club owners. They have blamed police leadership for allowing select nightclubs to operate till morning in full disregard for the law. The clubs are operating so brazenly that they even invite guest DJs from as far as Nairobi and produce posters and billboards advertising events at strategic points within the town. A senior police boss in Nyanza is on the spot for allegedly condoning the law-breaking. Residents are now demanding quick actions by police IG Hillary Mutyambai and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to intervene and enforce wearing of masks, which seems alien to the community. *** Panic has gripped a flamboyant first-term ODM legislator after word went round that his predecessor, who paved the way for his election, is planning a comeback in 2022. The MP had struck a deal with the ex-lawmaker that he (former MP) runs for a higher seat — governor — in the upcoming polls. But after realising that the race was getting tougher for the seat he was eyeing, he has opted to go for ‘his seat’ — in Parliament. The controversial youthful MP now fears he may lose that seat. He has reached out to ODM stalwarts to engage party leader Raila Odinga. He wants Raila to rein in the influential ex-MP to drop his ambitions for the seat.