Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichillo has urged youths to take agribusiness seriously because it pays more handsomely than formal employment. "White-collar jobs are diminishing and with the large population we are experiencing, youths you need to diversify to productive activities," he said. Ottichillo said this when he received 100 youths who have been trained as community facilitators for the Field Farmer Schools (FFS) that will be educating farmers on best farming practices. The FFS programme will run for 20 weeks and aims to build capacity on new farming technologies to farmers. "Extension officers will move with ease, reaching out to farmers and giving information on the right farming methods and technology," Ottichillo said. This is under the auspices of National Agricultural Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP) component three, which deals with capacity building of county governments to support community-led development initiatives. The governor said farmers will benefit from extension services on time as already, two vehicles and 20 motorcycles have been commissioned at the county headquarters. Speaking during the commissioning, Ottichilo said NARIGP has been instrumental in inculcating new technology in farming and making Vihiga farmers move from the traditional subsistence farming to agribusiness. "The procured vehicles and motorcycles will go a long way in extension services for farmers to upscale production while harnessing new farming technologies. Capacity building is a critical ingredient in ensuring success of NARIGP," the governor said. Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi said extension services to farmers are critical because it makes farmers have the right information and get it right. He said with vehicles and motorcycles easing movement of extension officers, farmers will have an opportunity to double their profits in agribusiness, an attribute he said will have a multiplier effect on food production. Agriculture executive Geoffrey Vukaya said NARIGP's operation period has been extended from 2021 to 2023, urging farmers to take advantage of it and venture into agribusiness. Agriculture chief officer Pamela Busungu said extension services to farmers will enable Vihiga to curb the perennial food shortage because farmers will have knowledge on the best farming practices on small acreages.