A senior official of a county assembly in Nyanza is under siege. A section of MCAs blame him for botching their group insurance cover. There are reports the official has strong links with the insurance firm yet failed to declare his conflict of interest when he sat in the tender meeting that awarded the contract. MCAs are bitter over what they call attempts to block settlement of pending life cover. The county lawmakers are plotting the man's removal soon, some accusing him of frustrating efforts to lodge cover claims with the firm. A close relative of the official is said to be a senior employee of the firm and involved in negotiations on awarding the tender. Maybe Integrity Centre (pictured) should swing into action. ***** Perhaps Police IG Hillary Mutyambai might not be aware of the conduct of a senior officer based at the Jogoo House police headquarters. However, what is clear is that the officer has been bullying juniors and intimidating some officers working in critical departments. Those who dare question his modus operandi are threatened with transfers to far-flung areas as punishment. In one instance, an employee was sent to an ASAL area after allegedly failing to execute an illegal order by the bully senior. ***** A close aide of a senior political leader is angry at Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti's bid to revive the 2007-08 post election violence cases. The influential aide is said to have been mentioned in several statements already recorded with the DCI. The statements reportedly said he has been responsible for fresh threats to PEV victims. Sources at the DCI have told Corridors that he could be targeted for prosecution. The aide is said to have held a meeting with some close associates at a high-end club in Karen, following claims that he could be a wanted man in the coming months. Details of the session remain scant but there are whispers the leaders are plotting a fightback strategy. ***** Kisumu residents are worried about the return of a gang targeting those withdrawing large sums from banks in the city . The criminals have left a trail of pain and agony. Sources whisper to Corridors that the suspects trail their targets and later use master keys to access their vehicles and steal cash. The gang is alleged to be colluding with rogue police officers. It's said criminals have been spotted using cars belonging to police officers. Locals want DCI George Kinoti to send in a team and instruct Internal Affairs to probe junior officers whom they say are well known and living beyond their means.  