Kenya has been ranked 14th in Overall Africa’s governance as performance declines for the first time in a decade, Ibrahim Index of African Governance 2020 has indicated. Kenya comes at number 14, after Mauritius  Cabo Verde, Seychelles, Tunisia, Botswana, South Africa, Namibia, Ghana, Senegal and Morocco Africa’s governance performance declines for the first time in a decade, finds 2020 Ibrahim Index of African Governance According to 2020 Ibrahim's Index of African Governance, new data delivers a clear warning: governance progress in Africa has slowed since 2015, and declines for the first time in 2019. Deterioration in participation, rights, rule of law and security threatens improvements achieved in economic opportunities and human development. "This is particularly concerning with the COVID-19 pandemic set to increase existing challenges and reduce hard-won gains," the statement read. The 2020 Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG), launched by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, highlights a decline in African governance performance for the first time since 2010. The 2019 African average score for Overall Governance falls by -0.2 points below that of 2018, registering the first year-on-year score deterioration since 2010. This recent decline is triggered by worsening performance in three of the four IIAG categories: Participation, Rights & Inclusion, Security & Rule of Law and Human Development. In fact, progress had already been slowing down since 2015. Over 2015-2019, performance slackened in both Human Development and Foundations for Economic Opportunity, while deterioration continued in both Security & Rule of Law and Participation, Rights & Inclusion, even worsening for the latter. However, over the decade, overall governance performance has slightly progressed, and in 2019, 61.2% of Africa’s population lives in a country where Overall Governance is better than in 2010. The 2020 IIAG is the most comprehensive assessment of governance performance in 54 African countries. It tracks Africa's trajectory across four main categories: Security & Rule of Law; Participation, Rights & Inclusion; Foundations for Economic Opportunity; and Human Development. The new IIAG incorporates three significant upgrades: an expanded governance scope, including new areas such as environment and equality; strengthened indicators, thanks to better data availability; and a new section fully dedicated to Africa’s Citizens’ Voices. Over the last decade, governance dimensions have followed diverging paths Progress achieved over the last decade has mainly been driven by improvements in economic opportunities and human development. Foundations for Economic Opportunity (+4.1) and Human Development (+3.0) have made good progress, primarily led by improvements in the sub-categories Infrastructure and Health, complemented by advances in Sustainable Environment. This is threatened, however, by an increasingly precarious security situation and concerning erosion in rights as well as civic and democratic space. Over the last decade, both Participation, Rights & Inclusion (-1.4) and Security & Rule of Law (-0.7) have registered worrying declines. Over the past decade, 20 countries, home to 41.9% of Africa’s population, while achieving progress in Human Development and Foundations for Economic Opportunity, have at the same time declined in both Security & Rule of Law and Participation, Rights & Inclusion. Only eight countries manage to improve in all four categories over the decade: Angola, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Madagascar