The International Center for Policy and Conflict (ICPC) has said DCI boss George Kinoti is not clear on his intentions to revisit Post Election Violence case files. In a statement on Wednesday, the agency said Kinoti has not clarified any intended investigative work that is to be done in regard to the PEV. On Monday, Kinoti announced that his office was looking into alleged instances of victims threats and intimidation in regard to the 2007/2008 Post-Election violence. The announcement met Kenyans off-guard by the government's alleged U-turn on the 2007-08 massacre, with victims of the Kiambaa Church massacre ready to testify. The DCI boss was forced to issue a statement the next day to 'clarify' that the steps his office was taking were not meant to reopen completed cases but focus on 'reported threats to security and to sensitive the public on the need for peaceful co-existence.' He dismissed claims that the directorate is reopening cases of the 2007/08 post-election violence. "The directorate had received complaints of fear and apprehension by members of the public who feel their lives and property are in imminent danger owing to threats," he said. "We remain true to our mandate to prevent, disrupt and deter crime before it occurs." The ICPC now says that the 'clarification' is not clear enough. "This statement certainly does little to clarify any intended investigative work in regard to the PEV," the ICPC said. The agency further urged the DCI to address the emerging claims of turning the planned investigation into a political witch-hunt. "ICPC considers  Kinoti’s statements as an act of smoke and mirror. It lacks honesty and transparency. If Kinoti really wants to prosecute PEV criminal cases, the starting point is the Waki Commission, TJRC report and seeking fresh cooperation with ICC to obtain the evidence given to the Court by Kofi Annan." According to ICPC, despite the willingness of the victims of the violence to press charges, no police officers have been prosecuted for 400 fatal shootings or for failing to prevent them. "Kinoti's announcement raises questions about the genuineness of any ongoing progress, " the agency said. "Before he took over his current office, a taskforce was appointed working under the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions that produced a report on the status of investigations and prosecutions for PEV related crimes. That report had concluded that there wasn't sufficient evidence to conduct any further prosecutions."