Governors and MPs backing President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are headed for a clash over the control of BBI campaigns. Sources say Uhuru and Raila are working on a national Building Bridges Initiative steering committee to coordinate campaigns to amend the 2010 Constitution. The team will then work with various regional and county groups under the stewardship of governors, influential MPs and key regional bigwigs. Politicians could use the campaigns to build their influence and also popularise themselves ahead of 2022. The Star has established that 2022 interests among politicians supporting the BBI process has triggered intense jostling for lead roles in the campaigns. The scramble is vicious in Uhuru's Mt Kenya counties and in Nairobi, Western and Nyanza regions where Raila enjoys massive support. First-term governors keen to take charge of the BBI campaigns are set for a confrontation with MPs seeking to succeed them in 2022. County chiefs completing their last terms in office are plotting to use the BBI campaigns to enhance their bargain for national posts after the 2022 polls. Analysts warn that the expected high-octane politics among leaders trying to outdo each other could eclipse the BBI campaigns. On Tuesday, former Kasarani MP John Njoroge told the Star that the country is expected to witness serious competition among politicians in the BBI campaigns. “With politicians having varied interests ahead of the 2022 polls, various leaders would want to outshine each other with the aim of gaining politically,” Njoroge said. The ex-MP said it is not unusual for politicians to position themselves to be part of a national political phenomenon with massive implications ahead of 2022. “The history we have in this country is that referenda usually shape general election politics,” he said. Nominated MP Maina Kamanda said politicians supporting the push to amend the Constitution will form a team for Nairobi. “In the capital, we are going to work harmoniously with every leader to ensure the success of the BBI,” Kamanda said while denying claims of any jostling in the BBI camp. Kamanda and MPs Simba Arati (Dagoretti North and Tom Kajwang’ (Ruaraka) are expected to lead BBI campaigns in Nairobi. Uhuru and Raila are expected to line up teams of only loyalist politicians to spearhead the campaign to collect at least a million signatures required to change the Constitution. The process is expected to be completed by December 2 before the BBI bill is submitted to the IEBC together with the signatures. The BBI strategy meeting held in Naivasha last weekend and graced by Uhuru and Raila is said to have agreed on tentative line ups to spearhead the BBI process. Another meeting among parliamentary leadership and key regional leaders is expected to be held on Sunday to streamline the teams that will lead the collection of signatures as well as the final sensitisation campaigns. Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang’ata, National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth will lead the drive in Central Kenya. Kang'ata said it will take them the shortest time possible to collect the one million signatures to allow the BBI process to proceed to the next phase. “The BBI train has left the station with more activities lined up in the coming months,” Kang'ata said. Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi will take charge at the Coast. Senators Mohamed Faki (Mombasa), Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi) and Agnes Zani (Nominated) and Mishi Mboko (Likoni) will join the governors. Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and a number of governors will lead the campaigns in their respective regions. Eldas MP Adan Keynan will lead the campaigns in the northeast alongside Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, who chaired the 14-member BBI team that delivered the report. “We now have the right document that will improve governance. This is the time to right the 20 per cent of the 2010 document that we agreed was not good,” Keynan said. Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, his minority colleague in the National Assembly John Mbadi will be the BBI’s point men in Nyanza. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Cotu secretary-general Francis Atwoli and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa are lined up to lead the drive in western Kenya. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto will take charge in the Rift Valley. 