The Paris-based global money laundering and terrorism financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has confronted Pakistan with a terrible choice of either dropping its terrorism crutches or be blacklisted. All the 27 points of FATF’s action-plan to Pakistan if honestly complied with will cripple this country’s unofficial three-tier power structure in which terrorists and militants occupy the most important position after their patrons, the Army. Ironically, the face of Pakistan is its powerless Civilian leaders who occupy the third position in this structure. That should explain why Pakistan keeps on failing in compliance with the FATF’s action-plan. Pakistan was grey-listed in June, 2018 after it failed to adequately curb money laundering and terror financing and subsequently it was then given a 27-point action-plan with a warning that non-compliance will see it in the company of blacklisted Iran and North Korea. However, Coronavirus gave it a breather for almost as long as one year. Although the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog in its last week’s session retained Pakistan on the grey list it should be considered a reprieve or relief. While the government and a section of Pakistan’s media are in a self-congratulatory mood, the FATF has given till February next year only a narrow window of time and opportunity. Pakistan denies long-standing accusations that it has nurtured and supported Islamist militant groups for use as proxies to project power in the region, particularly towards its arch-rival India and in Afghanistan. This makes the government’s work upsetting. Its show of jubilation is for the domestic audiences that are being buffeted by its claims and the opposition repost. The official claims are contradicted by leaders of the PDM campaign. Pushing through any FATF-related legislation seems difficult. The six remaining tasks from out of the 27 are precisely the most difficult ones. The government cannot complete them without the cooperation of other parties in parliament. But the main opposition parties, having already staged three back-to-back protest rallies, are in a hostile mood. As brought out by a leading Pak daily a very narrow window of time exists to achieve the rest of the targets — tougher ones pertaining to law enforcement’s capacity to identify and investigate the “widest range of terrorist-financing activity”. It wants “the investigation and prosecution [to] target designated persons and entities, and those acting on behalf or at the direction of the designated persons or entities”. Further, Pakistan has to demonstrate that terrorist-financing prosecutions result in effective and dissuasive sanctions. They also need to show the world that the provincial and federal authorities are on the same page on enforcing measures. In September, Parliament passed three FATF related bills, namely, Anti-money laundering (Second Amendment) Bill 2020, Anti-Terrorism Act (Third amendment) Bill 2020 and Islamabad capital territory Waqf Properties Bill 2020. An article in The Europe Tribune asked whether the mere passage of amendments to the law will bring any significant change. It is true there is no dearth of laws in Pakistan. But they are as good as non-existent in the absence of genuine will and guts to implement them. The civilian government, if it makes bold to action against UN designated terrorist, the courts acquit them. Thus the existing laws affect only weak and connection-less people. If it is the FATF’s aim to ultimately clean Pakistan of its policy of terrorism, it better hold back for the sake of Pakistan’s existence. The pampering of this country by the United States and Europe during the cold war years has ingrained into it the belief that terrorism pays. Its very first terror campaign against helpless Kashmiris paid it in terms of large chunk of Kashmir territory without condemnation. Since then Pakistan has come to believe terrorism pays. The FATF cannot demolish this belief without demolishing the unofficial power structure in which terrorists occupy the second most powerful position with the Army’s patronage. On the other hand, the Army will be left high and dry if it loses the support of terrorists and militants. To avoid this crises Pakistan is hesitant to fully comply with FATF’s conditions. Terrorists have become so integral to its existence that it will feel doomed if FATF succeeds. Thus, we can see big confusion in Pakistan if the FATF succeeds in cleansing this country of terrorists and their followers. Unfortunately, political leadership has not matured yet to rule the country. How a beleaguered Imran Khan deal with this during Pakistan's winter of discontent will be watched by the entire world concerned about terrorism and terror financing.