President Uhuru Kenyatta's nominee for Ambassador to Juba Maj Gen Rtd Samuel Nandwa is among the wealthiest diplomats in the latest list of nominees. The nominations were made on October 14 and MPs have vetted the nominees. In a document seen by the Star, Nandwa, who hails from Busia county, has a net worth of Sh105 million. Nandwa has served in the military since 1978, starting as a cadet and rising to the rank of a Major General before he retired in 2018. In second position is Amb Benson Ogutu who has been nominated as Ambassador to Moscow. Ogutu has a net worth of Sh101 million, with his diplomat career having started as an assistant secretary at the ministry of Foreign Affairs. Maj Gen Rtd Ngewa Ngoloi is third with a net worth of Sh100 million. Ngoloi, who is headed to Khartoum, has 38 years of experience in the military, particularly the navy. Stella Munyi, nominated as ambassador to Harare, has a net worth of Sh91.7 million having served as an advocate of the High Court for 28 years. High Commissioner to Ottawa nominee Immaculate Wambua has a net worth of Sh76 million. She has served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the head of America's directorate. She ties at Sh76 million with Ambassador Daniel Waiko Wambura, nominee for Ambassador to Bujumbura. Wambura is currently the national coordinator, Office of the Great Lakes Region at the Foreign Affairs Ministry. Ambassador Thomas Amolo follows with a net worth of Sh68 million. Amollo, who is the nominee as Ambassador to Berlin, has previously served as the High Commissioner to South Africa and Nigeria. He is currently the political and diplomatic secretary at the ministry. Ambassador Jean Kamau follows with a net worth of Sh60 million. Kamau, a nominee as a permanent representative to the UN-Habitat Nairobi, has over 35 years of experience in Kenya's Diplomatic service. She is currently the director of Europe and the Commonwealth at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ambassador Martin Kimani has a net worth of Sh58 million, having served as Kenya's Permanent Representative in Unep, UNON and UN Habitat. Kimani is the nominee as a permanent representative to the UN-New York. Ambassador Catherine Mwangi, nominee as High Commissioner to Pretoria has a net worth of Sh50 million. She ties with Joshua Gatimu, nominated as ambassador to Tehran. Ambassador John Tipis, nominated as high commissioner to Canberra, has a net worth of Sh35 million. Tipis has 29 years of experience in public service. Ambassador Tabu Irina, nominated as ambassador to Tokyo follows with a net worth of Sh34.14 million. Irina has worked at the ministry for the last 23 years, rising to be chief of protocol. She has also served in three foreign stations of Geneva, Seoul and Tokyo. The last in that cadre is Lindsay Kiptiness, nominated as ambassador to Bangkok. Kiptiness having started as a teacher, has a 27 year experience in public service and a net worth of Sh30 million.