The Kenya Revenue Authority is on the spot for failing to pay the National Police Service Sh143 million for security services offered to the taxman for three years. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu flagged the outstanding KRA debt in her review of the Interior department’s revenue accounts for the year ended June 30, 2019. The debt in question was for services offered between January 2016 and October 2019, money that has neither been received nor collected by the agency. Gathungu said the debt was in violation of the National Police Service Standing Orders, which require that payments be made before security services are offered or deployed. The Interior department told the audit team that a follow-up was done from which KRA issued a letter of commitment to settle the debt. Various banks are equally yet to pay Sh8.5 million for security services offered from July 2018 to June 2019 within Nairobi. Also flagged is a debt of Sh911,450 that is owed by various clients in Machakos county to the Critical Infrastructure Police Unit. For the latter, the MoU between the CIPU and the clients requesting for security services was not provided for audit review. “Under the circumstances, the accuracy and completeness of the reported fees on use of goods and services receipts of Sh4.8 billion for the year ended June 30, 2019 could not be confirmed,” the auditor said in her report tabled in Parliament recently. The Interior department earned Sh565 million from hiring security services in the said financial year. The other earnings were Sh264 million from betting fees, Sh39 million from license fees, Sh152 million from registration of births and deaths, Sh88.6 million from Identity Card fees and Sh1.015 billion from certificates of good conduct. Visa and other consular fees netted the Interior Sh1.04 billion, Sh341 million from passport fees, Sh1.2 billion from work permits and Sh79 million from other immigration fees. In his notes, Kibicho said the license betting fees had gone up due to promotions which took place in the year yet were not anticipated. He said earnings from good conduct shot up because of the requirement for M-Pesa agents to acquire the document. Gathungu, however, cited concerns that the Betting Control and Licensing Board did not use the recommended revenue collection rates during the issue and renewal of various classes of licenses. “This resulted in the revenue undercharge of Sh1.5 million, which is yet to be accounted for,” she said. Also queried are bank deposits to National Bank by the Kenya Police Service and the Security of Government Buildings Unit, despite a directive against such a move. In November 2018 and later in June 2019, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho directed that revenue collected by Huduma centres, county registrars, and regional coordinators be banked immediately. He had directed that the monies be deposited directly into the Central Bank of Kenya account and another ministry account in Kenya Commercial Bank. But Gathungu said her audit revealed this directive was not heeded and that some revenue transfers were done quarterly rather than immediately as instructed by PS Kibicho. The directive also required that revenue returns be submitted to Interior headquarters by the fifth of every month. “No explanation has been provided for the anomaly,” the auditor said. She, however, hailed the department for instilling effective internal controls, risk management, and overall governance.