The alarm has been sounded in Kilifi county after 38 students tested positive for Covid-19 at Marafa Secondary School in Magarini. The cases are the latest after Kilifi recorded 139 daily cases, becoming the second hardest-hit county after Nairobi in the second wave of the pandemic. Cases have surged in the last two weeks. Kilifi's Covid-19 response committee on Tuesday held a crisis meeting and announced new directives effective immediately. It was chaired by Governor Amason Kingi and county commissioner Kutswa Olaka. The new measures will be in effect for two weeks, then the situation will be evaluated and the measures will be stiffened or relaxed. Kingi said the 38 students and teachers have been quarantined at the school and were being given support to get food. He announced strict measures to curb the pandemic and said cessation of movement among some areas has not been ruled out. All tournaments and political rallies have been banned. They are considered super-spreaders of the pandemic. Kingi said open-air markets will be opened after proper set up by county and national officials to ensure each trader wears a mask and social distancing is observed. "In the past few weeks cases have been rising and in one day we got 100 positive cases. Once there were 129 cases. Yesterday we recorded 139, second after Nairobi," Kingi said. He said social gatherings have increased, without any social distancing at funerals, weddings, some churches and mosques. The governor said the enforcement team has closed seven bars and will close more if they violate Covid protocols. Government markets will be manned by sheriffs. No trader or customer will be allowed to enter without wearing a mask. All the directives will be implemented in all other sectors. If violations occur and cases continue to rise, cessation of movement will be introduced, Kingi said. Seven bars have been closed in seven days for violating safety protocols. Commissioner Olaka said in the past seven days they have closed seven bars. He said police arrested 454 people who had no masks and 419 others who faulted curfew rules. Olaka warned that the county was headed for "bad days" if action is not taken. He directed all deputy county commissioners in the seven sub-counties to ensure the new directives are followed. He said the county will begin sensitisation using public address systems, roadshows and radio talk shows involving leaders Marafa is not the first school to record positive cases of Covid-19 as Majenjeni Primary and Secondary also had similar cases. Others include Kibokoni Secondary and Muyeye Secondary and there are fears the virus cool spread further. (edited by V. Graham)