Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi has welcomed Interior CS Fred Matiangi’s bid to unite political leaders from the Abagusii community. Maangi said the community will benefit more politically when united, but maintained he was not backing down from supporting Deputy President William Ruto’s quest for presidency in 2022. “Only through unity can we champion the interests of our people as one. If you come to Kisii, no party has more than three MP's in parliament, others have one‚” he said. Maangi said that this was an initiative he had been supporting and he will be happy if it galvanises the people, saying if they speak with one voice it would do them well as a community. “If we come together and begin to speak with one voice then we can decide from which common vehicle we can champion the community's political agenda unlike the way we are now‚” he said Maangi said that it is a whole assortment of parties that serve no political good  when leaders are out of the gates bargaining for the national cake. There are talks to have CS Matiang'i act as the community's spokesman but divisive politics has delayed his installation. Maangi said he wants to see a community united and ready to stand up to fight for its own pie of the national cake. Dagoreti South MP Simba Arati also claimed the community's spokesman status, as did former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mongare. "The Abagusii do not need unity of any sort. What they need is for those who they elected to work for them, as every elected leader has a distinct and unique role to play for his or her constituency, at all levels,” Maangi said The deputy county chief said the community and Kenya in general needs is good governance, accountability and delivery of services as per the pledges and manifesto of individuals and political parties. On Wednesday, Maangi said the unity bid was good for the community. He said selection of who becomes the spokesmen should be done on consensus basis and not on self proclamations. "There should be honest conversations not individual pronouncements. If it is Matiang'i so be it so long as he can galvanise the community together and present out views at any high political table," Maangi told the Star at his residence. Governors James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira) and Senators Sam Ongeri (Kisii) and Okongo Omogeni (Nyamira) want the community to consolidate itself around Matiang'i, saying by virtue of his office he can act as spokesman. “Through the CS, the community can bargain for the national cake since we have the numbers, and that is the view held by many of us, that Matiang'i is doing well in his endeavours to pull us together as a community,” Ongwae said. Ongwae said the time is ripe for a person from the community to lead the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris