Sports Dispute Tribunal chairman John Ohaga is optimistic that the eagerly-awaited Kenya Swimming Federation elections will be held before the end of the year. The elections, which will be held virtually due to Covid 19 restrictions,  is expected to go hand-in-hand with the ratification of a constitution, which was approved by the world governing body FINA. “The two events can be done virtually and at the same time but we first approve the constitution and then go to the polls. My belief is that those two events can be held concurrently,” said Ohaga. Meanwhile, Ohaga said he is awaiting a report from the governance committee led by Sanjeev Khagram before announcing dates for the elections. "I am awaiting a report from the governance committee and once I have it, I will look at the calendar for a suitable date," he added. The elections have been postponed twice in the past two years due to the lack of a constitution and thus a clear roadmap. However, some stakeholders said they are yet to receive a copy of the constitution despite its approval by Fina last year. Roselyn Njeri one of the stakeholders said none of the county swimming heads, be it Nairobi, Mombasa or even Nakuru had received the document. "Ask around. None of us has received the constitution a year down the line. I am wondering what happened. We don't even know the contents of the document,” said Njeri. Ohaga said candidates to take part in the pols will have to get clearance certificates from various government agencies like the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Higher Educations Loan Board (HELB). "We will follow the right procedures in ensuring those getting elected have passed the integrity test," said Ohaga. Stakeholders have asked for other contentious issues like KSF book of accounts and criteria for selection of swimmers to international events be addressed before the polls. They observed that SDT is not a credible arbiter in the wrangles bedevilling the sport and have asked the Ministry of Sport to intervene. Fina suspended Kenya from all swimming activities due to the delay in holding the elections.