Attorney-General Kihara Kariuki has asked Kenyans to review the Victim protection regulations document and make their submissions. "This is for the purpose of implementing the Victim Protection Act, 2014," he said in a notice on Tuesday. The Victim Protection Act, 2014 was enacted in 2014, to give effect to Article 50 (9) of the Constitution. The Act provides for the protection of victims of crime and for reparation, compensation, special protection for vulnerable victims and the development of a mechanism for dissemination of information and provision of support services. The comments and memorandum should be sent to Sheria House, Harambee Avenue. The offices are open on weekdays from 8.00am- 5.00 p.m and letters can also be sent to Sheria House P.O. Box 40112-00100, Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +254-2-2227461/2251355. Email submissions can be sent to Diana.sang@ag.go.ke, Communications@ag.go.ke, and legal@justice.go.ke. Kariuki said the call for submission will last for 15 days from November 18 to December 4, 2020. Members of the public are advised to submit both hard and soft copies of their memorandum/comments. "This is keeping in line with the Ministry of Health Covid-19 Guidelines. All stakeholders are called upon to participate in the process by giving views at any of the public meetings," he said. The public meetings will take place in different counties namely; Mombasa ( Tononoka Grounds), Nyeri (Old Municipal grounds), Kisumu (Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports Ground) Makueni (Wote Green Park). Others are; Kilifi (Pwani University grounds) Meru (Muthara Polytechnic) Bomet (Bomet Green Stadium) Kitui (Kitui Multipurpose hall) Machakos (Machakos University) Tharaka Nithi (Chuka University) Kisii (Kisii University) and Garissa (TBC). Kariuki said the dates of the public meetings will be communicated in due course. The Act also establishes the Victim Protection Board which advises the Cabinet Secretary in charge of matters relating to Justice on inter-agency activities aimed at protecting victims of crime and the implementation of preventive, protective and rehabilitative programmes for victims of crime. The Act gives powers to the Cabinet Secretary to make regulations regarding procedures to be put in place to monitor and assess the proper application of and compliance with the Act. The Victim Protection (General) Regulations, 2020 and the Victim Protection (Trust Fund) can also be downloaded from the State Law or MyGov sites.