Floods hampered transportation rendering the bridge across the Homa Bay-Kendu Bay road impassable after River Awach Tende broke its banks due to heavy rains. The incident resulted to a heavy snarl up near Nyangweso bridge, blocking vehicles that ply the Kisumu- Homa Bay and Migori routes. The floods occurred after excess water from the river overflowed on the tarmac road to farms and homes. Several houses were flooded in Nyalunya, Tethra, Odienya and Nyarut villages and forced residents to vacate their homes. Dykes that were constructed along the river to prevent spillage could not withstand the high pressure and volume. The incident posed danger to people who wanted to cross the bridge, with  motorists spending more than five hours on the road as they waited for the water to subside. Vehicles got stuck on the road with possibilities of being swept away if they attempt to move across the flooded bridge. Some matatu operators had to use farms as alternative routes to reach their destination. The move by the matatus destroyed crops in the farms. Some local youths took advantage of the situation to get quick cash, as they pushed stranded motorists out of the water at a fee of between Sh200 and Sh500. A matatu driver Capis Otieno said he was forced to refund his customers after some complained of time wastage. “Most of my passengers alighted, walked and took boda bodas before they proceeded to their destinations. I refunded them because I had no choice since the bridge was impassable,” Otieno said. The residents called on the government to intervene and build better barriers to prevent perennial flooding in the area. Nereah Ochanda said the floods had killed all her chicken and swept away some of her household items. “The government should find a solution to this perennial problem,” she said. Homa Bay disaster management director Eliud Onyango said they have started conducting assessment to establish the extent of damages. He said they will give a comprehensive report about the level of destruction. “We’re working with the national government to ensure we find a solution,” Onyango said. Meanwhile in Suba, floods have continued to cause destruction of property. At least 50 families have been displaced from their homes after water from Gwassi hills flooded several villages. Suba deputy county commissioner Joseph Maina said the worst affected area is Nyandiwa trading centre where families living in rental houses were forced to leave their homes which were flooded from Saturday night.   Edited Kiilu Damaris