Deputy President William Ruto has weighed in on the revival of PEV cases, saying it is meant to resuscitate the 'tribe project'. "The provocative incitement to ethnic hate/division intended by the resurrection of PEV is an evil attempt to resuscitate the tribe project destroyed," he said, Via Twitter on Tuesday, Ruto said the project was destroyed by the 'hustler' movement's realisation that poverty and unemployment deliberately bred by poor leadership is the problem, not Kenya's tribes. It had been reported that the government had made a surprise U-turn and announced its reopening cases on the 2007-08 massacre, with victims of the horrendous Kiambaa Church tragedy ready to testify. The move came more than seven years after the government officially announced that there was no evidence to prosecute perpetrators of the bloodbath that left more than 1,100 people dead and 650,000 forced from their homes. This comes on the same day more than 40 MPs allied to Ruto launched a scathing attack against DCI boss George Kinoti for reopening investigations into the 2007-08 post election violence. The Tangatanga lawmakers accused Kinoti of attempting to invite violence between communities living in the Rift Valley. "Kinoti and his handlers are back in town.. ..It is clear that Kinoti and his masters only wish to cynically exploit the terrible trauma of PEV to anchor a diabolical divisive political agenda, distract attention from his paymasters' political frustrations and incite communities into violent conflict," Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said. While reading a statement on behalf of the leaders, Kihika attacked Kinoti, claiming that he was being used to force Kenyans to support BBI and shape the 2022 succession . However, Kinoti dismissed claims that the directorate is reopening cases on the 2007-08 post-election violence. Kinoti said his address was not intended to mean that the DCI was going to open completed cases that were investigated and closed. He said it was an acknowledgement of concerns raised by the affected Kenyans to assure them of the DCI's commitment to investigate all reported threats to security and sensitise the public on the need for a peaceful co-existence.