A security guard attached to Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu appeared in a Kibera court relaxed and composed as he narrated how robbers almost killed him three years ago. Police Constable Titus Musyoka said the incident happened moments after he left the Supreme Court premises driving a blue Prado. He had just picked a child from Montessori Academy and dropped him home. “I left the Supreme Court and went to Montessori Academy to pick a child,” he told chief magistrate Joyce Gandani. After dropping the child, he proceeded to the Coptic Hospital area to buy some plants from a flower garden that belonged to Mr Kiragu, whom he had known for more than 10 years. “I arrived at the garden and I found Kiragu and his two employees but Kiragu informed me that the plants I wanted to purchase (bottom brass and others) were few. He advised me that they were present at the next garden,” he said. He said that at the garden near Impala Club, he was accompanied by Kiragu and one of his employees. The garden also belonged to Kiragu. He parked the car facing the gate and Kiragu and the employee started loading the plants. “I asked them how many they had loaded when I had a gunshot. I heard the second gunshot and found I had been shot and was bleeding in the left jaw and the left shoulder,” he said. He then lay down and pretended to be dead. "I pretended that I had died as I had no option. A man came and picked my gun and he was very excited and left,” he said. He said the man fled on a motorcycle. “I told Kiragu that I had been shot in the shoulder. I requested him to take me to hospital." The employee who accompanied Musyoka said he was busy loading the tree seedlings when he had a gunshot and later saw Musyoka in a pool of blood. "I heard a gunshot and later saw him lying on the ground bleeding. There was a young man who came and picked his pistol," he said. In the case, James Wachira Kibe, Eric Njuguna Kamau and Evaryncy Shivachi, alias Evans Khalif, are accused of violently robbing Musyoka of his pistol, a magazine loaded with bullets and Sh200,000 at gunpoint. They denied any wrongdoing. The offence was committed on October 24, 2017, along Ngong Road opposite Impala Club in Dagoreti, Nairobi. Magistrate Gandani directed the case to proceed on November 30.