President Donald Trump has trashed Joe Biden's win as the US president elect. Trump in a statement said Biden was rushing to falsely pose as the winner in a move to cover the truth from being exposed. This comes after Biden was announced President-Elect after winning both the popular and electoral college vote. But Trump who has indicated that he will not concede said that Biden has not been certified as the winner of any states let alone any of the highly contested states headed for mandatory recounts. "This election is far from over. Joe Biden has not been certified winner in states where our campaign has valid and legitimate legal challenges that could determine the ultimate victor," he said. Trump claimed that in Pennsylvania, his legal observers were not permitted meaningful access to watch the counting process. "Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media," he said. "Beginning Monday, pour campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated," Trump said. He said the American people are entitled to an honest election meaning counting all legal ballots and not counting illegal ballots. "This is the only way to ensure the public has full confidence in our election. It remains shocking that the Biden campaign refuses to agree with this basic principle and wants ballots counted even if they are fraudulent, manufactured or cast by ineligible or deceased voters," Trump added. He said only a party engaged in wrongdoing would unlawfully keep observers out of the count room, and then fight in court to block their access. "So what is Biden hiding? I will not rest until American people have the honest vote count they deserve and that democracy demands," he said. Trump's statement comes after Biden assured Americans that he will keep the faith that has been placed on him. "America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me. Keep the faith, guys. We’re gonna win this," Biden said. "I am honoured and humbled by the trust the American people have placed in me and in vice president-elect harris. In the face of unprecedented obstacles, a record number of Americans voted, proving once again, that democracy beats deep in the heart of America. with the campaign over, it is time to put the anger and the harsh rhetoric behind us and become together as a nation. It is time for America to unite and to heal," he said in a statement. "We are the United States of America. And there is nothing we can't do if we do it together," Biden said. His sentiments were echoed by Vice President-elect Senator Kamala Harris who said, "This election is about so much more than Joe Biden or me. It’s about the soul of America and our willingness to fight for it. We have a lot of work ahead of us. Let’s get started". Former Secretary of State and 2016 Democratic Presidential Nominee Hillary Clinton said, "The voters have spoken, and they have chosen Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to be our next president and vice president. It's a history-making ticket, a repudiation of Trump, and a new page for America. Thank you to everyone who helped make this happen. Onward, together".