Police officers at a middle-class estate in Eastlands seem to be running an extortion ring reeking of impunity and making the anti-graft war in the Police Service a joke. So brazen are they that bribes, mostly from motorists, are collected at the parking area. In the past few days, including Monday, the officers were targeting private vehicles. The coordination starts from junior traffic officers deployed on the road. Maybe  Police IG Hillary Mutyambai (pictured) can punish the station bosses and officers as an example to other corrupt cops. **** When the Kenya National Highways Authority started to re-carpet service lanes and express lanes on a major highway, it was said this would slow down deterioration of the road. However, motorists are now decrying damage to their vehicles from lots of loose chippings left behind. They accuse the contractor of doing a shoddy job as the tarmac is washed away by rains immediately after re-carpeting, leaving loose chips on the road. Slippage and loss of traction can endanger lives. Perhaps Cabinet Secretary James Macharia needs to intervene, order sections with loose chips to be clearly marked. And he should order work in danger areas be completed fast. **** A prominent political party is on the spot for failing to clear outstanding bills recently incurred at a hotel. The management of the hotel is said to have made several efforts - in vain - to have the party pay for conferencing, accommodation and catering services. The party is said to have last promised to clear the bills on November 13. Interestingly, Corridors of Power was told this particular promise was made via a WhatsApp message. The hotel is said to be holding off on legal action because of the mutually beneficial relationship it has enjoyed over the years with the leadership of the party. **** The chief Finance officer of a county in Western whose governor is planning to vie for a parliamentary seat in 2022 is on the spot. Why? It's reported the second-term county chief has tasked the Finance boss with the dangerous responsibility of illegally ensuring periodic deductions of funds from various departments until mid-2022. He needs the money to build his war chest to run for the position. The governor was recently overheard bragging how he will confidently "buy" his preferred party's ticket and then get a ministerial position after the 2022 General Election should BBI amendments succeed. The county chief is worried, however, that plans to create additional constituencies could complicate matters for him. That's because he could end up being moved to a constituency where his clan will be in the minority.