Nyeri archbishop Anthony Muheria has said that he is recovering well from Covid-19, but needs time to regain strength. In a short video seen by the Star on Friday, the archbishop ,who has been discharged from hospital, said he is currently in his ‘little hideout in Nairobi’ and thanked everyone for their best wishes. “I thank God that I am improving slowly.  I still need time to recover even the strength but I thank you all for prayers,” said the archbishop. “I am sending this video so that you can see my face, hear my voice and see that I am improving step by step,” he said. The archbishop, who said he had been visited by priests from the archdiocese, called on all to take charge each with their own task and place so they can continue holding the archdiocese high. Mid this month, Muheria sent a message from Mater hospital where he was hospitalised and called on all to continue praying for him and being vigilant. “Thank you very much for your continued prayers for me during these days I am admitted in Hospital with Covid,” he stated in the message addressed to fathers, religious leaders and faithful of Nyeri Archdiocese. “God has shown me his love, and your love with a lot of prayers sent and promised, for me and for so many other Covid patients who are also our own in various hospitals and homes.” He called for prayers for all church brothers and sisters who may be going through a difficult time during the Covid-19 pandemic. Muheria is the Interfaith Council chairman, which was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to guide the country on resumption of in-person worship and religious gatherings following the pandemic. In Nyeri before contracting Covid-19, the archbishop had been spearheading a charity initiative dubbed Hope4U for both the Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri and Kitui diocese. The initiative launched in April at Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Cathedral Church in Nyeri town was targeted to raise over Sh120 million to feed over 10,000 needy families during the pandemic. The initiative was also launched alongside another titled 'Good Shepherded Call Center' a toll free number to offer spiritual support and free counselling services to those undergoing mental and social issues during the Covid-19 pandemic.