Referendum signature collection booklets have been sent to all parts of the country, according to BBI secretariat co-chairman Dennis Waweru. The former Dagoretti South MP called on Kenyans to visit the nearest signature collection stations and append their signatures. “The exercise kicked off very well and every part of the country has the booklets. We encourage all Kenyans to turn out in large numbers and sign,” he told the Star by phone on Friday. Waweru said the online version "is going on smoothly" and was  optimistic that the one million mark will be surpassed. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga launched the signature collection on Wednesday. The one million signatures are a prerequisite to the amendment of the Constitution. The BBI secretariat is racing against time to have the signatures by Wednesday next week. According to the action plan, the secretariat is expected to submit the signatures and the Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2020 to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on December 9 for verification. The Constitution says that if IEBC is satisfied with the signatures, it will submit the draft Bill to each county assembly for consideration within three months after the date it was submitted. “If a county assembly approves the draft Bill within three months after the date it was submitted by the commission, the speaker of the county assembly shall deliver a copy of the draft Bill jointly to the Speakers of the two Houses of Parliament, with a certificate that the county assembly has approved it,” Article 257(6) states. If the Bill is approved by a majority of the 47 assemblies -at least 24- it shall be introduced in Parliament without immediately. The Bill is passed if it is supported by a majority of members in both the Senate and the National Assembly and submitted to the President for assent. However, because the amendment Bill touches on the supremacy of the 2010 Constitution and also seeks to alter Parliament and devolution, it will have to be subjected to referendum.