A board of a state agency under the Treasury headed by CS Ukur Yatani  (pictured) has been the talk of the secretariat for the manner it operates. The board is said to not only have surpassed its maximum sittings but also lined up numerous meetings despite the secretariat's advice. The board members are also operating as full-time employees, reporting daily, despite their contract clearly stating theirs are part-time engagements *** Envoys are shying away from a key state agency in the hospitality industry that is being mismanaged. A foreign mission that had promised to collaborate with the agency withdrew at the last minute, citing mismanagement at the facility. Those in the know say rip-off at the agency has reached unimaginable levels and soon it might join the long list of government institutions that have died. ** The falling-out between a county secretary and a finance boss in Nyanza has sent many into a panic. The duo who were college-mates used their previous relationship to milk the county dry. The executive, who has been the de facto governor because of lame-duck personality of the governor, had been assured of inside support to succeed his boss. However, he has now been warned by the Finance chief that he too can be governor and he has has been crisscrossing the county politicking. The CEC, who controls the treasury with his lieutenants, is accusing the Finance guy of reneging on the MoU in which he (the executive) was to 'deal with' the DCI, the EACC and the DPP to forestall investigations and prosecutions, while the Finance CEC was to play ball as second fiddle. Contractors associated with Finance boss have missed payments as punishment in which one contractor collapsed recently because of pressure from lenders to the tune of Sh20 million. *** A vocal lawmaker from the Western side of the country refused to honour a TV interview by a female anchor of a major media house, claiming the TV siren had rejected his advances. The legislator is said to have given conditions before granting the interview, among them that the female journalist agrees to reconsider his earlier advances. The host, however, declined to confirm if she will be ready to discuss the MP’s interest, prompting the MP to reject the invite. Moles have told Corridors of Power the two met last year during a TV interview where the MP is said to have made his interests clear, telling the TV host he was willing to spend all his salary on her. "She is the woman of my dreams, I will use anything to get her," the legislator once confided to a friend.