An environmental activist has volunteered to restore and protect the environment in Ukambani, especially Kitui county. Francis Kavisu is devoted to planting one million trees through a community-based organisation he established last year. The region has seen the worst of deforestation, which has been blamed for contributing to increased global warming and climate change. As a result, there has been a serious water shortage. This worsened after residents turned to charcoal burning and trade as a livelihood, felling many trees to earn a living. Kavisu says his mission will also be a way of honouring his late mother who advocated a green environment. He started his own nursery to enable him to donate tree seedlings to the community for planting in line with the national government's push to achieve a 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. "I established this tree nursery last year and formed a CBO dubbed 'We the Trees', which has 27 self-help groups,” Kavisu said. He led the groups and Muthale Primary School pupils in planting 5,000 trees in the first phase of the initiative meant to green Kitui's Mutonguni ward. Kavisu urged residents to adopt the culture of tree planting on their parcels, however small, and during events. “I urge residents to practise planting trees in every event they attend; for example birthdays, weddings, or any form of activity that brings people together," he said. He has partnered with the Kenya Water Towers Agency, which has trained farmers on how to plant and tend to trees. The environmentalist is looking for a partnership with other agencies, such as the Kenya Forestry Research Institute, to come on board so they can work together for the common good. Prisca Kimanzi, a resident, said that years back, they fetched water from nearby streams, which have since dried up because the land has been left bare as a result of increased degradation. "I urge locals to consider going back to the old ways of planting trees and conserving our environment, as it is the only way to fight drought,” she said.  Edited by F'Orieny