In five years time, rally driver McRae Kimathi aspires to achieve just about all that there is to accomplish locally by battling his way up the racing ladder. The 25-year-old second generation driver possesses the insatiable appetite for success and the common belief that the rally-sport is a discipline of possibilities ‘as long as one has the right mind-set and seat time’. To hit the Kenya National Rally Championship summit, McRae is determined to follow in the footsteps of his dad Phineas Kimathi formerly a former Formula 2 champion and currently CEO of the  WRC Safari Project. Kimathi senior in his hey-days gave Hyundai their first national motor sport title worldwide in the KNRC F2 in 1997. He was also the first person to win the F2 title in a WRC event for Hyundai. McRae, a career accountant, nevertheless believes there aren’t any shortcuts to stardom. “Well, from my experience, I guess you trust yourself more and maybe you are more committed. That’s my opinion. When you are a second generation driver, people tend to look at our dads’ track records and expect a lot from you. Once you manage to do your own thing and not think about it, the results come.” “The one thing you will benefit from being second generation is you live in an environment laden with all sorts of competition machines and parts; so you get to learn a lot more from your seniors from the time you are still young. “Another advantage is that you have information easily available to you and so you will not have to struggle to get it. Mainly it’s the pressure that comes with it. Rallying is a sport where experience counts than most other sports,” narrated McRae. He added: “In 5 years, I should be challenging for top positions in the KNRC but it’s a steep learning curve for now.” Apart from his dad’s input, McRae is grateful to the Khan brothers Asad and Adil of Tams Racing. “Tams Racing has played a huge part in my career with Asad Khan (Kalulu) teaching me how to drive and tackle rallies and Adil ensuring I have a top car. I am very grateful to them. My car is prepared by Motor Atrep which is being run by Adil Khan. Adil is an old hand in the trade and has had profound impact on the same.” McRae’s first  KNRC was in Machakos in 2015 but his first Safari came to fruition in 2016 when he crashed out and then moved on to autocross in a bid to gain more experience. In 2017, McRae finished second in the autocross championship and fourth in 2018. “It was great to be back in autocross in 2017, the year I got my first trophy with the Gc8.  It was my second career autocross. The race was a good testing platform for me as I spent most of the time finding a set up as I was completely lost. I made a couple of mistakes in my driving which I had to work to correct in the long run. All in all, I was happy with the times we were able to achieve in the Autocross event and the progress we made with the car setup, thanks to Rehan and Tejas for their advice then.” So how was McRae’s experience like checking into the first control in his debut? He went on: “I was very nervous. I didn’t know if I had good notes or if I had the speed. With time and a little more experience, I started to relax. I still got nervous in the time control. And when I began, my car broke down a lot and I had lots of accidents.  The DNF’s frustrated me to some extent as I really needed the kilometres to gain experience then. With that, it worked to my advantage as it made me even stronger mentally and accept things beyond my control. Great drivers have a very strong mental attitude. But once I grew up, I learnt how to stay on the road. I came to learn that every driver has to have some technical knowledge on the car setup in case of a breakdown. It does help knowing the bits and pieces of your car.” McRae was inspired by the late Scottish driver Colin McRae and his father. Phineas. “I realized I had the rally bug from a young age when I used to watch my father rally. Colin McRae was such a great driver. He competed in the Safari during the WRC days. Sadly, he passed on in a grisly chopper accident,” said young McRae. McRae has never participated in a World Rally Championship event. But with Safari Rally returning to the WRC calendar after a 19-year hiatus next year, McRae looks to partake in the event with verve and vigour. Spurred on by his finish in the WRC Safari candidate rally last year, McRae is optimistic of a great run in the WRC Safari set for June 24-27. “Regarding the Safari, I haven’t quite decided yet on preparations but I am planning different things for next year. I will definitely be participating in the WRC next year. It’s been a while since I sat in a car given the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. Honestly, the pandemic duration has given me time to pursue other things. I am hoping to get back asap, if it’s safe to do so. Driving in the Safari has for me been my highlight as we get to race for 3 days.” The 2016 edition of Nanyuki Rally served as a learning experience for McRae. “After that excruciating Nanyuki outing, I reset and got my career back on track,” he quipped. Quality preparations in the rally sport amount to 79 percent of a driver’s success and this is one aspect of the sport that McRae doesn’t take lightly. “My preps start immediately after an event as we do a debrief on what went right and what went wrong. The rally week begins with testing the week before to ensure the car is in good nick. We get to make setup changes if need be. This is followed by a thorough and meticulous recce before the race.” McRae’s favourite Kenyan rally drivers are former KNRC Champions Lee Rose and Rory Green. “Lee was very fast if everything went well. He relocated to South Africa but he’s one such man or the calibre of driver to watch on a good day in the office.” In his racing career, McRae has driven only three 3 rally cars. “My first one was Hyundai Coupe Fx (Formula 2) the one my dad raced with in his sunset years. I then upgraded to a Subaru Gc8 and currently a Subaru N12. The Hyundai is still at home and it’s a collection item for our family.”  MCRAE’S BIO  Date of Birth: January 4, 1995 Hometown: Meru Lives in Nairobi Racing Team: Mukuru Rally Team KNRC Category: Division One Year Commenced Rallying: 2015 Past Navigators: George Mwangi, Steve Njenga & Absalom Aswani. Present Navigator: Evan’s Mwenda . First Rally Car: Hyundai Coupe fx (Formula 2) previously raced by his dad. Previous Rally Car: Subaru gc8 Current Rally Car: Subaru Impreza N12  Career Achievements *2017- Second Autocross 4WD Turbo *2018 -Fourth Autocross 4WD Turbo “2019-Finisher the WRC Candidate Safari Rally “5the overall KCB Meru Rally (1st in Division 3 and 1st in Group N)