Mwijaku, a Tanzanian radio presenter, says very soon, he will bring Tanasha Donna to Tanzania, where they will do different projects and tour together. “Yes, I'm bringing her to Tanzania, but we've delayed due to the elections; I'm waiting for President Magufuli to be sworn in so that I bring her," he said over the weekend. “She must come, we will do big things, among them take her on a national park tour. She was here and has never been taken to a park. She will definitely do something big while here, that is a promise I have to give to Tanzanians.” Mwijaku hit the headlines when he alleged Tanasha's son Naseeb Junior is his and not Diamond Platnumz's due to the striking resemblance. Tanasha later threatened to sue Mwijaku for the allegations after being advised by legendary singer Ray C. Ray C wrote, “As human beings, there are things we do which are stupid, but sometimes, you have to grow mentally and know what you are doing to other people. This is so wrong in so many levels, as a man with his family, I don't think this is good. “There are people being affected by cyber bullying. Mwijaku, you are not doing the right thing. Tanasha, get a lawyer and sue this b*** n***.” In her response, Tanasha wrote, “Empty vessels make the loudest noise, sister. You know empty? He will be receiving a letter from my lawyer soon. Let us see if he will still be as enthusiastic by the time he is in court.” The radio presenter then dropped his claims and apologised, saying he meant a child is owned by the society, having come from the same area with Diamond. “We understand that according to our culture, someone's child is also my child and probably, our neighbours don't understand that. To say that this child is my blood is to mean that Diamond and I are from Kigoma,” he said. “Tanasha and all Kenyans probably didn't understand me, so please forgive me. I will crawl on my knees to Kenya to ask for forgiveness." Mwijaku later said he and the 'Gere' singer are now in talking terms during Harmonize's event called 'Ushamba', where he released a new song.