Deputy President William Ruto's allies have denounced the DCI for allegedly scheming to revive the PEV cases at the ICC to destroy the DP's bid for the presidency in 2022. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi on Monday and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago on Tuesday flayed the DCI. They said it was being used to reopen old wounds when the region was moving on after the 2007-08 post-election violence. At least 1,100 people were murdered and 650,000 left homeless. Land was grabbed. Mandago told off DCI boss George Kinoti over the "political" decision to investigate old PEV cases. Kinoti said on Tuesday, however, that no old closed cases would be reopened. He said residents had complained of recent threats to life and security that are being investigated. Mandago called the DCI investigation an attempt to revive the ICC case against the DP where he was accused of orchestrating crimes against humanity. He said it was evident the DCI knows something others don't about the surrender of lawyer Paul Gicheru to the ICC. He was accused of witness tampering. The governor warned Kinoti the DCI was playing with fire at a time residents had resolved to unite and live in peace since the 2007-08 violence. He accused Kinoti of trying to whip up emotions over non-existent matters that Kenyans had forgotten. “We don’t want any artificial and manufactured problems by Kinoti," Mandago said. He said DCI had not acted on the violence long ago and asked why it was looking into cases today. Mandago urged residents not to be carried away by Kinoti’s 'rumours' but be on alert and report any suspicious activities that threaten peace. “We wonder what Kinoti has been waiting for all this time. DCI has existed all along and they should tell us what they were waiting for all this time," he said. Mandago said he had been governor for more than eight years and he was not aware of threats to PEV victims or a situation where land was being occupied illegally. He said he now believed recent claims police officers had been sent to the region to take away PEV files from police stations in the plot to revive PEV cases. He said he would not allow anyone to disrupt peace. The governor warned youth to be careful as Kenyans approach the electioneering period and not allow themselves to be used by politicians to cause violence. “You are wasting your time when you fight for politicians. They have medical insurance worth more than Sh10 million, while for you NHIF cannot treat Covid-19," the governor said. Mandago said more than 2,800 community elders and more than 1,500 chiefs would have reported any threats or plans for violence. Sudi said on Monday that Kinoti, State House and Interior ministry officials were trying to revive ICC cases to 'fix' Ruto and dash his bid for the presidency. Speaking at his home in Eldoret, the MP claimed Kinoti and his team had schemed to send lawyer Paul Gicheru to the ICC to revive the crimes-against-humanity case against Ruto. Ruto was charged with orchestrating crimes against humanity in the 2007-08 post-election violence. Much of it occurred in his Rift Valley turf. The cases against him and Uhuru Kenyatta, before he was president, never took off because witnesses recanted or disappeared. At least one was murdered. As there was no trial and they were not acquitted, the ICC prosecutor has said the cases against them could be reopened. “We know Kinoti has been using all strategies for a long time. They schemed to sideline Ruto in government and cause differences between him and the President but we knew very early of the scheme," Sudi said. He also said most corruption cases had been instigated to undermine the DP but they failed. Though the government previously announced case-closed for lack of evidence, Kinoti's office said witnesses recently came forward. They said they had been threatened and had recorded statements though they had feared to do so initially. At least 30 people were burnt alive in Kiambaa church where they had taken sanctuary. Many others were butchered outside. Sudi said Kiambaa church is in his constituency and no efforts would succeed to use the PEV violence to revive the ICC cases or reignite intercommunal violence . The MP claimed the DCI had paid some individuals to travel to Nairobi and write fake statements to revive the PEV cases. “Let Kinoti know he is the one who will go to The Hague but not those he was planning to send there. He's just misusing public funds to scheme evil but he should know the fake plans will not work. "Kenya must and will remain peaceful," Sudi said. ”The DCI has been turned into someone’s entity or a cartel," he said. Sudi said Kinoti was acting from ignorance because he was not in the region when the PEV affected mostly Eldoret and Nakuru. “We do not understand how the President can claim not to know what is going on in his government," the lawmaker said. He said Kinoti may be clever and ready to be used but he should not think he is cleverer than all Kenyans and God. Kinto is part of a scheme to incite Kenyans after plots by cartels failed to finish the DP, he said. “Last year some of them even met at the Lamada Hotel to scheme how to eliminate the DP but God will ensure evil schemes fail," he said. Sudi said Uhuru and Ruto had come together to unite Kenyans and led the reconciliation between the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities. But since 2017, people in government had created problems, he said. Even if Ruto does not become president, Rift Valley residents would not be incited to fight against each other, he said “We will not accept even one person to shed blood because of political power," Sudi said. He claimed that last year Mungiki sect members had approached him and four other leaders after being paid by government operatives to cause chaos in Eldoret. “I told the NCIC about this and they said they could investigate, but because  I spoke out, it went quiet," Sudi said. He said DCI officers were leaking the schemes against DP Ruto and his allies. “Kinoti should know that we have all information on what he schemes because we have our officers working within his own office. We will reveal everything without fear," Sudi said. (Edited by V. Graham)