It seems like the fight against corruption will never be won in this country. It is a war that begun way back in 1963 and we are still having the same conversation. We, as a country, have never taken a concrete political decision  to end corruption once and for all. While we have taken concrete decisions on matters to do with the law and institutions mandated to fight graft, we have never taken corresponding decisive political decision on the same. South Africa can provide us with a good example. In 1998, then President Thabo Mbeki realised that his government was corrupt to the core. He took a political decision of dismantling corruption in government and at the top level. Senior government officials were taken to court. He also formed the Directorate of Special Operations also known as DSO or Scorpions. This was an independent multidisciplinary agency that investigated and prosecuted organised crime and corruption. It had a success rate of between 92 to 96 per cent in terms of convictions and recovery of assets. It therefore narrows down to one thing: A political decision has to be made in order to actualise the fight against corruption. Every year, we have been saying the war on graft has been intensified. We then, later on, tell Kenyans about billions of shillings lost to corruption. Now, the DPP has come with a report that we have lost Sh163 billion to graft. That tells you we have not yet made significant milestone in curbing corruption. President Uhuru Kenyatta at one time during the State of the Nation address gave a list of officials implicated in graft. We do not know what happened to that list. That issue ended there. Also, the President rooted for a lifestyle audit for top officials. That, too, ended without action. Everyday we have been seeing the President issuing a statement or making a comment, sometimes giving a promise. We have a consistency of making promises that are not backed by a pursuant political decision. Ndung'u Wainaina, the executive director at International Center for Policy and Conflict spoke to the Star