Qatar Airline is celebrating its 15-year anniversary of operating direct flights between Nairobi and Doha, Qatar. The airline currently operates double-daily flights between Doha and Nairobi serviced by its modern, fuel-efficient Boeing 787 Dreamliner, featuring 22 seats in Business Class and 232 seats in Economy Class. The national carrier of the State of Qatar maintains the highest level of hygiene and safety across its rapidly expanding network of more than 100 destinations. The airline commemorated this milestone with a celebratory water cannon salute and delighted passengers with a special performance by national dancers upon arrival at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. During the pandemic, Qatar Airways helped repatriate over 1, 000 passengers from Kenya at a time where many airlines were grounding their aircraft, further demonstrating the airline’s commitment to the Kenyan market. “We are delighted to be celebrating this milestone at JKIA. Over the past 15 years, Nairobi has demonstrated its importance as a business and leisure market becoming one of our most popular destinations with global travellers,” Qatar Airways Vice President Commercial Africa, Hendrik Du Preez said. He said Nairobi offers visitors a truly memorable and authentic experience, which is famed for its safaris and energetic nightlife. “Residents of Kenya have also benefited from Qatar Airways’ globally connected network and partnerships with local carriers, making us the airline of choice during their travels. Qatar Airways is proud to have provided over a decade of quality international service for our valued travelers in Kenya, and we are looking forward to serving this important gateway for many years to come,” Du Preez said. Currently, the cargo carrier operates fourteen belly-hold flights and six freighters every week, offering more than 600 tonnes of combined cargo capacity each way. By the end of 2020, Qatar Airways will operate to 19 destinations in Africa, including Accra, Addis Ababa, Cape Town, Casablanca, Dar es Salaam, Djibouti, Durban, Entebbe, Johannesburg, Kigali, Kilimanjaro, Lagos, Luanda, Maputo, Mogadishu, Nairobi, Seychelles, Tunis, and Zanzibar. In celebration of more than 100 aircraft being fitted with Super Wi-Fi, the airline is currently offering all passengers free on-board Wi-Fi connectivity until 2 January 2021. Qatar Airways now offers the largest number of aircraft equipped with high-speed broadband connectivity in Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.