The Interior ministry is on the spot after audit findings pointed to mismanagement of civil registries. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu, in a report tabled in Parliament, revealed that the Civil Registration Department (CRD) has not been listing all deaths and births. The auditor reported that civil registration services cannot fully account for all births and deaths since registration rates are still below 100 per cent. The auditor raised concerns that the government, through the registration services, has not created a need or urgency for mandatory citizen listings. Thus, the citizens don’t seem to be aware of the need for civil registration and the importance of obtaining birth and death certificates. According to the Performance Audit, registration, therefore, is needs driven – during registration for exams, processing of death benefits and application for travel documents. She further flagged the delays in issuing birth and death certificates, further citing the failure to fully automate and digitise the records. It should take two days to process and issue a birth or death certificate in Nairobi and Mombasa and a day in other subcounty offices — which is not the case. “This may have created the apathy to the citizens to register despite the national importance,” the report reads. The findings bring into question whether officers took up Interior CS Fred Matiang'i directives in January that the documents be issued within a day. The CS at the time promised to crack the whip on officers derailing civil registration. Gathungu said the danger of incomplete data is that the government and other stakeholders — say the IEBC and the National Treasury — cannot fully rely on the same for planning and resource allocation. The Births and Deaths Registration Act states that the CRD is required to register all births and deaths that occur in Kenya, without regard to nationality. The civil registration department, in its 2013-17 Strategic Plan, envisioned that listings would increase to 100 per cent by 2017. “Existence of late registration cases in all CROs is evidence that not all events are registered when they happen.” “Failure to register all vital events affects the accuracy and timely process of statistics, which has a negative impact on policy decisions that must rely on them,” the report reads. She said the situation means the government has to incur more costs to get accurate statistics — such as the Sh18.5 billion spent on the 2019 census. The auditor revealed that the Interior ministry has been starving the registries of funds as not all the approved funding was provided. Gathungu reported that the Interior ministry has not been providing all the funding to the registries, especially field stations, in line with the approved budget. Financial data for 2015-16 and 2017-18 indicated that of the approved recurrent for field stations, only 16 per cent and 15 per cent was given as AIEs respectively. “This has created huge staffing gaps and other resource constraints resulting in poor service delivery,” the report reads. For the period stretching financial years ending 2016 to 2018, the department was allocated Sh2.8 billion. Of this Sh1.4 billion was spent at the headquarters. This means 50 per cent of the allocation was what was left to be shared by over 108 registries across the country. In terms of ICT, the audit found that most registries are not using the electronic data management system. Registrars told auditors that the staff are not trained on the use of the system and those trained were not up to date with the system’s operation. Data that was to be digitised at the headquarters was partially done – up to 2014, whereas the data in the system is incomplete. “The head office scanned the records, but they did not complete the data entry. For the records scanned by CROs, data entry was partially done so the content cannot be searched,” the auditor pointed out. Only 15,486,002 birth records of the 39,155,307 and 593,825 of the 5,703,161 death records were digitised. Due to this, Gathungu raised the red flag of possible double registration saying the manual process is not effective in detecting repeat entries. Further to this, the auditor revealed that the CRD has little flexibility when it comes to using the system as the same was procured by the ICT Authority.