The national government has released Sh4.3 billion to cushion Inua Jamii beneficiaries across the country from the effects of Covid-19. Some one million vulnerable persons will receive their overdue July and August payments of Sh4,000 each starting Monday. This was revealed in a statement on Thursday by State Department for Social Protection PS Nelson Marwa. He called on the beneficiaries to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines during the payment period. “As you are aware, beneficiaries usually crowd together during payments thus posing a great risk of either contracting or spreading the virus,” Marwa said. He noted that the majority of the beneficiaries are older persons who have underlying health problems and need to be safe. “Sensitise and encourage beneficiaries to use mobile money (mobile wallet) payment using their phones. The payment service providers will provide various options available and accessible to the beneficiaries,” Marwa directed county social development officers. He further directed that payment service providers come up with a seamless payment schedule to ensure the older people, persons living with severe disability, orphans and vulnerable children adhere to the Ministry of Health directives. A recent HelpAge International survey shows that six out of 10 elderly people have more than one health condition. With a focus on Nairobi, the survey showed the most common health conditions among the elderly include joint aches and pains (32 per cent), followed by heart problems at 12 per cent. The Covid-19 rapid needs assessment survey of old people also found that the elderly suffered from skin diseases, serious injuries, diabetes, poor respiration, hypertension and mental illness. Kenya has since 2018 funded and implemented the Inua Jamii 70+ Cash Transfer Programme, a pension for all Kenyans aged 70 and over who are not in receipt of a civil service or social security pension. The goal of the Inua Jamii programme is to eradicate poverty among the aged and improve the welfare of poor and vulnerable older Kenyans. Recipients get Sh2,000 monthly, which is paid every two months. In 2020, the programme has reached around 833,000 older people. It is implemented by the Social Assistance Unit of the State Department of Social Protection within the Ministry of Labour. According to the 2019 census, the population of older persons (60 years and above) in Kenya is 2.7 million against a total population of 48 million Kenyans. They elderly constitute about six per cent of the citizenry. Edited by Henry Makori