Bars will now employ a Covid-19 liaison officer who will act as a link between the government and the establishments in new NACADA guidelines. The officers will be tasked with restricting the number of revelers in a bar to comply with the Ministry of Health protocols on social distancing. The officer will also keep abreast of the emerging health, safety, and hygiene information and preventative measures related to the pandemic. "Be the point of contact with the MOH, SLLC, and other sector players," the guidelines read. 'Covid-19 code of conduct' In the guidelines released on Monday, bar managers or owners must come up with the Covid-19 code of conduct to tighten the regulations for bars. They should also designate one person as a Covid-19 point of contact for every shift to be responsible for responding to virus concerns. "Request partakers who refuse to maintain Covid-19 rules to leave the establishment," it read. They should also protect employees with a higher risk for severe illness from Covid-19 (modified job responsibilities) in the establishments. "Immediately report any case of Covid-19 among employees, while maintaining the confidentiality," it read. Stagger shifts and rotate staff members to reduce the number of employees in the establishment at any one time when in operation. Arrange transport for staff, where possible, to reduce public transport use, arrange transport and relevant documentation for any staff leaving after curfew hours. 'Bar Kumi initiative' The Bar associations should establish the “Bar Kumi” initiative for close monitoring within defined jurisdictions. The bar associations should also assist the Government in ensuring the MoH guidelines & protocols are strictly followed by the members. Maintain an up-to-date register of its members for compliance and peer accountability purposes. Train their members by liaising with the Public Health Officers on Covid-19. They are also to support alcohol retailing establishments install physical assets to ensure the minimum spread of Covid-19 such as automatic and/or foot-peddled  hand washing station and sanitizing dispensers. Members are to collaborate with alcohol distributors to ensure no product is  sold to outlets flouting set Covid-19 guidelines. They are to support responsible alcohol consumption campaigns to promote adherence to the rules and regulations. Provide sustained support on Covid-19 risk communication and community engagement. Ensure that members keep the database updated for traceability Partner with the Government to Combat illicit trade in the sector. 'Close dance floors during this time' All dance floors must be closed during this pandemic, the report read. The alcohol sector associations and their operators will put in place mechanisms for evaluating and monitoring the levels of compliance with the provisions of the alcohol sector protocols and guidelines aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19. Service Tables and Chairs to be disinfected after every customer used. "Condiments shall not be provided to customers in shared containers,"it read. Every establishment shall set aside a suitable - Covid-19 holding/emergency room for any suspected staff case and report to relevant authorities.