About 784 civil servants have graduated after successfully completing a one-week ICT training. Out of this,  514 are non-technical staff and 270 technical staff coming from 100 public sector organizations including county governments, parastatals, and national government agencies countrywide. The training was organized by Huawei in collaboration with the ICT Authority. ICT CS Joe Mucheru noted the importance of investing in human capital and partnering with those at the forefront globally of technology to provide the content. Additionally, he commended Huawei for its input in building the country’s ICT infrastructure and empowering the country through ICT skills for youth. “The need for technology is really growing in the country and in the region and we thank you that you have really partnered with us to ensure that we are able to deliver not only for our citizens but even for the businesses so that we can see the kind of growth that is required,” he said. The capacity building training was categorized into two cohorts, covering the technical and non-technical training. The technical training aimed at improving the participants’ knowledge on the latest cutting edge technologies including cloud, AI, IoT, big data, network security, digital economy, e-government and smart cities among other ICT trends. The non-technical training focused on basic knowledge of ICT transformation, cybersecurity and information security. Each trainee was required to complete coursework over a period of one week as well as particulate in live training. "This is becoming more important than ever as the digital economy grows and the fourth industrial revolution comes upon us. We need to be able to take advantage of emerging technologies such as AI, distributed ledgers, cloud infrastructure, robotics, 5G and the internet of things to spur the socio-economic growth of our country," Mucheru said. Huawei Kenya CEO, Will Meng said that “the civil servant training was one of the aspects of a multi-pronged capacity building partnership between Huawei and the Ministry of ICT and we will continue to expand this programme in the future”. "Through the partnership, we believe that we can make Kenya not only a leader in Africa but globally. This, along with good ICT infrastructure and skills, can create jobs and provide efficient public services for every Kenyan citizen.” Certificates and trophies were awarded to trainees who showcased overall exemplary performance during the training. Lily Mwendwa, an Assistant ICT Officer at the ICT Authority claimed 1st place award for the technical training, and Bernard Munyiri Matu, a Senior ICT Officer at Laikipia County Government, claimed 1st place for the non-technical training.