Jomo Kenyatta International Airport is well prepared to handle and store Covid-19 vaccines, the Kenya Airports Authority has said. KAA said stakeholders in both ground-handling and warehousing have improved their status to become Centres of Excellence for Independent Validators (CEIV-Pharma) in the handling of pharmaceutical products. “Our stakeholders apply good distribution practices, as well as good warehousing practices, in all their operations. This means that JKIA is ready for the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccines,” KAA acting managing director Alex Gitari said. Covid-19 vaccines are expected to be made available to the public next year but authorities in the field are already raising concerns over logistics of shipping and storing one of the candidates. The World Health Organization has reported over 50 per cent vaccine wastage globally every year, in part because of a lack of resources to support cold chain requirements. Countries may receive correct quantities overall but have insufficient cold chain capacity to accommodate deliveries. The WHO has warned that vaccines are at risk of exposure to adverse temperatures. Pfizer’s vaccine, made in partnership with the German firm BioNTech, will need to be stored at subzero temperatures and cash-strapped medical facilities may not be able to handle the drug. While Pfizer’s vaccine will need to be stored at subzero temperatures, the ones announced by Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca can be stored at temperatures within the reach of the average home refrigerator. Gitari noted that JKIA is a leading distribution and logistics hub in Africa and was rated as the second fastest-growing airport in the world for cargo by Airport Council International in 2019. "We are working very closely with the International Air Cargo Association and other international organisations like Pharma-Aero in the quest to ensure we maintain international air cargo service standards,” he said in a statement. This will enable safe handling and trans-shipment of Covid-19 vaccine in Africa. "In addition to being the preferred airport for 20 foreign airlines and the hub for Kenya Airways and Astral Aviation, JKIA has five air-side cargo terminals with a capacity to handle 1.2 million tonnes of cargo, which includes a cold-room capacity of 9000m2,” he added.  Edited by F'Orieny