Despite being demoted from Kenya Premier League over financial hiccups, Sony Sugar FC participation in the lower league is equally reported to be in turmoil. Former Kenyan Premier League side Sony Sugar have reportedly turned to Zoo Youth for players as they prepare for the new season in the National Super League. The millers are struggling to find footing in their new status as a second tier outfit following their relegation from top flight football last season, after they skipped three consecutive matches due to financial constraints. Sony now have two battles at hand, firstly, fighting tooth and nail for a comeback to the Kenyan Premier League and secondly, shopping for a new shirt sponsor after Sony Sugar Company withdrew their support. Amidst the crisis, the club is also struggling to fend off speculations that they might have already merged with Zoo Youth. Zoo Youth coach Andrew Mc’Ongwae admitted that Sony had approached the Kisii-based division 1 club for players and the possibility of having them take their spot in the National Super League. “Sony FC officials approached us because the company was not in a position to sponsor them,” he said. Mc’Ongwae also confirmed that they have maintained their squad from last season where they finished second in the Division One league and have decided to only bring in three more players from Sony. “We took three players from Sony FC to complete the squad as most of their players left after being demoted," he said. Sony Sugar have, however, played down reports with club secretary Bonface Onyango saying he will only comment on the matter after meeting with Sony Sugar MD Stephen Ligawa. “I don’t know about such agreement and I can’t engage more on it because currently I am meeting the MD over next season,” Onyango said. Frank Ogolla, the FKF competition manager,  said they are currently treating the matter as rumours as they are yet to get any official communication with NSL set to begin later this month. “We are yet to receive any official communication over the same. Sony are still in NSL as they have already registered payers and they are in the released fixtures,” he said.  Ogolla said Sony have committed themselves to playing in the NSL next season.