Kenya Revenue Authority on Wednesday presented the Taxpayers Winner’s Award 2020, in the Public Sector category, to Public Service Commission. KRA Deputy Commissioner George Muya presented the award to PSC Vice-chairperson Charity Kisotu at the Commission House in Nairobi. Muya said that PSC has been consistent in compiling tax returns and has continuously collaborated with KRA, thereby contributing to the realisation of KRA’s targets in tax collection. “KRA recognises PSC for compliance as well as rallying Government Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to also comply,” Muya said. He disclosed that PSC’s circular to MDAs to pay taxes was a game-changer, hence the recognition. Also, Muya observed that the government institutions were perceived as being reluctant to fulfill their tax obligations, noting that the situation has since changed following PSC intervention. Kisotu noted the importance of tax compliance the world over, stating that it is critical in promoting any government’s development agenda, and delivery of services to the citizens. She commended the president and KRA for placing great importance on recognizing institutions that pay their taxes promptly. “I wish to appeal to all public institutions to lead by example in being tax compliant.  This is because tax payment is an obligation for all public and private organizations as well as individuals, to enable the government to effectively undertake its role of providing services to citizens,” Kisotu said. She noted that PSC is mandated under Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution to ensure compliance with the values and principles of the public service, hence its support for tax compliance in the public sector. “It is our obligation to lead by example and demonstrate to public servants, who look up to us, the same values we stand for by not only paying our taxes but also filing the returns within the stipulated time frame,” she said. Kisotu also hailed KRA for leveraging technology by introducing the web-based iTax system in 2013, which has improved compliance levels. “Initially, public sector officers experienced challenges in using the new system, but we commend KRA for promptly sensitizing all officers involved in the filing of PAYE and withholding VAT returns on behalf of their entities.” This year’s award ceremony by KRA was observed on 6th November 2020 virtually under the theme “Enhancing tax administration for economic sustainability.” It was presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta.