West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo  and Tiaty MP William Kamket on Friday opposed a call to compensate bandit attack victims in North Rift. They said Pokots, overwhelmingly labelked bandits, were also killed and wounded by government shoot-to-kill orders and hence should also be compensated - or no one should get a payout. They and other leaders held a two-day peace meeting chaired by Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya at the Kenya School of Government  in Kabarnet town, Baringo, on Friday. “If the government is really committed to find a lasting peace, then it should shelve mentioning anything to do with compensation to the affected victims,” Kamket said. More than 300 people including children have been killed, and many maimed while others rendered homeless since 2005. Thousands of head of livestock have been stolen by armed bandits. Kamket said that as he is a Pokot leader, he opposes compensation. “Personally, I am more than willing to attend  many peace crusades to unite the warring communities, but I don’t support pleas for compensation,” he said. He said the government cannot compensate some ‘affected’ communities, leaving out others. “It is fine if all of them are factored in,” he said. He was reacting to a statement by Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop who suggested the state should compensate the attack victims. “For many years, our people bordering Tiaty subcounty have suffered great loss of human lives and livestock due to attacks by merciless bandits,” Kimosop said. He called upon security agencies to move faster and help recover all stolen animals. “We also want the victims compensated for the enormous loss of lives and property,” Kimosop said. Kamket said Pokots equally lost thousands of lives and livestock in the Laikipia ranges to the government shoot-to-kill orders in 2017. “So if we go that direction, then we Pokots also deserve compensation,” he said. Kamket’s sentiments were echoed by GovernorLonyangapuo who shouted down the angry MCA, calling him a "leadership toddler". “Listen, young man, you should keep off such childish thoughts. Forget it like you forgot suckling your mother’s breasts. Surely do you think a professor like me can be a thief?" Lonyangapuo asked. The meeting was attended by 50 leaders and more than 300 residents from West Pokot, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and Turkana counties. Compensation was not among the resolutions that included immediately opening security roads, installing communications networks and holding peace meetings across the volatile region. Natembeya said  the government is ready to compensate the attack victims only if a bill is passed in either the national or the county assemblies. Contacted for comment, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo who was absent from the meeting with apology, said he had 2014 tabled a bill in Parliament calling for victims' compensation. “The law was passed unanimously but since then it has never been implemented,” he said. Residents criticised some leaders as  ‘hypocrites’ calling for peace in the volatile North Rift. “We fear some leaders are colluding with government agencies to do some hidden business under banditry while pretending to be seeking peace,” Baringo North resident Richard Chepchomei said. Chepchomei said government never can be trusted since it withdrew the National Police Reservists late last year. “As we speak, tension is high in our villages, armed bandits are resurging threatening attacks, while the government officials pretend to host  boardroom security meetings that have no effect,” he said. In attendance were the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) chairman Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, his Baringo counterpart Stanley Kiptis, Josphat Nanok (Turkana) and Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich. MP Charles Kamure (Baringo South), Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central), Ali Mohamed (Turkana East), James Lomenen (Turkana South), David Pkosing (Pokot South) and several MCAs also attended. Natembeya urged the leaders to end political divisions and unite to preach peace. “I am here only because of one assignment given to me by President Uhuru Kenyatta, to restore peace in Rift Valley. I cannot manage without the support of the elected leaders and the residents,” he said. Natembeya rejected "prophets of doom", with the wrong perception that it's impossible to end  insecurity, saying they should keep quiet. (Edited by V. Graham) 