After losing their sponsor and 20 players, Betking Premier League outfit Western Stima chairman Laban Jobita remains upbeat that he will rebuild the team into a formidable outfit. Jobita said he has already signed 16 players to replace those who departed to various Kenya Premier League teams. “Since we don’t have a sponsor, I want to build a lean team that we can easily manage. I don’t want to comment on the players already signed but I’m confident we shall have a competitive team,” Jobita said. Stima suffered a blow after their sponsors Kenya Power withdrew their sponsorship prompting to the massive exodus of their star players. Kenya Power also withdrew their sponsorship for Coast Stima and Nairobi Stima. “The withdrawal of our sponsors was a big blow and we are currently looking for alternative financier,” said Jobita. Even though Jobita indicated that they have hired Coast Stima coach Paul Ogai to replace Salim Babu who left for Wazito, the tactician insisted he is still the Coast Stima coach. “I have not signed for Western Stima because my contract with Coast Stima is still valid,” said Ogai. He is, however, yet to report for pre-season training with the Mombasa-based side. Western Stima will open their  Premier League campaign against AFC Leopards on November 21 at the newly renovated Nyayo Stadium, according to draft fixtures released by the Football Kenya Federation. On Saturday, Western Stima succumbed to a 1-0 loss against Luanda Villa in a friendly match. Western Stima are the only team from Nyanza in the top tier league following the relegation of Kisumu All Stars, Chemelil Sugar and Sony Sugar. The new signings for Western Stima are Abdirahman Mango (APS Bomet), Ezekiel Wadanda (SS Assad), Laban Otieno (Kolwa United), Marvin Ayoro (Kisumu HotStars FC), Rodgers Ouma (Manyatta United), Steve Brian (Amani), Vincent Oluoch (Manyata Utd), Darryl Odhiambo (Tusker Youth), Spencer Obura (Kisumu Hotstars). Others are Clinton Bulimo (Kisumu Hotstars), Bravo Otieno (Cusco), Mark Ochieng (Migori Youth), Kennedy Omondi (Mt. Kenya Utd), Ian Nagweya (Vihiga Bullets), Swaleh Mbaruk (Allstars), and Ali Hamid (Miwani).