South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro is working on a bill to stop the President from appointing civil service retirees to states job. Anyone who has served and retired in the public service will not secure another government position should the bill, expected to be tabled in January, pass. “Once you have served and retired, you should go home and not be appointed to another state agency when there are youths who can do the same job,” Osoro said. Osoro made the remarks during a meeting of the Kenya Young Parliamentarians Association in Mombasa on Friday. The MP's remarks come days after President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed former KDF chief Maj Gen (rtd) Samson Mwathethe to chair the KenGen board. Osoro said the government has reduced the youth in Kenya into puppets who are expected to clap and vote and get nothing in return. “I fail to understand why Mwathethe was appointed as the KenGen chair yet there are unemployed youths who can do the same job brilliantly,” Osoro said. At the same time, the Youth Serving Organization Consortium called for the disbandment of the National Employment Authority, saying it has failed to address unemployment. The organisation’s chair Mbuki Mburu said youth unemployment has soared despite the formation of the agency to address the matter. “It’s been four years. What are they doing? It is not serving young people. President Uhuru should dissolve that body,” Mburu said. She noted that youth miss out on key positions in government yet they are the majority in the country. “The recent ambassadorial positions that were announced had no young person. The young people of this country need to be meaningfully engaged,” Mburu said. She said the time has come for the youth to be included in the decision and policy-making processes in the country. “We will not be shoved this way and that way to satisfy certain people’s ambitions or interests,” Mburu said. Osoro said young people under the age of 35 make up to 75 per cent of the Kenyan population. “However, too often their priorities are not reflected in government priorities,” he said. The young MPs and activists said it is not in the position of leaders to make decisions for young people. “That is why we are saying let the young people read and understand the BBI by themselves and let them make informed choices,” Osoro said. Mburu said young people should not only be the readers of the document but should also be included in coming up with such documents in future. Molo MP Kuria Kimani said any commission or ministry that touches on the youth should have youth leading them. Kimani said the proposed youth commission in the Building Brdiges Initiative report and the Sports and Youth ministry should be composed mainly of young people. 