Eremit residents are appealing to the county and national governments to repair the 22km road that connects them with Oltepesi town in Kajiado West. Repairs were promised by two governors more than seven years ago but it remains impassable, a seasonal river. The Eremit-Oltepesi road was constructed in 1992 when George Saitoti was the MP. It was devastated by floods in 2013 during the rainy season and vehicle owners have been driving through private farms between Eremit and Oltepesi. Farmers Mzee ole Saitaga allows motorists to drive across his land. He said on Sunday he charges boda bodas Sh100, personal cars Sh200 and heavy trucks Sh1,000 for every crossing. “I am not happy that I make money from our people but I am doing this to force the county government to realise its obligation,” he said. He makes as much as Sh5,000 per day. Eremit resident Lawrence Mbelati was forced to relocate his family to Ngong town after it became impossible for him to take his children to school in Magadi because of the bad road. He said it is now a large seasonal river that drains into Lake Magadi. “The sad thing is that our leaders are aware of its bad status. Former Governor David Nkedianye was here in 2014. He saw the road and promised he would act on the problem," Mbelati said. MP George Sunkuyia and Ewuaso MCA Justus Ngossor said Monday Governor Joseph ole Lenku toured Eremit late last year and promised to repair the road. “He [Lenku] came to Eremit and visited a collapsed public secondary school building that had just been built and a dispensary whose roof had been damaged by the wind,”  Ngossor said. The Ewuaso MCA said he was present when Lenku promised the residents of Eremit that he would send in engineers to repair the road. “The governor sent in three earth movers and caterpillars one day after leaving Eremit. Two days later the machinery was moved away and the road was never repaired,” the MCA said. He also said the governor promised Sh20 million to build a dam on Eremit springs. The residents on Sunday told the Star that the only water source – Eremit springs – is used by livestock, wild animals and people. They claimed they cannot fetch the water after livestock has been to the springs. Water CECM Michael Semera did not respond to calls from the Star seeking a comment on Monday. “The governor promised to do four things: build a dam along the Eremit springs, repair the local dispensary, secondary school and the Eremit-Oltepesi road,” MP Sunkuyia said. The MP said the 22km road is managed by the county and and it's the county's responsibility to repair it. The only local dispensary that was operational seven years ago has  been abandoned. CECM for Roads Alex Kilowua did not pick calls or answer messages seeking a comment about the the state of the road and why it hasn't been repaired. (Edited by V. Graham) 