President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged leaders to be on the forefront in fighting Covid-19, but politicians are emerging as the weakest link. A bird whispers to Corridors that MCAs of an urban county are going about their business even after testing positive for the disease. The county assembly ordered all reps and staff to be tested and 10 results came back positive. However, some of the MCAs who tested positive have been spotted loitering in the streets and putting other Kenyans at risk. ****** On Thursday we told you about a manager at an energy parastatal who has moved assets worth millions of shillings from the agency’s premises in unclear circumstances. It now appears she is dogged by several claims of impropriety. For instance, she is said to have claimed mileage allowance for using her car on official trips, yet she used her official car, complete with a driver. She is also alleged to be abusing subordinates, including recalling staff isolating after testing positive for Covid-19. She does not wear a mask yet she is said to have been coughing for weeks. Why the impunity? Well, she is said to be in an intimate relationship with the overall boss ****** Administrators in a Luo Nyanza subcounty are being constantly harassed by a first-term legislator who says he was a schoolmate of a top officer in the Interior docket. Chiefs and their assistants are threatened if they don't dance to the whims of the MP, who is alleged to be mismanaging the NG-CDF and has numerous integrity queries hanging over his head. The administrators want the MP to man up and stop name-dropping to frighten them. Residents, meanwhile, are wondering when the MP will focus on service delivery and stop bragging about the connection. ****** If you don't have hard cash, you are likely to die unattended to at a public hospital in a Nyanza county where mobile money means nothing even in the era of Covid-19. The big hospital, which has been on the forefront of sensitising the public on Covid-19 and encouraging paperless transactions, has been turning away patients, even those in critical condition, who are unable to pay in hard cash. The facility has PayBill numbers placed at strategic positions, for show, it seems. Recently, a bleeding patient who had been attacked by robbers was turned away in the dead of night and asked to withdraw money before he could be attended to. Hospital administrators say they are under strict instructions to accept only cash. Why the cash-only policy? residents wonder.