@alalmaurice Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga has warned cartels to keep off business stalls meant for traders or risk arrest. This follows reports that brokers were duping residents into giving them money for stalls allocation. Wanga said the retail space in the completed markets and those under construction are purely for traders. He spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony for the upgrade of the giant Kibuye open-air market on Monday. Wanga said phase one of the project will cost Sh315 million. He said brokers of stalls are unwanted in his office. “I am not ready to associate with people whose mission is only to grab the stalls. They want the stalls for their wives and girlfriends. That won’t be tolerated on my watch,” he said. Wanga said allocation will be done fairly to ensure genuine traders get space to do business. "We have reports that some brokers are collecting money, ID photocopy, passport, and phone numbers to allocate stalls to the displaced traders,” he said. Wanga said Governor Anyang' Nyong’o is committed to ensuring all traders are fairly settled. He said they will identify genuine traders through a biometric system. He also raised concern about illegal kiosks in the city. “Those people who are erecting stalls must henceforth stop. They include some city management staff,” he said. “I will personally drive a bulldozer to bring down the structures. We must have order and a clean city.” Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro also cautioned cartels plotting to grab the stalls. They said the retail space is for traders who were displaced to pave the way for projects. “You find one person has 50 stalls acquired illegally. That is unacceptable,” Oraro said. The county has so far relocated 740 traders at the Sh37 million Chichwa market — a component of the Sh241 million non-motorised transport project. The project targets to ensure pedestrians and cyclists are comfortable and safe. A total of 1,190 traders were affected by the NMT project, which covers Ang’awa Street, Oginga Odinga Street and Jomo Kenyatta Avenue. The market upgrade was funded by the World Bank through the State Department of Urban Development under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. The remaining traders will be accommodated in 10,000 stalls in Uhuru Business Park, which is currently under construction. The Sh350 million national government-funded project is being developed on 23 acres. More than 4,000 stalls out of 10,000 are ready for occupation.