For the second week in a row, Covid-19 frontline health workers gave chilling accounts of their working ordeals and bitterly blamed the government for putting their lives at risk. The health workers battling Covid-19 said on Monday they are now being forced to recycle personal protective equipment, or PPEs, in a desperate effort to ward off the disease. They said there are not enough PPEs - full body suits, from shoes to head coverings. But PPEs are supposed to be used only once, never reused, as they can be a source of deadly contamination. Senators are to visit Kemsa on Wednesday to demand why health workers have not been supplied with protective gear. It was purchased at exorbitant prices and is lying in warehouses. As Covid numbers soar, doctors and clinicians have issued strike notices, demanding more and better PPEs and other supplies, as well as comprehensive medical cover, among others. Thirty-seven specialist doctors, clinical officers and nurses have died of Covid-19 and many have fallen ill. Officials representing health workers told shocked senators how they no longer get fresh supplies of PPEs but are still required to relentlessly attend to Covid-19 patients. They must do their best to decontaminate and reuse - and use again. “There is inadequate supply of PPEs to health facilities and in the few instances hospitals get protective gear, they are of substandard quality,” Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said. To avoid risking their lives - but doing so anyhow - health workers said they have been recycling gowns and suits, shoe covers, gloves, medical-quality face masks and face shields. The disturbing revelation came just five days after doctors said many colleagues who test positive for the disease and are asymptomatic are being forced to attend to patients. The Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) said hospitals are forcing asymptomatic doctors to continue working, though they risk infecting patients and others. Only doctors with symptoms or those who are severely ill are exempted from work in many cases, they said. On Monday, the Senate Standing Committee on Health expressed shock at the conditions health workers are required to endure as they combat the pandemic to help others. Committee chairman Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali, who a physician, said members would visit the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency on Wednesday and demand answers. They want to know why health facilities are not being supplied with PPEs and other supplies. “They have already procured the items and they are in the stores. Why are health workers recycling PPEs when we have so much of them lying idle at Kemsa warehouses?” Ali asked. Kemsa has been on the spot over reports that PPEs and other supplies worth Sh6.2 billion are lying in warehouses. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has ordered Kemsa to release PPEs to counties at the current market price. Governors had complained PPEs' prices were way above market price. Kemsa is facing a financial crisis because it bought supplies at inflated prices but now cannot sell them for the same amount. Ali said health workers will continue to contract the disease unless they are supplied with adequate PPEs. “It is very sad to learn that health workers are recycling PPEs. More disappointing is the fact some PPEs being recycled are of the poorest quality,” he said. He added, “Health workers are our frontline soldiers. Generals should not sit at the back and imagine that everything is all right at the battle field. Our condolences to the families of all those who have succumbed.” The committee received submissions from the Kenya Medical Association (KMA), Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Association (KMPDA), National Nursing Association of Kenya (NNAK), Kenya National Union of Nurses, (KNUN), Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, Kenya Clinical Officers Union, Kenya National Union of Laboratory Officers and Kenya Pharmacists Association. Alfred Obengo, president of the National Nurses Association of Kenya said 2,317 health care workers had contracted Covid-19 since it was first reported in the country on March 13. Obengo said nurses formed the majority of health workers who have contracted the disease. “Nurses make up about 55 per cent of health workers who have contracted the disease. We have lost 17 nurses to the disease so far,” he said. Obengo said inadequate supply of PPEs was one reason nurses are so exposed to the disease. “We recommend comprehensive cover for nurses and adequate supply of PPEs. We are also demanding 8,000 nurses be recruited on permanent and pensionable terms and compensation of nurses who have died. We are further demanding a risk allowance of Sh30,000 per month,” he said. Nurses and doctors are among health workers who are at the verge of paralysing medical services with a countrywide strike over PPEs, medical cover and risk allowances, among other demands. KNUN secretary general Panyako also deplored the inadequate supply of PPEs to health facilities. He said the government should reactivate contact tracing and home-based care for people diagnosed with the disease. “We also demand that the government forms special units to take care of health workers when they fall sick,” he added. "No one seems to care about health workers any more," Panyako said. Cliff Randa, representing the Kenya National Union of Medical Laboratory Officers, said members also have been neglected, yet they are critical in fighting the pandemic. “We are at risk because we collect samples without proper protective gear. We demand N-95 masks should be provided at all times,” he said. Nominated Senator Beth Mugo assured health workers that the committee will look at their grievances and make appropriate recommendations. (Edited by V. Graham)