West Pokot county has received maternal, newborn and child health equipment from the United Nations Children’s Fund. The county has received the first-ever continuous positive airway pressure machines and other equipment to manage respiratory distress in newborns. The initiative is supported by the Chinese government. According to Unicef, the equipment will help the county provide quality maternal and newborn health services and shrink the high child mortality rate in the region. Currently, West Pokot experiences a high child mortality rate caused by a lack of immunisation, according to the county health executive. Immunisation of children under five years of age in the county is only at 50 per cent. The ideal for herd immunity is 80 to 95 per cent for measles and polio respectively. Last year, Pokot Health executive Geoffrey Lipale attributed the low coverage to the shortage of nurses, illiteracy and long distance to health facilities. He also said many mothers die during delivery due to complications. “Out of 1,000 mothers, we lose more than 200 mothers during child delivery,” Lipale said. The most dangerous counties in which to give birth, or be born in, were Mandera, Wajir, Turkana, Marsabit and Isiolo according to a recent study. Lipale said the county has put in measures to ensure deaths are reduced and life expectancy is increased. He said that the county has employed more than 114 nurses to ensure residents have access to services in time. “The county has a shortage of over 400 nurses and we shall be employing more every financial year to reduce the numbers,” Lipale said. However, doctors have blamed the surging number of child deaths in the country on the shortage of paediatricians. According to the Kenya Pediatricians Association, there is a need to have more paediatricians to curb increased mortality in children. KPA chairman Thomas Ngwiri said as of 2019, the country only had 500 paediatricians who were mostly concentrated in the cities. “You will find that many of these paediatricians are in big cities like Nairobi and Kisumu, far away from many Kenyans living in rural areas. 