All schools will be reopened on January 4th 2021, Education CS George Magoha has announced. This will apply to all continuing PP1 & 2; Grade 1, 2 and 3; Class 5, 6 and 7; and Form 1, 2 and 3 learners, Magoha said on Monday. Pre Primary 1 & 2; Grade 1, 2 & 3; Class 5, 6 & 7; and Form 1, 2 & 3 learners will start their Term 2 on 4th January, 2021 and end on March 19th together with the Grade 4 and candidate classes (Class 8 and Form 4). Magoha said that all learners, except Class 8 and Form 4 candidates, will proceed for a 7-week holiday to allow for KCPE and KCSE examinations administration and marking. Grade 4 and incoming Form 1 (Class 8 graduates) learners will stay at home as other learners complete their Term three. Magoha said Grade 4 CBC learners to transition to Grade 5 in July 2021. International schools will reopen from January 4th 2021 for all learners still at home. The Education CS George Magoha said schools are the safest environment for learners, even as the Covid-19 infection rate continues to surge. "I wish to assure the country that the Government is determined to ensure a safe reopening and learning of our schools. In doing so, we are drawing important lessons from the partial reopening that has taken place since October," he said. "We are confident that we will remain on the right trajectory to finding the winning formula that will ensure our learning institutions are safe for our learners and teachers. " TSC CEO Nancy Macharia urged teachers aged 58 years and above to stay at home. "As this is a Presidential directive, your employers will not sack you. TSC has negotiated for teachers to be covered for Covid-19 related illnesses," she said. These remarks come amid undertones to have schools fully reopen for learners yet to report back eight months since closure in March. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta said all basic education classes to resume in-person learning in January 2021. Around the world, schools have remained open even as countries head to a second round of lockdown following a surge in virus infections. On Saturday, for instance, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced a return on partial lockdown between November 5 and December 2. However, schools, child care centres, universities, and colleges will remain open on medical advice.