Eastlands residents expect to get better health services following the Sh400 million upgrade of the Mathare – Korogocho hospital into a level 5 facility. The Nairobi Metropolitan Service is overseeing the revival of the hospital, which has been grounded since the early 1990s. NMS director of health services Dr Josephine Mbae said that works at the facility commenced in July after President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered Major General Mohamed Badi’s team to upgrade it. “Following the President’s directive in July, the contractor got back to the site and the stalled work was revived. Around Sh400 million was given to the contractor and if the progress goes on well as planned, the health facility will be opened to the public to offer sufficient health services,” Mbae said last week. Once completed, the Mathare–Korogocho hospital will have patient admission wards, a pharmacy, kidney dialysis centre, an intensive care unit and theatres. The facility will be at the same level as Mama Lucy Hospital which is also being upgraded by NMS. It is to be completed by April next year. Mathare-Korogocho hospital is among the 24 that NMS pledged to build in Nairobi’s informal settlements. The hospitals are in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. According to Mbae, 19 out of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch while the rest (five) would be rehabilitated. “Ten out of the facilities to be built entirely will be level 2 hospitals and the rest will be level 3,” she said. Mbae said that the Public Service Commission on behalf of NMS has already advertised for staff to be attached to the hospital. It is expected that more than 300 workers drawn from different cadres of health professions will be deployed. “The process of procurement of equipment had already begun and NMS is expecting health professionals from nurses, doctors, laboratory technicians, pharmacists and many more to be recruited,” Mbae added. Level-5 health facilities are known as county referral hospitals and have more than 100-bed capacities. They are run by chief executive officers who must be medical doctors. The facility should handle more than 250 patients daily and have capacity to manage medical, paediatric, surgical and gynaecological in-patients. It should also offer renal dialysis, radiology services, tuberculosis management, mortuary and autopsy services, 24-hour pharmacy, pathology, chemotherapy and forensic services. A level 5 hospital should be built on at least 10 acres or 5,000 square metres. It should have inpatient and outpatient pharmacies, burns unit and a staff quarters for at least eight people on duty. Besides a medical superintendent, Level 5 hospitals should have at least 15 medical officers, seven anesthesiologists, two cardiologists, four general surgeons and two orthopaedic surgeons. Another requirement is that it should employ at least 90 clinical officers, 118 nurses with specialists spread across different departments, 11 pharmacists and 10 pharmaceutical technologists. 