The fight against Covid-19 will be decentralised and tackled at the county level. “This is in recognition of the fact that the attack rate in the country is different now from county to county and it may be necessary to take measures within counties that we are not taking in other counties,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The country has witnessed an exponential rise in infections and deaths, with 274 dead this month. Eighteen patients died in the last 24 hours. Eight were medical doctors. Some 14,927 cases have been recorded this month, with 559 reported on Monday. The National Emergency Response Committee has asked teams in the counties to assess the status of oxygen and personal protective equipment for medics. Kagwe said there is no shortage of oxygen, only poor distribution. “It is not that there is no PPE or oxygen. For instance, some counties such as Kisii, Mombasa and Nairobi have enough oxygen. It is just a matter of poor planning at county levels,” Kagwe said. Any measures counties agree upon will be enforced after consultations with the Health and Interior ministries. Governors will take charge of the measures. “Noting that the country has adequate stocks of the PPE, county governments are advised to source them from Kemsa at prevailing market rates. This is in an agreement between the ministry the CoG and Parliament.” The CS also held a meeting with the doctors' union in an effort to avert a strike by the healthcare workers. The KMPDU officials led by the secretary-general Chibanzi Mwachonda had given the government 21 days to act on their demands or they'd go on strike. They cited a lack of medical insurance among the medics, with those who have contracted the virus forced to fundraise to cater for their bills and medication. “This has been the darkest month since March when the pandemic struck. Although we have lost so many, we must not forget that we are at a war with an enemy and like in every war there are frontline soldiers,” Kagwe said. “In consultation with the doctors' unions we have instructed the National Hospital Insurance Fund to quickly conclude the negotiations for comprehensive group life, last expense, enhanced work and injury benefits and group accident personal accident cover for Covid-19 as approved by the Cabinet,” the CS said. The NHIF management is expected to announce the conclusion and effectiveness of the insurance benefits on Tuesday.  