Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has vouched for the Huduma Namba card, saying it will improve service delivery. "People need government so that they can get services…For the time I have been in govt, the pain our people go through to access a service pains me…Consolidating all data sets was aimed at clearing this mess," he said. "I foresee, subject to Parliament’s approval, Huduma card becoming part of your identification process." Matiang'i spoke during an interview aired on Citizen TV on Monday night. He said the government will exercise caution when rolling out the issuing of Huduma cards, given the Covid-19 pandemic. " We are going to be methodical in how we issue the Huduma cards because of maintaining social distance…By Jamhuri Day 2021, it will be mandatory, from a point of view of convenience, to have a Huduma card to access govt service," Matiang'i said. On the Building Bridges Initiative, Matiang'i said the government will facilitate the process. "We will facilitate the BBI process like we facilitate other processes…It is our role There will never be a time where we will trample on anyone’s right, including right to assemble," he said. On the issue of politicians who claimed drones were seen flying over their houses in what they described as state surveillance, Matiang'i denied the allegations, saying the government allows for divergence of views and does not spy on those with alternative opinions. "I don't know whether to laugh or cry on those claims..." he said. Last week, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said drones had been hovering around their homes causing surveillance fears. In a tweet last Wednesday, Kibwana said, “Drones hover over my official residence. Electronic gadgets in the house are compromised. As it was during Moi and NCEC, so it is now." He added: "I have repeatedly made this public and reported to authorities. I will not be intimidated.” Murkomen on the other hand tweeted, "To the person who has been sending drones to hover over my house I have two requests..." "Please share the beautiful aerial photos and come home through the main gate for a cup of tea but make sure you carry your mask. Thank you and God bless." Meanwhile, Matiang'i said Kenya's state of security is strong. "Our state of security is strong…Let us not forget where we are coming from in terms of security…The President has poured resources in equipping the security sector…He (President Uhuru Kenyatta) has built a framework of multi-agency approach where intelligence is shared," he said. Matiang'i, however, raised the alarm over radicalisation of youths. "We are in a precarious region security wise and we fear our youth may be radicalised…We have put in plans to ensure our youth are able to make investments by removing trade barriers, expanding opportunities in vocational training," he said. The CS also urged parents to take responsibility for their children, to avoid the rising cases of youths caught up in alcohol. "The level of parental responsibility is low…Society and government will not raise your children for you," he said. Over the weekend, police found 44 teenagers at a house in Mountain View engaging in alcohol while partying. On whether he has political ambitions, Matiang'i said, "We will cross the bridge when we get there…Let us concentrate on the work we have now." Matiang'i concluded by thanking the President for giving him the opportunity to serve. "I am grateful to the President for the opportunity to serve…I thank God I have made my contribution…We have a great country where everyone’s’ dream is valid," he said.