Are some BBI adherents trying to persuade an MP from Deputy President William Ruto’s (pictured) Rift Valley backyard to shift his political base to Nairobi and contest the Lang'ata parliamentary seat in 2022? Well, Corridors understands the politicians have approached the MP, who has not been seeing eye to eye with the DP to challenge Nixon Korir for the seat. The lot believes the MP has what it takes to dislodge Korir, popularly known as 'Generali', who is close to the DP. The man has been promised ‘facilitation’ for campaigns, including state machinery if he accepts the offer to ‘lock Ruto out’ of the capital city. *** A first-term MP from the Mt Kenya region could soon lose his property, including matrimonial home and other belongings, to a bank. The Jubilee legislator has defaulted on a loan amounting to more than Sh500 million. According to those in the know, the lawmaker took the loan months to his election in 2017 and used part of the amount in the campaigns. The bank’s several pleas, notices and warnings to him to clear the loan have fallen on deaf ears. The bank is now planning to attach the man’s property to recover the millions at stake. *** Members of a powerful parliamentary committee have hatched a plan to kick out one of them. Reason? They are accusing their colleague of what they term ‘constant’ betrayal whenever they strike a deal. According to moles in the committee, the vocal MP has gone against all the deals the panel has struck with its ‘witnesses’. The committee grills powerful government officials. In the latest case, the MP is said to have betrayed his colleagues when he put on the spot an official who had appeared before the panel. The official had ‘talked and agreed’ with the members to go easy on him but the ‘stubborn’ member reneged. The members are now planning to trigger his removal from the panel. *** A first-term Jubilee governor is broke — literally; so broke that he no longer meets his campaigners and other associates as he used to. He has instructed his bodyguards to block hangers-on from accessing him. His aides have intimated that the man is broke after the EACC sealed all his avenues for accessing illicit cash. The detectives are said to have pitched camp at the county headquarters in the last three months. They are combing through documents to nail the county boss, who has been on their radar for alleged embezzlement of millions of taxpayers’ money. As such, he has made a tactical retreat that has left him dead broke.