Poultry farmers in Kiambu have called on the government to impose a total ban on importation of eggs, which they say is pushing them out of business. The farmers say cheap imported eggs have hit them hard as they are forced to sell theirs at throwaway prices or at times give eggs to locals at no cost. Farmers from Gatundu North and Thika West who spoke to the Star said the egg market in the country is saturated with cheap imports from China, South Africa and Uganda. Nyambura Mwaura, a poultry farmer with over 3,000 birds on her farm in Kamwangi village, said most farmers in the region are leaving the business for lack of market and poor prices. “We as Kenyan farmers have the potential to satisfy our country’s demand for eggs but the cheap imports are kicking us out of business. We plead with the government through Trade and Agriculture ministries to adopt measures that will lock out the cheap imports,” Nyambura said. She said a clique of powerful cartels controls importation of poultry products at the expense of the hardworking Kenyan farmers. “The state should move swiftly and dismantle these cartels that are working hard to suppress the efforts of poor Kenyan farmers,” she said. “Empowerment of local farmers will only be achieved if ready markets are made available and at better prices. The poultry business cannot thrive in Kenya if we allow these people to flood our markets with the cheap imports.” A few meters from Nyambura’s home is Beatrice Wangui’s farm where she rears more than 2,000 birds. Wangui said the government should consider imposing high taxes on the imports to discourage them. “The government should put the interests of its citizens first and ensure that the plight of all farmers is addressed,” she said. She asked the National Assembly to pass laws that will cushion farmers against exploitation by cartels. “Why are our products rotting in our stores when we have MPs who can pass laws to protect farmers? It’s high time they championed our interests to enable us boost our ventures and contribute towards the growth of our country’s economy,” she said. Similar sentiments were expressed by farmers Joseph Kamuthu and Veronica Waruiru from Landless Estate in Thika West. “We are spending a lot in this business in terms of inputs but end up getting less or no returns. Most of the farmers in this area have already abandoned the business due to the losses they’ve incurred,” Kamuthu said. Thika MP Patrick Wainaina concurred with the farmers on the total ban of the importation of eggs, which he said are imported from outside the East Africa. He spoke at a farmers’ meeting in Thika town. The MP has already tabled a Bill which if passed by the National Assembly will see farmers smile all the way to the Bank. Wainaina’s SME Amendment Bill, 2018, which is now at the Committee Stage, seeks to introduce punitive duties on imports of goods similar to those manufactured by companies locally or produced locally by farmers. He said the Bill will protect local producers. The MP, a member of the National Assembly Trade and Industry committee, said it was a shame to see the country allowing importation of products that are available locally. “It’s a shame that at this age we are still importing goods like matchboxes, toothpicks, eggs, mangoes, oranges, spoons and cooking pans which are  produced locally. We must protect our local manufacturers by totally discouraging these imports,” Wainaina said. He said the country is suffering from unfavorable balance of trade internationally, a situation he said needs to be rectified. He said Kenya imports goods worth Sh2 trillion annually, yet exports goods worth only Sh500 billion. “The country cannot prosper with such a trade deficit. We must take drastic measures to limit these cheap imports for the sake of our economy and local industries. About 25 per cent of all imports in the country come from China while Kenya only exports 0.5 per cent of total exports to China,” he noted. Edited by Henry Makori