While the rest of the world races to make the technology become the standard, it is pretty clear that the mass adoption of the 5G networks is not yet on the cards in most countries in Africa. Kenya has one of the most advanced internet and cellular services in Eastern Africa. Now the country wants to move up to 5G, possibly using Huawei technology. 5G wireless technology is meant to deliver higher multi-Gbps (Gigabytes per second) peak data speeds, ultra-low latency, more reliability, massive network capacity, increased availability, and a more uniform user experience to more users. Higher performance and improved efficiency empower new user experiences and connect new industries. Media houses from the Sub-Saharan Africa region were recently treated to a virtual Exhibition of the Huawei Galileo hall that offered insights into 5G innovation in China and recent advancements in technology. The exhibition treated the media to advancements countries that have deployed 5G are making through the use of 5G to fast-track its social and economic development. Huawei already predicts that with 5G, industries are going digital at a faster pace. A Huawei representative said that the company has always been delighted to showcase its advanced technology and also show how it can benefit developing countries. Mobile connections in Africa remain on pace for continued growth with sub-Saharan Africa expected to add over 100 million new subscribers by 2025. Kenya has planned to roll out 5G plans and aligning itself with the new advancements. 5G networks come with the promise of even more speed. This means faster connectivity for mobile users and governments can operate digitally without any hitches and in time. Tests already carried out show that while it takes 22 minutes to download a high-definition movie on a 4G network, it will only take 32 seconds on a 5G network. What about that. Inspired by Galileo’s pioneering achievements in science and technology, the company has named its new 5G exhibition area the Huawei Galileo Hall, which is now being used to showcase advancements in the 5G network and why it is the future.