The UK on Tuesday moved a step closer to signing a trade deal with Kenya, the sixth agreement in Africa. The agreement replicates the EAC-EU deal that facilitates duty-free access of exports from EAC countries to European market. Trade CS Betty Maina said once the agreement is fully implemented, it will deliver significant economic and social benefits to Kenya and its EAC  partners. “This agreement will deepen the EAC integration by ensuring that exports from Kenya and the EAC region continue to enjoy duty quota free access to the UK after Brexit on December 31, 2020,” Maina said. Speaking at Harambee House, British High Commissioner Jane Marriott said the trade agreement has laid the foundation to expand trade between Kenya and the UK. “Whether it is horticulture,  pharmaceuticals or vehicles, trade between our countries continues to grow. It is fantastic we’ve been able to complete negotiations and we look forward to working with the government of Kenya to build on this in the years ahead,” Marriott said. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the agreement is a milestone in enhancing trade between the UK and Kenya. Addressing the  private sector, Matiang’i said they should expect certainty from the government in the manner in which Kenya  and the UK will trade, despite Brexit. “All discussions being held between the two countries are intended to present the interests of the farmers. And we want to assure them that the government will remain resolute and committed to complete this agreement,” Matiang'i said. Going further, CS Maina said, the two states agreed on a comprehensive package of benefits  that will ensure a secure long-term predictable market access for exports from the EAC Custom Union. Kenya’s key exports such as flowers and fresh produce will benefit  from enhanced privileges for agricultural goods that confer originating status to EAC exports, even if they pass through the 27 members of the EU. “In implementing this trade agreement, our two governments recognise that substantial investment is needed to uplift the standards of living of our people in Kenya and within the EAC,” Maina said. Edited by EKibii