Failure to increase forest cover from the current 7.2 per cent to 10 by 2022 might compromise quality of life. Public Service CS Prof Margaret Kobia on Friday said high forest cover will help ameliorate the impact of climate change. “Droughts, floods will lead to poverty, which threatens the quality of life,” she said. The CS spoke at the National Youth Service headquarters where her ministry launched a national tree planting campaign. Present were Gender PS Collette Suda, Public Service PS Mary Kimonye and NYS director general Matilda Sakwa, among other senior government officials. Kobia said Kenya, like other parts of the world, is experiencing the adverse effects of climate change. “We are experiencing frequent changes in weather patterns that have led to extreme weather occurrences. Droughts, famines and flooding are becoming commonplace,” she said. For Kenya to increase forest cover by 2022, some 2 billion trees must be planted and nurtured. This will require at least Sh 48 billion. The annual cost of inaction is Sh168 billion over the strategy implementation period. Kobia said environmental scientists have advised that the only way such extreme occurrences can be stabilised is by planting trees. She said the fifth assessment report of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of 2014 presented strong evidence that surface temperatures across Africa have increased over the past 100 years. The report states that climate change has altered the magnitude and frequency of extreme weather events. It says Kenya has experienced a general warming trend of about 1 degree Celsius per decade since 1960. “[This] means that climate change is a reality in Kenya and that if it goes unchecked, its effects will become more and more devastating,” Kobia said. She said any changes in weather patterns are significant as Kenya’s economy is dependent on climate-sensitive sectors such as agriculture, water, energy, tourism, wildlife and health. The CS said climate change is likely to negatively impact Kenya’s future development and achievement of the goals under Vision 2030 and the Big Four agenda. The Big Four agenda includes food and nutrition security, affordable and decent housing, manufacturing and universal healthcare. “The increasing intensity and magnitude of weather-related disasters in the country have aggravated conflicts over natural resources such as pasture and water. This has negatively impacted security and national cohesion, which is prerequisite for national development,” Kobia said. She warned that illegal logging, encroachment and over-exploitation, if not checked, risk causing prolonged droughts. Kobia said floods, locust invasion and destructive fires are some of the effects of deforestation. The CS said water towers must be protected at all costs. She asked MDAs within her ministry to embark on a nationwide tree planting. The exercise started with the planting of 1,000 trees at the NYS. Suda said it is everyone's responsibility to ensure that tree cover is increased. “It is important we play our role as we continue to deliver services despite difficult circumstances of Covid-19,” she said. Kimonye said, “We have a responsibility to bequeath the coming generation a country that is better than we found.” She said her department has planted more than 45,000 tree seedlings apart from adopting some sections of Ngong Forest. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya