President Uhuru Kenyatta has lauded the Judiciary for using technology to ensure timely delivery of justice during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement read of his behalf by Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto on Friday, the Head of State decried the backlog of cases caused by the pandemic, which led to closure of several courts as Covid-19 cases were recorded. The remarks were made during the release of the state of the Judiciary report. Chief Justice David Maraga made his final official speech during the event. Uhuru said the Judiciary was quick to use of technology to ensure few gaps in the delivery of justice. "Every cloud has a silver lining... the potential of technology cannot be understated" he said. Many cases have been read and ruled through virtual court sessions this year due to closure of court grounds on account to Covid-19 containment measures. Uhuru noted that through access to affordable and simplified justice systems procedures, the country has saved on resources which have been expended on other activities. "The increased judicial support for the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms has also led to faster and amicable settlement of disputes. Thereby ensuring that our people's economic, social and political activities are not held back by adversarial and lengthy overly technical courtroom proceedings." Uhuru noted that more court stations have also been established to ensure Kenyans have courts closer to them. "There have been an increase in the number of judges and judicial officers with a positive effect that case backlogs have been significantly reduced," Uhuru observed. "The source of Independence in which the Judiciary operates has also grown much wider just as our general democratic space." Uhuru noted that the event is a critical opportunity, once again for the Judiciary and the Justice sector to engage in a self-assessment. "While this progress is commendable, more can be done to enlighten our people on the value and merit of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms," he said. "There is also the need to enhance the capacity of our local alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in order to entrench them as reputable, credible and reliable mechanisms locally, regionally and internationally." During the launch Chief Justice David Maraga once again faulted Uhuru for not swearing in 41 judges as ordered by the court. Maraga, who retires on January 12, 2021,said he has managed to achieve a lot as the CJ despite difficult circumstances like the interference and frustration of the Judiciary and disobedience of court orders. He said that after the Supreme Court nullified the 2017 presidential elections, Uhuru is on record saying he will revisit the matter and true to his word, the Judiciary budget was reduced substantially in 2018.