Doctors have dismissed the notion that healthcare workers contract Covid-19 outside health facilities. In a briefing on Tuesday, the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists' Union said healthcare workers spend between 12 and 18 hours of their time in hospitals, hence ruling out the possibility of contracting the virus in the community. So far 12 doctors have succumbed to the virus since the pandemic struck. "For you to say that healthcare workers contract Covid-19 in bars we will not take it lightly. That is an insult to the health workers!" KMPDU Secretary General Chibanzi Mwachonda said. The union maintained the nationwide doctors strike will commence on December 7 should the government fail to implement their demands. The union issued a 21 days strike notice on November 15 demanding among other things provision of quality and standard personal protective equipment for all healthcare workers irrespective of whether they work in the public or private hospitals. They also demanded comprehensive medical insurance cover for all healthcare workers, employment of an additional 2,000 doctors to cover for the existing shortage and creation of isolation centres for health workers who contract the virus. "We have not had any meaningful engagement and commitment by the government of the day. Doctors across the country are well mobilised and are ready to withdraw their services for purposes of protecting their lives," KMPDU chairperson Samuel Oroko said. "We are in the midst of a pandemic and as we speak we do not have the capacity in our hospitals to isolate our health care workers who have contracted Covid-19 in the line of duty." Nurses became the latest cadre to issue a strike notice to both the national and county governments. The 14-day strike notice issued by the Kenya National Union of Nurses on November 23 lapses on December 7. The doctors union issued their 21-days strike notice on November 15 and is expected to lapse on December 6 should the government fail to act, while clinicians issued their 14-days’ notice on November 22.