A mother who killed her son by burning him at a dumpsite in Athi River has been found guilty of murder. Everlyne Opicho was charged in 2016 with the murder of her infant son. She denied the charges. Machakos High Court judge David Kemei said the prosecution had proved its case and convicted Opicho. In his judgment delivered on October 28, Justice Kemei ruled that he was satisfied that Opicho had malice aforethought. The judge said she had tried to disguise the killing by making it to appear like she was burning rubbish while she was burning her own child. The judge said Opicho must have reacted the way she did because of a disagreement with her boyfriend. “The accused upon being spurned by her boyfriend felt cheated and betrayed and thus resorted to eliminating the deceased to pursue her love life without any hindrance," the judge said. He said Opicho’s defence evidence did not shake that of the prosecution. “In the result, I find that the evidence adduced by the prosecution as well as the circumstantial evidence surrounding the death points to the guilt of the accused. I find the prosecution has proved the offence of murder against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt,” Justice Kemei ruled. Opicho’s husband John Karani testified that he sent her bus fare on February 7, 2016 and she went to visit him. But on December 8, 2016, he received information that an infant had been burnt. Karani said Opicho went missing but later sent him a text that she had committed a sin. Witness Innocent Otieno testified that his wife informed him that she had seen a burnt child at the rubbish dump. When he went to check, he said, he saw the body of an infant burnt beyond recognition. Joseph Ekesa told the court that he saw a woman, who later turned out to be Opicho, burning something at the dumpsite. Dr Waithera Githendu, who conducted a postmortem examination on the child's body, said one leg was missing. She said because the body had been burnt beyond recognition, a DNA analysis was done to identify the child. Henry Kiptoo said he conducted a DNA analysis on items that were presented to him that were collected from the body of the deceased and the accused. He found a 99.99 per cent match of the child and the mother. Opicho told the court that on December 12, 2016, she left for work, came back at around 4pm and found her husband preparing to go to work. She said her son went out to play and when at 6.30pm he had not turned up, she inquired from her neighbours. No one had seen him. Opicho said that she was arrested later and that is when she learnt that the body of a burnt child had been recovered from a dumpsite. She denied the contents of the DNA analysis and denied disagreeing with her husband leading her to kill her son.