Langata MP Nixon Korir has opened up on his Covid-19 status after reports emerged that he was admitted in a Nairobi hospital with the virus. The first-term Jubilee MP disclosed to the Star that he tested positive for the contagious virus three weeks ago and has been battling the disease at home. “I tested positive for Covid-19 three weeks ago. But I have been quarantining and isolating. I will be doing the other test tomorrow,” Korir told the Star via phone on Saturday. The youthful legislator said that soon after he tested positive for the virus, he went to a city hospital where he was treated and discharged to recover at home. He divulged that the developed symptoms in the early days, including low oxygen, that was quickly attended to by the medics and later stabilized. “I got some symptoms around November 1, 2 and 3. My oxygen levels had gone down but it was managed and eventually, I went home,” he added. He dispelled social media reports that he was still admitted in the hospital in a critical condition. He said the claims are the work of bloggers. “I have been recovering at home. Those saying I am admitted are just bloggers. They are just saying what they have to say,” he said. The MPs is scheduled to take another test on Sunday after symptoms which he had developed were contained. “I hope to be back next week. All is well now,” an optimistic Korir said ahead of the test. Korir, a close ally of the Deputy President William Ruto,  adds to the number of legislators who have tested positive for the contagion since it hit the country in March this year. Last week, Mukuruei-ni MP Anthony Githiaka also went public about his battle with the virus. He said that the virus was financially draining, disclosing that he spent about Sh3 million for treatment. “The cost of treating Covid-19 is very expensive. By the time I left the hospital, I had incurred a bill of about Sh3 million. My good people, when you are here in Parliament you may think that you are insulated from Covid-19 but then, when your voters die, then it mean, you also lose your seat here,” he said. The public disclosure came in the wake of the death of Matungu MP Justus Murunga suspected to have been caused by Covid-19. Earlier, Dadaab MP Dahir Duale and his Gatundu South Moses Kuria had also publicly come out and declared their status.