“When what I do saves life, then I’m fulfilled” was the mantra Dr Jacqueline Wangeci Njoroge lived by. On Thursday during a mass to celebrate her life at St Paul's Catholic University Chapel in Nairobi, her friends and colleagues described her as someone who lived a selfless life. They said her success was not something personal but was meant to serve the bigger goal of making life better for others. Dr Njoroge is among eight doctors who died last week from Covid-19 while helping their patients battle the disease.  She was 38. When she started off at Equity Africa, a private medical franchise in Thika and Kahawa, she decided to channel 10 per cent of their revenue to Equity Foundation to help subsidise medical costs to poor patients. The medical insurance venture by the clinics also charged 60 per cent of the normal value, waiving the cost to enable the poor access quality health services. The medic breathed her last on Saturday while receiving treatment for Covid-19 at the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital. A mother of two, Adrian and Angel, she was a friend of the sick and a compassionate doctor, mourners said. She is also survived by her husband Joshua Chokera, an engineer at Kenya Power. They got married in 2008. At the time of her death, Njoroge was the medical superintendent at Thika Level 5 Hospital. Equity Bank CEO James Mwangi told the congregation that Njoroge would often call him for supplies to the hospital to target the poor. “She would frequently call and tell me, "Daktari I need PPE at Thika Level 5. Let’s help our people,” Mwangi said. He said the doctor had requested PPE immediately before she died and that they are due to be delivered on Wednesday next week. “Dr Njoroge, you will receive your PPE to Thika Level 5 next week and we will supply them for the next 18 months,” Mwangi said. Until her death, Njoroge lived a life of purpose and her connections will be changing lives. “I was wondering how practical it is to earmark 10 per cent of your revenue to charity yet your business has barely taken off. You are still far off from breaking even,” Mwangi said. Despite her career’s strenuous demands, Dr Njoroge earned a masters’ degree in internal medicine in 2016, specialising in lupus treatment. With time on her side and the opportunities in her field, the future appeared hers to grab. But this was not to be. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday at Gathambara Primary School grounds next to Thika Cofee Mills. A private interment ceremony will follow at Westwood Gardens Estate, in Gatanga, Murang’a county.  Edited by Henry Makori