The surrender of Paul Gicheru on Monday to the International Criminal Court could lead to new charges against Deputy President William Ruto and journalist Joshua Sang. The charges against the two were vacated and the case terminated but the court said that the Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda could bring up the new ones if she found new evidence. The Prosecutor would, however, need to restart all over again by seeking confirmation of the charges first as Luis Moreno Ocampo did in 2010. Gicheru surrendered after five years on the run for interfering with witnesses in the 2007/08 post-election violence cases. Gicheru is suspected of offences against the administration of justice consisting of corruptly influencing witnesses of the court. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga set the ground for a referendum in April next year following a meeting with MPs in Naivasha on Monday. Following the meeting, a statement read by Siaya Senator James Orengo said that the 300 MPs present had resolved to support the BBI report and popularize it ahead of the referendum. In the meeting, the President is said to have indicated that there was no going back in the quest to amend the Constitution. But speaking in Karen, Deputy President William Ruto said that the country should find a mechanism to bring together all divergent views on the Building Bridges Initiative report. It is possible for us to agree on the contentious issues therein so that we can move the country forward. Nairobi residents could be forced to look for health services elsewhere after medics under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services joined an ongoing strike by their national government counterparts. Services in county public hospitals such as Pumwani Maternity, Mama Lucy Kibaki and Mbagathi remain unavailable until further notice. The health workers under the national government have been on strike since Friday over lack of promotions and job redesignations. The strike has affected all port health facilities including airports and border points, the National Spinal Injury Hospital, Mathari and Othaya hospitals, the national blood bank, national public health laboratories and all other facilities served by members working under the Ministry of health. Entertainment joints such as bars risk being closed once again as the government plans to re-escalate some measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Bars have been accused of abusing the already existing protocols by operating late at night way past the stipulated curfew hours and in densely populated environments. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Monday said that such environments are grounds for the spread of the virus among the citizens. The CS further called on those hospitals that do not have oxygen at the moment and ventilator support to do so with urgency as numbers of admissions continue to rise. President Uhuru Kenyatta chairs an extra-ordinary summit on Wednesday to review the upsurge in cases. The piece of tissue paper that slain human rights lawyer Willie Kimani wrote a message to his wife was produced in court on Monday. Head of Investigations in the case Nicholas ole Sena produced the white piece of tissue before Justice Jessie Lessit. It was recovered by authorities a day after Kimani and the other victims went missing from Mavoko law courts. “Tafadhali pigia 079*** (Rebeka) mwambie aambie Rose Willie na Mwenda wameshikwa na wako Syokimau kwa Chief wako hatarini,” the note reads. That is said to be the last message Kimani wrote asking anyone to call his wife to help him and his client after they were abducted alongside their driver.