Vihiga United coach Sammy Okoth believes their promotion to the Kenyan Premier League is due to Kisumu All Stars' arrogance during the two-legged playoff. Okoth observed that once their opponents took the lead during Wednesday's second leg encounter to lock the game at 3-1, they became complacent and he smelt a chance to strike. “Kisumu celebrated too early. After taking the lead today (Wednesday), they became complacent. Then we equalised and I felt we had a chance. I told my boys to go for it and they did exactly that. I’m very happy to return to the KPL,” said Okoth. He observed that the same thing happened in the first leg, where a penalty strike for All Stars rattled his team but unlike in the second match, they never recovered. “We rectified the mistakes we made in the first leg and that was what won us the game. We knew Kisumu would take us as underdogs following their first-leg win. However, my boys stuck to our game plan throughout,” added Okoth while thanking Vihiga County Government for supporting the team. Heading into the new season, Okoth promised to strengthen his team with at least four players. “This is a very good team which I don’t want to disturb. These boys gave their all and they deserve to play in the Kenyan Premier League next season. That’s why I only want to bring on board three or four players,” Okoth said. Vihiga captain Patrick Okulo, who scored the fifth and winning penalty kick during the shootout said: “I did not have doubts when I stepped up to take the penalty. I’m happy I helped the team back to the KPL." Eric Otieno put All Stars ahead in the 45th minute but Dennis Wafula pulled the teams level two minutes later. Captain Okulo gave Vihiga the lead in the 55th minute through a penalty strike after Jeckonia Otieno handled the ball in the box. During the shootouts, Dennis Ombeva, Micheal Esabwa, Junior Adeyeba, Norman Werunga and Okulo converted for Vihiga United while Kisumu All Stars’ penalties were scored by Gerishon Arabe, Mark Kwasira and Walter Oduor. Willis Otenda’s penalty hit the upright. Kisumu All Stars chief executive officer Nicholas Ochieng conceded defeat and vowed that the team will be back to the KPL after just one season. “This was a 50-50 encounter. In a game of football, you win some and lose some. Today, we have lost and accepted relegation. We go back to the drawing board and I want to assure you that we shall bounce back. We have talented players who can push us back to the top tier,” he told reporters after the game. “Penalty shootouts can go either way. Today was not our day.” Vihiga now join NSL champions Nairobi City Stars and Bidco United in the top tier.