The national and county governments will be compelled to reserve at least five per cent of all public positions for persons with disabilities if a new constitutional amendment Bill is approved. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 tweaks Article 54 to oblique the two levels of government to reserve the positions for PWDs. “Article 54 of the Constitution of Kenya is amended in clause (2) by deleting the word 'progressive' appearing immediately after the words 'shall ensure the',” the Bill reads. Currently, the Constitution provides for progressive implementation of the principle that at least five per cent of the members of the public in elective and appointive bodies are persons with disabilities. But nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura (Jubilee), the sponsor of the Bill, argues that the state has failed to ensure inclusivity and equity in public jobs, thus the justification for the Bill. “The state, at both levels of government, has yet to fully implement their rights and freedoms as envisioned in the Constitution of Kenya and other legislation,” reads the Bill. The proposed law has been published and is set for introduction in the Senate for first reading on Wednesday. Kenya has put in place several policy frameworks provided for inclusion of PWDs in productive economic activities. However, the institutional framework to monitor the implementation is weak. In addition, the majority of public entities do not have the required facilities for PWDs to be adequately accommodated at the place of work. World Bank report released in 2011 showed available jobs for youth with PWDs tend to be low skilled. Mwaura reckoned that the proposed law will ensure the rights of persons with disabilities with respect to appointment to public bodies are protected and effectively enforced. “Article 10 (1) of the Constitution  binds all state organs, public officers and all persons whenever any of them applies or interprets the Constitution or enacts, applies or interprets any law or makes or implements any public policy decisions,” he said. “Article 10 (2) (b) of the Constitution, on the other hand, outlines the national values and principles of governance as including human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalised.” Article 54 (1) provides that a PWD is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect and to be addressed and referred to in a manner that is not demeaning. It states that a PWD shall have access to educational institutions and facilities that are integrated into the society to the extent compatible with the interests of the person. Edited by EKibii