Deputy President William Ruto insists there is still time to build consensus on BBI even after the launch of signature collection on Wednesday. Via Twitter, Ruto said Kenyans still have a chance for a non-divisive referendum. "Even with the signature launch there is still a real chance at consensus for a  non-divisive referendum that will give Kenyans the opportunity to express  themselves without an us vs them, win vs lose contest," Ruto said. He further reiterated that unity is the strength needed to fight the current health crisis as well as re-organize the country's economy. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party Raila Odinga on Wednesday launched the BBI signature collection at the KICC. During the official launch the President said reiterated the significance of the handshake to the country. He revealed that if it were not for the handshake, Kenya would have been brought to its knees. “The reckless aggressiveness of some triumphant something and stonewalling by others. The country was sharply divided and we were headed in a dangerous moment but luckily handshake stabilised the country,” Uhuru said. He said that move has afforded everyone an opportunity to identify the practical solutions that would strengthen unity, inclusivity and equity in governance. “The BBI was basically a vehicle for us to have a national conversation on the recession. For the last two years BBI provided an opportunity for Kenyans to see what was on their mind and to provide ideas that could be effected to solve Kenya's most intractable problems,” he said. Uhuru said the BBI bill is not however seeking to replace the current constitution as it has been said. Raila Odinga said that the issues touching on the common Kenyans such as the economy and unemployment can be achieved through legislation and policy. The ODM leader said the final BBI report is the work of the brilliant minds working together through the steering committee. On the issue of the Judiciary  Ombudsman which has been a major issue of concern, Raila said the applicants will be interviewed by a panel and three names be submitted to the President who will pick one and send to parliament for vetting and finally be appointed by the President. The event was thronged with political leaders including Interior CS Fred Matiangi, Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Kitui's Charity Ngilu, Kirinyaga's Anne Waiguru, Narok's Samuel Tunai, Kisumu's Anyang Nyongó, Jubilee Secretary General Raphael, TujuKiambu's James Nyoro among others.