A marathon training camp has been opened in Kilifi to nurture talents  and engage young people and the physically fit elderly during the Covid-19 pandemic. The group includes orphans and those who are developmentally challenged and mentally ill, as well as many others. Marathon has not been popular at the Coast but organisers hope to change that. The training is carried out at the Matsangoni area of Kilifi North in an area of mangroves. Major runs are held on Saturdays. It is spearheaded by a professional coach trained by Special Olympics Kenya. The aim is to prepare for competitive marathons, both domestic and international. It helps youth and the elderly to be physically fit and improve their morale. Nicholas Kai, who initiated the programme, said they began on October 3 after athletics was allowed to resume, despite Covid-19. He said they partnered with director of Thoya Oya Foundation Raymond Thoya and their first coach Douglas Wakiuri. At first, Kai said, they began with 4.2km marathons and now have hit the seven-kilometre mark. ''We started with a pace of seven minutes and now it's five minutes. We run at a place called Mikokoni and the running group is from the Thoya Oya Foundation,'' he said. Kai said they follow all NOCK regulations and Health ministry protocols on Covid-19. The aim is to engage young people and the physically fit elderly during the pandemic period. "Marathon is not popular at the Coast but we hope to popularise it in Kilifi and the whole region," Kai said, adding the goal is reaching international standards. Though the team has really improved, it lacks equipment. Some people lack shoes, many lack proper running shoes, and bad roads can hurt their feet. "Many people lack knowledge about the importance of sports that can improve their standard of living and we sensitise them to opportunities," Ki said. Kai said in 2018 he managed to take girls to Chicago, US, and they got a compensation package. In 2019 another group went to Dubai for swimming and were paid by the Kenyan government. He said the county government is supposed to initiate the programmes at the grassroots. Thoya said the pandemic has caused problems but marathon training has helped people to stay busy, be physically fit and it has improved their outlook on life. Runner Halisi Ngalla Kazungu said he takes the training seriously because he has steadily improved. ''The training has really supported me and I need to reach the international level and help colleagues still at the early stages. He said their director has lifted their morale since he has been an international champion and supports them. (Edited by V. Graham)