The World Rally Championship (WRC) slated for June 24-27 next year will  be held for three consecutive years in Naivasha. Phineas Kimathi, CEO WRC Safari Rally, said that the town was selected to enable competing vehicles to return to the service bay after every three stages. “We shall hold this event in Naivasha for three years and after that we shall look into the possibility of holding it in other towns,” he said. A service bay has already been constructed at the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute in Naivasha. Kimathi had accompanied visiting Federation International Automobile (FIA) President Jean Todt who was on an inspection tour of the facilities for the global showpiece that will return to the country after close to 19 years in the wilderness. Todt lauded the government and WRC for a job-well-done ahead of the rally. “Am happy with the progress made in preparing for this event which will be symbolic for Kenya and we fully back it,” he said. He termed the event as monumental for the country adding that millions would follow it through the TV and other media outlets. However, Todt expressed  concern over cases of insecurity in parts of the globe terming them as worrying and called for urgent measures to address them. “I was flying from Egypt a few weeks ago and we had to stop due to the current crisis in Ethiopia. Security is currently a big topic in the world,” he said. On her part, the CS for Sports Amina Mohammed said that the country was prepared for the event that will be followed by over 350 million people globally. She praised the WRC local committee that has worked overboard to complete the service bay ahead of the set time frame. “After 18 years in darkness, the WRC is back in Kenya and we are excited to host it after it was postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. She exuded confidence that the pandemic, which has wreaked havoc globally, will be contained in  time for the rally. “I held a meeting with the President who assured us of the national government's support. The hotel industry is also ready to host all the international visitors,” she said.