A suspect was on Wednesday charged in a Nairobi court with obtaining cash by false pretences from two brothers and going into hiding. It is, however, his defence that caused laugher in the courtroom. The suspect said he is trying his best to settle the amount. Well, he has tried his best and paid Sh10,000 out of Sh450,000 since 2016. Asked to clarify, the complainant admitted that only Sh10,000 had been paid in the last four years. There was drama at a Nairobi court when a man charged with forgery asked the investigating officer to tell him his real name. "Bwana ofisa, unanijua, niambie mimi ni nani na upeane evidence. (Officer, do you know me? If you do, kindly tell me who I am and prove it before this court with evidence," the old man said. In a rejoinder, the officer told him that he is an old man who had no identification card and thus, is the man whose name was in the file. "What you told me is your name. You don't have an identity card and your fingerprints failed to appear in the system. So you are what you told me," the officer said. The man kept repeating that question until the magistrate poked holes in his statements. "Wacha kutuchezea hapa wewe, uliza swali ingine hiyo umejibiwa alaa!. (Stop joking with us, kindly ask another question, that has already been answered," the magistate said. “Stop telling me that because you don't have an ID that I don’t know you. I believe your name as you gave it to me,” the investigating officer told the man, when he attempted to raise the matter again. Do lawyers check the background of some of their witnesses before presenting them in court? Well, a witness told the court that he is not a professional in his job but he does it perfectly. "Yes I am not qualified. I work under somebody and I don't have any documents here in court," the “surveyor” said. He was testifying at a Nairobi court on Wednesday in a case in which a woman is accused of stealing Sh1.2m from her boss and buying a parcel of land in western Kenya. His words left those in the courtroom in stitches and gave the lawyer in the case a hard time in his cross-examination.