A section of bishops under the Kenya Council of Church Alliances and Ministries have threatened to rally their followers to reject the BBI report over reluctance to accept amendments. The clerics on Wednesday complained their views were ignored by the BBI steering committee, insisting that the report must incorporate other views before it is taken to the people in a referendum. Led by KCCAM chairman and Redeemed Gospel Church presiding Bishop Kepha Omae, they took issue with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga's comments on Tuesday to the effect that no new ideas are likely to be incorporated into the report. In a tweet post, Raila dashed hopes of those who have been agitating for amendments when he announced that only 'editorial work' will be allowed on the contentious document. “There is significantly little chance of significant new ideas being brought into the BBI document ahead of the referendum, except for editorial work to make it explicit on demands by various groups where it sounds vague or general, as is the case with the issues of pastoralists,” Raila tweeted on Tuesday. He added: “It is basically done and there is little likelihood that new ideas will be pushed into it. However, there are groups that feel their views were not captured in the manner they were presented during the collection of views and those are the corrections we are promising to make.” The clerics criticized the ODM boss, saying BBI does not belong to two individuals but over 40 million Kenyans. “To our political leaders wherever you are, when you say that the door is closed what are you telling Kenyans?” Omae posed. KCCAM Treasurer Bishop Stanley Michuki said Raila should not behave as if the document is his personal property but should instead allow as many views as possible from Kenyans to ensure a non-contested referendum. “Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) does not belong to an individual, it belongs to the people of Kenya. If indeed it is a BBI for all then it should be inclusive,” Bishop Michuki said. “We represent over 18 millions as Pentecostals and Evangelicals. This message should go to President Uhuru and Raila that we have to be heard. ” The bishops spoke at Biblica Center in Nairobi. They called on both Uhuru and Raila to convene a national conference to iron out the contentious issues so far highlighted in the report. Head of Deliverance Church Bishop Mark Kariuki appealed to Uhuru and Raila to ensure consensus on the matter even if it means extending the term of the current government. “This should be done even if it means extending the term of the current government to create room for further debate and building bridges so that we have enough time for everybody to participate and feel equally represented to avoid an us versus them scenario,” he said.