A member of the BBI task force who had criticised the final document now says the report is good. Maj John Seii, who is a member of the BBI taskforce and Deputy Chairman of Natonal Council of Elders, on Friday denied media reports that the team was forced to append signatures to the final draft. “The BBI document is good and we fully support it; the only problem is that we were not given a chance to read the final document,” he said. Seii spoke during a meeting of the National Council of Elders in which they urged politicians to desist from preaching divisive politics as they campaign for the Building Bridges Initiative report recently launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. BBI joint Secretary Paul Mwangi had criticised Seii for saying the final report was different from what was agreed on. "Of concern though is why Major Seii, a respected elder, is lying. Ever since 2018, he has said he is under pressure," he said. "Severally, he asked the secretariat for security. Even when we were signing he told everyone he is under pressure. Is Major Seii okay ?" Mwangi said during the BBI retreats , the retired general kept on taking pictures of the proposal. "More than two times during BBI retreats, Major Seii was caught secretly photographing presentations on the projector screen," Mwangi claimed. Addressing the media on Friday, council of elders chairman Phares Rutere and patron Kung’u Muigai said that the country will only witness progress if leaders embrace a united front and stop tribal politics. Rutere urged all political players holding various positions on the BBI to conduct themselves peacefully and with decorum as they exercise their constitutional rights. “We remind Kenyans that the BBI report belongs to all Kenyans and they must read and understand it to enable them to make an informed decision,” he said. He added that they will continue uniting Kenyans through various peace initiatives. Muigai, who is President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin, said that this is the right time for community leaders to come together and preach unity and politics of prosperity. He said they will fully support the Head of State, noting that they aren’t in any political camps but fronting the interests of all Kenyans. “We appreciate what Uhuru Kenyatta is doing and we are fully behind him in his mission to unite Kenyans,” he said, adding that they will support his aspirations and agenda for the Country. Kikuyu Council of elders national chairman Kimani Maigua also echoed Muigai's sentiments, noting that Kenyans should not be mislead by politicians. “We know the BBI report is good and that is why we are supporting it, Kenyans should read and understand it,” he said. He warned politicians of spreading hatred as they campaign for the BBI. “The BBI report should not divide us along the ethnic line, we should embrace the handshake to enhance economic, political, and religious scope in Kenya," he said. In conclusion, the elders urged Kenyans to adhere to set standards by the ministry of health onthe COVID-19 pandemic.