The government has warned governors against ignoring public participation in implementing Sh10 billion flagship projects. They are funded by the World Bank under the Devolution Support Programme Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli said on Saturday that the county bosses must consider social and environmental risks factors before implementing mega development projects. He commented during a social security training for county secretaries at Keekorok Lodge in the Maasai Mara Game Reserve. “The cost of implementing in some county governments has gone up, forcing the government to incur extra costs due to lack of planning and public participation,” Sunkuli said. The PS cited unresolved problems of displacement, compensation inadequate public participation and complaints from the public about new mega projects. He said the Devolution ministry will carry out capacity building for governors and county secretaries before implementation of the the projects. “The counties must conduct proper social and environmental risk assessment as some projects have become a source of conflict and in turn push up project costs,” Sunkuli said. The PS said the state has invested Sh10 billion for development projects in all the counties. He said projects include improvement of healthcare, water programmes, agribusiness and construction of new markets. Sunkuli said county secretaries as well as governors must be involved in assessing social risk factors. Ahmed Galgalo, chairman the County Secretaries Forum, said the programme has improved development as the funds have been spent on projects to uplift livelihoods. Galgalo said that many counties have utilised the funds to build hospitals to handle the coronavirus pandemic. “The challenges of land compensation have emerged," he said, praising the Devolution ministry for organising training forums for policy makers. “The training of county secretaries on social risk was timely and going forward public participation will be enhanced to avoid conflicts that could delay projects.” (Edited by V. Graham)