Kikuyu elders have said the Memorandum of Understanding signed between them and their Luo counterparts is sincere and should not be doubted. The MoU was signed a month ago when the elders and politicians toured the home of ODM leader Raila Odinga in Bondo, Siaya county. Led by the Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Wachira Kiago, vice chair David Muthoga and Organising Secretary James Nene, the leaders visited Nyanza region on Friday, where they attended the burial of the Homa Bay chairman of Luo Council of Elders Odak Mbaka in Kasipul constituency. “We could hardly visit or attend the burial of any Luo Council of Elders member, therefore, our visit was a sign of prosperity from the MoU‚" the elders said. Wachira said the deal will improve peace for economic development in the country, as the unity between leaders is expected to give a political direction in the country. The chairman said the MoU will enable them to achieve big dreams in the country and this is expected during the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) referendum and the presidential race in the 2022 General election. “There is nothing which can stop us from achieving our big dreams if Kikuyu and Luo communities are united. A lot of development progress would be realised,” Kiago said. He said they agreed that the country should never experience economic losses due to enmity between the two communities. “The enmity that has existed between these two communities should never reoccur. It’s now a thing of the past,” he said. The elders vice chairman David Muthoga said the unity is aimed at enhancing political, social and economic development. “We decided to start walking together with the Luo community so that their suffering and joy become ours and vice versa,” he said. The Luo Council of Elders Chairman Opiyo Otondi said he had foreseen signs that the Luo community will benefit a lot from the MoU, adding that what had been demonstrated would go far. Other political leaders present during the burial were Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang', Kasipul MP Ong'ondo Were, his Rarieda counterpart Otiende Amolo,  the Lake Basin Development Authority Chairman Odoyo Owidi and Siaya CEM for Roads Jaoko Oburu. Kajwang’ said Kenya is headed to the right direction due co-operation of elders from the two communities, with the deal marking the beginning of meaningful engagements. Lawmaker Ong'ondo Were said there was nothing which could be achieved without unity. “With the unity between the elders, good things are expected in the future‚” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris