Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has warned Football Kenya Federation Premier League to brace themselves for a legal tussle should they air the champions' Kenyan Premier League matches on StarTimes. Gor is among a host of top-flight clubs who are yet to give the deal between the league and StarTimes, their new broadcast partner, a clean bill of health even as the new season beckons. The defending champions were initially set to kick off the new season against Tusker this weekend but the duel was shelved to allow them to participate in the first leg of Caf Champions League preliminary round away to Rwanda's APR on Saturday. Their second match of the season against Zoo FC was postponed and consequently, the record champions will get their campaign underway against the brewers on December 9. Rachier insists that clubs did not cede their broadcast rights upon the expiry of the contract between FKF and the Kenyan Premier League in September and wants the latter to allow them to independently negotiate with StarTimes. FKF President Nick Mwendwa in an interview with Radio Jambo last weekend hinted of far-reaching implications to the four 'contract rebels' which include being dropped to the second tier. However, Rachier says he will not go down without a fight and vowed not to bow down and put pen on paper before having negotiations with the Chinese-owned company. "The management of the competition and the broadcast partner want to air our matches which means we (clubs) have the right to okay or decline. Clubs own the broadcast rights and in this case, I want the federation to allow us(clubs) to negotiate with StarTimes," Rachier threatened. "No one has the right to negotiate on behalf of Gor Mahia and thus, we will not give our rights cheaply. The club will sue anyone who will proceed to air our matches unless we have agreed with StarTimes." "I do not have any problem with the federation running the league or any shirt sponsorship deal but I will not allow our matches to be aired unless we give consent after negotiations." Rachier, in the meantime, wants the federation to keep their promise and allow national U20, Rising Stars striker Benson Omala to travel to Rwanda for their assignment against APR on Saturday. Omala is currently with the Stars team in Tanzania for the Cecafa Championships and Rachier's demand is likely to throw the U20 technical bench into disarray as they are set to tackle Sudan in their final Pool 'C' match on Friday. The Form Four student at Kisumu Day High School was on target in Stars' opening 3-0 win over Ethiopia on Monday. "Before we released the player to join the national team, we expressed our desire to enjoy his services in the CAF match against APR. The club has the exclusive right to use the player and the federation should remain true to their promise and grant him permission for Saturday's match," said Rachier.