ODM party Raila Odinga has reiterated the role of the BBI in improving Kenya's governance. Raila Odinga said that the issues touching on the common Kenyans such as the economy and unemployment can be achieved through legislation and policy. The ODM leader said the final BBI report is the work of the brilliant minds working together through the steering committee. He spoke on Wednesday during the Building Bridges Initiative signature collection launch at the KICC. On the issue of the Judiciary  Ombudsman which has been a major issue of concern, Raila said the applicants will be interviewed by a panel and three names be submitted to the President who will pick one and send to parliament for vetting and finally be appointed by the President. "How does that erode the independence of the Judiciary?" Raila said. "We have trekked through the difficult days of hatred and division, we have gone through the wilderness of anger and marginalization, we can see the promised land ahead. But the promised land will never come to us, we have to go to it." He urged Kenyans to turn out in numbers to append their signatures on the document. "I am confident that Kenyans shall close this chapter in record time," he said. "We are opening a new chapter of the book we started writing in March 2018. The chapters we have covered so far have been so interesting and engaging...It is a great time to be in Kenya and participate in the making of history." Raila urged Kenyans to strictly observe all the Covid-19 prevention guidelines as they participate in the BBI signature collection exercise. "Throughout this period and beyond, let's pay attention to the Covid-19 protocols. Wear masks, keep social distance, wash or sanitize our hands. Our coordinators across the country must understand that other than collecting signatures, they have a duty to protect the lives of our patriotic citizens who show up to append their signatures," he said. From the KICC, the BBI train now heads to 47 counties for signatures. The BBI secretariat said on Monday that it will collect one million signatures within seven days.