All health workers in Kenya can expect to receive a Covid-19 vaccine early next year. Gavi says it has now secured funds to buy vaccines for nearly 20 per cent of the country’s population. Health workers, the elderly and those in poor health will be the first to be vaccinated. Experts agree several vaccine candidates could be approved next month or early January. The Geneva-based alliance says it has raised more than Sh200 billion to guarantee at least one billion doses of vaccines for 92 developing countries, including Kenya. The announcement is a major relief for Kenya, which has lost at least 30, healthcare workers, to the disease, the Ministry of Health has said. Covax AMC is a global initiative - led by Gavi, WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations - to ensure Covid-19 vaccines are available to low-income countries. BBI critics have issued ultimatums to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to open the report or they shoot down the report. Representatives of pastoralist communities, Catholic Church, Senators, women leaders, County Assemblies Forum, and governors want further changes to the proposed constitutional amendments. The changes include the proposed Judiciary Ombudsman; election of women senators, creation of a Kenya Police Council, and parties selecting IEBC commissioners. The Catholic Church, echoing his concerns, pointed out the expanded executive; increase in the number of MPs; the institution of IEBC, and the place of PWDs. With the indications by Raila that the report may not be opened for major amendments, the efforts by the lot may come to nought hence positioned for the NO side of the BBI divide. Deputy President William Ruto on Monday warned that the country is headed for a lose-lose outcome unless the promoters slacken their hard-line position. Kenya is eying multi-billion investments from China for the country's Special Economic Zones, as the country prepares to host the Kenya International Industrial Expo. Through Kenya Investment Authority, the government is marketing at least nine SEZs in Mombasa, Naivasha and Machakos with about 9,000 acres designated for investments. The government is leveraging on the SEZs as part of its plans to boost Foreign Direct Investments in post-Covid-19 economic recovery. KenInvest managing director Moses Ikiara told the Star that the government has also set up 75 EPZs across the country adding that these come with a lot of incentives for investors. The incentives include electricity tariffs of as low as at five shillings per kilowatt-hour which is lower than the traditional charges of between Sh10 and Sh15 per unit of electricity, which has been blamed for making Kenyan un-competitive. Three Nasa affiliates parties have themselves to blame for missing out from government funding, only enjoyed by ODM and Jubilee, Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu has said. The Registrar on Monday told MPs that the Nasa coalition agreement provided for sharing of the parties’ fund but a small schedule on sharing formula, which was not completed, has blocked three parties from benefitting. These are ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya. Nderitu said her office has severally communicated to the three Nasa affiliates to complete the process but no response has been forthcoming. The three Nasa parties have been on ODM’s neck demanding a share of the money allocated from the Political parties Fund. At some point, they even threatened to keep monthly subscriptions from their MPs. MPs have summoned Ministry of Health officials to answer to queries from procurement of Sh6.4 billion Covid19 response kits wasting away at Kemsa warehouses. The National Assembly Public Investments Committee has called before it Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Principal Secretary Susan Mochache on Tuesday. The committee chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir is reviewing findings of a special audit which recommended the prosecution of ministry and Kemsa officials linked to the kits mess.