A legislator from the Central region has said that locals are rejecting the BBI document blindly. The lawmaker said those supporting the Building Bridges Initiative will have a difficult time convincing them that it will have a financial impact on them. Chairman of the security committee in Parliament Paul Koinange asked  supporters not to be scared while enlightening the public about BBI. "Our intelligences are telling us that the ground is hot. Do not be afraid. In a farm of wheat there must be pulses. What you are hearing are pulses which cannot deter wheat from growing," Koinange, who is also the Kiambaa MP, said. He was speaking at St Paul's Limuru amphitheater during training of BBI civic educators and the launch of BBI Xpress in Kiambu county on Saturday. The legislators believe that, even as President Uhuru Kenyatta stops the signature collections, after some time, everything will go back to normal. Koinange, who is also the Central region chairman of the BBI Xpress, was accompanied by the groups coordinator Ngunjiri Wambugu, who is Nyeri Town MP. Other MPs present included Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Peter Kimari (Mathioya), wanjiku Mwaniki (Kigumo), woman representatives Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu), Cate Waruguru (Laikipia) and Mary Wamaua (Murang'a). The educators were trained by constitutional lawyer Njenga Mwangi. However, the legislators claimed that some politicians supporting Deputy President William Ruto were using some legislators in Central to dismiss the BBI in central region. Mwathi said without mentioning names, said a senior politician in Rift Valley was busy fighting the BBI in Central region, in a move that aimed at dividing the community. He also asked politicians to stop misleading locals, since the document will protect the weak from possible neglect by future governments. "The BBI will ensure revenue allocation is distributed equitably, and Central unlike other regions, will never be left behind in terms of development," he said. Waruguru asked politicians to respect President Kenyatta, saying he is the Central Kenya's kingpin. Kigumo MP said it looked bad for people from President Uhuru Kenyatta's home county to oppose the head of state's initiative. Mwathi said they were determined to ensure the document has been passed as Uhuru wishes, since it will benefit locals from Central region. MCAs present included Ruiru MCA Elijah Njoroge and nominated MCAs Ann Wanjiku, Susan Wamaitha and Simon Kimani. Njoroge, who spoke on their behalf, said MCAs do not have funds they can use to attend to anything, saying they relied on the county executive.