Global Chinese manufacturer Jiangyin Tianjiang Pharmaceutical company limited has launched herbal medicines in Kenya to boost immunity, treat and manage viral pneumonias. Operating under a local agent, XRP Medical Kenya Limited, the company has introduced Healthouself Formular 3 and Healthouself Formula 5 – combinations of herbal medicines that will be used to prevent and strengthen immunity and treatment for types of severe acute respiratory infections. WHO notes that pneumonia accounts for 15 per cent of all deaths of children under 5 years old, killing 808 694 children in 2017. Pneumonia can be caused by viruses, bacteria, or fungi. A box of Healthouself Formula 3 retails at Sh2,500 while Healthouself formula 5 retails at Sh 4400 and are available at XRP Medical Kenya site,  online retail outlets – Jumia and local pharmaceutical distributors. Formula 3 is mainly used for prevention against flu, colds and nosocomial infections while formula 5 is mainly used in the treatment of viral pneumonias, severe respiratory infections and zoonotic infections. General Manager Edgar Ngugi said the ingredients found in the two herbal medicines have been tried and tested in China. “We are happy to be supporting and complementing Kenya and especially Ministry of Health in the fight against viral pneumonias by introducing products to improve and boost human immunity. The products have undergone rigorous scrutiny exercise by relevant government bodies and the World Health Organization and approved for human consumption,” Ngugi said. “Our bodies are naturally wired to fight some of these ailments if we take necessary action and boost our immunity accordingly." The products have been used in China to reduce cases of acute respiratory infections by boosting human immunity. “With the unprecedented times that we are in, we hope that Kenyans will more and more warm up to the idea of preventing themselves against viral pneumonias by boosting their immunity while complementing the same with other drugs as advised by their doctors,” he added. Pneumonia can be prevented by immunization, adequate nutrition, and by addressing environmental factors. Pneumonia caused by bacteria can be treated with antibiotics, but only one third of children with pneumonia receive the antibiotics they need.