Internet connectivity demand is currently high as most people prefer to work  from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In order to increase productivity, there are apps that have been created to enable one who is working from anywhere in the world to be productive. Some of the productivity apps include the Google Docs, Sheets and Slides. These three apps allows you to get work done on the go easily and painlessly. Google Docs allows you to draft up and edit documents and get them done, Google Sheets allows you to read and modify spreadsheets right from your smartphone while Google Slides lets you get presentations done from your device. Google has taken its cue from Microsoft and Apple; it now provides gorgeous templates for documents, worksheets and presentations. Unlike Apple’s template designs, Google’s does not require you to be a professional designer. With this application, you can also use Google Translate to convert a document into another language with predictable uneven results. It has a new feature which is the 'explore' button that opens in a pane on the right side of the browser window and displays information and suggestions based on what’s showing in your document. Trello is another productivity app that is eye-catching, fun and intuitive app that helps people collaborate around work. It is best described as the Kanban board app, a software category that is best for organizing, coordinating and tracking work as it moves through a workflow among a group of people. A Kanban is a method of organizing, tracking and managing work. You can use this app as a web app or as a downloaded desktop app. The web app works smoothly, with a great drag and drop capabilities, including when you want to upload attachments. One of the newer features that the app has is the ability to create automations also known as command runs. This app is great for collaboration when you do not need a huge project management app. If you really want a traditional project management software, the Trello light on features since it lacks Gantt chats, built-in reporting tools and other features that are specific to managing projects. Slack is a productivity feature that is an excellent tool for work and business since it allows you to easily communicate within a team and technically create a Slack server for almost any purpose. One of the most impressive features is that anyone can sign up for an account and become and admin within 10 minutes, establishing their own domain. It has a clean interface, which is recognizable as it uses dark purple and white/gray colours. In addition, you can also customize the appearance. With the use of these apps, you will be able to organize your work and be productive in your workplace.