Lack of funds has hindered the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council  from carrying out its mandate to contain the second wave of Covid-19. Chief executive officer Daniel Yumbya said the council does not have resources to inspect health facilities and give recommendations even as cases of the disease continue to rise. Yumbya made the revelations when he appeared before the Senate's Health committee on Tuesday to give an overview of the Ministry of Health's technical assistance to county governments in mitigating the Covid-19 pandemic Senators questioned why he presented a report to them on the situation as at August 14. “For us to visit health facilities, we need resources. We therefore cannot give recommendations on how the second wave of the pandemic can be arrested,” he stated. The disclosure by Yumbya came hot on the heels of reports that health workers are recycling gowns, shoe covers, gloves, medical masks and face shields as they attend to Covid-19 cases. Doctors said colleagues who test positive for the disease and are asymptomatic are forced to attend to patients due to the rising cases and a severe shortage of health workers. The council is mandated to ensure that practitioners meet the required standards of practice. Yumbya even noted that the Council of Governors submitted a list to the council of an additional 825 intensive care units but they are yet to ascertain whether they exist and are in working condition. “We have no resources to check the situation on the ground. We need to confirm if they are indeed ICU units or just beds,” he said. Without giving details of the amount they need, Yumbya said they were still waiting for funding from the ministry for a second round of inspection. He however noted that health facilities across the country have staffing, laboratory testing and equipment challenges. The council's chair Eva Njenga said specialist doctors who would handle Covid-19 cases are not available in counties. “Some counties are boasting of having ICUs but if you do not have critical care doctors, then you are in serious problems,” she stated. Yumbya noted that 80 per cent of specialist doctors are based in health facilities around Nairobi. “That is why we are saying we need a Health Commission since it would be best placed to address this problem,” he stated. Nominated Senator Beth Mugo pointed out that it was impossible to get enough specialist doctors in a short period to deal with the pandemic. “Since we cannot train specialists in a short time, we need the Cuban doctors very much at this point in time,” she said. She said the government should create room to hire more doctors from Cuba or elsewhere in the world to address the shortage. Yumbya noted that the country has only 2,600 specialist doctors and needs another 3,000 or more. Governors are however split on the national government’s request to extend the Cuban doctors’ stay in the country for another two years. They have instead recommended that the capacity of local medics be built. Yumbya said counties need more technical support to expand their physical health infrastructure to raise the standards of facilities in line with Ministry of Health regulations. He said all counties have inadequate human resources and should be supported to achieve appropriate staffing levels. Edited by Henry Makori