Schools could in the next three weeks reopen for three other classes in what will be the second phase to allow in-person teaching for primary and secondary institutions. The Star has established that consensus seems to have been reached on the thought to reopen schools among education stakeholders and is set to be fronted to the President at Wednesday’s meeting. The proposal will see, Grade 3, Class 7 and Form 3 going back to school. The three classes account for about three million learners. President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Wednesday chair an extra-ordinary summit to review the spike of Covid-19 cases now headed to 60,000 and deaths that have crossed the 1,000 mark. Water levels in Lake Naivasha have started to rise again following the ongoing rains pounding parts of the country. The move has raised fears among families and farmers living around the lake with fears that more could be displaced in the coming months. For the last one month, water levels in the swollen lake have remained constant with over 4,000 people from Kihoto estate already displaced. Last month, the government formed a technical committee to study the rising lakes in Rift Valley with a report expected before the end of the year. Heavy rains in the Aberdares, which is the lake’s catchment area, have increased water flow into the lake leading to the current crisis. Deputy President William Ruto is faced with the dilemma of supporting or opposing the BBI report and proposed referendum. With 2022 in sight, the DP and his allies are weighing the political repercussions of supporting or opposing the documents supported by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto has insisted that the BBI proposals need to be amended to cater for the needs of Kenyans and cannot be passed as is. However, Uhuru, Raila and their allies have put together a programme of events to popularize the document. Ruto and his allies may have to await the document in Parliament to push through amendments before the proposed referendum in April 2021. Former lawyer Paul Gicheru who surrendered to Dutch authorities on Monday may have prepared his surrender since last year. The Star has established that the lawyer started relocating his children to the United Kingdom last year perhaps in readiness for the surrender. There is speculation that Gicheru may make a deal with the International Criminal Court, which would lead to renewed charges against Deputy President William Ruto and journalist Joshua Sang. According to sources within The Hague, Gicheru was yet to be presented to the ICC by the dutch authorities by Wednesday evening. Gicheru is suspected of offences against the administration of justice consisting of corruptly influencing witnesses of the court. Motorists in Nairobi are in a dilemma over parking fees. If they pay for the service using City Hall's short code *235#, their vehicles might be clamped by KRA, the revenue collector for the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The same case applies if they use NMS's short code *647#. This time the clamping authorities will be county askaris. Those who do not want to find themselves in this situation double pay the Sh200 fees using both shortcodes for parking in the central business district. Motorists whose vehicles are clamped pay a penalty of Sh2,000. The confusion has been attributed to the power play between Governor Mike Sonko and NMS Boss Mohamed Badi.