Top officials in the Ministry of Agriculture and an MP could face prosecution over Sh1.8 billion maize importation scandal. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has recommended to DPP Noordin Haji to charge the lot with several accounts of corruption. It names the legislator as Lunga Lunga MP but does not give the name. The investigations file is on the DPP table – awaiting his nod to trigger the arrest and arraignment of the officers. EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala and CEO Twalib Mbarak revealed the looming prosecution of the officers and the MP in a report filed to Parliament last Thursday. The report contains 42 cases that the commission handled and sent their files to the DPP for action between April and May this year. Out of the 42 cases forwarded, the DPP recommended seven for prosecution, returned 20 for further investigations, closed nine and three awaiting advice. According to the report, EACC found the ministry officials culpable for irregular withdrawal of Sh1.8 billion from the bank accounts of Strategic Food Reserve (SFR) Trust Fund at Central Bank for importation of maize in 2018. They withdrew the money without the nod of the Strategic Food Oversight Board contrary to PFM Act Regulations. The money was withdrawn last year and paid by the Agriculture Ministry to a private company as a pending bill for the maize bought during the 2016-17 financial year. The procurement was done during the tenure of William Bett as Agriculture Cabinet Secretary, but the payment was made while Mwangi Kiunjuri was in charge at Kilimo House. Kiunjuri was among the top ministry officials who were grilled by the EACC detectives over the saga. The ex-CS was also questioned by a parliamentary committee. However, the report fell short of recommending Kiunjuri’s prosecution. “Investigations revealed that vide a memo dated May 31, 2017, the head of procurement unit recommended the use of restricted tendering method based on the fact that drought had been declared a national disaster by the President,” reads the report. “The head of procurement unit therefore recommended the procurement of maize from 10 firms and the same was approved by the PS State Department of Crops Development,” it adds. Investigations showed there were variances between the quantities indicated in the tender documents provided for six bidders and the quantities indicated in the tender opening minutes. Further, the probe established that Blackstone Investment Limited had not been invited to tender, yet it was contracted to supply maize contrary to the law. The company received Sh792.53 million. “Investigations established that a member of parliament (for Lunga Lunga) associated with Blackstone Investment Limited benefited from the proceeds paid to the company,” the report reads. As such, the commission recommended prosecution of Crops Development PS, Lunga Lunga MP and Blackstone Investment Limited with conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption contrary to anti-corruption laws. At the time of procurement (2016-17), Richard Lesiyambe was the PS in charge of Crop Development. However, he was kicked out of office in August 2018 after he was charged with a separate maize scandal at the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). Hamadi Boga succeeded him. It remains unclear which PS EACC wants prosecuted. “The commission recommended that they be charged with four counts of willful failure to comply with the law regarding the management of public funds contrary to section 45 (2 (b),” it says. Further, EACC recommended that he officers be charged with acquisition of proceeds of crime, engaging in fraudulent in procurement, fraudulent acquisition of public property and making improper payment of public money contrary to provisions of PFM Act, 2012. In the report, the commission also recommended the prosecution of Rural Electrification CEO, Maritime Authority Acting director general and NG-CDF fund managers and board chairmen in some constituencies. DPP endorsed EACC proposal to charge Kenya Maritime Authority (KMA) acting director general, procurement manager and tender evaluation committee for irregular award of a Sh1.8 billion tender for the construction of an office block in Mbaraki, Mombasa County. At NYS, former Ministerial Tender committee and the members of the evaluation ministerial committee during 2014 2015 are facing prosecution for awarding Sh6.2 billion contract for supply of equipment to M/s Fahaza Ltd, a company associated with the chairman. Lari NG-CDF chairman is being investigated for fraudulently awarding himself, through his companies, Sh10.10 million. DPP returned the file to the commission for further investigations. “It was discovered that the Lari NG-CDFC chairperson and other employees of the Lari NG-CDFC used their positions to irregularly award themselves contracts,” the report says.