Youth across the country have been urged to seek more opportunities in the innovation industry. Konza Technopolis Development Authority CEO John Tanui said this will be key in enhancing vibrancy in innovation across the country. Tanui said the Konza Technopolis Development Authority has been partnering with universities, the private sector and innovation hubs across the country in the innovation ecosystem to continue to enhance growth. "We are excited to join Lake Hub for Lake Basin Innovation and Investment forum which gives us a chance to discuss issues with respect to investment and entrepreneurship in post covid. This will also be a golden opportunity for all of us to explore recoveries and resilience of enterprises in the post-Covid period," Tanui said on Tuesday. He said there are tremendous innovation opportunities across the country which are unique to each region be it Coast, Rift Valley, Nyanza or Western. "For instance, the lake region has tremendous opportunities in the lake region in regards to current economic activities. Youth can explore the potentials in the fishing industry and logistics because the region is a key linkage for three countries," he said. He added, "We must therefore encourage our young people to look at new ways of finding new solutions that can transform business in the region". His sentiments were echoed by ICT CS Joe Mucheru who said the youthful population across the country has demonstrated what innovation can do to the country. "During this Covid-19 we have seen a very big opportunity in innovation. We have learned from the challenges we saw at the Konza Konza Technopolis and we now want to encourage these youth to come forth and showcase their potential," Mucheru said. He said the 15 university students who won the United Nations Nations Africa Person of the Year Award for innovating the ventilators is a testimony that if given a chance, the youth can stir the economy to greater heights in innovation. These come as preparations for the Lake Basin Innovation and Investment Week enter final stages. The three-day event will be held between November 17 and 19 with learning and networking, webinars, hackathons, pitching, and exhibitions. Innovators and entrepreneurs will showcase their ideas and products, build partnerships, secure funding, and find their target customers while creating new products that will transform societies and solve certain pressing social challenges. The main and parallel events are designed to give the utmost value to all categories of participants. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyongo, British High Commissioner to Kenya Jane Marriott, President Fab Lab Program, Sherry Lassiter, Konza Technopolis Development Authority CEO John Tanui are among key speakers.