BBI proponents are in a race against time to beat the deadline for the newly proposed 70 constituencies. The law demands that the Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission  concludes the review 12 months to the General Election. Article 89 (2) of the Constitution states that "any review shall be completed at least twelve months before a general election of Members of Parliament." Experts say the polls agency has no luxury of time, much as the BBI Bill provides exemptions to the law requiring the new seats to be contested in 2027. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to create constituencies in 28 select counties, with Nairobi set to get the highest at 12. Kiambu will get six new constituencies while Mombasa, Kwale, Machakos, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Kajiado and Bungoma will have three each. Meru, Trans Nzoia, Bomet, Kakamega and Kisumu will get two each, whereas Nyamira, Siaya, Kericho, Laikipia, Nandi, West Pokot, Turkana, Muranga, Kirinyaga, Makueni, Embu and Mandera will get one each. Considering that President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to assent to the Bill by June 14, 2021, the IEBC will be left with barely two months to meet the constitutional deadline of August 10, 2021. The Bill, in its transitional provisions, says Article 89 (4) of the Constitution will not apply to the proposed review preceding the 2022 election. Constitution lawyers and poll experts argue that despite the exemption, there would be challenges considering the IEBC itself will be in a transition mode. Lawyer Bobby Mkaangi said the exemption from the provision that the changes apply 12 months before elections is a "recipe for chaos". The question he wants answered is why there is the bid to subvert the prudence of Article 89(4) of the Constitution that requires the 12 months period before elections. He said this would result in limited time for IEBC to prepare - in terms of registration or transfer of voters, acquisition of additional voting materials - for the elections. “We must also consider that the results of the referendum and the boundary review are both challengeable in court,” Mkangi said. He added that tight timelines prior to election have proven to result in poor preparation, hence contested elections. ELOG national coordinator Mule Musau argued that since delimitation is not a referendum issue as directed by Article 255, the amendments can be done by Parliament. He said it will, therefore, depend on how fast the House processes the bills that don't require a referendum. “Either way, the timelines are too short considering that Parliament will have to vote as one,” Musau told the Star. His concern was that boundary reviews are highly charged political processes which may not be easy to conclude within the said period. “From a technical point of view, it would not be easy to meet the requirement for delimitation a year to elections, unless the other processes can be fast-tracked,” the ELOG boss said. He cited the 2012 review, which had a flurry of petitions as politicians sought to push for the special constituencies. The BBI promoters, however, were confident that the review would be possible before the election. Citing the exemptions, lawyer Paul Mwangi said the IEBC is supposed to create them in six months of the enactment of the bill. Prof Ben Sihanya, who is among the drafters of the BBI report, said it will be possible to beat the deadline once the amendment passes. “It can be done. Once the counties and the number of constituencies have been identified, it makes the work easier,” he said. “We are not starting from scratch like, say, defining the matrix of population, voter profile and so on. Part of the preliminary questions have already been answered.” National Treasury allocated Sh260 million to the IEBC for boundary review in the current financial year.