A governor in Western is on the spot after it emerged that health facilities are struggling to cope with an influx of Covid-19 patients. The governor had told residents that measures were in place to keep the disease at bay. The pandemic's second wave, however, has exposed the county's state of unpreparedness. Frontline health workers are planning to hold protests over lack of personal protective equipment. Meanwhile, patients in isolation are being held indefinitely as they cannot be released without being tested. Maybe it is time Health CS Mutahi Kagwe made another fact-finding tour of the counties to reconcile what is on the ground and what Kenyans are made to believe. ***** An MP from Rift Valley is pulling outrageous stunts to keep his dwindling political fortunes afloat. The two-timing MP, who is being derided by opponents and chastised by voters, attended a widows' forum last week much to the host's bewilderment. So desperate is the MP that he tried to hitch a ride on a chopper headed for a function in Kajiado. The organisers, however, forced him out of the aircraft and ordered him out of the compound. ***** A first-term Jubilee governor who performed dismally in the latest ranking by a pollster has become the talk of the town. A mole whispers to Corridors that the county boss has been sleeping with young university girls in a top city hotel. His aides turned pimps search for young girls who are generously awarded after a session with the county chief. Moles tell Corridors that the politician, who is facing a rebellion in his county due to his poor performance, gives the girls Sh50,000 with a promise to double the amount if they keep their mouths shut. ***** A PR practitioner has become notorious for extorting and defrauding a ministry's departments. The smooth operator is said to move from department to department soliciting for facilitation money to “manage media". Corridors understands the man has so far collected Sh120,000 from two key departments with seniors and line managers oblivious of the events. It is widely believed the man left his former boss at a crucial ministry along Harambee Avenue under a dark cloud for cutting deals and corners.