A national delegates conference convened by a faction of Ford Kenya hangs in the balance after a government facility declined to host the controversial meeting citing Covid-19 restrictions. In a letter to Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, the Bomas of Kenya said the NDC scheduled for November 21 would not take place at the institution. Eseli, however, told the Star the NDC, which is expected to usher in new leadership, is still on since he had not received any communication from Bomas of Kenya. “Your reservation to hold a meeting of 1, 000 participants at Bomas of Kenya on November 21, 2020 has not been approved,” a letter by acting general manager Peter Gitaa reads. Eseli said he was not aware of the letter and had only seen it on social media. “If the letter was addressed to me, how did other people get it?” he posed. The Tongaren MP said he had restrained himself from commenting on the letter because he had not received any communication from Bomas of Kenya. “Had it been addressed to the secretary general, I would have said maybe somebody at the office picked it. The letter I am seeing on social media was addressed to me as a person but I am yet to receive it,” he stated. When contacted, Bomas of Kenya said they had sent a letter to Eseli informing him of the cancellation. “Yes, we wrote a letter. It was however addressed to Eseli and not Ford Kenya as a party,” the communications office clarified. Gitaa said he declined to approve of the meeting following President Uhuru Kenyatta's November 4, 2020 announcement of new measures to combat a second wave of Covid-19. “The measures included suspending gatherings and rallies for a period of 60 days. Precisely, the President directed that anyone wishing to hold such meetings should do so in town halls and must observe Covid-19 protocols including limiting the attendees to one-third seating capacity,” he stated. Gitaa said the pandemic had put the institution under severe stress, just as it had to many other organisations. “We believe the safety of all our clients and staff is paramount,” he added. He said Bomas of Kenya had taken steps of exercising extra care including suspension of meetings and functions whose attendees are more than one-third the sitting capacity of their hall. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula had dismissed a notice issued by Kanduyi lawmaker Wafula Wamunyiyi and Eseli announcing that the party’s National Delegates Congress was set for November 21 at the Bomas of Kenya. Wetangula, who is embroiled in a fight for the control of the party, said the notice was invalid. “All members of Ford-Kenya are advised to ignore the unauthorised and unlawful purported notice by a suspended official in the name of Eseli Simuyu,” read the statement signed by Milicent Abudho, deputy secretary general and Joel Ruhu, the national chairman. 