One thing I’ve learned about police work? The craziest stuff happens right at end of shift. I’m locking the door for the day, when three men arrive. With them, a woman, dirty and bound with rope at the wrists. “What is this?” Inspector Tembo asks. “A citizen’s arrest?” The residents stare at each other. No idea what my boss is talking about. “What did she do?” I clarify. “She’s mad,” one man says. “Mad?” Tembo asks. “Ni mwenda. Paper collecting, roaming the street, eating taka taka… you know, mad. She’s the Mwenda of Nyumba Moja village.” Tembo ambles over to her. “What’s your name?” She snarls like a rabid dog. Spits in his face. “That does it!” Tembo wipes spittle. “Lock her up, Makini.” “What offence, sir?” “Uh-m… care and custody.” I pull my boss aside. “Sir, we don’t have the facilities for that.” “Put her in the cell.” Reluctantly, I open the front door and instruct the men to get the woman to the cell, but she grabs on to the doorframe and won't let go. “Ah! Twende!” Let’s go, says one of the men. “Sasa ni shida yao.” As they leave, the woman unties the ropes on her wrists. Easily. “Inspector, gimme a hand, sir.” “Oh no. You need a female officer for that. Also, to search her.” “But Inspector, it’s just you and I here.” “I know. And I’m not a woman.” Suddenly I have an idea. “Watch her,” I tell Tembo and run to his house. As Mrs Tembo and I rush back to the post, we find Tembo leaving. “And where do you think you’re going?” asks Mrs Tembo. “She’s all yours.” The Inspector keeps moving. Inside, the mentally challenged woman has stripped and sits suggestively on the desk, fully naked. “Simon of Cyrene!” cries Mrs Tembo. “Is she?” “Bereft of all? Yes, and I’m not referring only to her mind.” As Mrs Tembo approaches, she growls. Strikes with her claws. Mrs Tembo steps out. “She’s all yours, Sergeant.” “Not you, too!” I’m at the door watching her leave, when something grabs me tightly around my waist from behind. “What do you say, Joseph,” she whispers into my ear. “Do you want this sugar or what?” I whirl around and throw her off me. She stumbles and crashes into the cell door. Laughs as she massages her bossom. I must admit she has a pretty body. If it weren’t so oily and grimy… “Look, Miss, don’t make me lock you up for assaulting a police officer.” “But I want you to assault me, sugar plum.” Her voice is husky. Her diction good. “Hey officer, is that your gun or are you just happy to see me?” And thus, starts one of the nights I most want to forget. I spend the next three hours dodging the woman’s claws while she does everything to get me. Then I realise I can just walk out. But when I do, she runs after me, oblivious of the night chill. “You can’t do this to me, Joseph!” she shouts, hot in pursuit. “My husband is the captain of Pharaoh’s guards. I’ll tell him you raped me!” “You’re not Potiphar’s wife, you crazy woman!” I get to my house and lock myself in. The woman keeps shouting. “Who’s that?” Millicent, my roommate, asks. “It’s a crazy woman after me.” “She’s crazy alright. If only she knew I’m here and you never touch me.” The following morning, I call the Assistant Superintendent in Nakuru and request the assignment of a female police officer to our post.