The Israeli Embassy has partnered with Ahadi Kenya Trust to start a high quality vegetable farming programme in Murang’a county. Under the programme, growers will be provided with seedlings and farm inputs through Israeli companies Amiran and Plantech. It is being piloted on 50 farmers in Mathioya. The farmers will grow tomatoes, cabbages and kales. These vegetables are fast-maturing and farmers can harvest them in about two months. Once the crops are mature, farmers will then be connected to companies that will provide a consistent market. Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau said on Tuesday that it is unfortunate the county, which is endowed with rich soils and good weather, still receives relief food. Well-wishers have been going round the county giving food aid to residents who have been hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. But with the launch of the programme, Kamau said the county will become a major food basket and a supplier of vegetables to other counties. Kamau, who spoke at Ngutu Primary School during the launch of the programme, said beneficiaries have formed a group through which they would be provided with technical support. “The tomatoes we have provided will be ready for harvest in 55 days,” Kamau told the farms. After marketing, farmers will then be paid through their sacco. Part of the money will be channelled towards procuring more seedlings to ensure the programme does not stall after the first harvest. Farmers were also provided with avocado seedlings. “We want to introduce our farmers to alternative sources of income that will make their lives better and make them self-dependent,” Kamau said. Israeli Deputy Ambassador David Eyal said the embassy has donated 25,000 seedlings, fertilisers and farm inputs to the programme. He said the embassy has supported several programmes in the county. “Just two years ago, a delegation of 100 people from Murang’a county visited our country to benchmark on how we make the jungle green,” he said. Macharia Kamau, Ngutu Farmers Group's chairman, said the programme would put more money into farmers' pockets. "We are happy to know that our produce has a ready market and will mature fast," Macharia added. Edited by A.N