A Murang’a residents lobby has suffered a blow after a petition that sought to compel the government to set aside more funds to empower the youth was dismissed. Through Kandara Residents Association, they wanted the government to source Sh1 trillion for the establishment of income-generating projects in constituencies. The petition was addressed to the National Assembly on October 12. It has been rejected. It further wanted the ministries of Trade, Youth and Agriculture to research on the most viable projects in specific areas and have youth entrepreneurship empowerment centres set up to offer training. The petition also called upon the Ministry of Co-operatives to oversee the establishment of youth groups through which they would be empowered and the funds repaid at an interest rate of two per cent to cover administrative costs. “For this to happen, the government should come up with policies that restrict the importation of all goods and services that are locally available, unless a deficit is experienced,” it reads. It singles out eggs and fish importation that deny Kenyans the opportunity to make money and empower themselves. Last year, the country imported 5,477, 632 million eggs from Uganda and 127,206 from China, to the detriment of local farmers. The association wanted the national and county governments to form cottage industries to help promote products of jua kali artisans. “We want the government to ensure cars imported into the country are bought without the parts that can be produced locally like tyres,” it says. The petition also wanted the National Assembly to review the Land Administration Act to allow those occupying road reserves and open public land not to be evicted without compensation. They should be deemed to have owned the land through "silent consent", it adds. It also wanted a public brokerage agency established by the ministries of Trade and Foreign Affairs in partnership with farmers to market local exports. But senior deputy clerk of the National Assembly Jeremiah Ndombi, while dismissing it, said it failed to indicate whether efforts had been made to the matters addressed by relevant bodies. “The petition does not indicate whether the issues in respect of which the petition is made are pending before any court of law or other constitutional or legal bodies,” he said, adding that the petition did not conclude with a clear prayer. “In the circumstances, we find that the petition does not fully satisfy the said constitutional requirements, the petitions to Parliament Procedure Act and the standing orders and is inadmissible unless amended to comply with the said requirements.” The association is known for its protracted battle with Del Monte Kenya over its land lease renewal and has filed several petitions against it. It wants part of the company's land ceded to the community.