Many politicians have sent their message of condolence following the death of OODM's Mombasa Chairman Mohammed Hatimy. Preliminary reports indicate Hatimy succumbed to Covid-19 at the Intensive Care Unit of Mombasa Hospital. He was among a number of Mombasa MCAs reported to have tested positive for the virus. Speaker Ibrahim Khatri said Hatimy died at 3am on Saturday after his lungs collapsed. ODM party leader Raila Odinga said  Hatimy long-serving party leader was a dedicated leader in the realms of politics, sports, and business. He wished the family at their moment of grief. In his message, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho eulogised Hatimy as a dedicated father and devoted husband. "Today Mombasa mourns the loss of one of its gallant sons, Hon. Mohammed Hatimy. He was not only a dedicated father but devoted husband, a dependable friend and most of all a true patriot," Joho said. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed remembered the late for his dedication to the ODM party. "I have learnt with profound sadness the passing of Chairman Mohammed Hatimy, whose life of dedication and loyalty benefited all of us. May Almighty Allah give his family the patience to overcome this loss and dwell him in Jannatul Firdaus," Junet said. On his part, Siaya Senator James Orengo described Hatimy as "a man of all seasons". "Devastated by the death of Mohammed Hatimy. A gallant patriot. Never afraid to put up a fight for what he believed in and progressive and humanitarian causes. He has left big footprints in soccer, politics, public service, business and charity," Orengo said. ODM Executive Director Oduor Ong'wen said, "Hatimy was a passionate and selfless leader in politics, sports and business. He was ODM’s pillar not only in Mombasa County but in the Coast region." The ODM party via Twitter said Hatimy was a beautiful soul and a great man who will be missed greatly. "A beautiful soul has stopped beating. A great man has fallen. The ODM family has lost a good man and leader. Hon. Mohamed Hatimy, our Mombasa County Chairman and a second term nominated MCA in the County Assembly of Mombasa is dead. We shall miss you kiongozi," the party said.