The process of hiring a new vice-chancellor for Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology should begin afresh, Two MPs from Kakamega have said. Lawmakers Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) and Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) on Monday said the process had been riddled with court cases and should be redone to ensure confidence in the resultant appointee. The Kakamega-based university has remained without substantive leadership since November 31, 2018, when the contract of the late Fredrick Otieno expired. Positions of DVCs for administration and finance, academic and students’ affairs and planning, research and innovation are currently held in acting capacity after the terms of the holders expired. The Public Service Commission had conducted interviews and shortlisted three candidates for Education CS George Magoha to appoint. The final three are Joseph Bosire, a DVC at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology, Sibikhe Makhanu and Mburugu. Activist Okiya Omtatah had moved to court to challenge the validity of the process over the inclusion of three former members of the university council on the interviewing panel. The Labour Relations court judge Stephen Radido on October 18, ruled that the interviews were correctly conducted. The decision cleared the way for the appointment of a substantive VC for the institution. On Monday, however, Wangwe said that naming any of the three candidates shortlisted by PSC would erode confidence in the new appointee. “Whether those who had been shortlisted go through the process is a new matter; what we're worried about is confidence in whoever is picked because colleagues would see the new VC as a product of the court,” Wangwe said. Sources within the university council told the Star that council members were undecided as to whether to continue with the hiring process or restart it. “There are those who feel we should start the process all over again and others are of the view that a new VC be picked from the three shortlisted candidates,” a council member said. The Star understands those opposed to the results of the PSC-led interviews feel the process will favour "an outsider". Meanwhile, lecturers have given Magoha a 21-day notice to name a CV and DVCs for the university after completion of the court case.