Police in Naivasha have arrested a young man on suspicion of stabbing her girlfriend to death. The 18-year-old girl was pronounced dead on arrival at Naivasha Subcounty Hospital where she had been rushed on Sunday morning. Her 21-year-old boyfriend was later arrested and is being held at Naivasha police station. The suspect alleged that the teenager had been stabbed by an unknown person in his house. He said the attackers fled after the stabbing. Naivasha police boss Samuel Waweru said the suspect had given contradictory statements over the death hence the arrest. Waweru added that Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers had taken over the case. “The suspect claims that he saw someone fleeing from their rented house in Mai Mahiu and on further inquiries he contradicted his statements,” he said. Joseph Njoroge, a neighbour, said the suspect had invited the girlfriend to his house for an overnight stay when the incident occurred. He said that the suspect claimed to have left to watch a football match on Saturday evening only to return and find the woman's blood-soaked body. “He claims to have seen a semi-naked man fleeing from the house but police are not buying this story and they have arrested him,” he said. Meanwhile, sand harvesters and traders in Mai Mahiu are up in arms over a move to double sand charges by landowners. The traders who threatened to hold a demonstration noted that this would lead to job losses while the landowners stood their ground. The management of Kedong farm has started charging Sh1,000 for every lorry while members of the Maasai community are also charging the same at the source. Trader Joshua Kang’ethe said that they were opposed to double charges levelled by the farm owners and the community. He noted that they would be forced to reduce the number of youths loading their lorries to meet the new cost. “We are wondering why we have to be charged at the source and at the gate for this sand and this could lead to job losses or an increase in the prices,” he said. 