Kenya Cup season is set to kick off  on January 16,  2021 subject to Covid-19 situation in the country. According to the fixtures, the 2020/21 season will adopt a one-off format which will see the regular season run for 11 rounds instead of the 16. Should the Ministry of Sport give green light to contact sports to resume, then the pre-season will start next month and run for six to eight weeks. Kabras, who finished top of the log last season, are scheduled to face Championship runners up in the opening round while champions KCB will play Championship winners on Day One. The Ngong Road derby pitting Impala and Quins will face off on the opening day in what will be an explosive match. Homeboyz and KCB are set to meet on Match-Day 2 while Kabras will also tackle Impala in the same round. Nakuru play KCB on Match-Day 4 as Kabras tackle Kenya Harlequins. KCB are set to travel to Kakamega for the first time in the regular season since 2017 on Match-Day six to tackle Kabras in a mouth-watering contest. The two sides have met in four Kenya Cup finals including 2015 , 2017, 2018 and 2019 with the bankers winning all of them and nine of the ten group phase meetings since 2015. After the KCB clash, Kabras will then travel to the city to face Homeboyz on Match Day 7. Rai derby pitting Kabras and Nakuru-based Oilers will be played on Match Day 8 and 9 respectively The final day will see KCB play Impala as Homeboyz  face Mwamba. Oilers tackle Blad, Nakuru confront Quins while Kabras and Nondies will be up against newly-promoted sides. The season will then take a  weekend break to pave way for Great Rift 10's before returning for the semis and finals around April or May. The Enterprise pre-quarters will start in February and end with the final in July. National Sevens circuit is proposed for between August 7 and September 25 followed by Impala Floodies between October 2 and 16 then Safari 7s on October 23.  Clubs have until the end of this month to sign players for the upcoming season.