As the country continues to battle the second wave of coronavirus, the facilities handling Covid-19 patients are also being overwhelmed. On Friday, the Nairobi Hospital board chairman said that the hospital is full to capacity and patients will now be moved to the new facility. "We must applaud you for listening to science in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. Your quick decision-making and direction saved many lives," Ndirangu said. He said that they have maintained constant engagement with the national authorities to offer technical advice and create partnerships to flatten the curve. Ndirangu said they have established two hospitals within The Nairobi Hospital: The UN-TNH Treatment Facility and the Main Hospital across the road. He said they agreed that the UN will build 100 beds with a foundation to increase to 300 beds and the Nairobi Hospital to build 40 beds out of the old school of nursing. "The UN side is now complete and ready to admit patients," he said. He added that the hospital's  40 beds will be completed in ten days. This will increase the Nairobi Hospital bed capacity by 140 beds to cater to the UN's staff and their families as well as Kenyan citizens. "When Covid-19 pandemic broke out we had to isolate some parts of the Hospital and dedicate many Hospital beds to Covid-19 patients. As we talk now the beds are full," Ndirangu said. He said as soon as the launch is done, they are moving all patients to the facility. The UN facility at the hospital, fully funded by the UN was inaugurated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The UN facility has been constructed in three months at an approximate cost of USD $8 million. United Nations Office Nairobi Director-General Zainab Bangura said the rapid construction of the treatment facility was an example of what was possible when the UN, government and the private sector joined forces to confront global challenges. “Unlike many other facilities built as part of humanitarian response efforts, this hospital is designed to remain active and serve Kenya and the region beyond the Covid-19 pandemic and for many years to come,” she said.