The national nurses union on Wednesday urged the government to compensate the families of 18 nurses who have so far have died of Covid-19. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako faulted the Health ministry that he said turned a blind eye to the plight of nurses. He said they are the first responders in hospitals and face the highest risk of contracting the virus. Some were single mothers and the sole breadwinners of their families, he said. "We want families who have been left behind to be given maximum compensation," Panyako said. Some of the nurses who have died left behind small children, who no one will take care of unless the employer takes responsibility, he said. The nurses' union on Monday issued a 14-day strike notice. In addition to compensation it also calls for prompt payment of all arrears, increased hazard pay, filing all CBAs in court and setting up a national health commission to independently handle health workers' issues. It wants nurses to have enough proper PPEs and not be required to reuse them. Senators were to visit Kemsa on Wednesday to demand why health workers have not been supplied with enough proper protective gear. It was purchased at exorbitant prices and is lying in warehouses. "Today nurses' risk allowance is only Sh3,850 instead of Sh30,000 and nurses are known all over the world as the first line of defence. They must be given the best equipment," Panyako said. "We cannot be told we are frontline workers but when it comes to remuneration we are backline." He cited many delays and nonpayment of salaries. Panyako claimed Vihiga county has not paid nurses for 14 months. "We want that salary to be paid in total and arrears within the next 14 days," Panyako said. He said the Judiciary has been used by the Executive to curtail nurses' rights. Panyako said they know the national government will use the courts to declare their strike illegal. He said they would use the occupational hazards provision in the Constitution to argue their case. Doctors and clinical officers also have issued strike notices through their unions. They have cited Section 14 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 2007. It shields health workers from victimisation should they withdraw their services from areas considered hazardous. Earlier this week, for the second week in a row, Covid-19 frontline health recounted to Senators chilling working ordeals and bitterly blamed the government for putting their lives at risk. The health workers battling Covid-19 said on Monday they are now being forced to recycle personal protective equipment, or PPEs, in a desperate effort to ward off the disease. They said there are not enough PPEs - full body suits, from shoes to head coverings. But PPEs are supposed to be used only once, never reused, as they can be a source of deadly contamination. (Edited by V. Graham)