Kenya Sevens have landed invitations to play in Spain and France in February next year ahead of the resumption of the World Sevens Series in March. Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla said the federation had received invitations from both countries and expressed optimism that the tournaments will of great significance for a team that is yet to play competitively since March. "World rugby have invited us to two tournaments which we believe will help us in preparing for the resumption of the World Series and the Tokyo 2021 Olympics in July," said Gangla. Teams expected for the two events include New Zealand, South Africa, Australia, Fiji, Samoa and France. Gangla said Shujaa's competitors have been training or playing in the longer version of the game and its imperative the team starts immediately. "We can't rest on our laurels any more. We are behind schedule and with time on our side since our rivals are training or playing in their domestic competitions,” added Gangla. Head coach Innocent Simiyu charges underwent the mandatory Covid 19 tests a fortnight ago and will have training camps next month to prepare adequately for 2021. Meanwhile, Gangla remains confident that the Kenya Cup league will start on January 16, giving teams a six-to-eight-week pre-season window. "I'm confident that we will start the league as scheduled. Clubs are training on various grounds though players can't take part in scrummages and lineouts,” added Gangla. Elsewhere, Kenya Rugby Union have an opportunity for a Kenyan rugby player to join the Crusader Academy at the Australia-based University of Wollongong. KRU said the opportunity is available to male players who have enrolled for an academic program at any university. Interested applicants must be able to cover costs for accommodation and sustenance in Australia as well as the Crusaders Academy fees while their tuition fees will be catered for. The applicant should have either represented Kenya junior teams or senior teams in rugby and make a commitment to represent Kenya in future. The Crusaders, a New Zealand-based franchise, are the most successful team in Super rugby history winning 10 titles since inception in 1996 and have been the bedrock for the successful All Black teams in the past two decades. They have produced the likes of former All Black skipper and legend Richie McCaw, Dan Carter, Kieran Read, Sam Whitelock and current internationals Richie Mounga, Jack Goodhue and Joe Moody.