The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has urged politicians to engage in the Building Bridges Initiative report debate without inciting Kenyans. The commission is holding countrywide forums with politicians to emphasise the need for them to handle the referendum issue soberly. The country depends on peace to develop. The commission’s Complaints and Legal Affairs director Kyalo Mwengi said they will work with other government agencies to monitor political and social gatherings and ensure people do not create tension. Those found inciting Kenyans or making hate speeches will be prosecuted. “There are teams going round the county talking to politicians on hate speech and its effects on society,” Mwengi told Murang’a MCAs in Murang’a town on Friday. Politicians who take advantage of the BBI debate to incite Kenyans will not be condoned, he warned, adding that the NCIC has put in place mechanisms will ensure culprits are arrested. The director termed it paramount for political leaders to approach the debate peacefully and in a way that will not divide Kenyans. “Whether a politician is for or against the report, let them make their points in a way that will not cause tension amongst Kenyans,” he said. He reiterated that the commission is keen to ensure the country is peaceful ahead of the 2022 general election and avert chaos that mar such exercises. He told politicians to adhere to the guidelines issued by the National Security Advisory Council to avoid chaos such as the one witnessed in Kenol town a month ago when Deputy President William Ruto visited an AIPCA church. Two people died after two factions of youths clashed, with residents engaging the police in running battles, disrupting business in the town. “The guidelines given by the National Security Advisory Council require everyone to notify the police before holding a gathering for security to be provided,” Mwenge said. Murang’a MCAs lauded the commission for its commitment to maintaining the peace, saying political chaos works to the disadvantage of Kenyans. They stressed the need for politicians to hold back their campaigns to avoid creating tension and instead preach peace and order. Nominated MCA Stephen Chege said it is time the youths stopped being misused by politicians to cause mayhem. “They put their lives at risk, yet their actions are meant to benefit a few individuals.” He said youths should understand that the chaos they are used to creating makes it hard for them and their families to lead stable lives economically.