@MANUELODENY The Kenya Medical Research Institute has suspended some research on HIV-Aids vaccine and treatment because resources are being diverted to the Covid-19 pandemic. Kemri has been a key player in global research to find a cure or a vaccine. Two of three trials were active and they have been halted, though subjects continue to receive treatment. In 2001 the parastatal established the HIV research branch, which has been  involved in 10 clinical trials. Three were promising, two were active. UNAIDS said in 2018 Kenya had 1.6 million people living with HIV, with a national prevalence rate of 4.7 per cent among adults aged 15-49 years. That translated to 46,000 new infections a year. In that year, 25,000 people died from AIDS-related illnesses. “The trials involve working with already positive patients or couples where only one is positive, who are at high risk of contacting Covid 19,” Kemri researcher Philister Adhiambo said. She was speaking in Migori town in a science café organised by science journalists . Adhiambo said research includes a sample of people living with HIV who are given ARV. It is later stopped and they are monitored to see if the immune system can work unassisted. “As all health research involves ethical questions of making life better, it should not place lives in danger, as those who are HIV-positive are most susceptible to Covid 19,” she said. Adhiambo said Kemri is following the progress of Covid-19 across the globe. It will work closely with international workers if and when HIV trials resume. HPTN 052 research was working with 1,763 discordant couples- where one person is HIV positive- to evaluate effectiveness of Antiretroviral Therapy in transmission. Already, the research has shown a 96 per cent reduction in HIV transmission within the couples assigned to early ART, which was considered a major breakthrough. HPTN 081 research enrolled 1,900 HIV negative women at risk of getting infected and who are not pregnant or breastfeeding. HPTN 075 research targets men who have sex with men. Dismas Okech, a researcher and medical lecturer at Maseno University School of Medicine, said despite Covid delays, "we expect results in 2028 in ongoing research of a concentrate vaccine breakthrough, and some results will be released next year. “After 40 years, we now feel we are closer in getting a cure for HIV, we are positive,” Okech said at the same event. WHO said on November 5 that the pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to health services in Africa, raising worries that major health challenges could worsen. “The Covid-19 pandemic has brought hidden, dangerous knock-on effects for health in Africa. "With health resources focused heavily on Covid, as well as fear and restrictions on people’s daily lives, vulnerable populations face a rising risk of falling through the cracks,” Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO's Africa regional director said. WHO said since January there has been a sharp decline in five essential health service indicators, including outpatient consultation, inpatient admission, skilled birth attendance, treatment of malaria cases and provision of the combination pentavalent vaccine. The research was done in 14 countries and in some cases, services declined by more than one-half. Immunisation for measles, yellow fever, polio and other diseases have been postponed in at least 15 African countries this year. The introduction of new vaccines has been halted and several countries have reported running out of vaccine stocks, WHO said. (Edited by V. Graham)