Support the Building Bridges Initiative report or face the music, Orange Party MCAs in Nairobi have been warned. The Nairobi county assembly ODM leadership on Friday asked MCAs to endorse and rally support for the report. “As ODM we are very clear that any member who does not conform to what the party says we shall take the party’s necessary actions," Minority Whip Peter Imwatok said. "Every member of ODM must be BBI, that’s the order of the day. There is no other option. Because that is what the President and our party say is the way to go. Anyone who will go contrary will be dealt with according to the party constitution.” Imwatok said all the 51 ODM MCAs must support any agenda fronted by President Uhuru Kenyatta and party leader Raila Odinga. Earlier, their counterparts in Jubilee Party were also asked to read the document, endorse it and rally support. They said the ward fund proposed in the report will ensure the regions are developed regardless of the MCA's political affiliation. UNITED AGAINST SONKO The ODM leadership praised members for voting against Governor Mike Sonko’s memorandum on the Sh37.5 billion 2020-21 budget. Imwatok said they voted to reject Sonko's impunity and urged residents to support the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Imwatok said ODM MCAs will support Uhuru’s agenda as long as their party leader, Raila, instructs them. “We are contented that all 51 MCAs united to vote for development by rejecting the governor’s memo. Sonko just wants a way to deny NMS money. But Nairobi people can attest that since NMS took over, there is development happening in Nairobi,” he said. His deputy Moses Ogeto said ODM is development conscious and that is why they voted against the memo. “We were never cornered to vote against the budget but ODM knows development is being brought by NMS. What NMS has done in seven months is more than what Sonko’s administration has done since 2017," he said. “Our party is steadfast. We will stand by what is right [and not] what is wrong.” Nominated MCA and County Assembly Board member Catherine Okoth said since Major General Mohamed Badi took over with NMS, essential services, especially in informal settlements, have improved. “Our roads have improved, water supply has increased. This is a good gesture from NMS, we expect to see more change,” she said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya