A non-governmental organisation is set to conduct a massive upgrade of the Antiretroviral Dispensing Tool to ensure uninterrupted supply of ARV drugs in the country. Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), a global organisation that has been in the country for the past 15 years, has injected Sh200 million into the system's upgrade. Antiretroviral Dispensing Tool (ADT) has been operational in the country for the last seven years. CHAI country director Gerald Macharia said the upgrade is meant to digitise the tool after which it will be rolled out to all health facilities across the country. He spoke on the sidelines of a three-day training of trainers of trainers at Zetech University in Ruiru. He noted that upon digitisation of the system, health facilities will be able to dispense ARVs to patients in a timely manner. “It will also ensure health facilities don’t run out of the drugs stock and ease tracking of patients who are on treatment to ensure they adhere to their treatment,” Macharia said. The director, who doubles as CHAI vice president of East and Southern Africa, also noted that upgrading of the ADT system will enhance monitoring of patients and establish if their interaction with the medicine is positive and benefitting them. “Besides improving efficiency in dispensing the ARVs and ensuring optimal functioning of the drugs supply chain in the health facilities, the system, after the upgrade, will enable health workers to track the response of the patients to the medicine they are taking,” he said. CHAI has been working closely with the Ministry of Health through the National AIDS & STI Control Programme in combating HIV spread in the country and ensuring patients get easy access to drugs. “We are determined to have the viral suppression achieved at a very high level and to help patients live a long and productive life,” Macharia said. CHAI has partnered with institutions of higher learning, including Zetech University, “to ensure the sustainability of the programme technology-wise” Zetech vice chancellor Njenga Munene said the university has groomed experts who are well versed in programming and system development and will be useful in the ADT system upgrade. He was accompanied by Deputy VC in charge of Academics and Research Alice Njuguna. “This partnership will now give our students, whom we’ve bred into IT gurus, the industrial exposure they direly need. It will be their opportunity to put into practice what they have been trained,” Prof Munene said. He said some eight members of varsity staff are being trained as ‘super-users’ to be used to roll out the programme across the country.