The Kisii county government is in the process of procuring equipment for a banana factory, Agriculture executive Esman Onsarigo has said. Onsarigo said structural work on the factory has been completed. The factory will be operational immediately the procurement process is complete, he said. “All the structural works have been done. We are now in the process of procuring equipment which will see the factory start operating,” Onsarigo said in his office. Once all the processes are done, Onsarigo said, they will identify an investor to run the processing factory. “I want farmers to understand that the government is not in business; that is why it will identify an investor who will run the factory on our behalf,” he said. He said the investor will identify banana collection centres across the county. Chief officer Geoffrey Mogire said construction of the factory will protect banana farmers from middlemen. “Our farmers are set to benefit from the factory because they will earn better prices from their crop,” Mogire said. “The plant, which will produce flour and wine, is going to cushion the growers from middlemen who have been buying their produce at throwaway prices.” The European Union funded the project with Sh110 million and the county government gave Sh60 million. Mogire urged farmers to plant more bananas for not only Kisii but neighbouring counties. The executive noted that the county produces 350,000 metric tons of bananas out of which 30,000 tones are sold Nairobi and other areas at cheap prices. “Farmers have been making losses because of lack of a proper market but this will come to an end,” he said. “Farmers are going to earn more because the factory will be processing 80,000 metric tons per day.” Farmers have been complaining that they have been unable to fully for their families because of poor prices in local markets. The farmers who sell their produce in markets like, Keumbu, Daraja Mbili, Keroka and Igare said they are eagerly waiting for the factory. Edited by Henry Makori