More than 400 Kenyans are taking part in Covid-19 vaccine trials, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said. She said the Kemri-Kilifi Welcome Trust Team, which is handling the trial exercise in the country, has given a good update about the ongoing trial. “We have about 400 Kenyans who have been registered in this trial. The trial is currently underway,” Mwangangi said. The CAS spoke on Tuesday at Afya House in Nairobi when giving an update on the virus situation in the country. She added that the ministry is expecting to reach about 60,000 participants for the trial. Mwangangi said that a Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce has been formed, which will develop policies and guidelines on how the vaccines will be rolled out once  available. The ministry said that the vaccine will have to satisfy its three key measures, including - safety for use, doing what it is supposed to do, and ensuring the vaccine is efficacious. “These are processes that are currently underway. We are quite excited and we are going to have a discussion with AstraZeneca to ensure that Kenya is first in line because about eight countries are in trial for the vaccine.” The CAS said that Kenya is the second country in Africa to administer the vaccine trial after South Africa. Kemri Wellcome Trust, which is leading the study, launched a phase one trial of the Oxford Astrazeneca vaccine candidate, on October 30. The global trial has enrolled more than 24,000 participants from across the world, including in the UK, South Africa and Brazil. The University of Oxford, citing interim trial data, said the vaccine's efficacy could reach 90%. On Tuesday, the country recorded 727 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 78,512. This was from a sample of 4,913 tested in the last 24 hours, recording a positivity rate of 14.7 per cent. From the cases, 705 are Kenyans while 22 are foreigners. The number of fatalities rose to 1,409 after another 17 more patients succumbed to the virus. Another 806 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 52,709. A total of 701 of those discharged are from the home-based programme, while 105 were discharged from various health facilities.