Nyeri politicians on Saturday explained why the county missed out on the 70 extra constituencies in constitutional changes proposed in the BBI. Residents were hopeful that they would get extra seats in Kieni and Mathira constituencies, which are highly populated. But Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, Governor Mutahi Kahiga and Tetu MP James Gichuhi said the county had to forgo the extra slots to retain the three protected constituencies - Tetu, Mukurwe-ini and Othaya. The three are among 27 constituencies that risk being scrapped during boundaries review. “So we have had to lose one to ensure we keep the three. If we pass the BBI, we are sure that Tetu, Mukurwe-ini and Othaya will be protected through the BBI process,” Wambugu said. They spoke during the launch of BBI signature collection outside the regional commissioner’s offices in Nyeri town on Saturday. Wambugu said signature books were dispatched to all assistant chief offices in his constituency and called on residents to sign. “I want to urge all registered voters in Nyeri Town constituency to go to the closest assistant chief’s office and sign,” he said. Wambugu said that together with members of village committees from each of the 44 villages in the constituency, they would do everything possible to mobilise people to sign the books. Governor Kahiga said he has directed ward and subcounty administrators to work with the  National Government Administrative Officers (Ngao), who include chiefs and their assistants, to ensure they reach out to residents and urge them to sign. Gichuhi said he signed the document because Tetu is among the protected constituencies. He said if there are no amendments to the BBI, the constituency will be one of those that will be merged. “So one of the reasons that has made me support the constitutional amendment is that our constituency will be protected and will not be merged with any other,” he said. The politicians said those not able to access the hardcopy booklet can append their signatures online by visiting www.bbisignatures.org. Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said the drive was launched in Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Kiambu on Friday and Nyeri and Nyandarua on Saturday. He said security would be provided. Others present included Nyeri county commissioner Loyford Kibaara and Nyeri Central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi, while Kieni MP Kanini Kega was represented. 