The battle for Msambweni MP's seat has brewed a fresh political feud between Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and his Mombasa counterpart Ali Joho ahead of the December 15 by-election. The two have always been at political loggerheads since 2016 when Mvurya left ODM for Jubilee, faulting Joho for pressurising him. In 2013 some ODM supporters wanted Mvurya denied the party nomination certificate and threatened to do the same in 2017 after he was accused of being disloyal to the party. Joho has once sued the Kwale boss over defamation, creating more enmity between them. The old wound was renewed after Joho announced he would camp in the county to drum up support for the ODM candidate Omar Boga. “We will stay in Msambweni and do thorough politics until the party secures the seat because this is an ODM stronghold,” Joho said. Since then the ‘Sultan’ has been traversing the county trying to win the hearts of hundreds of voters. His actions didn’t go well with Mvurya who accused him of interfering with Kwale politics. On Saturday in Mivumoni, the Kwale boss criticised Joho for undermining the power of the locals to make their own decisions. He said Msambweni residents need not be told whom to elect, adding that  they already know what is best for them. He later went to Fingirika Kilulu and Mafisini villages condemning the Mombasa governor for crossing boundaries and asking him to desist from Kwale politics. “The by-election is for Msambweni, involving locals within this county but someone roams around with leaders from Mombasa like we have none here,” he said. Previously, the Msambweni battle was being fought by the three political titans, Deputy President William Ruto, ODM party leader Raila Odinga and Wiper Kalonzo Musyoka but after the BBI "reggae" commenced they relaxed. Mvurya supports Ruto's man, the independent candidate Feisal Bader. Joho who was in Mwaroni retaliated, saying he has every right to set foot anywhere in the region. “Those who dream that I can’t be in Msambweni let them continue dreaming. I will come and walk with my head held up high because this is my home,” he said. He dared Mvurya to go to Mombasa and politically compete with him if he is man enough, saying that he won’t stop making trips to Kwale. Joho termed Mvurya’s words as misleading and that promote disunity and hatred. Kwale Senator Issa Boi also didn’t spare Mvurya, reminding him that Joho is the ODM deputy party leader who is free to move around every part of Kenya. He told the governor that Joho was his senior and he should have high respect for him. Eight candidates are contesting for the Msambweni parliamentary seat. The seat fell vacant after the demise of MP Suleiman Dori.