A Polish citizen has built a Sh7.4 million orphanage at Mdzongoloni in Kilifi to support the education of vulnerable children. Irenevsz Markowski, 48, and a father of three decided to dedicate his life to charity after the loss of his father last year. He will support 12 children's education up to university level. Markowski came to Kenya a decade ago with his family and returned after his father's death with a mission of charity. During the official opening of the orphanage, Markowski said all the orphans he supports will stay at the facility. The gas engineer met Kenyan beach operator Sadi Omar who became a friend and helped shape his charity ideas during his first visit 10 years ago. At first, Markowski sunk four boreholes for the community and then bought land at Mzongoloni in Kilifi with Omar's help. He said construction of the facility begun in March and it is now ready to begin operations. The centre has three large dormitories which will first house eight girls and four boys. It has a study area, matron and a cook's house with two beds, a modern kitchen, dining hall, and a borehole from which the community gets free water. Markowski will also set up a chicken project and a small garden farm which will be used for irrigating plants. He plans to leave for Poland but be back in December to sink more boreholes and get more children to support. The Polish appealed to wellwishers and other organisations to come in and support his initiative. So far, he said, he will facilitate the education of all the 12 orphans up to university and if he gets support, would increase the number. Omar said Markowski first began supporting him then he decided to help the larger community. “We registered a company with him then bought a half an acre to begin the project. He went back home and sent money for me to build and now the work is complete,” he said. Omar said they intend to increase the number of orphans once they get donor support and will take children from seven to 10 years. Area MCA John Mwamutsi said he was happy the project is supporting orphans and urged residents to help the children to get an education. “As a leader of this area, I really appreciate and we shall offer the necessary help to make sure the project succeeds,” he said. The MCA appealed to those who would select the children to choose the most vulnerable instead of bringing their privileged relatives. He also asked other donors to come to Kibarani to help uplift the standards of children and residents. Elizabeth Sidi, a resident, thanked the donor for building the orphanage, saying many children have suffered for a long time. She said they are happy to get free water as they used to walk for long distances to get the commodity.  