Shipping and Maritime PS Nancy Karigithu has come under fire for allegedly denying hundreds of coastal youths jobs because they cannot speak English. Senators on Thursday called for her sacking. The lawmakers said Karigithu had betrayed public trust and threatened to table a censure motion to discuss her conduct with a view to recommending her removal. “There is no law in Kenya that says English is superior to Kiswahili or Kiswahili is superior to English. The law recognises English and Kiswahili as the only national languages,” Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo said. Karigithu is reported to have said youths from the Coast fail to get jobs in foreign shipping lines because they lack basic English language skills. The PS said that since last year, she had been involved in interviewing and recruiting ship crews in Mombasa for foreign shipping lines but was shocked to find that the jobseekers could not express themselves in English. “This is a very serious issue, the youth must cultivate English speaking skills. Sheng and WhatsApp emojis do not apply. English is the global language of the maritime sector,” the PS is reported to have said. Madzayo said the PS’s claim was an insult not only to the youth but the entire coastal community. “The committee concerned should summon this PS so that she can tell us where it is stated in Kenyan laws that one must speak English to get government jobs,” the retired judge said. Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip demanded the Transport committee immediately summon the PS to explain herself. He sought a statement from the committee, saying the PS’s action amounted to discrimination. Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said Karigithu should be fired for betraying public trust. Taita Taveta’s Johannes Mwaruma said sidelining coastal youth on the basis of language is part of a wider scheme to entrench poverty in the region. “If Coast people are not given jobs, employed or empowered, it means poverty will never leave our people. This PS should be summoned,” he said. Senate Minority Whip Mutual Kilonzo Jr said Karigithu's action was the worst form of discrimination. “If you are hired and you are a Kenyan and you cannot speak in English, you should be trained. An official complaint should be made to the Ombudsman. The PS has violated the rights of the young people in the Coast region,” he said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya