Kisii residents have been urged to adopt fish farming to boost supply amid dwindling demand in the region. Agriculture executive Esman Onsarigo said traders were sourcing fish from neighbouring counties to meet the growing demand. He was speaking at Gesieka in Kitutu Chache North constituency during the Aquaculture Business Development Program (ABDP) and Kisii County Trade Fair. “We are unable to meet the high demand that is why traders have resorted to sourcing from other counties. The only remedy to address the scarcity is to encourage farmers to embrace fish farming,” Onsarigo said. The executive was accompanied by the programme’s coordinator Samson Machera and fisheries director Edwin Muga. Onsarigo said Kisii has the potential of producing 500 metric tonnes worth Sh200 million every year but was only producing less than five per cent. He said last year, the county produced 17 tonnes of fish worth Sh7 million. He said  residents buy fish from other counties at high prices due to huge transport costs. “Consider shrinking land sizes it will be cheaper for farmers to embrace fish farming because keeping the same requires a small piece of land,” Onsarigo said. He said the programe is jointly funded by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and supported by the national and the county governments. The county has set up hatcheries for fingerlings and urged fisheries officers to assist farmers to construct ponds, stock and train them to manage the ponds to increase fish production. “My department has constructed a modern fish market and equipped it with cooling facilities to preserve fish. Farmers will sell their fish for a long time without incurring losses due to rotting‚” he said. He urged boda boda operators to form groups to ferry fish from the farms to the market, adding that the county government will give the operators special boxes to ease their work. Onsarigo appealed to veteran fish farmers to mentor youths and directed fisheries officers to construct fish ponds at chiefs’ homes and use them as training grounds for locals.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris