The Building bridges initiative was birthed by the 2017 post election disharmony in Kenya. It was ceasefire to unhealthy antagonism by all cost, thus the product of the same should be peace only. It should not open a new battleground, I appreciate any efforts by the President to open space for talks before there's a constitutional amendment bill for a plebiscite. For the good of country, this process should be powerfully conceived and anatomized by all Kenyans, until at such a time when all have reached at a general consensus. With an election barely two years to go, it's apocalyptic for the country to plunge into a political atmosphere over a process that requires no extreme contest. With this, the emerging realities show that we have three schools of thought. One believes the report should be subjected to the people without any amendment, the other is for a consensus as an agreement, while the rest rejects the report entirely. Am convinced that for a document founded on the ideology of unity, consensus is the best strategy to settle this once and for all. For example, the Deputy President is giving ideas that can build public welfare in addition to every existing discourse, where he says the larger part of the report should be people centered before it can be taken for a referendum. You cannot assume him because of the people he represents, since he's the most observed politician, much because of the wisdom he has applied in this process and again due to the potential he holds if he decided to take any route. For visionary leadership, adopting a harmonious path is very important. It's why we must stay away from any way that leads us to an us versus them. For Kenya, the economy is hurting, we cannot afford to carry the baggage that comes with the highly contested National politics. We much reduce the disagreement as much as we can. The complains raised by different lobby groups in society encompass a rate of discontent by a set of the populace on the outcome of the BBI report. It seems , any decision to go on with the product as it is, would be illegitimate to stakeholders who hold public trust on democratic practice and transparency in governance. The chances of a substantive opposition to the Building bridges report being opposed is minimal, if and only the concerns and views of ordinary Kenyans are included in the whole discourse. Before anything else, circumstances demand that all converge for a utilitarian discussion. "A good leader is a moulded of consensus. " Martin Luther king. Kariuki Ngunjiri is a Public policy Analyst