The BBI proposals will allow a bigger space for women in critical areas of governance and decision making and should be supported by all Kenyans, an association has said. The Women Farmers Association of Kenya on Saturday said increasing county allocations from at least 15 per cent to at least 35 per cent of national revenue and the establishment of a ward development fund would strengthen devolution. It wants the money to reach women in the villages. In a statement issued in Kakamega, Wofak Western region chairperson Alice Ombima said the devolved funds will spur development at the grassroots and promote food production, which she said is largely driven by women. "If agriculture is the backbone of our economy as they say, then women farmers provide that critical link in the backbone since they are the ones mostly involved in food production and nutritional security," Ombima said. "We look forward to seeing an improved and sustainable agricultural sector feeding every Kenyan." She urged the two houses of Parliament to formulate laws that will give women access to funding, cheap farm inputs, organised markets and availability of extension service providers. Wofak is a non-political, non-religious and non-profit organisation of women farmers in Kenya. It draws its membership from the three counties of Siaya, Kakamega and Bungoma. Various groups and politicians have been lobbying for space in the BBI since its launch three weeks ago. While some vouch for the report to be subjected to a referendum in its current state, others want it reopened for improvement before passage. ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta have been championing constitutional reforms through the BBI. On Friday, Raila said the drive to begin the collection of a million signatures required to accompany the constitutional amendment bill to the IEBC will commence this week. Reports indicated that the bill could be published by Monday to officially make room for the journey to a referendum. 