Some 68 KCSE candidates at Bahati Girls Secondary in Nakuru tested positive for coronavirus, with one admitted to hospital. Nakuru Health executive Gichuki Kariuki said five teachers at the school also tested positive and have been kept in isolation together with the 67 girls. Another girl from Kabarak High School was admitted to a private hospital in Nakuru after she tested positive. “Some 115 other students and their teachers are on quarantined at Bahati Girls and a medical team is monitoring their conditions,” Kariuki said. The CEC said a team from the Health department was conducting Covid-19 prevention and management for learning institutions targeting teachers, non-teaching staff and learners in all schools across the county. He said the COVID-19 isolation facilities at Nakuru Level 5 hospital, Langa Langa and Annex were fully operational admitting the very sick in need of ICU beds or oxygen. Gichuki added that Nakuru county was manufacturing oxygen at its main hospital, which was sufficient for supply to other hospitals. Nakuru has close to 4,000 cases out of a sample size of roughly 30,000 tested people. The county assembly was closed down due to the surge in cases in the area. Speaking at the Lake Nakuru National Park where he had accompanied government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna, Deputy Governor Erick Korir said Bahati Girls would not be closed following the reported cases. He said the county government did not intend to scale down its operations or lock its boundaries because it was obvious that the disease was at the community level. “Initially, we were closing because the disease was coming in with foreigners and people from a few counties that were seen to have a very high number but now 99.5 per cent of the positive cases are from the local community,” he said. Korir maintained that the only thing required of the public was to strictly follow the Ministry of Health guidelines and stay safe. Oguna had undergone treatment for severe Covid-19 and reiterated the need for people to ensure discipline and hygiene to avoid contracting the disease. He said a research by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics revealed that 99.4 per cent of Kenyans had information about the pandemic.