Machakos county commissioner Fredrick Ndunga has expressed confidence that the Mavoko water project will be completed and launched in March next year as planned. Ndunga said the project’s speedy completion had been threatened by a few hitches, including Kenya Power installations, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Revenue Authority. He said there had been delays by KPA and KRA to clear imported gadgets that the water project requires. "It has issues to do with clearance and customs of imported gadgets which the project requires. So, there have been delays by KPA and KRA to have the items cleared," he said. He, however, noted that the Presidential Delivery Unit had taken up the matter and will make follow-ups with the three institutions to fix the challenges as soon as possible. “The Sh2.7 billion Mavoko Drinking Water Project is 97 per cent complete. We have been inspecting the project today to assess its progress and gridlocks,” Ndunga told reporters. He inspected one of the project’s sites along Mombasa Road at Syokimau, Machakos county on Wednesday. The administrator was accompanied by officials from the Office of President, Athi River deputy county commissioner David Juma and Julius Omotayo of ASPAC International, the project contractor. The officials inspected all the project’s sites including Syokimau Reservoir Tank, East African Portland Cement Company dam, Mavoko Water Treatment Plant, KMC dam and Mavoko Contractors Storage Yard for materials and equipment. “The Presidential Delivery Unit will visit the highest levels of Kenya Power Company, KPA and KRA to sort out the challenges for the project’s timely completion. The project will be launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in March 2021,” Ndunga said. The administrator said the water project will solve all water shortage challenges in Athi River subcounty and its environs. “This is a major water project. Machakos county is a water-deficient area. This will sort the challenge and provide efficient industrial and domestic water needs in the region,” Ndunga said. Water PS Joseph Irungu inspected the project last month. Irungu during his visit said the project was 93 per cent complete. He said it was estimated that the project would be ready for commissioning by March 2021. The PS noted that the Mavoko project had been picked by the government as one of the flagship projects to be commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta early next year. “We have 22 projects in total in the ministry. One of them carries five components. The Northern Corridor tunnel has a tunnel with treatment plant, transmission line to Gigiri with two lines, one running from Uthiru to Karen and the other running from Kiambu to Embakasi,” Irungu said. The PS was accompanied by Tanathi Water Works Development Agency CEO Fredrick Mwamati, chairman Kakuta Hamisi, Water and Sanitation secretary Samuel Alima, Mavoko Water and Sewerage Company managing director Michael Mang’eli, Machakos county commissioner Fred Ndunga and Athi River deputy county commissioner David Juma. He said Mavoko is a water-scarce area and that 12,000 cubic meters of water per day will be added to end the problem. “We are comfortable with the contractor, consultant and employer. We have the money, Sh2.7 billion, for the project. We have expended more than 75 per cent of the funds. The remaining funds are available,” he said. Irungu said the project, which commenced in February 2018, is co-funded by Belgium and Kenya, was on schedule. “We are on course. The contractor is up to the task,” he said. Mavoko Water Supply Improvement Project is being executed by GAUFF Consulting Africa Ltd as its consultant. ASPAC International from Brussels, Belgium, is the contractor.  Edited by Henry Makori