Tension was high on Sunday in parts of Kerio Valley after bandits shot dead two Grade 3 pupils herding animals at Kipchumwa in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The pupils from nearby Mugwa Primary School were killed on Friday as bandits tried to steal their animals. A gunfight erupted and they fled. Hundreds of villagers also fled. The killings occurred as North Rift governors met on Friday in Nakuru on eliminating pockets of insecurity where banditry has hampered development for many years. “The killing of the two pupils really undermines our efforts to ensure peace prevails between the Pokot and Marakwet communities," Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo said. County chiefs at the meeting were led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo and Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich attended. Kangogo condemned the murder and urged residents to stay calm as police pursue the killers. The bandits are suspected to have crossed from the Pokot side into Marakwet where they shot the boys. The killings triggered a gunfight between herders from the two communities, forcing the attackers to flee before they could steal the animals. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya ordered extra security personnel deployed. He and top security officers were to meet leaders. “We should not tolerate such criminals who target and kill innocent children because of stealing animals. It’s immoral and unacceptable and we urge our communities to cooperate and ensure the killers are brought to book," Rotich said. Mandago urged leaders to remain committed to peace so the region can be opened to development. The two communities two years ago signed a peace deal that helped end bandit attacks. Only two attacks had been reported before Friday's double murders. “Our leaders and elders from Pokot must help us find and punish the killers so we concentrate on the peace efforts. We cannot have such young and innocent children killed by inhumane criminals who go unpunished," Kangogo said. (Edited by V. Graham) 