Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has said he looks forward to fully adopting the International Classification of data collection methods. Haji said ICCS is the classification of criminal offences based on international concepts, definitions and principles. In a report handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday, Haji said the classification will help his office enhance consistency in crime statistics produced by the various criminal justice agencies. According to Haji, the classification will also ensure the comparability of the statistics produced by the international community. “International comparability will allow an analysis of the crime statistics not only on a national level but also on a global level, an important factor in an age of globalisation where crimes committed are becoming increasingly transnational in nature,” he said. He said being able to compare Kenya's statistics to other jurisdictions will give his office the chance to estimate what kind of crimes to look out for, thus allowing his office to focus resource allocation, training and research more appropriately. “Moreover, the use of the ICCS will allow the offences to be grouped in a meaningful and systematic way resulting in improving our capability to “produce, disseminate and analyse crime data accurately in order to inform the public and tailor policies and programmes in the areas of crime prevention, rule of law and criminal justice reform,” Haji said. Overall conviction rate Haji said the overall conviction rate has constantly been above the set target of 90 per cent for the last four years. He said it is however important for the Office to continue forecasting on the overall conviction rate to continually improve service delivery. “The overall conviction rate is expected to peak in 2022/2023 at 95.95 per cent. It is expected that the conviction rate will be 93.68 per cent in 2020/2021 and 94.82 per cent in 2021/2022,” he said. Haji said these are remarkable projections that will greatly improve delivery of prosecution services. Conviction rate forecast for murder Cases The DPP said these cases are categorised as capital offences where maximum penalty is death. These offences have a significant impact on society and the Office has prioritized prosecution of the same. In order to ensure adequate measures and mechanisms are in place to prosecute such offences, the conviction rate in murder cases is forecasted to peak in 2023/2024 at 75.68 per cent with a lower bound of 64.8% and upper bound of 86.56 per cent,” he said. Haji said the forecasted conviction rate is expected to consistently rise from 73.64 per cent in 2020/2021 to 74.32 per cent in 2021/22 and to 75 per cent in 2022/2023. Conviction rate for corruption cases Haji said the fight against corruption continues to be a major area of focus for the foreseeable future. As a result, his office has forecasted the conviction rate in corruption cases to peak at 83.8 per cent in the 2023/2024 fiscal year, with a lower bound of 74.88 per cent and upper bound of 92.7 per cent. “It is forecasted to drop slightly in the next year (2020/2021) and rise to 74% in 2021/2022, 66 per cent in 2022/2023 and 83 per cent in 2023/2024,” he said. Futuristic crimes Haji said his office is aware that the nature of crime is changing and becoming more complex. He said the new kind of cases that the office has to deal with or will possibly have to deal with in the future involve  cyber crimes,  remote terrorist crimes,  impact of political destabilisation within the Eastern African Region and exclusive economic Zone crimes. Others are an upsurge in terrorism,  increase of drug trafficking coming from Mozambique and Mogadishu using Kenya as a stable hub,  increase in money laundering due to Kenya's position as a stable financial hub  and increase in cyber crimes because of Kenya's tech hub status and an advanced tech infrastructure. “Towards this end, there is a need to enhance the capacity of the PTI to enable it offers training and research in these areas which are not only new but also complex in nature,” he said. The DPP said his office is also looking forward to being ISO certified. ISO certification is an international certificate that would aid the ODPP in developing and improving its performance. He said attainment of the certification would demonstrate successful standardisation of the Office’s processes, meeting of statutory and regulatory requirements and delivery of quality service. “The establishment of an effective Case Management System should aid in bringing the ODPP’s standards in line with that of the ISO,” he said.