Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti has urged political leaders to forge a united front in the push for collection of signatures for the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020. Governor Awiti said it was important for leaders to put aside their personal interests and support the Building Bridges Initiative for the good of all citizens. Speaking during the launch of signature collection for the county in Homa Bay town, Awiti said political differences amongst competitors for various seats must not be allowed to spoil the BBI process. The county chief was joined by his 2017 political rival Oyugi Magwanga, county commissioner Moses Lilan, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Senator Moses Kajwang'. Others present were Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, MPs Lilian Gogo (Rangwe), Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul) and Martin Owino (Ndhiwa). Awiti said the presence of Magwanga in the launch meant that they have buried the hatchet and decided to move as a united team in the signature collection. The governor said he had forgiven Magwanga who he claimed injured his reputation during the 2017 electioneering period. Magwanga on his part told all his political foes to emulate Awiti and ensure they mobilise residents to append their signatures in support of BBI report. The former Kasipul MP said they should not allow their interests to endanger the signature collection for the referendum Bill. “Let’s not hold grudges. I appeal for unity and teamwork to ensure we collect as many signatures as possible for the referendum,” Magwanga said. Wanga and Kajwang/ said they were working with other legislators to mobilise residents to append their signatures. Wanga told those against the BBI to prepare for a rude shock during the referendum. “We should have a clear agenda of ensuring we meet the target during the signature collection. Those opposing the Bill should prepare for a defeat,” Wanga said. Kajwang/ warned political leaders who never contributed much in the development of the BBI report against hijacking it. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata said they want Homa Bay to be the leading county in the signature collection. “Starting from Nhiwa constituency where I come from, we are going to do all it takes to ensure Homa Bay county leads in the signature collection,” Orata said. Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo said the Bill will ensure more funds are devolved to the county governments and lead to enhanced economic development. “I am happy with the creation of the Ward Development Fund. Let’s make Homa Bay the leading in signature collection across Kenya,” Gogo said. Kasipul MP Ongondo Were called for more signature books to his constituency.        “Let them bring more signature books. The ones in my constituency are inadequate,” Were said. Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino told residents to sign the document because the new Constitution will reduce unemployment in the country. Their diary reads that the signature collection in the county should end on Tuesday so that the signature documents reach Nairobi by Wednesday. Edited by Kiilu Damaris