Nyeri county assembly will seek the services of objective and neutral constitutional experts to take members through the BBI report. Speaker John Kaguchia on Wednesday said this is meant to ensure they understand the report and the entire constitutional amendment process and make informed decisions. He spoke on Inooro TV. He said he received numerous requests from MCAs to organise such a forum. Kaguchia said they will have theirs regardless of whether the BBI team will convene similar forums. "I will personally be looking for objective and neutral constitutional experts so they can take the MCAs through the bill item by item,” he said. They will be taken through the Constitution, the first report (Bomas 1), the second report (Bomas 2) and the amendment bill that will be taken to the assemblies for debate and adoption. This will enable them to know what is being amended, he said. It will also ensure the representatives make an informed decision when the bill is finally sent to them. The speaker said people have to read the four documents to understand what is being amended. President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on Wednesday launched the signature collection exercise. They target 4.5 million signatures by the end of the month. At least one million is required. The signatures will then be taken to the IEBC for verification and later sent to county assemblies together with the bill. If approved by at least 24 assemblies, the amendment bill will be subjected to a referendum. When the document will be taken to the assemblies, it will be subjected to public participation so public views can guide MCAs' debate and voting. The bill will then go through Parliament and then to the President, who will eventually forward it to the IEBC. The speaker also urged Kenyans to read the report but cautioned them against downloading fake documents circulating on social media. “There are people taking the genuine document, changing some areas then circulating it on social media,” he said. Online platforms are awash with propaganda and fake reports and bills being circulated either by proponents or by opponents of the BBI, he added. He said the fake documents confuse Kenyans. He asked the government to circulate the genuine one.