Teso North MP Oku Kaunya has called for tighter border regulations after eight trucks carrying contraband sugar into the country were impounded in Malaba. The MP said on Monday smuggling of products like sugar into the country has denied Kenya significant growth as industries continue to collapse. He said smuggled goods are usually cheaper, cutting off locally made products from the market. The value of the impounded sugar is still not known, a senior police officer in Malaba told the Star. “Sugar has been impounded and from police reports, there are eight trucks carrying sugar,” Kaunya said at a press briefing at the Teso North National Government Constituency Development Fund office in Amagoro. “There is a need to tighten border checks so that we don’t encourage smuggling. There is also a need for the President at his level to try and ensure that Malaba border conducts genuine business.” The confiscation of the sugar came four days after the Kenya Revenue Authority officials arrested six people suspected of smuggling 550 bags of sugar. KRA said the consignment branded Lugazi Sugar was estimated at Sh2 million. Acting on intelligence, KRA officers arrested the six at the home of one of the suspects at Sikata, off Kimilili Road in Bungoma county. Kaunya said the Kenyan economy had suffered as a result of smuggling. He called on security agencies to tighten patrols and ensure such acts are limited. “This particular incident is one that should not be allowed and I want to commend the police officers for having intercepted and arrested the trucks. I also want to urge the Kenya Revenue Authority to do a full inspection on this contraband sugar and relevant action of the law should be taken,” the MP said. “I also appeal to the president and the ministry concerned to ensure that the law on the ban on illegal imports is followed and is fully implemented. I know in my constituency we have a lot of business that comes around through smuggling.” When KRA officials impounded the smuggled sugar worth Sh2 million last week, Western regional coordinator Mercy Njuguna said the agency had stepped up border surveillance at all points of entry to curb smuggling. Multi-agency collaborations and intelligence-sharing had also been enhanced to curb illicit trade, Njuguna said.