ODM leader Raila Odinga and Peter Kenneth are good friends and can, therefore, work together in any political endeavour. However, Raila, on one hand, has a huge following and support base across the country and more so his Nyanza region backyard, while Kenneth must work extra hard to woo a support base most probably Central Kenya to back him politically. He can try. This will depend largely if his people see him as a leader. It is public knowledge that Raila has not enjoyed political support in Mt Kenya. It is a historical issue but that is not cast in stone. It is possible for Kenneth to market Raila in the region as anything is possible in politics . Raila may have had problems before because he may have appeared not to be serious and his name could elicit some fear and therefore people had some doubts. Whether those perceptions have changed or not is another matter that will be put to test in the upcoming Building Bridges Initiative report referendum and the 2022 campaigns. It will largely depend on how he (Raila) will project himself. If he will present an image of the right person, the region will have no problem with him. President Uhuru Kenyatta is still an influential man in the region, even in the 2022 politics. How much of it is another question. The thing is that Uhuru cannot be ruled away in the next election. I hesitate, however, to tell if Kenneth will work under the pupillage of the President he will automatically lead the region. No. For one to have the full backing, he or she must show some leadership qualities, some testing. It is difficult for one to come out and impose himself on the people. The reason they accepted Uhuru is because of the role and the leadership he showed during the 2007 crisis. That is how he was accepted . Not because he was the son of former President Jomo Kenyatta. He stood out during the crisis and people accepted him as the community leader and its spokesperson. Until Kenneth and whoever is interested in leading the Central people shows leadership in responding to a situation, that is when people will say, "That is the one". I don't know if BBI politics will offer that moment as the region seems to hold a different view all together. The university don and political analyst spoke to the Star