On Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta reviewed the Covid-19 containment measures after a meeting with the national and county government coordinating summit. During his 13th national address, the Head of State said the time has come for the country to make some sacrifices to contain the second wave. Among the measures put in place is the suspension of all political gatherings and rallies for a period of 60 days; effective immediately. While declaring that directives governing religious gatherings, Uhuru said they remain unchanged. Uhuru said all bars, restaurants and other establishments going forward must close by 9pm. All hotels, restaurants, bars and eateries have been urged to do all that is necessary to ensure enhanced compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Though basic education classes will resume in-person learning in January, examination classes will continue learning but under heightened measures. Uhuru said this was necessary because the Covid-19 positivity rate had shot from below five per cent to 16 per cent. He said in the 38 days since the containment measures were relaxed, bed occupancy which had dropped to 60 per cent had shot up to 140 per cent. “It is unfortunate that we have experienced a serious reversal in the gains we had made. In the month of October alone, we have had 15,000 new cases with over 300 deaths putting it as the most tragic month in our fight against the disease,” he said. It is evident that we are staring at a new wave and we need to ask ourselves where we went wrong. We accept that this second wave is a global affair but in order to heal, we must and have to make sacrifices,” Uhuru said. GAPS Uhuru said though central responsibility was central to the fight, Kenyans had backtracked from the containment protocols put in place. “I once said what seemed like a victory would become a big liability to us. We may win the battle but lose the overall war if we did not remain vigilant,” he said. The Head of State said the cases have escalated in the 38 days because the public had suffered fatigue thus occasioning a reduction in public responsiveness. This he said had overstretched enforcement agencies. “Government cannot police morality of its citizens.  It is not my government’s desire to close down the economy, we want to remain open but it will depend on public responsiveness,” he said. “The escalating cases have been occasioned by diminishing stamina by leaders not leading by example. We as leaders have fallen short and today I make a unique call to all leaders that  we have no option but lead the way and rise to the occasion,” he said.