At the start of the year, Neema James, 5, complained of a mild persistent pain in his left leg. His parents initially thought it was an injury sustained while he was playing — now it's sapping his life. In March, James started limping, he was dull-spirited and disinterested in things that usually excited him. Unbeknownst to them, the pain was literally killing him. The family lives in Nairobi. His father Kenneth Ngugi told the Star that when they eventually went to Kijabe Hospital, the doctors were not able to diagnose the problem. "They did some tests but nothing in particular came of them. So the doctors gave us some ointment to apply to the area of pain," he said. Initially, it eased the pain, but it returned. While he was visiting Nakuru, his grandmother took him to a hospital for more tests. The doctors said it could be leukemia, cancer of the blood. "Our hearts sank," Ngugi said. The news was even more devastating to Ngugi because his contract had just been terminated in Afghanistan where he was working as an aeroplane fuel operator. "Though I lost the job, I was glad I was at least I would be back to my two kids and wife," he said. After further tests in other hospitals, the gut-wrenching news was confirmed at Kijabe hospital in Kiambu county. James was suffering from lymphoblastic leukemia. It is a rare form of leukemia in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphoblasts, or immature white blood cells. His blood had grown thinner and he was always exhausted. "One time he would start sleeping at 6pm ," his father said. Today the boy is in an ICU bed at Gertrude's Hospital in Nairobi, writhing in pain, accruing bill in millions while his parents are only clutching to prayers. "I've broken down and cried many times seeing my lovely son dull and in so much pain and I can't help. Words can't describe it," Ngugi said. The family has launched a funds appeal, seeking to raise Sh5 million to save James' life. The doctors said the stage of the cancer was not yet aggressive and can be treated within three years. "I've asked myself a lot of questions about  what may have caused this disease. No one on my side or my wife's side of the family ever had it, it's so sad," Ngugi said. The family has created a social media platform to crowdsource funds. "We have so far raised Sh500,000. We have depleted all we had as a family. We really appeal for any help from well-wishers," his father said. Ngugi's M-Pesa line +254 7076 61384.  (Edited by V. Graham)