MPs have summoned Health ministry officials to answer queries about procurement of Sh6.4 billion Covid-19 response kits wasting away in Kemsa warehouses. The National Assembly Public Investments Committee has called before it Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Principal Secretary Susan Mochache on Tuesday. The committee chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir is reviewing findings of a special audit that recommended the prosecution of ministry and Kemsa officials linked to the vital but unused kits. The committee will on Wednesday also cross-examine the director general of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority and suspended Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu, in a  report on Covid procurement, said Kemsa managers violated procurement laws in all material aspects. She said the budgetary process did not comply with the law guiding management of public funds and said no value for money was realised. Kenyans are expected to lose Sh2.3 billion if the items are sold at current market prices. Kemsa is broke and is looking for approval to sell the items. The National Assembly Health committee adversely mentioned Mochache, Manjari, Charles Juma of Kemsa procurement and Commercial Services director Eliud Mureithi. Nassir told the Star on Sunday they want the CS and PS to explain whether the ministry had a budget for the items Kemsa procured. “All indications are that they did not have a budget. With the confirmation that the goods were bought at exorbitant prices by Kemsa management, we think their input is very crucial,” the PIC chairman said. Kemsa managers led by acting CEO Edward Njoroge recently revealed to PIC that tenders – of as much as Sh4 billion - were awarded on the phone. The companies – also under probe by EACC - signed commitment letters to deliver masks, PPEs and other hospital consumables to the agency. No element of the tender was advertised, raising questions about how companies were identified and awarded contracts. The PIC also wants the PS and CS to state whether they were aware of an advisory by the Kemsa finance team stopping supplies assigned in commitment letters. Finance director Waiganjo Karanja told MPs - while under oath - that he advised the management on how to handle Covid-19 procurement after a memo by the procurement director on April 24. The memo required that suppliers were to submit letters of intent to supply, provide a sample for evaluation and that the procurement be within the budget. “Thereafter, I discovered we were still continuing with procurement. I wrote a memo to stop procurement and gave strategies on how to handle the purchases,” Waiganjo said. Nassir said the meeting with the CS will also seek answers on the way forward for the stock Kemsa is yet to dispose of. “Our concern as PIC is that pupils are going to school with no masks, hospital workers don’t have protective gear and yet we have some items bought at exorbitant prices lying idle,” the MP said. “We want confirmation on why companies were allowed to continue supplying despite the red flag by the finance team,” Nassir said. The procurement regulatory authority is expected to provide input into the laws that were used at that particular time. Procurement outside the approved budget is outlawed. Kemsa had a budget of Sh4.6 billion for thee 2019-20 financial year. The audit revealed the agency procured items of Sh7.6 billion, out of which Sh4.7 billion had been paid to suppliers. Gathungu said it signalled that there was "comingling" of UHC and Kemsa budget funds which were irregularly used to fund Covid-19-related expenditures. She also flagged the use of directive procurement – retrospective – as a method to source the items. The auditor noted that the guidelines by the procurement director “called for unsolicited procurements that were supplier-driven". PIC is reviewing her report with a view to recommending further action by state agencies. (Edited by V. Graham)