Maendeleo Chap Chap fully supports the Building Bridges Initiative, party leader and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said. The 2022 presidential candidate said on Saturday MCC’s National Governing Council had deliberated extensively and agreed to support BBI in principle as it awaits final draft to be gazetted. “We don’t want to start opening BBI for lots of discussions. Otherwise, we will make changes that will never see the light of day. This is a process, let’s accept the document as it is and do the amendments gradually as a continuous process,"Mutua said. Mutua said they support BBI since it will strengthen devolution. “We support BBI and the process as Maendeleo Chap Chap. We support it for many reasons, including that money coming to the counties will be increased to 35 per cent,” Mutua said. He addressed the press after meeting MCC National Governing Council members at the Alfred Mutua 2022 Campaign Logistics Centre in Mavoko, Machakos county. “Among others, MCC supports strengthening devolution because it increases ounty allocations to at least 35 per cent. Tha means each county will get more than double the current allocation. This will bring development and empower ordinary citizens,” Mutua said. The party leader said counties such as Baringo that were getting Sh4 billion  or Sh5 billion will be getting more than double that. He added, “Machakos was getting Sh8 billion. It will  get close to Sh20 billion. Counties will all get more money than before." Mutua said establishment of the Ward Development Fund would also bring development. “We support  continued talks since the BBI report was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has been meeting governors, MPs alongside many groups. That's what we  can have one document to take to wananchi. "We want it to change our country so it's no longer a country where millions of people are poor.  We want a country of many middle-class  people where your dreams can come true.” The governor said the party leadership urges politicians to stop twisting provisions of the BBI document with the aim of misleading wananchi to reject the proposals. He said just as MPs would  be appointed as ministers in the national government, a similar provision should also apply to MCAs in county governments. (Edited by Graham)