As residents of Malaba mourn a man who was allegedly killed by police for not wearing a mask, those in Nairobi's Umoja Market are fearing that the same fate might befall them. Officers in the area are said to have resorted to using excessive force in crackdowns against bars that operate past 9pm. Pewa Street has been worst hit. Residents are now wondering why police have to fire live bullets and hurl teargas canisters to enforce Covid-19 protocols. The area is a no-go zone way before curfew time at 10pm. People fear police would be unleashing terror by mercilessly beating whoever will be found drinking. Perhaps the cops have already forgotten President Uhuru Kenyatta's (pictured) warning in April against using unjustified force to enforce Covid-19 safety protocols.  *** A Senator is staring at a bleak future after his aides carted away a safe carrying more than Sh50 million from his Nairobi home. The man, suspected to have obtained the money while executing his oversight duties, is in a state of shock after he learned of the disappearance of the safe last week. However, as circumstances stand, he cannot report the matter to the police for investigation since that can expose him to criminal charges. Our mole says the man has limited the discussion of the missing safe to a very small circle of friends, but walls have ears too.  *** Strategists of a political supremo are at loss given the peculiar conduct of their boss. The think tank members are distraught that their boss disregards wise counsel and consults clandestine members who instead mislead him to make costly public utterances that complicate their cause and lose credible credentials build over the years. The inner-circle have vowed to disentangle their man from the cabal giving him instructions with a healthy fear that they might soon ditch him after their mission is accomplished. They suspect the group consisting of renowned politicians are out to set a political trap for their man. Have they smelt the coffee?  *** A first-term MP from the North Rift has been fingered for defrauding young entrepreneurs and reneging on payments. The legislator is said to have mastered the crafty art of striking a meek, desolate and humble figure only to flip and duck when the job is done setting an endless cat and mouse chase. The MP was seen splurging cash and generously throwing expensive rounds of liquor to slay queens at a popular high-end hotel in Nairobi’s South C estate. Many enterprising fellows who have fallen prey to his con games say they will unmask him ahead of 2022. 