A family in Kitui West subcounty is demanding justice after their Form 3 daughter died last week after allegedly being battered by her policeman lover. The 17-year-old girl's father Kamanza Wang’ombe said on Wednesday that the officer took the girl to Muthale Mission Hospital last Thursday morning. Wang'ombe said the girl was unconscious and the man dumped her at the hospital and disappeared. Doctors at the hospital tried to resuscitate her but as she died shortly after starting to receive treatment, he said. Kitui West subcounty police commander Philip Kerich refused to discuss the matter on the phone. “I have the information but I cannot discuss it on phone. Please come to my office,” he said before hanging up. Area chief Simon Mbika said Muthale hospital administrator called him to inform him of the incident. The policeman was stationed at the Kangondi police post, which is in Mbika's area. Wang’ombe said when he visited the morgue to view his daughter’s body, he noted that her head was smashed and blood appeared to come out of her nose and ears. “Because I am told that my daughter was living with the police officer who dumped her in a state of unconsciousness at Muthale Mission Hospital on Thursday morning where she died shortly thereafter, I want justice to be done,” Wang’ombe said. He said the Independent Policing Oversight Authority should investigate his daughter’s murder so culprits are brought to book and justice served. The girl's mother Kalelye Kamanza said she was in great shock. She wants the police officer who was allegedly living with the girl to be arrested and prosecuted. “My daughter was a Form 3 at Kakumuti Day School and was out of school after schools were shut down across the country due to corona. She had always told me she was working as a house help somewhere and would return when schools reopen post-Covid-19,” she said. She said she was shocked to receive news of the death of her daughter as a result of severe beating allegedly from a policeman with whom they lived together at Kangondi police lines. Kamanza said it was beastly for a policeman to dump her unconscious daughter at the hospital and disappear. Musengo chief Catherine Sila confirmed that the girl was a student in the area. She said the policeman who is suspected to have beaten the girl to death should also be taken to court for the offence of eloping with a schoolgirl.