When President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 25 to help fight the spread of Covid-19, many Kenyans worried how the police would interpret the directive. And two days later, their worst fears were confirmed as police meted out violence on innocent Kenyans under the guise of implementing the curfew. Armed with batons and guns, the police landed on Kenyans with the kind of energy used during exchange of fire with armed robbers or terrorists. They pounced on people rushing home to beat the curfew, women selling at the market and many more. According to Human Rights Watch, at least 10 people lost their lives in the first 10 days of the curfew. In the Coast region alone, three people died allegedly in the hands of the police. These were just the reported cases of deaths. The question remains how many people really died and how many were lucky to have lived to tell the stories. Daniel Nganga’s hopes of finally having one of his children in Kenya’s top university were shuttered in the blink of an eye. Nganga’s son Erick Ngethe had just finished his secondary school studies five months prior, scoring a B. He had been called to University of Nairobi to pursue economics, and he was to report on September, were it not for Covid-19. Instead of idling at home, Ngethe decided to get a job, and due to his brilliance in accounting, he landed one as a cashier at a bar in Diani, Kwale county. But as fate would have it, his dreams were cut short by the cruel hand of death. CLOBBERED BY COPS On April 2, at around 6.30 in the evening, Ngethe’s employer closed the bar and left the employees inside, cleaning up as they prepared to leave their job station before curfew hours. And by 7 pm, most workers had already left with the exception of Ngethe, who was left behind accounting for the day’s sales. At around 8, the police stormed the bar and ordered whoever was inside to open the doors. Ngethe was reluctant in doing so and the police climbed over to the rooftop, where they dropped teargas canisters into the bar. This pushed Ngethe to open the door, not knowing that action would cost him his life. He was met with the full force of the police’s anger as he was hit to the ground before the officers pounced on him with everything they had. Neighbours who heard the commotion and went to see what was happening said the police hit Ngethe with a baton. They stopped when they realised Ngethe had fallen unconscious, and they put him in the police vehicle, probably taking him to hospital. However, a few minutes later, they came back with Ngethe’s body and attempted to put it inside the bar, but the owner had locked it. They took the body with them to a mortuary in Kwale. All this while Nganga had been waiting for his son at home and he could not leave the house lest he met the same fate due to the curfew. “In the morning, I went to the bar, where witnesses told me about the ordeal. So I went to the police to inquire on which hospital they had taken him, unaware that my son had actually died,” he said. He was met with a shock as the police told him there was no record of that incident, nor was the boy under the police custody. Nganga and family visited several hospitals in search of their son before they resorted to searching at the morgue. They later found him at a mortuary in Kwale, where his body had been tagged “unknown”. The mortuary attendants informed them that the body had been brought in by the police, who claimed they had picked it by the roadside. Nganga said they recorded the incident with Ipoa but that was the end of everything as no one else has ever been called to record a statement. “Ngethe was just 21 years old. He was too young, he did not deserve to die that way. He had a lot to live for but his life was snatched away by cruel people,” he said. JOURNALISTS ALSO TARGETED Muhuri, a Coastal based civil group, says three people died in the region during the effecting of the curfew. Others include Likoni resident Hamisi Juma, 59, who was allegedly killed by police patrolling the area. Jomvu resident Ibrahim Omar, 19, was killed by a vigilante group, Sungu Sungu, in the name of effecting curfew measures as the group enjoyed police protection. Journalists, who had been categorised among the essential service providers, were not spared by the cruel hands of the police. NTV cameraman Peter Wainaina was assaulted by police while covering the first day of curfew at the ferry channel. Wainaina had been capturing the violence being meted out on ferry users who had been rushing to cross the channel before the curfew hours. The incident was caught on camera but the police officer is still scot-free and has never been prosecuted for his acts. There are dozens of physical brutalities, some resulting in grave injuries, and all were allegedly inflicted by police or vigilante groups with protection from the authorities. Some of these cases have been reported to the police watchdog Ipoa, but six months down the line, no one has yet been held accountable for the atrocities. IPOA SLEEPING? Muhuri communication officer Ernest Cornel said Ipoa has turned into a sleeping dog. Ipoa is mandated to investigate police officers accused of committing crimes and forward their findings to the DPP, who will decide on whether to prefer charges against the officer or direct for further investigations. “Ipoa has failed to push for the prosecution of cops involved in the death of Ngethe and Juma. Its performance is a crushing blow. The authority is struggling to fulfil its remit to hold the police to account,” Cornel said. He said Ipoa has secured convictions of police officers for committing crimes in less than 10 cases, despite having received more than 10,000 complaints. And with the dusk-to-dawn curfew, he said complaints of human rights violations by the police must have spiked. Cornel said Ipoa is one of the weakest links in the chain of the trial process, with its ineptness continuing to miscarry justice, thus leaving victims lamenting. But Ipoa chairperson Anne Makori dismissed claims they have slept on their watchdog responsibilities and that that is why police misconduct, such as brutality and violence against citizens, have been on the increase. She said the commission has been overworking and that is why more cases of police misconduct are being reported, contrary to previous years, where such cases went unreported. “Investigations remain open until there is enough evidence. Where evidentiary threshold is reached quickly, investigations take a couple of months, but where it is difficult to get or witnesses are not forthcoming, then investigations can take longer,” she said. “Ipoa makes appropriate recommendations to either charge in court or use internal disciplinary mechanisms in cases where police are found to have violated the law by using excessive force.” HUNT FOR JUSTICE The chair said Ipoa’s investigations have resulted in 70 prosecutions of police officers, while 274 cases are under legal review by the office of the director of public prosecutions. As for Ngethe’s and Juma’s cases, Makori said the investigations are at an advanced stage as they have been completed and are undergoing a legal review. She said Ipoa will make appropriate recommendations once every detail is finalised. For Omar’s case, Makori said the investigations are still ongoing and they are determined to finalise it soon. She said the curve is expected to continue to grow before it flattens as most Kenyans are aware of Ipoa's functions, thus the increased reporting of cases. It is with these uncertainties that Nganga, alongside four other families whose relatives were allegedly killed by the police, filed a class petition seeking the court’s redress. Nganga, four other affected individuals (Hussein Moyo, Joseph Simiyu, Judith Simuyu, Jacktone Ochilo) and rights groups Haki Africa and Kituo Cha Sheria have sued the IG, the Interior CS and the AG. Amnesty International Kenya, International Justice Mission and Ipoa have also been listed as interested parties. The petitioners want the court to declare violation of fundamental rights of the petitioners as a result of excessive, inappropriate, unreasonable and reckless negligence, cruelty and inhuman treatment by the police. They are also seeking to be compensated for damages, pain and suffering caused by the police actions of brutality and violence. The petitioners want be compensated for damages of loss of lives, expenses incurred during the funerals, general damages and exemplary for each petitioner. If this class petition goes through and orders are granted, it will set a precedent for thousands of police brutality victims to seek the court’s redress. “My son was killed by police but no one has ever been held responsible for his death. I will sleep peacefully when I know whoever killed my son has been sent to jail,” Nganga said. Edited by T Jalio