Two suspects were on Wednesday arrested by DCI detectives for violently robbing a factory manager. Clad in jungle fatigue and armed with crude weapons, Paul Gachie and Isaac Kiprugut Rono-burgled the Chemoni factory manager's house on the night of October 29. According to DCI, the two and four others who are still at large made away with assorted electronics including two TV sets, three radios, four mobile phones, three gas cylinders and clothing. The items were parked in the victim's Suzuki Escudo plate No. KCP 195C which was also stolen, before hurling their 40-year-old security guard into the vehicle before driving off. Upon their arrest, the two were positively identified by the victim and his wife, who also identified some of the recovered items found in the possession of the suspects. Efforts are underway to trace the missing guard identified as Lawrence Agui and recover the rest of the stolen items and nab the remaining suspects. At the same time, DCI sleuths nabbed a man who gave a false report to the police about an accident he was involved in. Richard Muriuki made a robbery with violence report at Langata Police Station on the night of October 20. Muriuki had reported that a white Nissan had hit his Toyota Fielder at the Nyayo Stadium roundabout along Mombasa road, forcing him to stop. It is at this point he alleged that three men, one brandishing a knife jumped out of the Nissan, confronted him and took off with his vehicle. However, upon investigating the matter further, detectives uncovered that Muriuki’s report was a hoax. Instead, he had on the night of the incident hit the said Nissan and on realizing his mistake, fled the scene leaving his vehicle unattended. "Detectives tracked down his Toyota Fielder to Industrial Area Police Station, where our Traffic counterparts had towed it for causing an obstruction. It was not robbed from him as alleged and has been lying at the Police Station since the night of the incident," the DCI said. Muriuki will be arraigned on Thursday at the Kibera Law Courts for giving false information to a public officer, contrary to section 129 (a) of the penal code.