The medical fraternity is grappling with what the continuing Covid deaths of healthcare workers mean for the battle against the virus. The public should worry, too. Senior consultant psychiatrist Dr Njagi Kumantha said the country might not recover for many years from the many losses. Dr Kumantha said many of the fallen doctors were giants in their own fields, who not only had rare skills themselves but also were mentoring younger healthcare workers. Nurses too are precious. "The loss is too great to be quantified. We aspire to reach the level of India [known for numerous specialists] so when we lose them it's a big blow. These were old-timers with a lot of knowledge," he said. Dr Kumantha, a former director of the Mathari National Teaching and Referral Hospital, was a classmate of top nephrologist Dr Anthony Were. Were died of Covid-19 on Saturday, November 21. The 64-year-old was the president of the African Association of Nephrology. Dr Kumantha said the older medics are rare role models who always put the welfare of patients first. "We are losing the role models for young medical doctors. We took our Hippocratic Oath seriously and for us your mind and spirit must always be with the patient," he said. By Monday, the pandemic had claimed 12 specialist doctors, eight clinical officers and 17 nurses. More health workers in other cadres without vocal unions may have died as well. Unions say the medics contracted the virus while at work, although this cannot be confirmed in most cases. A number of others contracted the virus but survived. Simon Kigondu, secretary general of the doctors' lobby, the Kenya Medical Association, said the doctors who died had a wealth of knowledge. "Moreover, there has been a freeze on employment of younger healthcare workers and therefore the continuity of experience and quality healthcare from the older doctors is missing," he said. Kigondu said the Covid-19 Human Resources for Health guidelines, which he helped to draft, recommends that older healthcare workers stay home and work and teach from there. He said many of those actively working need PPEs, comprehensive medical cover and require a package that will ensure that their families are taken care of should they die. "We recommend a constitutional health service commission be established to ensure quality management of human resources for health," he said. Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists' Union secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said Kenyans are losing out on specialised services as a result of losing specialists. "The ratio is currently 1:10,000; therefore 120,000 Kenyans have lost out on their services. These specialists are teachers and mentors to undergraduate and postgraduate doctors," he said. Their loss impacts the training of more doctors and specialist doctors," Mwachonda said. "We only have a pool of 2,600 specialists across both public and private sectors. The country can therefore not afford to lose its doctors due to inaction by the government. The government must take responsibility of protecting the doctors," he said. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said county governments understand the impact of losing any worker to Covid-19. He said they now have designated well-equipped health facilities to be utilised by healthcare workers and their families for treatment if they contract the disease. He said they will also be covered for treatment. "We are working to ensure healthcare workers and their families have access to comprehensive medical cover in case they are exposed and contract the virus," Oparanya said. Kenya has licensed 9,826 doctors, of whom 2,606 are specialists. The country also has 20,000 licensed clinical officers but only 5,000 are employed in public health facilities. It has about 40,000 nurses. (Edited by V. Graham) 