Secondary schools will have two Form One classes next year, a situation that will overload the already straining institutions. The schools will be expected to admit over 1.2 million learners who registered for this year’s KCPE. At the heart of the problem is how the institutions will accommodate the extra population at a time they are facing overcrowding occasioned by the 100 per cent transition implemented since 2018. This year's Form One class will repeat in January, meaning within the next six months the population of Form One students will shoot to an all-time high of about 2.2 million learners. Slightly more than 700,000 learners will exit secondary school after completing their KCSE exam. Indimuli Kahi, Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman, told the Star on Thursday that the ministry's decision will have far-reaching consequences. Kahi said the huge population will overstretch the secondary school system, which is already overloaded. He suggested that the government should review the infrastructure situation in schools, build extra classes and employ more teachers. Nicholas Gathemia, who represents the Kenya Primary School Heads Association, said teachers will have a hard time managing two parallel calendars. Another concern is about the inequity of having some learners at home while others are in school. However, it will be a relief for parents who will finally have a chance to prepare adequately for the eventual reopening. Previously, parents raised concern over the slim timeframe given to prepare learners to return to school, with a prior proposal to have them report back this month. Education CS George Magoha’s decision will have far-reaching consequences by stopping transition from pre-primary to Grade 1. There will be a double intake in Pre-Primary 1. All learners in Grades 1 to 3, Std 5 to 7, and Forms 1 to 3 will remain in their current classes next year. Universities, colleges and technical institutions will be required to alter their intake schedules for next year and push them to 2022. Currently, college freshers join the institutions not later than September of each year. In a bid to save the new curriculum, the pioneer class, Grade 4, is among those recalled to school. Edited by Henry Makori