An MP has demanded  the government develops a national policy and  standard criteria for identifying economically marginalised areas. Gideon Ochanda (Bondo) is concerned that various government agencies and departments use different methods, parameters, indicators and definitions to identify marginalised areas and groups. In a motion before the National Assembly, Ochanda said many areas qualify as marginalised but do not benefit from preferential and affirmative resources. “The Constitution of Kenya safeguards the rights of marginalised communities,” he said. He said various agencies use different standards to identify arid and semi-arid lands, hardship areas and poverty and poverty pockets for mitigation and allocation of extra resources. “Sometimes, areas that qualify and at times are worse off than the traditionally claimed marginalised zones do not benefit,” he said. The Constitution promises an equitable society with comprehensive protection of social and economic rights for all Kenyans. The government is required to legislate measures to redress any disadvantages suffered by individuals or groups due to marginalisation. Marginalisation is an emotive subject. Many communities say they were marginalised by the colonial government and or by successive administrations after Independence. The Constitution defines marginalised communities and marginalised groups (Article 260), but does not define marginalised areas. Ochanda wants the government, through the State Department for National Planning, to urgently develop a common national policy and criteria that show hardship indicators and marginalisation progression. He also wants clear e wants clear parameters to be used by all government agencies and departments as well as counties in directing preferential and affirmative action resources. The Constitution states the national government shall use the Equalisation Fund only to provide basic services to marginalised areas. It says this should be done only to the extent necessary to bring the quality of services on par with those generally enjoyed by the rest of the country. In identifying marginalised areas, the Commission on Revenue Allocation looks at geographical locations, culture and lifestyles, external domination, land legislation and administration and inequitable government policies, among other factors. The primary criterion chosen for identifying marginalised counties is the County Development Index, which is a composite index constructed from indicators measuring the state of health, education, infrastructure and poverty. Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Samburu,West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garissa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu have been identified as marginalised counties. (Edited by V. Graham)