A section of Akorinos from Murang’a want President Uhuru Kenyatta to pick former Cooperative Development Minister Joe Nyaga to lead the BBI referendum push in Mt Kenya. They said the former presidential aspirant is a veteran politician who will help in drumming up support for the proposed constitutional amendments. Nyaga was President Kenyatta’s advisor on regional integration in 2013 before he resigned from his position to contest for the country’s coveted seat on an independent ticket. He has since kept a low profile. Speaking after a Sunday service at Gatura Akorino Church, Bishop Johanna Ndirangu told the President to pick Nyaga during his anticipated tour of the region together with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “We know there’s a section of politicians in this region who are defying the President in the imminent changes to the Constitution under the BBI. They are campaigning against the changes, which will bring social, political and economic stability of our country,” Ndirangu said. “For success and total support of the BBI in this region, we urge the President to incorporate veteran politicians and strategists from the Central region to win the masses to support it. Nyaga is the best bet since she has a rich knowledge of the region's politics.” Ndirangu said the President and Raila should visit the region stop the divisions being caused by politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto and his Hustler narrative. "This region’s support for Uhuru is unwavering, but it seems we are being dismantled by the political factions selling both initiatives in this region. We want the President to address the matter during his visit and solidify the region’s support for the BBI,” he said. Ndirangu also urged Raila to back Nyaga, saying the ex-Cabinet minister was part of his ODM Pentagon before and after the 2007 general election. Pastor Jeremiah Mungai said members of Akorino Church estimated at 200,000 in Murang’a South are fully behind constitutional changes presented by the BBI team. They called on the regions’ politicians to back Uhuru saying that he has the interests of the region at heart.