The Judicial Service Commission has been ordered to open fresh preliminary proceedings against a principal magistrate fired in 2017. The Court of Appeal on Friday ruled that principal magistrate Beatrice Mosiria was never given a fair hearing before she was dismissed from service for alleged loss of funds when she served at Kapsabet law court. She served in that capacity until February 2017 when she received a letter from JSC informing her that her services had been terminated. In the case, JSC had appealed the decision by Justice Maureen Onyango, who ordered the reinstatement of Mosiria because they violated her rights. Justices Martha Koome, Asike-Makhandia and Daniel Musinga partially allowed the appeal by JSC setting aside judge Onyango’s ruling ordering for the magistrate’s reinstatement. “As to the question of reinstatement and award of back pay, we are afraid the substantive allegations against the respondent needed to be taken through a merit review by the JSC by properly following the procedures of a fair hearing,” the court ruled. However, they agreed with Justice Onyango that due process was not followed during her disciplinary hearing, so they ordered for a fresh process. “We order the disciplinary matter be remitted back to JSC to address the said issues. JSC is directed to follow the disciplinary procedure provided by the law,” the judges ordered. The court further ruled that in their opinion the substantive allegations or charges levelled against her needed to be properly heard, and preferably, by the disciplinary tribunal that is mandated by law to deal with them. The three-judge bench further faulted the Employment and Labour Relations Court for not referring the matter back to the JSC when it found that her rights were violated. “If the tribunal as in this case JSC was found to have violated the rules of procedure, or that matter was unreasonable, the ELRC could not constitute itself into a disciplinary tribunal, instead it ought to have remitted the matter back to the tribunal,” the court held. Mosiria told the court that on August 15, 2016, she received a letter informing her that she had been interdicted. The letter that was signed by the Chief Registrar required her to respond to the charge within 21 days. She claimed that most of the information she required to respond to the charge was at Kapsabet law court. She also said that the executive officer who had worked with her had also been interdicted, and she was unable to get the necessary documentary evidence to back her response. While she was on interdiction for five months awaiting communication from the JSC she received a call on January 23 from the Registrar requiring her to attend a disciplinary hearing the following day. She told the court that she travelled from Eldoret to Nairobi by night bus and managed to attend the hearing. However, she was surprised to learn that the committee had called and interviewed the auditor whose report formed the basis of the complaints against her without affording her a copy or allowing her to cross-examine the witness.