 Residents and leaders from Kitui have decried the county's exclusion from regions that will get additional constituencies if the BBI is passed. The Building Bridges Initiative seeks to amend the Constitution to enhance inclusivity and promote gender equity in governance. Among the amendments being sought is the creation of 70 additional constituencies that will prioritise areas underrepresented in the National Assembly on the basis of population quota. The constituencies will be distributed among 28 counties with Nairobi getting 12. Kitui is not among counties that will get an additional constituency. That has left leaders and residents disillusioned and feeling betrayed by the BBI process. They want the BBI proposals reviewed to ensure Kitui gets extra constituencies. Area leaders had proposed that the county be split to create Mwingi county as an autonomous devolved unit. That plea was also ignored. On Saturday, Ukambani political supremo Kalonzo Musyoka addressed a meeting of Kitui professionals seeking to quell widespread grumbling and disquiet. The meeting was hosted by Governor Charity Ngilu through a mobile-audio link. “The most important thing is for us to stand together as a county. If we did it, it is going to be easy for Kitui to get at least one extra MP. Population-wise,  Kitui is in excess of one million people,” Kalonzo said. He said he will be meeting with Ngilu and MPs from the region so they can take a joint position. Earlier, Kitui elected MPs and professionals were up in arms protesting the region's failure to get an extra constituency. Neighbouring Machakos and Makueni will get three and one more constituencies respectively. Local MPs led by their parliamentary group chairman Makali Mulu cried foul over the BBI failure to give Kitui extra constituencies. They are bitter that an earlier leaders’ proposal to the BBI secretariat to create Mwingi County was ignored altogether. The legislators told reporters last week that Kitui feels shortchanged in the BBI  proposals. Mulu said residents had been reduced to mere bystanders in the BBI reforms. Six MPs who included Senator Enoch Wambua said they will fight to ensure Kitui gets extra constituencies. They plan to meet BBI big shots to renegotiate. Mulu said the lawmakers have serious reservations with the BBI. They said less populated counties with a smaller landmass got extra constituencies. "Kitui and its people have clearly been assumed and taken for granted by BBI operatives," Mulu said. The Kitui Central MP said they did not understand how the Kitui missed on extra lawmakers. “We analysed the parameters used to create new constituencies. We found no justification for denying Kitui county extra constituencies vis a vis other regions like Kwale, Mandera.  There is no proper reason why Kitui could not get at least an extra constituency,” Mulu said. Kwale got three more constituencies and Mandera one. While Kitui has eight constituencies, neighbouring Machakos also has a similar number of lawmakers in the National Assembly. But while Kitui is more expansive with an area of more than 30,000 square kilometres, Machakos only boasts of 6,043 square kilometres in landmass. That means Machakos with a population of 1.4 million has more people per square kilometre (240) compared to Kitui with a population of 1.1 million (37). “We want to assure our people that we will follow up with those responsible at the BBI secretariat to ensure Kitui gets at least an extra constituency," Mulu said. Senator Wambua said issues raised by the leaders were so central to the people of Kitui and that the leaders must engage the BBI secretariat to ensure the wishes of residents are granted. “We needed to have Mwingi county hived out of the larger Kitui so that our people can be better served. Among the districts that were created by 1993, only Mwingi was denied a county and it was time it became one,” Wambua said.  Edited by P.O