Media personality and musician Davidson Ngibuini, alias DNG, ended his marriage to Yvette Nungari after nine months. Speaking to Cleaning the Airwaves, DNG said fundamental and ideological differences broke his marriage. "I got married in March 2015 but filed for divorce in December 2015," he said. "I think I fell in love with the idea that this marriage could work since I always wished to settle down and have a family of my own." The couple met in Dubai while DNG was on holiday. "Fundamental ideological differences made my marriage not work. Things like traditions, locations where we lived, and where the family was to be and wealth," he said. He says he had seen all the red flags and even cancelled his engagement, but their best couple intervened and helped them sought things out. "I was in love, I expected things to work, so I didn't look at the red flags seriously, which I should have," he said, adding that it was a milestone that made him who he is today. "The understanding that I had about a relationship is different. I now understand that people must be willing to walk in the same direction and walk with each other openly and be honest with each other. Those are lessons I shouldn't have learnt had our marriage worked." DNG said the idea of getting someone who is not in the same country also couldn't work for him. "Materialism is also some of the things that people don't discuss openly. For example, I was not going to take bank loans to impress a woman by getting them a good car and to show the society that I have made it," he said. "I better live in a one-bedroom house since I validate and push myself to work every day and I give myself the credit of what I do." He said the break-up was one of the extreme things that have happened in his life. "Time is a beautiful healer. It took me about a year but the scars are there for life. The memory is there; though it's a non-issue, it is still there," he said. "But although my relationship didn't work, it doesn't make me give up on love." Edited by T Jalio