The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to focus on the Covid-19 crisis, and not the BBI agenda. He said on Friday people have lost jobs, lives and the economy is in a deplorable state because of the virus. “It is good to look at the Constitution of the country for good leadership, but we should not forget about the coronavirus and the downward trend of the economy,” he said. The former Agriculture CS said development should not stagnate because of the BBI and warned leaders against ignoring their election campaign pledges. Kiunjuri also urged the Mt Kenya region to look deeper at the BBI report before taking a stand. He, however, added that the region has many other issues to be addressed and not just the BBI agenda. “We have more challenges that need to be addressed in Mount Kenya, for instance, poor prices for coffee, tea and dairy products,” he said. He said the Sh14 billion proposed by the IEBC for use in a BBI referendum is huge and can instead transform agriculture, especially in the region. “Sh5 billion was given to New KCC and it has transformed the milk sector to ensure milk prices remain at a constant Sh40 per litre the whole year,” Kiunjuri said. He further said hospitals have no medicines and the money meant for the BBI can be used to fix the crisis. “The cost of electricity has also gone up and the addition of seats will make the wage bill balloon further.” Kiunjuri spoke at Igandene Catholic Church in South Imentim, Meru county, during the requiem mass for Mzee Sebastian M'Ndegwa Karaja. The former CS was dropped from the Cabinet in January by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has been packaging himself as a suitable running mate for Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 presidential race and is keen to influence the region's politics. He told mourners that he is the third most experienced politician from the region after Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, who was present, and Ford Kenya party leader Martha Karua, adding that he will not be a walkover in 2022. Murungi, for his part, said the BBI report is good as it adds money to the counties. “But they say the ‘devil’ is in the details so we are carefully analysing it to see all the details. We are not going to vote for it because Raila Odinga wants us to vote for it or oppose it because William Ruto wants us to oppose it. They have their own interests and we as Merus have ours,” he said.