The safety of healthcare workers in the fight against coronavirus in the country has been boosted with Sh5 million wearable electronic masks donation. The 200 masks, also referred to as wearable air purifiers were received by the Kenya Medical Association (KMA) president Dr. Onyino Were on Tuesday in Nairobi. PuriCare masks donations from a partnership between LG Electronics and Opalnet Limited partnership. This comes at a time when doctors, nurses, and clinical officers have threatened to strike if the state fails to provide standard and adequate PPEs to healthcare workers. The masks will be distributed to medical workers who are at the frontline fighting the deadly virus. So far, the country has lost over 20 health workers who have been at the front line in the fight against covid-19. Health workers have blamed the deaths on inadequate, low-quality PPEs and lack of exemption of all healthcare workers belonging to vulnerable groups. “Inadequate personal protective equipment for healthcare workers has been a great hindrance to service delivery for medical workers countrywide," Were said. He added that while KMA was gratified that local manufacturers have joined the effort to manufacture and supply these indispensable items, they welcome LG’s donation of the much-needed masks to help our medical workers deliver great service to our citizens. LG Electronics East Africa managing director Sa Nyoung Kim said that the air purifier comes at a time when the country’s medical workers' need for high quality personal protective equipment is high. “We strongly believe that the protection of our doctors is a fundamental aspect in flattening the covid-19 curve in Kenya. We have used the latest of LG’s air care technology to create high-performance filters and sensor-controlled fans to ensure the air purifiers provide clean air and optimal breathing comfort anywhere, anytime,”  Kim said. According to Kim, the LG PuriCare Wearable Air Purifier utilizes two filters that prevent up to 99.95 per cent of harmful airborne matter such as viruses, bacteria, and common allergens from entering the respiratory system. The purifiers also have a built-in rechargeable 820mAh battery that delivers up to eight hours of operation at low speed and two hours on the highest setting. “PuriCare Wearable Air Purifier was developed to address the growing demand worldwide for products that can improve personal hygiene at a time when it’s needed most,” Kim said.