Civilians should brace themselves for tough times ahead following President Uhuru Kenyatta's order for heavily enforced crackdown on face mask offenders. The roping in of county inspectorate officers in the war on those caught in public without wearing masks, could spell a hell of a time for members of the public. There is a law imposing a Sh20,000 fine and a jail term of up to six months for offenders but its tough enforcement by both county askaris and the police could trigger mass arrests. The President's order followed concerns that many civilians had adopted don't-care attitude while in public, catalysing the spread of the coronavirus within communities. Uhuru directed the Ministry of Interior to constitute a special enforcement unit made up of the National Police Service and regional administration officers to crack down on flouters. The unit will be “supplemented by the County Government inspectorate units to jointly enforce compliance to Covid protocols.” “And my observation is that, if the public has ‘backslidden' from its vigilant fight against this pandemic, this has been occasioned in part by a diminishing stamina on the part of our leaders,” Uhuru said during his state of the nation address. On Thursday, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai directed a merciless crackdown on offenders even as he warned members of the public against not wearing masks in public places. The IG directed police officers to strictly enforce the Covid-19 protocols and regulations without fear or favour. “Accordingly, we appeal to everyone to wear face masks, keep social distance while in public places and avoid unnecessary travel,” Mutyambai directed. He also directed police officers to enforce the 10pm-4am curfew hours in strict compliance with the standard operating procedures. The Star has established that county police commanders would work closely with the county government heads of inspectorates units to take charge of the special units. The units, the Star understands, will be deployed in major towns and urban markets to crack down on offenders amid fears the prices of masks are also likely to soar. In the last two months, since the state relaxed Covid-19 containment measures in September, the cost of masks has dropped drastically following low demand among civilians. Masks have been costing as little as Sh30 downwards. It cost as high as Sh150 in March when the virus was reported in the country. The county governments on Thursday asked Kenyans to brace themselves for tougher enforcement measures across the country to contain the spread of the virus. Council of Governors Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya told the Star that the President's directive would now streamline operations in terms of enforcement of the Covid-19 protocols. “There has been a gap before because the enforcement of the containment measures was under the national administration officers and the police. With the coming in of county Askaris, we expect a ruthless fight against offenders,” the Kakamega governor said. The county boss said counties will now move with speed to set up working protocols with national government enforcement officers to develop joint synergy to crack down on those violating the Covid-19 measures. The enforcement is likely not to spare those violating social-distancing protocols in what could heighten crackdowns in social joints, where revellers throw caution to the wind.