A five-year health project by the United Nations to lower maternal and child mortality in six counties appears to be successful. The Sh2.2 billion programme has significantly increased access to maternity services in six counties with the highest burden of maternal and infant mortality  in Kenya, findings show. The programme was implemented in Isiolo, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, Migori and Wajir counties between 2015 and 2020. A review of the programme shows that the number of women who utilised antenatal care services increased by more than 32 per cent. Access to skilled attendance at birth also increased by 30 per cent as a result of sustained community-based advocacy, improved infrastructure and the provision of health equipment. "As a ministry, we are proud of the gains made by this project as it further supports the country in its efforts to adhere to international commitments on protecting reproductive health rights and child rights," Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said during the launch of the report this week. The programme, dubbed the UN H6 Joint Programme on Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health (RMNCAH) was jointly implemented by the ministry and the UNFPA, Unicef, UN Women, WHO, Unaids and the World Bank. The report found that the number of women who received HIV testing and counselling at antenatal clinics increased gradually from 2015 to 2020, with Lamu recording the highest increase (from 40 per cent to 99 per cent) in proportion of those tested. In addition, the number of gender-based violence survivors who sought health services increased, with Migori county recording the highest change of 50 per cent. Whereas the six targeted counties bear the biggest burden of maternal, new-born, and child deaths, paid health services remain inaccessible to many, due to high poverty. The World Health Organisation standard for countries is that there should be a health facility within a five-kilometre radius, but in most of the focus counties, facilities are 50-200 kilometres apart. Strengthening of institutional capacity has stimulated an increase in county spending on health - from an average of 22 per cent to 26 per cent between 2015 and 2020, representing an 18 per cent increase in budget allocation. “The programme has shown that a little investment done right and done smartly, can change health outcomes, and has motivated investments by the counties themselves in these critical areas,” said UNFPA Representative to Kenya Dr Ademola Olajide. The report concluded that continued resource mobilisation, both domestic and external, building strong partnerships and leveraging existing programmes to build the capacity of healthcare workers can help sustain gains made in reducing maternal and neonatal mortality in the high burden counties. “We call on partners to support and leverage on the gains made in the last five years to ensure targeted groups in the six counties and communities continue to enjoy the RMNCAH, HIV and GBV services,” WHO Representative to Kenya, Dr Rudi Eggers said. 