After being handed the mantle to lead top flight side Wazito, experienced tactician Francis Kimanzi is keen to introduce a winning culture and a quick to adapt philosophy at the club Kimanzi was yesterday unveiled as the new boss at the club where he will be assisted by former national U-20 coach John Kamau with Samuel Koko who was head-hunted from Mathare United to take charge of the goalkeeping department. The club also brought in Sylvia Kariuki,a sports scientist by profession and Jeff Odongo who will serve as the players’ monitor and  trainer respectively. "We are pleased to announce the appointment of Francis Kimanzi as our new head coach ahead of the 2020/21 FKF Premier League (FKF-PL) campaign that kicks off in a week’s time," said the club in a statement. The Ricardo Badoer-owned outfit opted for Kimanzi after Fred Ambani was shown the door under unclear circumstances. Ambani was axed alongside his assistant Salim Babu who has since joined National Super League side Kisumu All Stars. Kimanzi, who suffered a similar fate at the national team Harambee Stars last month, said he was looking forward to inject a winning culture at the club which struggled to consistently register positive results last season. "The club has a mission which we must achieve. I do not know how to do it at the moment but when I meet the players , It will be easier to work things out. I have a duty to get a winning formula and a philosophy for the club which will be easier for the players to adapt to," said the former Mathare United tactician Kimanzi, who has also handled former champions Tusker and Sofapaka, said the decision to join the moneybags was tough due to what he termed as the culture of the club. Kimanzi, who predicted of a successful stint in the yellow and black shirts, said the negotiations stretched to over a week but was finally convinced to put pen to paper. "It wasn't an easy decision  to make considering the culture of the club and what I wanted as an individual to be in place before joining. However, after one week of negotiations ,I made up my mind," he disclosed.