Kenyan Premier League side Kariobangi Sharks have set their sights on a maiden league title in the upcoming 2020/21 Football Kenya Federation Premier League. The slum-boys skipper Eric Juma has promised fans that they will up their efforts to improve on their disappointing 12th place finish in the last season. "There is simply no any other way around it. We are focused on winning the league in order to participate in the Caf Championship," Juma said. Juma said that the young players in the squad have gained enough experience from last season and are up to the task. "I can't say for sure that having a lot of young players explains our poor performance last season. It just wasn't the right time for us to claim a silverware. The young players too have abilities and talent that can win us the league," he said. He is also hopeful that coach William Muluya will add new players to aid their title charge. "The house is fully packed but I believe we can still add anyone that impresses the coach and can fit into our system," Juma said. Reflecting on 2019/20, the centre back attributed injuries and inexperience to Sharks' dismal showing. "Last season was one of our worst because we were nowhere near our goals. We had quite a number of injuries that greatly compromised our chances in the league," he said. He was also adamant that the side — closely associated with FKF supremo Nick Mwendwa — does not enjoy preferential treatment from Kenya's top football organ. "I don't believe in such claims. Nick believes in hard work and does not use shortcuts to get things done. We are talented players who train hard each day.Why should we get paid if we are using the office for favours? Juma posed. K.Sharks made their jump from National Super League to KPL in 2015/16 and finished an impressive third in its debut in KPL in 2016/17 — during which they lost to AFC Leopards in the finals of the GoTV Shield Cup. In 2018, they earned a berth in the CAF Confederations Cup after their 3-2 win over Sofapaka in GoTV Shield Cup final. Last season's 12th place finish was a huge climb-down from their 8th place finish in 2018/2019. A home win against moneybags Wazito FC on the opening weekend of November 20 will set the right tone for righting the wrongs of last season. 