West Pokot parents with girls aged 10 have been urged to get them vaccinated with a second dose to prevent human papillomavirus. Health executive Jackson Yaralima said that the vaccine is available in all dispensaries asked parents to make sure their girls get the vaccine. He said they are sensitising parents through media stations to ensure girls get vaccinated. "The first dose was administered in schools, now I urge parents to ensure their girls get their second dose to attain full immunity,” he said. The vaccine was introduced in the routine immunisation programme in October last year and was targeting 800,000 girls. HPV is spread through sexual contact and can be serious. It can cause cancers of the cervix, vulva, vagina, penis and anus, and some head and neck cancers. Cervical cancer is among the leading causes of death of Kenyan women. The vaccine is administered in two doses six months apart and in Kenya the first dose was administered in October last year. The first dose was administered in schools and most of the girls got the vaccine. They were to get the second dose in May for full resistance. Kapenguria medical officer in charge Dr  David Karuri said if parents fail to take their girls for the second dose, the vaccine won’t be effective. Karuri said that the vaccine is available at Kapenguria county hospital and the parents have only themselves to blame for not protecting their daughters with a second dose. Susan Atoti said her 10-year-old daughter got the first dose at school but she hasn't taken her for the second dose. “I fear visiting hospital because we might catch of Covid-19," she said. Though her daughter is late for the second dose, she promised to take her. Parent Mary Chetum said that she made sure her daughter got her second dose to prevent suffering in the future. “The pain I saw my aunt undergo while she was sick with cervical cancer was so bad that I can’t allow anybody to experience the same pain. Parents should allow their girls get the vaccine,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)