Isiolo Governor Mohammed Kuti has pledged to improve maternity services in the region's hospitals, saying health remains a priority for his administration. He made the promise after Ministry of Health officials toured the county's referral hospital and recognised its transformation. "The team visited the Neonatal unit, ICU, Oxygen plant and the pharmacy and they were delighted with our incinerator noting it was among the best in the country. On the condition of our ICU, we have personnel already working there and will continue to improve on this," Kuti said on Saturday. He was speaking at a fundraiser in Bulessa where Sh11.2 million was raised for the establishment of a madrassa. The ministry visited the facility after some leaders claimed last month that the Intensive Care Unit at the hospital was not functional. Meanwhile, elected leaders from Isiolo have been urged to lobby for development and support the county government instead of engaging in political sideshows. Nairobi county assembly Majority leader Abdi Guyo asked leaders to put aside their 2022 ambitions and focus on delivering services to residents. Guyo criticised lawmakers, accusing them of engaging in political campaigns at the expense of service delivery. “I would like to urge the three leaders to put aside politics for now and instead lobby for funds from the national government for better development,” Guyo said. He was speaking at a fundraiser. "Even if we have the 2022 General Election staring at us, elected leaders in Isiolo need to come together and deliver services to the people of Isiolo. It does not make sense if elected leaders are seen every day in the media talking about politics while you fail to contribute in bringing development to the people who elected you." Guyo, who hails from Isiolo, asked the leaders to lobby for funds to rehabilitate the Isiolo-Merti road. The road is dilapidated. At Bulessa, Governor Kuti was accompanied by executives Adinassir Dawood (Finance),  Lawrence Mwongela (Agriculture, Livestock & Fisheries) and Abdi Hajj Daud (Water, Environment & Natural resources) Guyo was accompanied by Nairobi county assembly speaker Benson Mutura, Majority Whip Paul Kados, Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia and his Justice counterpart Joseph Komu.