Wazito FC's new acquisition Clinton Okoth says he believes the side is capable of securing a top-three finish in the new season. The 19-year-old striker was unveiled on Wednesday soon after inking a two-year-deal with the moneybags, who snatched him from reigning Kenyan Premier League (KPL) champions Gor Mahia. Elated with his latest status, Okoth is now urging Wazito fans to be patient as he promises them a finish on the podium. "They need to be patient. We shall make them proud this time around," said Okoth. The Butere High School alumnus said he is keen on the golden boot award, targeting 25 league goals once the season gets underway. Okoth made a giant leap to K'Ogalo in March after the local giants outmanoeuvred arch-rivals AFC Leopards, Tusker, KCB and Kariobangi Sharks to his signature, in a move that came hot on the heels of his exceptional performance in the 2019/2020 National Super League (NSL) season where he netted 14 goals to top the scorers' chart. Gor had roped in Okoth to shore up their attacking front after losing West African players Francis Afriyie to Township Rollers of Botswana and Ghislain Yikpe, who found a new home at Yanga in Tanzania. His departure proved costly to Migori Youth whose fortunes nosedived, as they gradually slumped and lost grip on the top four spot they had maintained in the first half of the season. His move to Gor, however, turned out to be a huge miscalculation given that he sat out of all the league matches, hardly making it to a matchday squad. "I believe I was wasting away at Gor considering the fact that I was not being given any meaningful playing time. Every player deserves some time on the pitch even if it's only 10 minutes," said Okoth. Prior to the deal, Migori Youth chairman Abdi Aziz had shaken off pessimism whipped up by local football fans about Okoth's uncertain future at Gor, pointing out that the player was good enough to fight for a slot in the team. "He has to grow as a player so I think it is a good challenge," said Aziz.