Rising Stars’ coach Stanley Okumbi has noted that the door is still open for more players to impress as he aims to build a team that can surpass the runners-up position Kenya achieved at last year’s edition in Uganda. The Kenya U-20 national team yesterday checked into camp ahead of the upcoming Cecafa U-20 championships. Twenty seven players underwent mandatory Covid-19 tests yesterday alongside members of the team’s technical bench as the team kicked off preps for the junior regional showpiece. “I have a lot of talent at my disposal. Today is the first day in training and I am happy with what I am seeing from the boys,” said the coach. “There are some positions we need to fill if we are to have the strongest squad for the tournament. I expect a little more inclusions and omissions,” he added. The Rising Stars have been pooled in Group C of the tournament alongside Ethiopia and Sudan. Group A is comprised of hosts Tanzania, Rwanda, Somalia, and Djibouti while Group ‘B’ will have Burundi, Eritrea, South Sudan and Uganda. The top teams in each of the three groups will proceed to the tournament’s semi-finals alongside one best runner-up. The finalists, meanwhile, are set to earn an automatic slot at the Africa U-20 Cup of Nations. “We have a chance. With the talent at our disposal, I don’t think we have any excuse of not posting positive results. This is our best time to qualify for the U-20 Afcon,” opined coach Okumbi. The team will play two friendly matches against Sudan today and November 5 at the Nyayo Stadium before they leave for the tournament between November 22 and December 6 in Arusha, Tanzania.  Rising Stars Squad Goalkeepers: Maxwell Mulili (AFC), Bixente Otieno (Wazito), Elvis Ochieng (City Stars); Defenders: Boniface Mwangemi (Sharks), Omar Somobwana (AFC), Joseph Levin (Naivas), Wardfine Akhatsika (Chebuyusi High), Kelvin Mose (Uweza), Alphonse Omija (Gor), Frank Odhiambo (Gor), Lewis Bandi (AFC), Fredrick Alushula (Sharks), Rolland Ashimoto (Wazito), Steiner Musasia (Talanta), Nicholas Omondi (Gor) and Keith Imbali (Gor); Midfielders: Enoch Wanyama (Ligi Ndogo), Ronald Reagan (Sharks), Alphonse Washe (Bandari), Hamid Mohammed (Bandari), Danson Kiprono (Zoo), Ian Simiyu (Nzoia Sugar), Austine Odhiambo (AFC), Mwakio Kisaka (Riruta United), Timothy Ouma (City Stars), Telvin Maina (Kisumu All-Stars) and Arnold Onyango (USA); Forwards: Benson Omala (Gor), Henry Meja (Tusker), Stephen Otieno (Bongonaya), Kappen Samuel (Liberty), Sellasie Otieno (Liberty), Unaiz Shajani (Starfield Elite). 