“I need to make this paper” is a common expression in modern culture. It means that a person is determined to make money. Often, people make this statement with a sense of pride because they believe that their determination shines through. The idea is to do whatever it takes to make money. However, there is a level where you chase money and, there is yet another level where money chases you. One of the reasons why people chase money is because we have been made to believe that money satisfies or solves every problem. “Make money and, all will be well,” is the narrative, and statements like, “money can’t buy happiness” are generally ignored. But money is not designed to satisfy or bring fulfilment – it’s only a tool. My favourite definition of money is by the motivational speaker, Dr Mike Murdock. He said: “money is a reward for solving a problem.” Money is not cash, but a reward. That means if you solve a problem, you are rewarded with money. So, the logic is simple: instead of chasing money, focus on solving problems and, you will make all the money that you want. Chasing money can be exhausting, but solving problems is a key that unlocks fulfilment. Here, you can solve problems, enjoy fulfilment, and make money. However, to engage at this level, you must first change your thinking about money. The money chasing mindset is different from the problem-solving mindset. Interestingly, we have proof that those who become great at solving problems make much money – ask Google or Amazon. As a UX Writer/Designer, I understand how much time, resources, and effort is required to understand the customer. Companies like Google, Amazon, Instagram invest good resources to understand how the customer thinks, their deepest needs and desires, their dreams, and goals, how the customer operates online, etc. They want to know and understand the customer’s digital blueprint. Why? So that they can make products and solutions that solve the customer’s problems at a specific, granular level and make tons of money. These companies have become sophisticated at identifying and solving the customer’s problems. And guess what? When you are known as a brand that solves problems excellently, you get people’s attention – and this is currency. In essence, the attention is money. Now, any brand that can get and retain the customer’s attention, wins. So, chasing money isn’t the smartest move, solve problems excellently, get people’s attention and, they would reward you with money. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 