Outgoing St Paul's University vice chancellor Prof Joseph Galgalo has thanked the institution for giving him a chance to prove his potential. Speaking on Friday at the institution's amphitheatre in Kiambu county, he said the university has improved greatly during his 10 years in charge. This is in terms of calibre of programmes, lecturers, infrastructure and research. He urged the institution to support incoming VC Prof James Kombo, whom he described as a qualified personality. "He is coming to an institution which is a leader is research and academics as well as training," Galgalo said. "He is experienced, and what he now needs is goodwill and support. I wish him all the best in his appointment." Kombo, who has been a Daystar University don, has over 25 years experience in leading universities administratively and in research. Galgalo was giving a lecture titled, 'Service to God and humanity. Modelling cathartic sacrifice as the leitmotif of authentic Christian service.' Other speakers included history and gender issues lecturer Prof Esther Mombo and theologian Prof Aloo Mojola. Galgalo took over the university as its VC in 2010, only three years after the institution was chartered by former President Mwai Kibaki in 2007. He joined St Paul’s University in 2002 and made history by becoming the youngest person from Northern Kenya to become a VC at the age of 45. The Marsabit Boys alumnus studied teaching at Machakos Teachers Training College and later proceeded to Cambridge University in the UK, where he did his PhD. Galgalo said when he took over, the university had a population of about 1,000 students, but now it has grown to over 6,700 students due to improved programmes offered. He urged county leaders to live up to their promises, blaming disagreements in politics on lack of servant leadership. “Unfortunately, people want to live or lead with a concept of myself, my people, my area, and so on,” he said. He said his wish is for students in all institutions of higher learning to acquire the concept of responsible leadership. Prof Mombo asked people to speak about gender-based violence without fear as a way of ending violence so a better strategy can be employed. She urged people to participate in the 16 days of activism requested by the United Nations to speak about gender-based violence. The days will be running from November 25 to December 10.