Media personality Anne Kiguta had a candid Instagram conversation about her life with her fans. She, however, was clear to mention that she would not give details about her children. She has managed to keep her kids away from the limelight, given the fact that her twins' faces have never appeared on any social media platform. Anne has three children, one from her previous marriage and fraternal twins with President Uhuru Kenyatta's nephew Jomo Gecaga. Responding to a fan who asked her about her babies, Anne posted a photo of her and her twins but blocked out the faces. In her response, she explained saying they are all too young to be on the social platforms. "Gosh, so many of you have said this… was the number one response. Well, I will have to let you down on that, my loves," she wrote. "I’m rather traditional (believe it or not), so I’m vehemently against it. My babies are all still too young, including the eldest, to be on social media." Anne said she regrets having posted her eldest at all. "Mummy already has a pretty public life. They deserve their privacy." But not to break the hearts of her fans, Anne promised "a reference every once in a while, but nothing more than that for a long long time. Hope you understand". In another post, she said her son is a charmer. "That is my son. Quite the charmer. If only I could tell you half of what they say! But all these are to me sacred moments… Really, can’t share much more." Anne also highlighted the fact of people considering her as their role model. "I have weaknesses and failures, which I would not want you to follow. One thing I do is I try my best to follow Christ." Her advise to girls aspiring to be journalists is to keep their eyes on the prize, which shouldn't be fame or fortune. "To make an impact, you will have to be driven by more than just self-interest," she said. "Finally nothing is more important than your well-being and principles. Better have principles and don't compromise. Don't let silly boys push you around. Know when to walk away."