The Kenya Commercial Bank has been accredited by the United Nations Green Climate Fund as the first financial intermediary for the implementation of green financing in East Africa. The accreditation paves way for the bank to receive funds from the Green Climate Fund for lending to beneficiary institutions involved in the development of green climate resilient investment assets/projects in Kenya as well as in the region where the bank operates as the implementing entity. The accreditation was announced during the 27th Green Climate Fund Board Meeting, in Songdo, South Korea. This followed an extensive due diligence assessment conducted by GCF since 2017 to ascertain the bank’s preparedness in managing climate change programmes. KCB Group chief executive officer Joshua Oigara said the bank is the first lender in Kenya and private sector entity to receive the accreditation, cementing the sustainability efforts within the group. “We are very proud of the efforts and investment we have put over the years to mainstream and entrench sustainable business that has earned us this recognition. It is a milestone for the bank and the country as it opens up investment and development of the green economy through GCF support,” he said. The bank has been accredited under the medium to large private sector category, therefore, capable of fronting projects of between Sh5 billion and Sh25 billion. KCB was nominated by the National Treasury to participate in Green Climate Fund Accreditation in 2017. Under the GCF programme, the National Treasury is the national designated authority for accrediting entities who apply for funding through GCF in Kenya. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani welcomed the development and said the accreditation underpins Kenya’s position as a leader in green finance. “Kenya was among the first seven countries in the world whose institutions were accredited by the Green Climate Fund Board for direct access of resources from the fund in March 2015. KCB’s accreditation now cements Kenya’s strong leadership and prowess in green finance,” Yatani said. Kenya has continued to play a leading role in implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and climate change advocacy in the global and local platforms. Edited by Henry Makori