My dad used to say that we would get to a certain age and nobody would care if we went to school or even what school we went to. They would only be interested in what we were offering or our contribution to society at that point. This lecture was usually given when we were pleading to go for holiday classes or tuition. He was not a believer in those things. As far as he was concerned, school pretty much helped you know how to read and write. The rest you were either born with or you became a pastor. Oh, how wrong he was. I had the fortunate misfortune of having lunch with some ‘I went to Alliance’ crew. ( My dad is an alumnus by the way and I really did not know until I read his eulogy) First, there was no getting a word in edgewise. They remembered what they had for lunch, the dorms they slept in, the exact day they walked through the gates of their school and these are men in their fifties. And in their charmingly middle-class way, they believed the answer to everything was their high school, rather, someone who went to their high school has a solution. (I wonder why they are still quiet with the solution). Maybe we should dip our governor into the Alliance sauce? Anyway, it was a good lunch, please invite me again, I am not hating, only observing. I just need to be prepared or is it pre-drunk? Men really need to stop telling women they want them to have their children. Women who are not their wives, of course. Aside from the fact that there are some nincompoops who really believe you mean it, believe it or not, we are here for more than just baby-making. That line is really outdated. Ask a woman if you can invest in her business or education, I think that will get you far if it is longevity you are after. So now motivational speakers have people idling in reception areas of offices because they said you should be there at least 20 minutes to half an hour early. It is supposed to show dedication or something. I really have a huge HMMMMMM problem with this. Seriously, you can plan yourself better and get there on time without wasting time fiddling your thumbs in someone’s office. It makes sense if you are looking for a job because you have nothing else to do, but if you actually have work, how many hours do you waste in people’s offices? If you have seven meetings in a week and you arrive 30 minutes before time, do the math. And do not tell me you use the time to prepare for the meeting, leave your house prepared for all your meetings. I still cannot believe how staying in an abusive relationship is still justified by ‘the children need a father figure’ in 2020. It is very unfair to use children like that. Just say you like your donkey and you get a kick (pun) out of your toxic union. There are children whose fathers died or who never knew the man and have grown up to be well-rounded individuals who have gone on to achieve a lot not only for themselves but for their communities too. We can never give our children everything they need, we can do our best though. What does that best look like? Creating an environment where they see happy, loving adults. Sometimes those adults are not together and that is OK. Finally, the ‘my husband cannot do this or cannot eat this’ crew. I really admire your faith in human beings. The Bible says, cursed is the one who puts his faith in a man. Listen, I love men (contrary to popular opinion) and I love love, but honestly, love your men quietly. We all really know them, you acting like he is not what he is not does not make him who you say he is. If you know you know. Let us breathe in peace, please. fellyoyuga@gmail.com