The US President-elect Joe Biden has assured Americans that he will keep the faith that has been placed on him. Biden took on his Twitter shortly after news that he had worn the electoral college vote. "America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me. Keep the faith, guys. We’re gonna win this," Biden said. "I am honoured and humbled by the trust the American people have placed in me and in vice president-elect harris. In the face of unprecedented obstacles, a record number of Americans voted, proving once again, that democracy beats deep in the heart of America. with the campaign over, it is time to put the anger and the harsh rhetoric behind us and become together as a nation. It is time for America to unite and to heal," he said in a statement. "We are the United States of America. And there is nothing we can't do, if we do it together," Biden said. His sentiments were echoed by Vice President-elect Senator Kamala Harris who said, "This election is about so much more than Joe Biden or me. It’s about the soul of America and our willingness to fight for it. We have a lot of work ahead of us. Let’s get started". Former Secretary of State and 2016 Democratic Presidential Nominee Hillary Clinton said, "The voters have spoken, and they have chosen Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to be our next president and vice president. It's a history-making ticket, a repudiation of Trump, and a new page for America. Thank you to everyone who helped make this happen. Onward, together". Joe Biden won the race to become the next US president, defeating Donald Trump following a cliff-hanger vote count after Tuesday's election. According to BBC projection, Biden won the key battleground of Pennsylvania, propelling him over the 270 electoral college vote threshold required to clinch the White House. The Trump campaign however indicated their candidate does not plan to concede. The result makes Trump the first one-term president since the 1990s. The BBC's projection of Biden's victory is based on the unofficial results from states that have already finished counting their votes, and the expected results from states like Wisconsin where the count is continuing. The election has seen the highest turnout since 1900. Biden won more than 73 million votes so far, the most ever for a US presidential candidate. Trump drew almost 70 million, the second-highest tally in history. President Trump earlier falsely declared himself the winner of the election when vote counting was unfinished. He alleged irregularities in counting but did not present any evidence of election fraud. His campaign has filed a barrage of lawsuits in various states and earlier on Friday, as Biden appeared on the cusp of victory.