One of the four magistrates contending for a position at the Judicial Service Commission faces a complaint that could lock her out of the race. The complaint against magistrate Everlyne Olwande, if proved, could lead to disciplinary action, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu says. Mwilu heads the office of ombudsman in the Judiciary. Olwande is accused of disobeying Covid-19 rules put in place by the state. “These allegations, if proved, amount to gross misconduct and may lead to disciplinary action being taken against you,” Mwilu's letter reads. The office of the ombudsman investigates any complaint against judicial officers and once completed, the office sends its finding to the Chief Justice who refers matters to the JSC. The complaint against the magistrate was made to the office of ombudsman by Edward Onyancha. Olwande is one of the four candidates contesting to replace Emily Ominde on the JSC to represent magistrates. Ominde's term as JSC commissioner expires in December and magistrates are expected to vote for a representative. She is also seeking to be promoted to the position of chief magistrate. In a letter dated October 28, the DCJ gave Olwande seven days within which to respond. The letter to Olwande comes weeks to her interview before the JSC seeking promotion to the position of chief magistrate. She is scheduled to appear before JSC for interview on November 19. Onyancha filed his complaint on May 21 accusing the magistrate of contravening Covid-19 rules. Onyancha explained that the magistrate was arrested together with some friends at 3.45am in Syokimau along Mombasa road while partying. The arrest was covered by the media and the magistrate and a friend were booked at Embakasi police station and later on released on cash bail. They were to appear in court on April 14. The two were never arraigned. Onyancha said: “It is expected that all citizens obey the said regulations and it was wrong for you as a judicial officer with mandate to adjudicate matters concerning disobedience of rule of law to circumvent the course of justice.” The matter was investigated and the file taken to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, which decided there was no evidence to sustain any charges. A letter from the office of DPP seen by the Star says: “Upon perusal of this file it is evident that the evidence as presented herein will not sustain prosecution of suspects.” It went on to explain that the directive given by the ministry of health specifically indicates that a gathering should not have more than 15 people and the people must maintain the required social distance. In the case of the magistrate and her friends the file showed the total of 16 people were arrested at different times. It was not clear where each suspect was found or whether they congregated in one place. On that basis of lack of evidence the office of DPP through Christine Nanjala directed that the file be closed with no further police action. Senior counsel Ochieng Oduol representing the magistrate said the complaint against his client was misplaced. He said since the DPP already said there was no evidence to sustain charges, the JSC or any other organ cannot purport to arrogate itself jurisdiction it doesn't have to look into the complaint.