Tomato farmers in Kirinyaga want the county government to enact a law that ensures they get guaranteed minimum returns for their produce. A minimum guarantee is the sum paid to the farmer by the buyer, irrespective of how the crop performs. The farmers, mainly from Murinduko ward in Mwea East, said if they are guaranteed to sell their tomatoes at a certain price, whether there is a glut or not, then they will not incur losses. Prices on the market are usually dictated by supply and demand. The farmers said they usually don't recoup the money they spend on inputs, land preparations and labour. They also said the guarantee will tame the middlemen who have for years been ripping them off. They said the middlemen buy their produce at throwaway prices and make huge profits once they take the tomatoes to market. Farmer Michael Chomba said he has been incurring huge losses, but has nowhere or no one to turn for help. “Whether the produce is on or off season, we count losses. Tomato farming faces a myriad of problems, among them expensive farm inputs and lack of good markets. I sell my tomatoes at Sh150 per crate,” he said. Chomba said at times he is left with no choice but to give out his produce for free. He also urged the Ministry of Agriculture to set aside funds to cushion farmers from effects due to low yields and poor pricing. “We have seen Agriculture CS Peter Munya taking the concerns of coffee and tea farmers seriously. That's the effort we would plead he extends to tomato farmers”. Farmer Grace Wakaria urged the government to put in place measures to regulate the market. Their concerns come at a time when the county government is planning to establish a Sh100 million tomato processing plant in Kangai ward. The plant is one of four value chain projects under the Wezesha Kirinyaga economic stimulus programme. Governor Anne Waiguru in May said the factory is being set up in Kangai because the area produces tomatoes on a large scale. Other projects under the initiative include poultry, avocado and dairy farming. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri said, “The project has attracted donors including the World Bank. All we need now is implementation." He urged the Ministry of Agriculture to work hand in hand with county governments to create policies that will benefit farmers. Edited by A.N