 Covid-19 has triggered change in Kenya’s education system as higher learning institutions scramble to establish robust digital learning. Zetech University has injected Sh8 million into improving its digital learning and management infrastructure. Vice chancellor Njenga Munene said the initiative has enabled students to get value out of online learning. It has enabled the institution to handle new students who want to complete their coursework on time. Munene spoke at the university's main campus in Ruiru on Friday. The university held a virtual graduation ceremony where 1,191 students were conferred with degrees, diplomas and certificates in various disciplines. The VC said changing technology in the world require students to be well versed in digital skills to have a competitive edge in the job market. “It is evident that industries across the board, which many of our graduates will join, require technology and digital skills to thrive. The increased efforts and investment by the Kenyan government in implementing digital learning strategies across the country speaks to this reality and we are honoured to have empowered our students to flourish through tech-driven training and industry exposure,” he said. Munene challenged new students joining the university to use available digital platforms to advance their studies. “Virtual learning has proved to be a viable alternative mode of learning since the onset of the pandemic in the country and students should utilise the digital platforms availed to them by the university to enhance their studies for success,” he said. Zetech chancellor Susan Alfano said the Covid-19 pandemic had redefined teaching and learning. “The impact of the Covid-19 has made us appreciate the value technology brings to the academic industry. Zetech has established digital systems to enable our students progress with their studies and we have partnered with other entities in the tech world for the sake of our students,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori