The World Health Organization has raised concern over the rapid rise in diabetes cases in low and middle income countries including Kenya. Diabetes is a disease that occurs when the blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is too high. It is a disorder where the body does not produce insulin or does not use it efficiently. Insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar. Of greater concern is the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on diabetes services, with the global health agency saying that many patients are having difficulty accessing the treatment they need due to disruption of essential health services. People with diabetes have a higher risk of severe Covid-19 disease and death when infected. Kenya on Saturday joined other countries in marking the World Diabetes Day. This year’s theme is ‘The nurse and diabetes’. “The pandemic has exacerbated a situation that was already extremely concerning. The gravity of the situation demands a strong, united response from all organisations working in the areas of monitoring, prevention and treatment of diabetes,” WHO said in a statement. The agency estimates that six per cent of the world’s population has diabetes. The total number today is four times what it was in 1980. Kenya like other developing countries is experiencing this emerging diabetes epidemic. It is estimated that the prevalence of the disease in the country stands at 3.3 per cent and is projected to rise to 4.5 per cent by 2025 if the trend is not checked. Diabetes is a global pandemic affecting more than 425 million people. An estimated 5000,000 people are living with diabetes in Kenya. This figure is estimated to rise to more than 3.5 million within a generation. According to data from the Health ministry, 40 per cent of Kenyans with diabetes are unaware of their condition. Kenya has only 12 endocrinologists who specialise in diabetes management. This means the number of specialists are way lower than the population. In the wake of Covid-19, diabetics have been encouraged to eat healthy food and keep their blood sugar at manageable levels. They have also been advised to stay at home or go out only when it is absolutely necessary. “We have 500,000 Kenyans living with diabetes, it is them and their loved ones that I am speaking to at this moment,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said at a recent media briefing. According to the head of noncommunicable diseases unit at the ministry Dr Ephantus Muree, 80 to 90 per cent of deaths are a result of diabetes type 2 which is preventable. Edited by Henry Makori