@ppcheti Illegal charcoal burning continues inside the Boni Forest despite the area being under tight surveillance by security officers. Operation Linda Boni was launched by the national government in September 2015 to flush out suspected al Shabaab militants believed to be hiding within. In February 2018, the government banned logging in the forest as part of its effort to protect forest cover in the country. The focus was especially on saving indigenous trees from extinction. There have been reports that proceeds from the charcoal business are used to fund terror activities. Previous security reports have revealed that proceeds from the trade were used to purchase food, water and other supplies for al Shabaab militants residing inside the forest. Despite the ban and heavy security presence, the charcoal business is booming more than ever, with reports indicating increased production and sales. Lamu has five public forests: Boni, Pandanguo, Boni-Lungi in Mangai, Witu and Lamu Island forest. Charcoal dealers who spoke in confidence revealed that they collude with security officers and Kenya Forest Service officials who facilitate their trade. Major charcoal areas in Lamu include Maisha Masha, Jima, Poromoko, Mavuno, Bar'goni, Ingini, Ziwa la Kengo and Ziwa la Taa which fall within the Boni Forest boundaries. Charcoal dealer Faisal Kwetu said things were initially hard shortly after the ban came into effect but they found ways to influence security officers with cash or bags of charcoal after which they were allowed to do as they pleased. “We pay up several officers in those areas since we know them. Normally we do cash. If we are cash-strapped, we offer bags of charcoal and we are good to go. Business is better than it was before the ban because the rules are less tight,” Kwetu said. The lifting of the mangrove logging ban in 2019 has facilitated the illegal charcoal business as the dealers carry on with their activities since there is less supervision. Muhsin Sadha, another charcoal dealer, said they hide among mangrove loggers and carry on with their trade because the loggers are rarely supervised. “We normally just pose as mangrove loggers to evade arrest and that’s how we get our logs and proceed to burn charcoal. There is less police concentration there and so it is easy for us,” Sadha said. Apparently, many people who lost their jobs due to Covid-19 have joined the charcoal trade leaving the security agencies overwhelmed. Lamu county forest conservator Evans Maneno denied the reports that charcoal burning was thriving despite the ban and said all forests in the region were well guarded. He said that can only happen in private farms. “There are security units patrolling these forests every few minutes and as such its impossible for charcoal burning to take place. The few who have attempted have been arrested and charged to serve as a deterrent to the rest,” Maneno said. Edited by Henry Makori