Kwale Senator Issa Boy has called on residents and politicians to maintain peace before, during and after the December 15 Msambweni by-election. It's a fight between proxies of ODM chief Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. Boy and ODM support Omar Boga. Ruto supports independent Abdallah Bader. Jubilee pulled out of the race in deference to ODM. Boy on Wednesday warned leaders against using the by-election to spearhead hatred and divide people based on tribalism and religion. “This is not an opportunity for us to cause commotion or engage in activities undermining general unity of the Kwale people,” he said. He spoke during an interview with the media in Ukunda. The senator accused some of the politicians touring the county of fuelling ethnic tension and dissent. He asked residents not to fall prey to inciters and unwise political leaders. Boy scolded politicians for engaging in name-calling, insults and chest-thumping. "There is no need of flexing your muscles in political rallies. Just focus on your agendas because attacking people using whatever language you want is uncalled for,” he said. The lawmaker said campaigns will come and go and there is life before and after the by-election. He said damaging the peace for a one-day event is a disaster. Similar calls were made by county commissioner Karuku Ngumo and Governor Salim Mvurya during Mashujaa Day celebrations in Lunga-Lunga. Ngumo told the candidates to ensure peaceful campaigns and by-election, warning that security agencies and the law will deal with troublemakers. He warned the youth against being misused by politicians to cause violence. “Don’t be tempted to engage in any negative acts that might threaten peace and avoid being taken for granted for your vulnerability to propagate chaos because you will be arrested,” Ngumo said. Mvurya cautioned leaders against using the Msambweni by-election as a platform to lead battles for political revenge. He told off politicians for insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Kwale should not be used as a political arena where you will disrespect the national leaders, I won’t allow that. I respect them a lot because they have largely helped in transforming the lives of the locals,” Mvurya said. The Msambweni seat fell vacant after the death of MP Suleiman Dori. Charles Bilal (Independent), Mariam Sharlete (Independent), Feisal Bader (Independent), Sheikh Abdulrahman Mahmoud (Wiper), Marere Wamwachai and Khamis Mwakaonje are among the people contesting for the seat. (Edited by V. Graham)