Many residents of Nyamira county are not reporting home deaths, then they rush bodies to mortuaries and later bury them quickly. This poses a danger of spreading Covid-19, if that was the cause of death. Health executive Douglas Bosire on Tuesday faulted residents for breaching Covid-19 protocols, especially those regarding deaths at home. Bosire said in Nyamira town that many relatives of those who die at home fail to report to health officials so they can investigate the cause of death. He said some samples taken from the bodies tested positive for Covid-19, a situation he called "dangerous". Bosire also said some relatives secretly take bodies to mortuaries, then rush to bury them. “It is saddening that some residents do not report cases of their relatives who die at home," he said. Bosire advised mortuary attendants to question those who take bodies for preservation about the cause of death to assist tracing in case of Covid-19. Testing may be required “I urge our people to stop breaching Covid-19 protocols as they are for their own safety. They should seek early treatment if they experience symptoms," he said. The executive advised residents to wear face masks properly, wash their hands with clean running water, use sanitiser and keep social distance to avoid contracting the disease. In Kisii, county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa warned bar owners that law enforcers and health officials will continue closing their businesses if they violate safety regulations. These include closing an hour before curfew, requiring masks and insisting patrons observe social distancing. He told the Star by phone that bars that were closed will remain shut to act as a deterrent. “We are not going to rest until we ensure the protocols are adhered to strictly to the letter. People should understand the measures of the Ministry of Health are not aimed at punishing anyone, but are there for their safety," Jaldesa said. County police commander Jebel Ngere warned revellers that curfew violators will be arrested. (Edited by V. Graham) 