Murang’a county commissioner Mohammed Barre has raised the alarm over chronic alcoholism, which he said is hampering local population growth. Barre on Monday noted that men aged between 20 and 45 years indulge in drinking all day long and have turned into irresponsible and unproductive members of society. He said that in many homes, women have been burdened with the responsibility of taking care of their families, thus opting not to have more children to ease their suffering. "When we discuss population in the Central region, we can't forget to mention the impact of alcoholism on the growth and welfare of families. Some men, who are drunkards, have neglected their families, leaving all chores to their wives,” Barre lamented. Alcohol abuse has also been blamed for gender-based violence and dissolution of marriages. “Statistics demonstrate we have many cases of gender-based violence attributed to alcoholism and this has also led to breakage of families,” the administrator said. He spoke during a county public forum to seek views on the review of the Population Policy Sessional Paper Number 3, 2012. “Alcoholism has destroyed many lives in this region and there is a need for concerted efforts to fight the menace. Our families need to be healthy and with access to basic needs; this will only be attained by reducing intake of alcohol,” Barre said. He said trafficking of bhang has increased, with schoolchildren targeted. The traffickers, he said, are sourcing bhang from a neighbouring country. “The fight against alcoholism and bhang cannot only be left to security agents. We want locals to join hands and give us information so as to nab the culprits who are behind the trafficking of bhang,” Barre said. Security officers will not relent in the fight and will endeavour to offer protection, especially to young children who are lured into drug dens. Speaking at the same event, Health executive Joseph Mbai said the county has reported 386 cases of Covid-19 since the virus was first reported in the country in March. He said the county has 72 active cases, including 40 medical officers. Seven people with the virus are hospitalised. “So far, the county has lost 11 people, among them two health workers, to Covid-19. It’s my appeal to residents to observe the health protocols to contain the spread of the virus,” he said. 