Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana are becoming the face of the ‘No’ campaign against the proposed BBI referendum. The two have teamed up with civil society players including David Ndii, Boniface Mwangi and Jerotich Seii to oppose the proposed changes under the umbrella ‘Linda Katiba’. This comes at a time when Deputy President William Ruto who was seen as the most likely leader of the ‘No’ campaign took a step back. Ruto has insisted that the country can go into a non-contested referendum though which he says some of his political opponents seek to use to play catch up in the 2022 race. Ruto is expected to meet various people for consultations this week before announcing the way-forward. BBI secretariat has denied the involvement of the provincial administrators in the signature collection even as they announced the nationwide exercise has seen 1.5 million people sign up by Sunday. The figure includes those collected through the physical signature booklets and the online platform which was unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and handshake partner ODM leader Raila Odinga last week. BBI co-chairpersons Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru expressed confidence of the exercise netting two million signatures by close of business Monday. The signature drive is expected to end on Thursday and the same verified by the Secretariat before it is taken to the IEBC for further verification and processing. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s headache of the unending cycle of pending bills may not end soon, the latest National Treasury reports show. State agencies closed the financial year to June 2020 with bills of about Sh93.3 billion, being Sh35.1 billion higher compared with the year to June 2019. The situation stands to plunge the ministries, state departments, and agencies into a deeper financial crisis. Pending bills form the first charge of every new financial year’s budget, with the bills projected to get worse amid the dwindling revenues in the face of the Covid19 crisis. An analysis of the bills further reveals that a number of state agencies are yet to submit civil servants’ contributions to the National Social Security Fund and National Hospital Insurance Fund. For months, the masses have been trapped in their homes to ensure they are safe from Covid-19. Many hotels and lodges around travel destinations have also remained closed. But Covid-19 could be here to stay. Knowing that, travel destinations have slowly opened up, seeing that the festive season, which is usually the high season, is around the corner. With many afraid of contracting the virus since March, people have shunned the idea of travelling and going on vacations, even around the country. To see how travel has changed during the pandemic, the Star recently left the city for Kilifi county under a campaign by the regional low-cost carrier Jambojet called, ‘Now Travel-Ready’. The tour sought to highlight how the local travel and tourism industry has put in place protocols to ensure travellers and tourists remain safe throughout their journey and holiday if they choose to spend it away from home. The first block of 160 units of the Pangani Affordable Housing Project is scheduled to be handed over in February 2021, nine months after the groundbreaking ceremony. Already, nine floors have been completed, Nairobi county Lands and Housing executive Charles Kerich said in a progress report on the project. The same is the case for the foundation of blocks six, seven and eight. The Sh25 billion Pangani development is part of the government's low –cost housing projects. The eight blocks will have 1,562 apartments standing on 5.2 acres worth Sh4 billion. Kerich said the pace of construction is one storey in six days.