Kyale Mwendwa, a former Cabinet minister under President Moi always attracted suspicion and rumours from his political rivals in Kitui. The son of colonial-era Kitui paramount chief Mwendwa Kitavi, Kyale died last week aged 94. One of Mwendwa's political rivals was the former Kitui MP and Environment and Natural Resources minister the late Francis Nyenze. On February 5, 2001, Nyenze was quoted in the People newspaper as having accused Mwendwa of grabbing land belonging to a community organisation in Kitui. Calling Mwendwa “an invisible politician,” Nyenze told a gathering of local councillors that he will “not just sit in Cabinet and watch my constituents wallow in abject poverty while greedy individuals indiscriminately grab public land.” The parcel of land at the centre of the dispute belonged to Ukamba Agricultural Institute. Nyenze said Mwenda had secretly changed the institute’s status from public to private, leading to its collapse. UKAI wrote to Mwendwa seeking clarification on the matter but later retracted the claim. On receipt of the complaint, Mwendwa dashed to court, suing Nyenze and the newspaper for defamation. In court, Nyenze denied ever addressing the councillors and uttering the defamatory words. Court papers show that Nyenze tried to plead with Mwendwa to drop the charges, explaining the circumstances of his comment. Mwendwa insisted he was irreparably defamed. The court found Nyenze liable and forced him to pay Mwendwa Sh3.5 million in damages. The 2011 judgment also found the paper liable, forcing it to pay Sh500,000 to the former Cabinet minister for failing to verify the information before publishing it. The Mwendwas are a political dynasty in Kitui, a force to reckon with that directly influences the area’s political calculus. His two elder brothers Ngala Mwendwa and Kitili Mwendwa were also notable as Ngala was the country’s first minister for Labour under President Jomo Kenyatta while Kitili was the country’s first African Chief Justice. His sister-in-law Nyiva Mwendwa was the country’s first woman Cabinet minister under President Moi. She also served Kitui as its first woman representative. Mwendwa was the country’s first director of education for a long time and became renowned for establishing many learning institutions. He was buried in Kitui on Friday. Reports say the former politician had been sick for some time. He died at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi. 