With the Building Bridges Initiative train set to start hurtling down the tracks from Wednesday, some former lawmakers from President Uhuru Kenyatta's (pictured) Central backyard are pushing to be on the key teams marketing the document. The politicians on Monday night met at a hotel along Thika Road and agreed to position themselves at the centre of the BBI campaigns. The politicians, who are said to be uncomfortable with some BBI point men from the region, plan to lead the BBI campaigns for a referendum through parallel initiatives. However, what is curious is that a group of businessmen from the region known to be desperately fighting a senior politician are bankrolling the MPs (who want to take charge of BBI). A woman representative from Western Kenya has sent tongues wagging with her latest political moves. The lawmaker has been hosting huge delegations at her rural home and her county offices, triggering speculation about her 2022 ambitions. There are reports that the woman representative is plotting a stab at the gubernatorial seat. Recently, the politician has drastically scaled-down her national presence to concentrate on county politics. Her entry into the race coupled with her camaraderie with a party leader could complicate the ground for heavyweights seeking the coveted seat in the 2022 polls. Is a senior party official with a post in Parliament losing his grip on party troops in the House? Well. The senior member is said to be utterly unable to consolidate the party members, let alone politicians from his own backyard. In most public events, the man has been shoved aside by politicians who do not at all regarding his office as significant. This apparently has affected the leader's personality. At one such public engagement with proponents of the BBI process, the leader was relegated to a peripheral seat, leaving his juniors to dominate the high table. Have the shoes become too big for him or he has failed to heed advice from his colleagues that he needs to curb his own size? Only time will tell. A governor from Western Kenya could find himself in uncharted waters in the coming days after colleagues started doubting his resolve to amend the Constitution. The county chief who likes secretly hobnobbing with allies of Deputy President William Ruto was left out when his colleagues convened a meeting on Sunday in Nairobi to lay the groundwork on collecting signatures in counties. The county boss is said to have been lukewarm in supporting BBI, raising concerns that he could sabotage the whole process. It has now been decided he will not be trusted in BBI campaigns. An influential former MP from his county will steer the process. 