Confounded by what to gift that special woman in your life? Benadatte Kaggwa, owner of Nnunji designs, has eight reasons why you should go for jewellery. Women also take note, if planning to treat yourself. 1. Jewellery is the foremost way a woman adorns her outfits and enhances her appearance. “The perfect spice to what is already there,” to quote Belgian fashion designer Diane Von Furstenberg. 2. It has a way of bringing out some features of a woman’s anatomy. “For example, a choker necklace will draw attention to a long, graceful neck or give the illusion of one. Pearl necklaces brighten a lady’s complexion and eyes. And so on,” Bena, as she is known in short, says. 3. A woman who wears tasteful jewellery looks classy, even if her outfit is simple. “For those ladies who prefer to go make-up free (and the men who prefer their ladies without make-up), jewellery is a good option for grooming attractively.” 4. It is quite romantic. Celebrities have been known to express their love with tasteful, custom jewellery; for example, the diamond carat that [Welsh actor] Richard Burton gifted [English counterpart] Liz Taylor. “Even regular pieces are still romantic. It’s the gesture that counts,” Bena assures those worried about price. COMPARED TO OTHER GIFTS 5. Jewellery is not perishable, as are flowers and chocolates. While the latter come and go, your woman can wear jewellery for years to come. 6. It has greater variety of choice in style and design, while there’s only so much one can choose for chocolates. Flowers have a wide variety but may not be easily available. 7. It is more of a personal gift because one can customise designs according to individual taste and preference. Flowers are a product of nature; they come as is. 8. While indulging in sweet foods like chocolate can be harmful to your health, jewellery is superficial. You don’t have to worry about tooth decay or calories. All in all, for a truly thoughtful gift, you can never go wrong with jewellery. American actress Zsa Zsa Gabor once quipped, “I never hated a man enough to give him his diamonds back.” But you don’t have to break the bank for luxury pieces. Go for what you can comfortably afford. That doesn’t mean you compromise on quality, though. “Settling for cheaper jewellery in a bid to save a penny costs you more in the long run, because you’ll keep replacing them whenever they get damaged,” Bena says. So, whether it is your girlfriend’s birthday, your wedding anniversary or Mother’s Day, go for that adornment and your beloved will appreciate it. Nnunji Online Stores has unique designs of good calibre at pocket-friendly prices, from Sh1,000. You can view them on Facebook at the page ‘Nnunji’ or on Instagram at @Nnunji2018, or contact Bena for more details on 0792 789172 or via WhatsApp on 0770 186529. More stories by Tom Jalio