The BBI proposals have triggered a fall out among the taskforce team amid claims the document was doctored before members were forced to sign the final report. The report, which has caused a political storm, was handed over to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga at the Kisii State Lodge on October 21. Major John Seii, a member of the 14-member task force, on Thursday claimed that some of the sweeping proposals were totally strange to them because they never featured in their deliberations. The BBI taskforce member claimed that a high-level meeting allegedly attended by Raila and Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho three days to the Kisii event saw them succumb to pressure. Seii said they appended their signatures onto a document whose details they never went through because Raila's presence gave them confidence that all was well. Secondary schools will have two Form One classes next year, a situation that will overload the already straining institutions. The schools will be expected to admit over 1.2 million learners who registered for this year’s KCPE. At the heart of the problem is how the institutions will accommodate the extra population at a time they are facing overcrowding occasioned by the 100 per cent transition implemented since 2018. This year's Form One class will repeat in January, meaning within the next six months the population of Form One students will shoot to an all-time high of about 2.2 million learners. Slightly over 700,000 learners will exit secondary school after completing their KCSE exams. For the first time since the advent of multi-party democracy in 1992, President Uhuru Kenyatta's vote-rich Mt region has turned into a tough battleground for outsiders seeking the presidency. Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga are in a fierce battle to win over the crucial region that for once may not have a serious presidential contender in 2022. Lack of a clear successor when Uhuru retires in 2022 has also triggered a high-stakes game to control the key region that decisively delivered Jubilee victories in 2013 and 2017. Ruto, who fell out with Uhuru and lost out in the success matrix, is seen as a lone ranger in his attempts to counter Uhuru's campaigns to shove him out of the succession picture. Raila, the former prime minister in the Grand Coalition government, political observers say, is the man to beat in Mt Kenya, given his camaraderie with the President. If you are overweight or suffering from certain lifestyle diseases, it probably has to do with improper diet. However, it appears there could be more to our health outcomes than just the food we consume. One theory, called the mismatch hypothesis, suggests the problem is not really the type of food, and no diet is inherently harmful. It argues that humans have evolved to digest the food of their ancestors and will struggle and often fail to metabolise radically new types of foods, leading to problems such as lifestyle diseases. The theory is difficult to test scientifically because it would mean going back to foods eaten hundreds of years ago for one community. However, Kenyan scientists, working alongside American researchers, have tested the theory in Turkana. enya is expected to borrow more this financial year to meet additional budget needs in the revised budget for 2020/21 submitted to Parliament Tuesday for approval. According to the 2020 Budget Review and Outlook Paper tabled by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, the country will now borrow Sh1.002 trillion in the current financial year to meet an additional Sh200 billion expenditure. In the new budget plan, the exchequer has raised expenditure for the year to Sh2.92 trillion up from Sh2.76 trillion even after acknowledging an expected shortfall in ordinary revenue collection, which will be hampered by Covid-19 shocks. The BOP shows that Treasury has lowered expected revenue from the Kenya Revenue Authority to Sh1.6 trillion from Sh1.63 trillion set in June.