The Mt Kenya region residents have been urged not to read the Building Bridges initiative report selectively and instead read it in full alongside the Constitution. It is by doing so that they will understand the document's benefits to the region, Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho said on Wednesday. "The BBI has addressed a lot of things that we thought had oppressed our people in Mt Kenya. That is why we say people should look for what is helpful to them. If it is agriculture, see if issues that needed to be looked into are identified. If it is revenue sharing, check that too." Kibicho was speaking at Matuguta in Githiga, Githunguri, where he opened a police station and a chief's office. He stressed the importance of reading the BBI report together with the 2010 Constitution. “We have heard others say the Judiciary Ombudsman will not be independent since the President will appoint it. We have the Office of Chief Justice whose holder is appointed by the President and it is independent. Why are we applying double standards, saying the ombudsman will not be independent?” Kibicho asked. He advised against dragging emotions into BBI with the intention of ensuring that Kenyans do not see the benefits of the document for the progress of the country. With the PS were MPs Kago wa Lydia (Githunguri), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Wanjiku wa Kibe (Gatundu North), Joseph Ngugi Nduati (Gatanga), Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba, Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi and county assembly representatives. Wamuchomba was jeered and booed when she tried to drum up support for BBI, prompting her to leave in a huff. Wanjiku urged residents to stop thinking about who will run for President in 2022 and focus on the contents of BBI to make informed decisions. “We should not be linking BBI to politics of 2022. We are not telling you whom to vote for. BBI is an important document intended to benefit the Mt Kenya region in  many ways. People should read it and decide,” she said. Kago said the document will help Githunguri since it contributes a lot in the GDP with its dairy, tea and coffee farming. “Githunguri Dairies has a turnover of Sh10 billion. You can imagine how much money you contribute to the GDP of this country. The BBI will help us get more money to build our roads and leave us with more for other development,” he said. The legislators regretted that the populous Mt Kenya region has been treated unfairly for a long time yet it contributes a lot of revenue to the country. It should not be treated the same with way with scarcely populated areas, they said.   - mwaniki fm