Kenya has been named Africa’s leading tourist destination, 2020 by the World Travel Awards (WTA). This was announced during the inaugural Africa Winners Day, with World Travel Awards. WTA is the global initiative to recognize and reward excellence in travel and tourism, honouring the best from across the continent. The Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) was not left behind as it won Africa’s leading tourist Board. At the same time, Destination Kenya won Africa's leading destination management company 2020. Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, was named ‘Africa’s Leading Business Travel Destination’, and Kenyatta International Convention Centre (K.I.C.C) collected ‘Africa’s Leading Meetings & Conference Centre’. In hospitality, the Fairmont Mount Kenya Safari Club’s unique at Mount Kenya won the title of ‘Africa’s Leading Hotel’. Aberdare Country Club, Kenya was voted ‘Africa’s Leading Green Hotel’ while Boabab beach resort & Spa won, Africa’s leading Family Resort Kenya Airways picked up both ‘Africa’s Leading Airline - Business Class’ and ‘Africa’s Leading Airline - Economy Class’. Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) Chairman Jimi Kariuki lauded the win as a big motivator to Kenya’s tourism industry which had suffered from the effects of Covid-19. “This is a big encouragement to everybody in the tourism sector and shows that even as we go through this difficult time, Kenya still remains the top destination in Africa. "We shall continue to improve our tourism products and to showcase our diverse offerings globally so that we remain ready for take-off once travel resumes fully," Kariuki said. "I take this opportunity to congratulate all the Kenyan winners including KTB which won Africa’s leading tourist Board. We shall continue with our efforts to see that Kenya is always at the top in tourism offering," he added. KTB CEO Dr Radier on her part, welcomed the recognition saying that it would provide a big push for tourists towards the destination. “This win makes us immensely proud. It shows that our efforts in showcasing our diverse offerings through our various campaigns have borne fruits with people anticipating to come to Kenya once travel resumes fully. For example, # TheMagicAwaits campaign showcased the development in the destination when countries were in lockdown. #RediscoverTheMagic is now creating expectation for travellers to come to Kenya," she said.