Homa Bay government offices have been closed for two weeks after county communications director Juma Aluoch died of Covid-19. Aluoch, a veteran journalist, died on Monday evening. Six other county officials have tested positive for the virus. Announcing the closure on Tuesday, Governor Cyprian Awiti said the offices would be closed to allow fumigation. “The situation has forced us to shut down operations at the county government offices for two weeks from Wednesday. I want thorough fumigation to be done besides other routine measures taken to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. Awiti urged residents to adhere to health protocols, including wearing of face masks, ensuring social distance and frequent washing of hands, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “The disease is not a joke and residents should adhere to health protocols as directed by the government to prevent the spread of this virus,” Awiti said. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata and Health executive Richard Muga said the virus is spreading within communities. “Coronavirus is being spread within the localities. Let our people be cautious wherever they are,” Orata said. Muga said they are intensifying surveillance to prevent rapid spread. He urged residents to go for testing, noting that the county has so far recorded 154 cases. “The closure of the county offices should give officials the opportunity to go for testing,” Muga said. Meanwhile, condolence messages have continued to trickle in following the death of Aluoch. Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and former Karachuonyo MP James Rege joined Awiti to condole with the bereaved. Awiti described Aluoch as a journalist who was honest. “Aluoch was my friend even before I became a governor. He was working for Kenya Times newspaper [now defunct] at the time. His honesty and competence made me appoint him the director,” Awiti said. Kidero described Aluoch as someone with whom he had known since childhood. He said he was the one who welcomed Aluoch when he joined Form 1 at Agoro Sare Boys Secondary School. Journalists also sent their tributes. They described Aluoch as a dependable colleague. They included John Oywa, Samuel Owida, Jack Nduri, Philip Osewe and Dan Oduora.