The Ministry of Agriculture is in the process of developing three bills meant to ensure livestock and livestock products remain globally competitive. They are Animal Health Bill, Veterinary Public Health Bill, and Animal Welfare and Protection Bill. The ministry is also crafting a roadmap to help roll out the development of a livestock master plan. Agriculture CAS Linah Chebii Kilimo said on Thursday in Naivasha that the development of veterinary bills is part of implementation of the constitutional provisions for review of laws to align them with the Constitution, create order and regulate aspects of the livestock sector. “The livestock sector plays an important economic and socio-cultural role in Kenya, contributing about 42 percent to the agricultural GDP and 12 per cent to the national GDP,” she said during validation workshop. Kilimo said livestock provides domestic requirements directly through meat, milk and eggs, among other products, and indirectly through hides and skins, pelt and feather and other livestock products. She said the livestock sector accounts for about 30 per cent of the total marketed agricultural products. “The sector employs 50 per cent of the agricultural labor force, with over 10 million Kenyans living in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands deriving their livelihoods largely from livestock,” she said. Kilimo said to secure livestock resources, the master plan will guide investment into the sector. The ministry embarked on reviewing the Animal Diseases Act, the Rabies Control Act, the Cattle Cleansing Act, the Branding of Stock Act, the Meat Control Act and the Prevention of Cruelty Act, 2018. The review has been finalised. It took into account concerns raised. Kilimo called for a predictable means of implementing policies, legislation, strategies and investment plans to better support the development of the sector. The CAS said the ministry has also developed the livestock bill in conjunction with other stakeholders. As it await publication, the ministry is processing various regulations to cater for specific sector value chains. This includes animal feed, breeding, livestock training institutions, poultry industry, apiculture and the pig industry, among other areas. Kilimo said the next step to revitalise and accelerate livestock sector development is to develop a comprehensive livestock master plan, including livestock sector intervention strategies to inform the investment plans as per the new policy and legislative environment. “Therefore, a livestock master plan is now more important than ever to enable an effective and efficient sustainable development of the livestock sector while contributing to the food security and manufacturing in the Big Four agenda of the government,” she said.