Leaders have differed on whether Nairobi deserves the 16 of the 70 National Assembly seats proposed in the Building Bridges Initiative report. Those against the proposal want the seats redistributed to upcountry counties. But leaders rooting for Nairobi to take the positions say the huge population in the city deserves to be represented in Parliament. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei told the Star on Tuesday that the 16 positions set for Nairobi should be given “to deserving" upcountry counties. He said many Nairobi dwellers are not necessarily permanent residents. “If it is meant for service delivery, then the approach is wrong. Nairobi is the home of all the tribes and no single community can claim ownership of Nairobi. In the BBI, there is a proposal that some functions be reverted to the central government. Nairobi will have special status, being the capital city,” he said. Some of the functions Nairobi county will cede to the national government should the BBI be passed include transport, health services, county planning and development, public works, firefighting services and disaster management. Cherargei noted that delimitation of boundaries is a function of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and the matter of creating seats should have been left to the agency. He questioned why deserving counties with huge population were overlooked in the distribution formula. “My county Nandi is almost clocking one million but was left out then counties with small population were given more than two. We read politics in all these and that is why we are calling for a review of the report before being subjected for ratification,” he said. Cherargei also said that with Nairobi taking the lion's share of the positions, followed by Kiambu county (six) and Nakuru county (five), “marginalised communities and small communities will never produce a prime minister”. The post is also proposed in the BBI document. “Nairobi already has 17 constituencies then you give it 16 positions it becomes 33. Then you have Nakuru and Kiambu counties coming on board with the higher number. These numbers are going to be critical when it comes to the appointment of a prime minister,” he said. He said some communities could collude and will forever control the position. But Nairobi Senator Johnson Sajaka said city residents deserve even more slots. He said Nairobi's population is too huge to be represented by the current 17 MPs. “If we go by the population that we have in Nairobi, then we should have even more. It is wrong to say that the people in Nairobi are just workers,” he told the Star on the phone. “Thousands of people were born and raised in Nairobi and they know no other place. This is their home and they too deserve service delivery and representation.” His position was supported by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi who said that while the quality of debate and role of Parliament has dwindled with the huge number of MPs, Nairobians deserve the positions. “We do not need these MPs in the first place. The more we create new positions, we are doing it at the expense of Kenyans who are already shoulder a huge wage bill,” he said. “However, in sharing of constituencies as per population, Nairobi deserves more. It has more registered voters compared to any other county. It is, therefore, simplistic to argue that it does not deserve the positions.” Linturi, one of the longest-serving legislators in the country, however, called for fairness in the formula for distributing the positions.