National Under-20 football team, Rising Stars rallied from a goal down to edge Sudan 3-1 in a Cecafa Championship build-up match played yesterday at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Despite going down early in the first half, Stanley Okumbi’s charges who are placed in Pool ‘C’ of the tournament set for November 22 to December 6 in Dar-es-salaam, hardly broke a sweat to edge the visitors whom they face again on Thursday  in another friendly. Okumbi lauded the players, majority of whom were promoted from the U-17 for their fighting spirit. He challenged them to improve the results of last year’s team which scooped silver in the finals held in Uganda. “We played well although we conceded a cheap goal. We knew they would go for early goals but the boys fought back. The team is comprised of new players who have been promoted from the U-17 and I think with such a display, we stand a chance to get something in Tanzania,” he said. Stars camped at the Sudan’s area from onset in a bid to break the deadlock but it was Sudan who went ahead in the eighth minute through Nogh Hussein who tapped in Mobare Wesam’s cross past an hapless Maxwell Mulili after the Stars’ defence was caught napping. Stars responded with a host of attacks with Ligi Ndogo’s Enock Wanyama and Keith Imbali causing all sorts of problems on the flanks courtesy of their pace and dribbling skills. Wanyama, who nearly gave Stars the lead in the second minute only for his attempt to be denied by a fully stretching Khamis Omer Yousif for a corner, was instrumental for Stars comeback. Towering Nzoia Sugar forward Selassie Otieno then headed home the resultant free-kick lobbed in by Kariobangi Sharks left-back Boniface Mwangemi to level matters for the home side. Sudan, who seemingly had succumbed to the pressure mounted by the hosts, retreated to their half to defend after conceding and consequently managed to end the first half even. Hardly a minute into the second half, Okumbi rang his first change bringing in Steiner Musasia for Imbali who appeared weary in the final minutes of the first half. The introduction of Musasia saw Omondi who was largely deployed as a defensive midfielder in the first half take up the creative role. What seemed to be a harmless cross by Bandari’s Alphonce Washe gifted Stars the second goal in the 55th minute as Yousif punched the ball into Ronald Reagan’s way and the Sharks player made no mistake, firing the ball into the right corner. After engineering the second goal, Washe was rested for Stephen Otieno as Okumbi sought to spice up his attacking front. Sudan made their first change in the 69th minute, where Ismael Musa came in for an injured Yousif Abdelkarim. Okumbi threw in late double substitution, resting Wanyama for Levin Odhiambo and Reagan paving way for Geoffrey Onyango. The former would justify his inclusion after plundering home the third goal to put the result beyond the reach of the visitors. 