Gor Mahia assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo says the team will not be cowed by the danger posed by their former talisman Jacques Tuyisenge when they play Rwanda's  Armee Patriotique Rwandaise ( APR) on Saturday. Tuyisenge will be a person of interest when the two teams play in the first leg of the Caf Champions League preliminary round, owing to his exploits at K'Ogalo where he won the Kenyan Premier League three times as well as two FKF Cup titles. Gor are expected to jet out on Thursday for the encounter. The forward joined Gor in 2016 from another Rwandese outfit, Police FC but ended his ties with the Kenyan champions in March after landing a lucrative deal with Angolan giants Petro Atletico de Luanda. However, his stay in Angola was short-lived as he left in August and joined APR. The experienced goal poacher, who netted more than 10 continental goals while at Gor, is considered a big threat to the Kenyan team's ambition of sailing to the next round but Odhiambo believes they have what it takes to contain him. "We are playing against a team and not an individual. We are not scared of him neither are we afraid of them, as a team. We are heading to Kigali with one ambition, reaping positive results. The players are ready for the task ahead," said the former Sony Sugar coach. Despite the absence of holding midfielder John Ochieng and teenage striker Benson Omala, Odhiambo expressed optimism that the team will redeem its image after an early exit last season. Omala is currently with the national U20 team, Rising Stars in Tanzania for the Cecafa Championships while Ochieng picked an ankle injury in a friendly match against Nairobi City Stars last weekend. "We will only miss two players but we have equal replacements whom I believe will get the job done," added Odhiambo who has also coach Chemelil Sugar. Meanwhile, Odhiambo said that alongside stand-in coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo, they will prove doubters wrong. Gor turned to Pamzo after their Brazillian coach, Roberto Oliveira, was barred by Caf from seating in the technical bench for lack of prerequisite qualifications under the new Caf rules. "Pamzo has been with us for two days now and he has brought in new ideas and tactics which the players have adapted to with ease. We will give our best and ensure we book a place in the next round," enthused Ochieng.