Harambee Stars winger Cliff Nyakeya wants the national team to aim for early goals when the play Comoros in their third 2022 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Stars will be seeking their first win in Group 'G' after identical one-all draws against Egypt and Togo. Nyakeya, who starred during Stars 2-1 win over Zambia in a build-up match played last month at the Nyayo Stadium, is anticipating a tough encounter against the group leaders. The pacy winger, who plies his trade with Egypt's FC Masr, believes early goals will be enough to guarantee Stars their first win in the group and enrich their chances of sealing a slot in the finals set for Cameroon. Nyakeya, who grabbed an assist when Stars picked a point against Egypt in Alexandria in the first qualifier played in November last year observed that the visitors are lethal upfront and cautioned the team against lapses in concentration. "Before the qualifiers began, Comoros were considered as the pool's underdogs but they have proved everyone wrong. They have international players who are capable of upsetting us at home," said Nyakeya. "We have to maintain high levels of concentration throughout the game, avoid simple mistakes and go for early goals. It will be a tough match considering that we are up against an opponent who is at the top of the pool and who has proved able to get points away," said the former Gor Mahia Youth player. Apart from going for early goals and staying vigilant, the former Mathare United player called on the team to leverage on home advantage. Nyakeya regretted that the team dropped points against Togo at home in the second qualifier match played last year and observed that a similar mistake would prove costly. "We have to make playing at home count and breath life to our hopes of qualifying for the finals. We dropped points against Togo and this time round we should not allow the visitors to leave with not even a point," he observed. "The team is in a better shape as opposed to when we played Zambia as the local-based players have had the opportunity to boost their fitness levels from the weeks they have trained together." Meanwhile,  Harambee Stars coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee has called up Zesco United attacker John Mark Makwata to camp to boost his options ahead of the crucial encounter.