Garissa health workers on Thursday resumed duties after their unions and the county government resolved outstanding issues of a return-to-work formula signed mid last month. Services in public health facilities had been paralysed for three days. The work resumption deal was reached at a meeting chaired by county secretary Abdi Ali and attended by Health and Sanitation chief officer Abdi Shukri and other senior officials. The workers were represented by Dr Hassan Abdi, the acting chairman of Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union. The meeting formed a team to supervise the implementation of the return-to-work formula. "On behalf of all the relevant unions I hereby call off the strike and ask our members to resume their duties immediately," Hassan said. Other county officials who attended the negotiations were Health executive Ahmednathir Omar, Finance chief officer Aden Harun, director of Health (administration) Abdullahi Daud, director of Family Health Mohamed Haret and deputy Health director Ibrahim Gedi. The county secretary had on Monday issued an ultimatum to the health workers to resume duties by Wednesday or find themselves jobless. According to him, the strike was illegal because the county "has complied with all terms of the return to work formula" signed last month. He ordered human resources officers to conduct head counts and give the feedback by close of the day (Wednesday) to the chief officer of Health for administrative action purposes. The health workers had early last month ended another strike after signing a return-to-work formula with Abdi and senior county officers. The agreement covered promotions, re-designation, NHIF medical cover, statutory deductions and prompt payment of salaries. The other issues sorted out were uniform allowances for nurses and leave allowance arrears to be paid in three-month staggered phases effective from January 2021. The agreement required the county government to start expediting promotions within 60 days. 