The Kenya National Union of Teachers has called on investigative agencies to audit and smoke out unscrupulous medical institutions infiltrating teachers' health cover. Secretary general Wilson Sossion said on Tuesday some institutions include in an benefitting from the scheme were lying about their prequalifications. He said some have been identified and axed from the scheme. Sossion addressed the Senate Education committee that tried to iron out teachers' grievances about the medical scheme. Complainants said some hospital staff had bogus medical credentials. In the future, Sossion proposed  involving law enforcement to deal with the problem. "Previously we have not taken any legal action on institutions found to be unscrupulous but we would like to invite the DCI moving forward so action is taken against these institutions that want to benefit from teachers without offering services," Sossion said. The scheme has over 500 medical registered institutions. "We  must ensure that before a service provider is empaneled it is always verified to be that which is approved and registered by the medical board," Sossion said. He said a number of institutions are withholding names to avoid retribution  for trying to benefit from the Sh9 billion cover offering unproven, unethical, and ineffective costly treatments to seriously ill patients. UNDERFUNDING While the teachers' medical scheme is touted as progressive, stakeholders poke many holes in it and say it's severely underfunded. Ideally, the scheme requires Sh15 billion to comfortably be implemented but Teachers Service Commission chief executive Nancy Macharia told Parliament on Tuesday that the scheme only received Sh9 billion. “Treasury CS told us to be clever and find a way to work with what we have,” Macharia said. Macharia was appearing before the Senate Committee on Education where she was answering questions medical cover. The cover is provided by AON Minet. The cover is valid for three years from 2019-2022. Likening the scheme to that of the Police Service that is allocated Sh5.5 billion for 130,000 members, Knut decries the funding gap noting that Sh9 billion is far too low for the now 350,000 teachers. Sossion also notes that teachers have sought more dependents be covered. In particular, Sossion said, “Children over the age of 21 and without jobs should be considered and benefit from the scheme." Currently, the medical cover is capped at six family members who include the principal member, one legal spouse and four children (Edited by V. Graham)