A video showing former Churchill Show comedian David Kagongo alias David the Student involved in an altercation with a racist white man as he was doing his job as a taxi driver in the United States of America has gone viral. David the student, who moved to the US in search of greener pastures, found himself a victim of racial discrimination and abuse by an elderly white man, who didn’t want to receive any instructions from a black man. From the video, David Kagongo picked up a couple from a hotel in his Lyft cab. Once inside the taxi, the white man removed his mask and David the student requested him to put it back on, and that is when all hell broke loose. The white man did not appreciate the instructions given by David, and so he refused to put his mask back on and started hurling insults at David. He referred to David the Student as a stupid n** and threatened to urinate inside his car. David the Student remained quiet while recording the entire incident. "For me, I was just thinking, get what exactly happened as they are going to flip this thing on me and make it look like I attacked them," he says. The video also shows the white man’s wife threatening to have David fired from the taxi company. After the video went viral, the white man has since been banned from ever using Lyft taxis, got fired from his job and was banned from going to the hotel which he was picked from. The white man has since apologised to David the Student, "I should have never said the things I said nor acted like a complete idiot. He didn’t deserve that. Nobody does," he said. "I had too much to drink and lost control of my tongue and I said horrible things that I truly regret. Watching the video was hard for me, it was if I didn’t recognise the person. "I let myself down, I let my friends and family down, I let my company down, I let our whole country down. I ask for forgiveness and mercy from literally everyone, especially David the driver, the Lyft community, my family and friends and our community."