A Kitui MCA who has denied stealing a county bulldozer worth Sh30 million risks losing his seat for allegedly missing county assembly sittings. Records at the Kitui county assembly indicate that speaker George Ndotto has tasked the house privileges committee to probe allegations that Matinyani MCA Sylvester Kitheka violated house rules by skipping eight consecutive sittings, thus putting his MCA seat in jeopardy. “I pass this matter to the house privileges committee that should investigate and return a verdict. If Kitheka broke the law, he should lose his seat as the law stipulates,” Ndotto said last week. However, Kitheka attributed his problems to his political nemesis. He said his rivals were working overtime to vanquish him politically. Kitheka, who belongs to Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu’s Narc party, said the allegation that he had skipped eight consecutive sittings was the height of political machinations aimed at unfairly ending his political career. “I have always been in the house and I have attended all these sessions that I have allegedly missed. But someone with an ulterior motive has expunged my attendance records to make it appear like I was away. It is malicious,” Kitheka said. The MCA and his personal assistant Bismark Kivindyo were in early November charged in a Kitui court over the theft of a county bulldozer worth Sh30 million. Kitui resident magistrate Felistus Nekesa released each of the accused on Sh2 million bail or bond in similar amount and surety also of similar amount after they denied the charge. They were accused of having stolen the earthmover on August 22 in Syombunga, Kitui West. The bulldozer was carrying out road works in Kitheka’s Matinyani ward when it disappeared in August. It was found in Ruiru, Kiambu, more than 100 kilometres away. Their lawyer, Morris Kimuli, argued that the charge was not justifiable as the county government of Kitui had not complained about his clients stealing the earthmover. Further, the lawyer maintained that the prosecution was a sinister political move by the MCA's enemies.