Before facing Manchester United, Istanbul Basaksehir had not scored a goal or claimed a point in the Champions League It was a goal that has been described as “never ever seen” before...for all the wrong reasons. The 35-year-old former Premier League striker Demba Ba could not believe his luck, being given the freedom of the city to run clear and score Istanbul Basaksehir’s first-ever Champions League goal. Edin Visca doubled the lead for the Turkish champions courtesy of further poor defending and although Anthony Martial pulled a goal back, Manchester United could not salvage a result and Basaksehir picked up their first win in the competition. But the opening goal was all that everyone was talking about. United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who is now under severe pressure, said: “The first one is that we play a short corner and forgot about the man up top. That is unforgivable.” How the first goal unfolded was utterly astounding. United had a corner which they played short and took their time getting into the box. The ball eventually dropped loose and allowed Visca to look up and punt a long pass upfield. With United’s defence deserting their duties, Ba had a one on one with goalkeeper Dean Henderson from the halfway line, before coolly rolling in. Former Manchester United midfielder Paul Scholes said on BT Sport: “It is completely down to organisation. It’s like under-10s football. Embarrassing. What the defence were doing I have no idea. “The goal is comical, laughable. That can only be a player’s fault — that’s not down to the staff or the coaches.” Former United defender Rio Ferdinand said: “You wouldn’t see this on Hackney Marshes. Where is the defending? There is zero organisation. Where is the person organising that? “I hope Ole is telling them they are embarrassing him. I hope he is very animated in the dressing room because those players need a rocket.” Ex-United striker Robin van Persie said: “I have never ever seen a goal conceded like it. Defensively it is so very poor.” Solskjaer added: “You don’t see goals like that at this level. You shouldn’t concede easy goals like that. When you concede goals like that it makes winning matches a lot harder. “We have not done our roles. It is my responsibility. A short corner and we forgot our defending duties.” United were humiliated 6-1 at home by Tottenham last month but recovered by winning three of the next four games, which included a draw against Chelsea. But after Sunday’s poor showing in the 1-0 home defeat by Arsenal and another abject performance in Istanbul, the pressure is on Solskjaer. United have not won any of their past six at home in the Premier League, while defeat by Basaksehir ended a run of 10 straight wins on the road. Van Persie said he is not a “big fan of sacking coaches”, while ex-United midfielder Owen Hargreaves called Saturday’s league fixture against Everton a “huge game”. Asked if he fears for his job, Solskjaer said: “I decline to comment on such a thing. It is early on. Opinions are there all the time. We have to stay strong. “I am employed by the club to do a job and I’m doing that to the best of my ability with my staff.” After the game, “#OleOut”, the phrase “lose to Everton”, and “Poch” - in reference to former Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino - were all trending on social media.