The Health Cabinet Secretary is on record saying Afya House is a corruption den. Despite the Ethics and Anti-Corruption swinging into action every time a scandal is reported, nothing has come of it. It is time the EACC proved its worth by giving us results on corruption investigations, and not just at Afya House but also in the counties as far as Covid-19 money is concerned. There are reports that some counties diverted the money to unrelated expenditures while in other instances county officials pocketed the funds. President Uhuru Kenyatta was categorical that the culprits behind the Kemsa heist should be investigated and prosecuted within a certain time frame. To date, the investigations seem to be far from over. What is going on? Are there forces trying to delay or frustrate the investigations? Kenyans are eager to know the culprits and see action taken against them. The delay is the reason why Kenyans are unable to get personal protective equipment as they are subject of the ongoing probe. I urge the EACC to expedite the investigations so Kenyans, especially medical personnel, can be issued with the kits. During our parliamentary investigation at the committee level, we found glaring issues. Kemsa management went on a shopping spree without approval by the board. In other instances, there was no budget yet the management went ahead to commit. In other cases, it disregarded advisories from other departments. We also found out that some companies registered shortly after the coronavirus was confirmed in Kenya were beneficiaries of the proceeds. Tenders were dished out without following the laid down procedure. It is therefore saddening that months later, the EACC is yet to make any breakthrough. For Kenyans to have faith in the war on corruption, the EACC must act swiftly and forward the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions for action. And where the EACC, after investigations, sees there is no question to answer, it should not shy away from closing the matter and letting Kenyans know. There is no harm in that too. The Cherangany MP, who is also vice chairman of the National Assembly Health Committee, spoke to the Star