Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said he will not go home after his second and final term as county chief ends in 2022. He said he is in talks with key political leaders and will fight elsewhere in the national leadership. He did not specify which seat he would seek. Oparanya said he is close to president Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto and when the time comes, one of them will go forward and 'others will get something'. "My time to serve as governor is ending in 2022. I have decided that I will not go home but fight on in national politics. I don't know which one, but I will be at the table so that if one is going for the top seat, you get another," he said. Oparanya spoke on Saturday at Shiatsala Primary School in Butere constituency during the funeral service of retired director of technical education Norman Wambayi. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima, Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyinga and Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi were present. Oparanya had earlier declared he would run for the presidency in 2022 but in September he said he was ready for any position he would be offered in the next government. He said that having served as Council of Governors chairman, he has a wide network which he intends to use in his pursuit for national leadership. Oparanya said the suspended collection of signatures for the BBI referendum will resume in two weeks. He said the drive was suspended last Thursday to allow changes in the BBI report. Wangamati and Osotsi said the BBI will strengthen devolution by increasing the disbursement of funds to counties and the establishment of the Ward Development Fund. He admitted that the BBI could be having some grey areas but everything cannot be perfect. Wangamati asked Western residents to support the BBI based on the benefits the region would receive but failed to name them. Osotsi asked the government to step up the fight against the spread of the Covid-19. 