The Parliament buildings on Thursday was a beehive of activity as military personnel and the police took over preparations ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta's State Of The Nation Address at 2.30 pm. The area around Parliament was cordoned off as security officials made last-minute preparations of the annual event. The President is expected to address a joint sitting of the Senate and the National Assembly to highlight the achievements of his administration over the past year. The Address is in accordance with Article 132 of the Constitution, which mandates the President to report on measures taken and progress achieved in the realization of the National values set in the Article,  as well as the progress made in fulfilling International Obligations. PHOTOS BY EZEKIEL AMINGA Among the issues likely to feature in the President's address include the recently launched Building Bridges Initiative, the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged the nation as well as Uhuru's graft war. According to Thursday's Order Paper, the session will kick off with prayers from the Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka. Lusaka and his National Assembly counterpart Justin Muturi will make brief remarks before inviting the Head of State to make his address. The address normally takes place during the first quarter of the year but this year's event was scuttled by the Covid-19 crisis that forced restrictions on movement and public gatherings. PHOTOS BY EZEKIEL AMINGA Owing to the Covid-19 situation, only 114 lawmakers from both the Senate and the National Assembly will be allowed in the chamber for the address. The rest will follow proceedings from various designated areas. “According to the health protocols, 114 members will be accommodated in the main chamber. The rest will sit in the Senate chamber and other designated areas,” National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai told the Star on Tuesday. Of those to sit in the main chamber, 88 seats will be for the National Assembly members and 26 to senators on a first-come-first-served basis. Uhuru will also take the opportunity to unveil the Kiswahili version of the National Assembly Standing Orders. The Kiswahili standing orders are expected to enable the National Assembly to conduct business in the national language on specified days. PHOTOS BY EZEKIEL AMINGA Speaker Justin Muturi has proposed that members transact in Kiswahili during the Thursday evening sittings.  PHOTOS BY EZEKIEL AMINGA