Pregnant women who contract Covid-19 are at high risk of giving birth to preterm babies or miscarriage, researchers have found. The study published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Monday also shows pregnant women could suffer sever Covid-19 complications. The study found that among 3,912 live births with known gestational age, 12.9 per cent were preterm. This is higher than the 10.2 reported in the general US population in 2019. The data on pregnancy and infant outcomes was collected from 5,252 women with laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 between March 29 and October 14. “Among 610 infants (21.3 per cent) with reported SARS-CoV-2 test results, the perinatal infection was infrequent (2.6 per cent) and occurred primarily among infants whose mother has SARS-CoV-2 infection identified within one week of delivery,” the study says. The researchers urged pregnant women and their families to wear masks, maintain a social distance and regularly wash hands when going out. The study also calls on pregnant women stay up to date with annual influenza vaccinations and attend prenatal care appointments. “These data can help to inform and counsel persons who acquire Covid-19 during pregnancy about the potential risk to their pregnancy and infants. The study, however, notes that the risks associated with infection early in pregnancy and long term infant outcomes remain unclear. The women were aged above 28 years, with at least one underlying medical condition having been reported in 1,564 of them. Pregnancy obesity was the most commonly reported at 35.1 per cent while 84.4 per cent of women had infection identified in the third trimester (based on the date of the first positive test result or symptom onset). According to the study, out of 16 infants who tested positive, eight were born preterm (26 to 35 weeks) and all were admitted to the newborn intensive care unit. Among the other eight preterm babies, one was admitted for fever and receipt of supplemental oxygen, one had no information on NICU admission while the remaining six were not admitted to NICU. “These findings also support the growing evidence that although severe Covid-19 does occur in neonates, the majority of term neonates experience asymptomatic infection or mild disease, however, information on long term outcomes among exposed infants is unknown,” it states. The study recommends testing for all infants born to mothers with suspected or confirmed Covid-19.