The Kirinyaga county government has trained 250 officials on budgeting, Ifmis use and management in an effort to serve residents better. Governor Anne Waiguru said 142 officers, including ward reps, county executives, chief officers and directors were trained on budgeting. Another 68 senior county officials received training on the Integrated Financial Management Information System, public procurement, financial accounting recording and reporting. These skills will ensure proper public financial management and good governance practices, Waiguru said. Some 28 officers were taken through human resource plans which include succession plans and skills and competence framework. Fifteen officials were gazetted as environmental auditors after training on environmental impact assessment. The three-year initiative was organised through the Kenya Devolution Support Programme. KDSP is a four-year programme financed by the World Bank to offer technical assistance to counties and strengthen devolution. Officials have also been trained on result-based monitoring and evaluation, civic education and public participation. Waiguru said the training programme has been part of her administration’s efforts to address past failures. “The training has gone a long way in enabling the county government run in a more transparent, accountable and effective manner and we are keen on ensuring that our staff are well-equipped with knowledge and skills for effective public service delivery,” Waiguru said. The governor said the county has won awards for prudent public service management in the last three years. In 2019, Kirinyaga emerged among the top seven best counties in World Bank’s Kenya Urban Support Program audit for their use of grants. The Kenya Revenue Authority also recognised Kirinyaga for being the best county in tax compliance in 2018-2019. The county timely and fully remitted taxes collected in the financial year. Similarly, the Public Procurement Regulations Authority ranked Kirinyaga third in procurement regulations compliance in their 2017-2018 report. Waiguru said the ranking was the result of strict adherence to transparency, integrity, accountability, fairness and competitiveness in procurement.  (edited by o. owino)