What next after the unveiling of the Building Bridges Initiative report? It appears the document is the new political battleground, sharply dividing the country’s political class. Since its launch last week, two camps have emerged – one pushing for its amendment and the other for its retention as it is. While President Uhuru Kenyatta's and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies are leading calls for the passage of the document without changes, those of Deputy President William Ruto are for its amendment. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is on the same side with Ruto, calling for amendments before referendum. Uhuru and Raila are expected to grace MPs and senators retreat in Naivasha convened to prepare the way forward for the BBI. In Naivasha, National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya downplayed claims of locking out of Ruto allies, saying the meeting is inclusive. “This is a consultative meeting meant to fine-tune the recommendations of the BBI task force and all parties have been involved. “This is just one of the many meetings that we are going to hold and we shall definitely invite all the parties,” he said. But Ruto on Sunday said space should be created for a decent informative debate on BBI. He told congregants at PCEA Munyange Parish in Othaya, Nyeri, on Sunday: "We don't want competition but agreement. We want unity and not division. We must discourage us versus them situation on the BBI report." He urged leaders to stop using BBI as an avenue to divide Kenyans. "I want to ask leaders to engage in sober and decent debate to unite the country," he said. Both Ruto and Mudavadi say the contentious sections of the BBI report a derogation of constitutional gains which must be relooked. The ANC leader on Sunday reiterated the need for politicians to tone down their political rhetoric on the BBI. He said the heightened debate on the report might end up dividing the country and noted that the issues being raised by the advocates for its improvement are genuine and can be resolved. He took a swipe at politicians taking a hard stance on the document that there is no more window for negotiations. “The BBI report is not cast in stone. It is not like the 10 commandments which cannot be changed. The issues raised can be resolved within a very short time by a team of experts,” the ANC leader said. Mudavadi was speaking during a Salvation Army church service in Ngong. He called on President Kenyatta to consider opening a window for further consultations. The standoff appeared to have escalated after pro-Uhuru and Raila MPs rejected any attempts to amend BBI, claiming the process will be derailed. The lawmakers have announced plans to start the collection of signatures, an indication that they are not keen on amending the report as per the wishes of some leaders. Led by nominated MP Maina Kamanda, the lawmakers cautioned against allowing further amendments insisting the window of entertaining views is closed. Kamanda said they will start collecting the required one million signatures from today to kick-start the process. "From Monday we shall start collecting signatures for BBI. I am sure in Nairobi alone we can collect up to one million signatures required," he said. Ruto said politicians should allow Kenyans to vet the BBI document and identify the proposals omitted by the steering committee during their public forums. He was accompanied by Senator Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), Woman Rep Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi), MPs Kareke Mbiuki (Maara), Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri), Patrick Munene (Chuka), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Faith Gitau (Nyandarua). Also present were Kanyuithia Mutunga (Tigania West), Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Gichangi Mugambi (Othaya), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), James Wamacukuru (Kabete), Rahab Mukami (Nyeri), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes) and Rehema Hassan (Tana River). Kindiki claimed the BBI report will only be backed if it has robust proposals for pulling the poor out of poverty. "We will oppose the BBI report if it does not include minimum guaranteed returns for our cash crops. We will also oppose it if it does not bring equality in the country," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Kuria and Mbiuki, who said the report should have allocated more resources to agricultural programmes that will guarantee decent incomes for farmers. "The one thing Kenyans want is guaranteed minimum returns for their products,"  Mbiuki said. Nyoro asked why the organisers of BBI did not involve all leaders in the ongoing talks in Naivasha. He said the organisers excluded those with divergent views especially on matters touching on agriculture. "We want to tell them that if BBI was meant to unite Kenyans then all leaders should have been invited," he added. Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, who was with Kamanda during a church service at Kabete's Friends Church Quakers, called on Kenyans to support BBI and ignore those traversing the country giving misleading information on the contents of document. With them were MPs Anthony Oluoch (Mathare), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu), George Aladwa (Makadara), Yusuf Hassan (Kamakunji), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Esther Passaris (Nairobi Woman Rep), TJ Kajwang (Ruaraka), Julius Mawathe (Embakasi South), Charles Kanyi (Starehe) and Bernard Okoth (Kibra). “We are here as a team preaching BBI. Don’t listen to a lot of propaganda being peddled against the report,” Odhiambo said. “BBI will sail through with or without his (Ruto’s) support,” added Wanyonyi. In Naivasha,  Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny ruled out the amendment of the document, saying that Kenyans had ample time to give their recommendations. He noted that the window of opportunity to air or add input had been overtaken by time, noting that the only way forward was fine-tuning the current document. “The country had over two years to present views but the majority of those making noise failed to add their input,” he said. - mwaniki fm