@robertomollo3 The Homa Bay government has bought carpentry machines worth Sh2.8 million to facilitate local production of school desks by those awarded the tender. The national government allocated Sh50 million for making 8,490 desks for secondary and primary schools in the county. Of the number, 7,650 are for secondary schools and the rest for primary. The project is aimed at enabling pupils to keep social distance when schools reopen fully next year to avoid the spread of Covid-19. It targets 153 secondary schools and 120 primary schools in the county. The county government purchased the machines for carpenters who successfully applied for the tender but they will only use them for the project. The carpenters lacked necessary tools and were unable to fast-track production and ensure efficiency. The machines include 10 sets of a-multi-user wood machine. Speaking while handing the machines on Thursday, Homa Bay county secretary Isaiah Ogwe and Homa Bay subcounty deputy county commissioner Jude Wesonga said each machine can perform 15 functions, including bending, smoothening, joinery, molding and carving. Ogwe said they bought the machines after Governor Cyprian Awiti promised to help the carpenters get the tender. The national government had warned of withdrawing the tender if beneficiaries failed to deliver the desks within the stipulated time. "The government had said it would give the tender to people outside Homa Bay because of lack of the machinery. The machines would enable them to do the work and get the money,” Ogwe said. The machines have been distributed to 10 vocational training centres across eight subcounties from where the carpenters will use them. The centres are Homa Bay, Sero, Sila-Mbani, Ndiru, Waondo, Nyang’iela, Sindo, Nyandiwa, Omiro and Paul Mboya. “The institutions will also use the machines for training students after the desks are made,” Ogwe added. Wesonga expressed optimism that the machines will facilitate delivery of the furniture. “The purchase of the machinery is a commendable move. Let the carpenters now do quality work and deliver the desks,” he said, urging the institutions to safeguard the equipment. “We expect the VTCs to take care of the machines. They can liaise with us in case of any security issue."