Health workers have urged  the government to reintroduce movement restrictions within counties and ban gatherings because of the second major wave of Covid-19 infections. To break community transmission, the medics want restrictions on bars, restaurants and clubs, especially those violating guidelines. Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Kisumu, Bungoma, Turkana, Busia, Trans Nzoia and Kajiado counties have recorded exponential rises in infections following the easing of Covid-19 restrictions on September 27. The medics want the government to ban all large gatherings, including political rallies, for at least 30 days. The medics are alarmed that the the gains made to contain the pandemic are being reversed during high-contact gatherings. “There is a notable increase in patients with more severe symptoms with a significant increase in the proportion of patients requiring oxygen support and critical care,” Kenya Medical Association president Dr Andrew Were said. “Of more concern is that political leaders who should be leading by example have blatantly defied the Ministry of Health’s guidelines on Covid-19. An increase in cases in several counties has been linked to political rallies, which have proven to be super-spreader events.” The association said 1,665 health workers have been exposed to the virus due to inadequate personal protective equipment and little to no training on Covid-19 case management. More than 17 have lost their lives, the latest being Dr Daniel Alushula, a senior orthopaedic surgeon in Kakamega.  Many others are fighting for their lives in hospitals across the country. The high numbers of infected healthcare workers have increased the workload and a high incidence of burnout, mental and physical exhaustion. “The association said counties have not fulfilled the Health ministry directives on the ratio of health workers to patients and will soon be unable to handle the health burden of the  the pandemic and the other medical needs,” the medics said. Similarly, they said that the Covid-19 health workers' compensation package approved by Cabinet in April is yet to be effected. Many frontline workers do not have a proper medical cover despite their commitment to saving lives, Were said. “The incentive to care for patients is slowly dwindling as health workers explore other opportunities. The time to act to improve health worker conditions and curb community transmission is now. Any delay will result in more expensive interventions in future and longer time to build back better.” They also want the county governments to improve access to Covid-19 testing and equip health facilities to accommodate and care for Covid-19 patients. A coordinated approach to testing, contact tracing and surveillance of Covid-19 infections should also be adopted, they said. “The government should ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 preventive measures in our schools by linking them to healthcare service," the medics said On Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta extended curfew hours to start from 10pm to 4am, banned political rallies and restricted church gatherings in renewed measures to contain the virus. Bars and restaurants will close by 9pm as a result of the extended curfew. (Edited by V. Graham)