A 49-year-old woman who only bore daughters has been left homeless following a land dispute in Olchorro, Narok county. Widow Nalamai Ene Sayaya said she and her daughters were forced out of her matrimonial home in a family dispute over 88 acres. Then, in October, they were forced out again - this time from a mud house built for her by the county. She said she inherited the land from her husband, Kintil Ole Sayay, who died in 2002. She was the youngest of his four wives. “We can no longer access our home. I depend on well-wishers for food, shelter and clothing,"  Nalamai told the Star on November 18. "My five school-going daughters are scattered, taken in by others.  Three other daughters are married," she said. Nalamai said she lived with her husband for more than 30 years. She said she was chased away from a mud house built for her by Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya, while he was Narok county commissioner in 2019. She claims she was evicted by a stepson, Kapolondo Ole Sayaya. He denies mistreating and threatening her. He told the Star on Monday she is running around, trying to get land that doesn't belong to her. Kapolondo on Monday downplayed claims of his arrest, saying he had never been taken to court and had never 'compromised' police. He told the Star, "The disputed parcel is No 432, hers is 431. She doesn't know her land. She processed the land's title deed and we put an objection on 432." Kapolondo said the woman and some elders misinformed former county commissioner Natembeya to settle the widow on the land after building her a house. Nalamai said her efforts to seek justice for her and her daughters have been futile as they cannot return to the mud house. She blamed Narok police officers for failing to ensure arraignment. She said Kapolondo had been arrested several times. Her matrimonial house had been demolished in 2018 before Natembeya's intervention, she said. She reported filing several complaints at the police station, the latest 'threatening' incident occurring on November 5. It was filed as OB 19/05/11/2020 at 10.10am. Narok county commissioner Evans Achoki said on Monday he was aware of the widow’s problem and said her case was being handled by authorities. “The case is ongoing, investigations will soon be finalised. Her file is with the DPP, the perpetrators will face the law,” Achoki told the Star on the phone. He said due process will be followed, adding that a "decisive decision" had been made. “This is a family dispute on matters of succession. Decisive action has been taken and I have even correspondence to that effect,” he said. Nalamai was the youngest of Kintil's four wives. They had eight daughters, no sons. “The stepson started threatening and intimidating me in 2016 after my husband died in 2002. He demanded I move out of my matrimonial home with my daughters since I never sired any boy. I hold the disputed land's title deed,” Nalamai told the Star. The title deed seen by the Star is Narok/CIS-MARA/OLCHORO/432, about 32.79 hectares (81 acres). It was issued to  Kintil Ole Sayaya and Nalamai Ene Sayaya by the Narok District Land Registry in February 1995. Nalamai's stepson Jackson Sayaya - the eldest son of the second wife - said their father subdivided the land among all four wives, including Nalamai. "My late father divided land to all of us and our mothers, including this youngest one [Nalamai]," Jackson said. Elders said the woman was being mistreated by her family simply because she didn't bear a son. [Ed: The sex of a child is determined by the father, contributing an X or Y chromosome.] “The man started disturbing the woman in 2016. We as elders struggled with him to leave the woman alone for three years but in the fourth year, county commissioner George Natembeya built her a house and left her settled on the land,” elder Samwel Kenga said. Kenga said problems erupted again when Natembeya was transferred to Nakuru after he was promoted to Rift Valley regional commissioner. He said the stepson had never been taken to court despite being arrested several times. “The woman attempted to sell some crops on her farm after wheat was harvested to earn a living but the man chased away the people who were doing the job," elder Kenga said. A herd of cattle was grazing on the land when the Star visited last week. Nalamai claimed her stepson collects Sh30,000 from owners of the livestock every three months. “We are wondering why he has never been arraigned. We want justice, the widow is being taken round. She has nothing. None of her property can be accessed by her," Kenga said. (Edited by V. Graham)