Senators have attacked some governors for allegedly triggering inter-county boundary disputes for political gain ahead of the 2022 General Election. The lawmakers claimed at least 14 county bosses have become expansionists, triggering disputes that have led to loss of lives and property. The senators were reacting to petitions filed in the House by residents of various counties seeking the Senate’s intervention to resolve the conflicts. Among those censored is Kisumu’s Anyang’ Nyong’o over his administration's handling of boundary disputes with Nandi, Vihiga and Kericho counties. Mohammed Abdi (Wajir), Ali Korane (Garissa), Moses Lenokulal (Samburu), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Mohammed Kuti (Isiolo), Nderitu Muriithi (Laikipia) and Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta) were also criticised. Others are Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and James Nyoro (Kiambu), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Ali Roba (Mandera) and Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado). “If you look around the country, you will see some flashpoints between Makueni and Taita Taveta, Taita Taveta and Kwale, Isiolo and Meru, Vihiga and Kisumu, Kisumu and Nandi and Kisumu and Kericho,” Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said. “It is quite unfortunate that in the boundary problems around Kisumu, Kisumu county appears to be the common denominator with Nandi, Vihiga and Kericho. Fortunately, the other side has the lake and so there will be no issue”. “We also have a problem between the boundary of Narok and Migori. We have land which has been adjudicated; the land is in Narok county but its administration is in Migori county,” Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina said. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot asked the House to keep in check governors who, having failed in their core duties, are excited to reawaken their political careers by engaging in emotive issues like land. “The governor of Kisumu wants to engage himself in these unfortunate disputes at a difficult time in our country with all the challenges that we are having,” Cheruiyot said. He said Muhoroni sits on the boundary of Kericho and Kisumu counties and the people who live there are from the Luo community but are the residents of Kericho county. “In the last two months, we have lost more than five Kenyans because of border conflicts that should never have arisen if the county government of Kisumu had not engaged itself in these kinds of atrocious activities,” he said. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said a quick solution must be found to resolve all the land issues as people are crying and dying day in day out because of disputes over boundaries. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri noted that the expansionist attitude that some county chiefs had developed was very dangerous. “We just want to urge him to stop, because issues to do with county boundaries are very emotive. They can be the cause of very serious conflicts between communities, and we do not want to get there,” Khaniri said. “I am told that there are about 16 cases. Surprisingly, out of those 16 cases, five involve Kisumu,” he said. Bomet Senator Christopher Langat said issues to do with post-election violence have always been triggered by disputes on election matters but the underlying issues are always about land. “We need to handle this issue on land. We would like to tell Governor Nyong’o that the time for struggling and partitioning land happened a long time ago in the Berlin Conference of 1884," he said. "At this point of time, he should not engage himself in such primitive ways of trying to expand boundaries. Land disputes can easily trigger other matters,” Langat said.