The National Olympic Committee-Kenya has appealed to the government to waive duty on sports equipment that have been donated by various international federations to different sports disciplines in the country. Acting secretary general Francis Mutuku says a policy change waiving the duty would enable various sportspersons in the country improve on their performances by utilising modern equipment. "We are engaging the government for a policy change if need be, that the law may be revised to allow the respective federations immediately they receive equipment rather than being stuck at the port. These donations from international federations are one short cut of getting modern sports equipment in Kenya," Mutuku said. Even as NOC-K dialogues with the government, they have already set aside a special fund to assist federations to pay duty on any equipment that arrives at the port. "While we are seeking the policy change, we have set aside Sh150,000 every year for each federation. If an international federation provides a piece of equipment, this money will help such federations clear the goods quickly when they arrive in the country," he said. Rowing and shooting are some of the disciplines that have benefited from modern equipment donated by their respective international federations whereas modern wrestling equipment is set to arrive in the country in the next two months. "There are already boats donated for rowers in the country but because of duty, the rowers are yet to access them. However, we understand that this is the law that has been stipulated by the Treasury," Anthony Kariuki, NOC-K treasurer, said. The two were speaking at the conclusion of NOC-K's Ordinary Session of the General Assembly in Nairobi. The assembly brought together different member federations of NOC-K to chart the way forward while taking stock of 2020. During the assembly, members were enlightened on the strides made by NOC-K in purchasing modern sports equipment for different federations. "We want to move a notch higher in sports infrastructure. We have bought equipment for badminton and are in the process of purchasing modern scoring equipment for taekwondo. We will also purchase more sports equipment in the coming year to ensure that our sportspersons are at par with international standards," Mutuku said. The committee will further establish a sports science centre at Moi Stadium, Kasarani after concluding discussions with various stakeholders. The centre will provide crucial data on sportspersons' fitness and performance in addition to treating injuries through proper nutrition and sports science.