Lamu boat operators are urging the national government to exempt them from  Covid-19 spacing regulations so they can carry more passengers and stay afloat. They are particularly concerned about the passenger limit directive that has resulted in huge losses they are barely able to recover, and high fuelling charges. In March the national government ordered passenger spacing on all vessels and PSVs to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It applies to boats on Lamu Island and the entire archipelago, where most transport is by sea. The spacing directive has been in force for eight months, greatly reducing total fares. A typical speed boat with a capacity of nine is required to carry only five passengers, wearing masks, to ensure social distancing. Larger boats with a capacity of 90 now are only allowed to carry 40 passengers. Speaking during a small demonstration on Lamu Island on Thursday, boat operators asked the government to allow them to carry the normal capacity, provided they comply with other safety precautions. Coxswain Ali Abdulla says they are unable to even fuel their vessels and they don't make enough profit. “Normally, you refuel after you have recovered enough money so at the end of the day you also have something to give your family," he said. "Fuelling is a struggle. Let them allow us to carry the full limit." Boat operator Yusuf Omar complained that the Covid-19 period has seen a decrease in the number of tourists who are their main clients. “The number of travellers has greatly reduced because people are scared of moving around during the pandemic. We are not making any money at all with the reduced capacity directive. Let them save our livelihoods and allow us to carry full capacity,” he said. Lamu Boat Operators Association chairperson Awadh Hassan urged the operators to be calm and termed their push to carry normal capacity a "suicide mission". He said the fact that the Covid-19 cases are still rising is reason enough to warrant the extension of the reduced capacity directive to save lives. Hassan said many boat operators are unable to effectively keep up with the Covid-19 safety regulations including purchasing sanitiser for their passengers as they are barely making enough money. He appealed to the national and county governments to intervene and give them free masks and sanitiser to help them guarantee the safety of passengers. “It’s very unwise to ask that the normal passenger limit be restored at a time when the cases keep soaring. We have to survive and make money, yes, but we also need to be alive to do it,” Hassan said. "Let's all exercise patience and pray for better times so that all goes back to normal." (Edited by V. Graham)