 The Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital has been overstretched and overburdened by patients from the neighbouring counties. Embu North deputy county commissioner Jeremia Tumo said facilities at the hospital can no longer serve the huge number of patients seeking services at the hospital. He said the hospital requires support from outside the county if it is to serve the growing number of patients in the region. Tumo spoke when he represented Embu county commissioner Abdulahi Galgalo at a consultative forum for the revision of Population Policy for National Development. The event was presided over by the director-general of the National Council for Population Mohammed Sheik Mohammed at Izaak Walton Inn in Embu town. Tumo said the county is facing challenged that need to be factored in the revision of the population policy. He cited drug abuse, unemployment and rural-urban migration. The administrator said agricultural sectors like tea, coffee and dairy farming ought to be enhanced to create more jobs. The National Council for Population is seeking views from stakeholders from all the 47 counties on the revision of Population Policy for National Development which is done after every 10 years. Mohammed said they had invited stakeholders from both national and county governments departments, NGOs , community-based organisations and other institutions to give their views. He said Kenya had not adopted devolution when the last review was done and that it was important for counties to give their input. Mohammed said population is affected by birth, mortality, morbidity and migrations and that the forum in Embu was to find out the key issues that affect population trends in the county. He said the exercise started last month and will continuing throughout November before the team retreats to write a document that will be presented at a leaders conference in March next year. The revised policy is expected to be launched by June next year. Mohammed said 39 perc ent of Kenya’s population are youths aged below 25, a fact he said was posing a lot of challenges for the government to ensure there are necessary infrastructure in place for the creation of jobs, good healthcare and education for all. 