Do not count your chickens until they hatch, the saying goes. However, it seems a powerful and wealthy man known to pull strings in  President Uhuru Kenyatta's (pictured) administration is already lobbying for the position of Prime Minister likely to be created by a proposed referendum. So upbeat is the man that he has pledged to use some family resources to finance the referendum. With his immense resources and power, the man is said to be the one pushing the hardline position that no amendments to the BBI report should be allowed. *** A governor is in pain after he followed via phone how  Covid-19 took the life of a loyal supporter. The governor confided in one of his lieutenants that he is haunted and humiliated by the death and now fears setting foot in the county. The governor, who got a distress call to help the official access an ICU bed for oxygen got worked up and in the confusion placed frantic calls to the Health CEC and head of nursing to no avail. There was no equipment or trained personnel to handle the emergency. Painstakingly, the Health chief told his boss he could do very little as there was no equipped ICU bed in the so-called referral hospital. The patient passed away on a couch without requisite assistance. *** They say "Whom the gods want to destroy, they first drive mad." A PS notorious for micromanaging a coastal agency has lost focus entirely and appears to be on the path to destruction. A little bird whispers to Corridors the PS recently gate-crashed the taking-over ceremony for the agency’s new boss and exchanged bitter words with the outgoing chief, to the dismay of guests. At the same time an audit report has found the PS culpable of illegally demanding the agency foot all his travel expenses . The little bird says the PS spent a night at the agency overseeing destruction of any incriminating evidence that was to be handed over to a Parliamentary committee. *** Power reveals character. This adage played out on Friday last week during the unveiling of the UN-Nairobi Hospital treatment facility by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Traditionally, the press is the Fourth Estate as they serve as an external watchdog over government and enforce checks and balances. This was ignored by operatives for State House, who showed the press utter disrespect and behaved scandalously. An operative mistreated the press to the extent of telling them they "can go and write what they want.” It took the intervention of a not-so-senior officer to facilitate access, ignoring his colleague who was obviously drunk with power.