The fallen Senior Council Philip Nzamba Kitonga will be laid to rest on Saturday at his home in Mutitu Wa - Ndooa, Kitui County. A requiem mass for Nzamba was held on Thursday at the Holy Family Basilica, Nairobi. Nzamba, the man who has been eulogized as a remarkable man who accomplished a great deal in his lifetime died at the age of 64. His body will depart from the Wilson Airport at 7.30am, and expected to arrive at Mutito Wa - Ndooa, by 9.30am. At 10am, the convoy will arrive at home, where a prayer service for family members only will be held and a requiem mass will be held at Mutito Primary School by 10.30. The speeches will be from the family, Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East MP), Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Nzamba served the Bench and the Bar effectively, enthusiastically, and with distinction and dedicated himself to building our nation and her institutions. He was born on April 10, 1956, in Mombasa, and was the 5th in a family of twelve. Nzamba started his academic journey in Mombasa at Buxton Primary School and moved to Kitui Seminary after eight years for his secondary education. It was at this time; he grounded his faith in the Catholic religion. Having passed well he proceeded to Kangaru High School for A level. Two years later he joined the University of Nairobi. Nzamba achieved many firsts in his legal profession. After a two-year stint at K. Mwaura and Company in Nairobi and Ndeto Mututo Advocates in Kitui, he established his own legal practice in 1981 at twenty-five years of age. Two years later, 1983, he expanded his footprint into Mombasa and a further six years later he founded the head office in Nairobi. He grew his firm with tenacity, hard work, and faith. In 2002, Nzamba became a Member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. The following year (2003) he was appointed Senior Counsel of the Republic of Kenya and obtained an International Criminal Law Practice conferment from The Hague, Netherlands. He was inducted into The Roll of Honor of Advocates by the Law Society of Kenya in 2004. In 2001, Nzamba Kitonga convened the East African Legal Conference on Inland Waters, Marine and Shipping Laws. He was the Chief de Mission of the Investigative Task Force on Human Rights, 6 Electoral Violence, and Discontent in Zanzibar from 2001 to 2002. He was also the Chief de Mission of The East African N.G.O. delegation to the United Nations World Conference on Racism held in Durban, South Africa in 2002. He was the Vice - Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry into the Goldenberg Affair from 2003 to 2005. From 2009 – 2010, Nzamba served as The Chairman of the Committee of Experts on Constitutional Review Process culminating in the promulgation of Kenya’s New Constitution of 27th August 2010. At the time of his death, Nzamba was the current UN monitor to the genocide trials in Rwanda. He was an L.L.M student on International Criminal Law at Tanzania Open University. He was also on the International Criminal Court Counsel list. Nzamba survived by four children, James Ivia Kitonga, Mary Mwathi Kitonga, Kavengi Kitonga and Eve Mukami Kitonga and his partner Carol Mbuvi.