AFC Leopards team manager Tom Juma says the return of Kenyan international Duncan Otieno to the club will inject vigour in their quest to muscle up for the league title in the new season. Otieno returned to the den yesterday after spending the past two years with Zambian champions Nkana. The holding midfielder, who penned a two-year long contract, served as Leopards' skipper before departing for greener pastures in Kitwe, Zambia. "AFC Leopards have always been my home. It feels good to be back," said the former Posta Rangers' player moments after his unveiling. Juma, who bragged that Ingwe had the best midfielders in the league, said the club will heavily rely on Otieno's experience and exposure gained from playing international matches to end their more than two-decade long league title drought. Juma, a defensive midfielder during his active years, added that Otieno who was part of Harambee Stars team that claimed the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge, would also bring leadership in the playing unit but ruled out the possibility of handing him the armband. The club elevated their central defender Robinson Kamura to the rank of skipper when Otieno decamped to Nkana. "I think with the arrival of Otieno, I can conclude that we have the best midfielders in the league.Our target has always been winning the league and Otieno will play a massive role if we are to achieve that. He brings maturity in the squad and I expect him and other senior players to help us deliver this time round," said Juma. In the meantime, Juma admitted that the return of Otieno had handed the technical bench a selection headache in the defensive midfield department. Otieno is expected to battle for playing time with  the Stars' duo of Said Tsuma and the fast-rising Collins Sichenje. "Every coach wants to have options in all departments and in our case, it will be difficult to determine who will start. "We have Tsuma and Sichenje who have successfully filled Otieno's shoes while he was away in Zambia. "Now that he is back,the coaches will scratch their heads on who will be preferred to start. "However, it is important to have depth since we have the league matches and Shield Cup to fight for," he added