The Kenya Revenue Authority has launched a web-based anonymous reporting solution called iWhistle. The virtual function was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The platform will enable the public to anonymously report and provide tax crime leads. Its launch was one of the highlights at the annual KRA Taxpayers’ Day celebrations. The online reporting solution will be accessed through the web link https://iwhistle.kra.go.ke. According to KRA commissioner general Githii Mguru, credible information tips received on the platform and leading to the collection of revenue on tax fraud or tax evasion schemes will receive cash rewards of up to Sh2 million per case as stipulated by law (KRA Act cap 469 chapter 5A). Tax evasion and other economic crimes impede effective mobilisation of domestic financial resources required for national development. The iWhistle solution has been developed as part of KRA’s efforts to curb revenue leakages through various tax evasion schemes. The schemes include failure by taxpayers to pay Customs Duty, tax fraud, failure by a taxpayer to submit tax returns by the due date, concealment, misdeclaration, smuggling of goods and manufacturing of counterfeit goods, amongst others. KRA has over the years undertaken various measures to enforce and inculcate a taxpaying culture. These include initiatives such as the implementation of the Alternative Dispute Resolution, mechanisms such as tax tribunal, enhanced litigation (court process), agreed payment plans and engagements with taxpayers through various educational programmes. Other initiatives include the automation of business processes such as iTax, Integrated Customs Management System, Excise Goods Management System and Regional Electronic Goods Tracking System. These are aimed at minimising human contact which can lead to comprising circumstances between taxpayers and KRA employees. ''The introduction of iwhistle underscores KRA’s commitment to ensuring that Kenya achieves its social, economic and development goal being the government’s revenue collection agency," Mburu said. President Kenyatta awarded distinguished taxpayers for their resilience, dedication and compliance. Others in attendance were National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani and KRA board chairman Francis Muthaura. The Taxpayers' Day marks the end of the Taxpayers' Month, which started on October 5 and was marked with various activities including the sixth Annual Tax Summit. This year’s Taxpayers' Month was themed 'Enhancing Tax Administration for Economic Sustainability'. It took place on a special year when KRA is commemorating its 25th anniversary. Every year, KRA has dedicated the month of October to carrying out activities geared towards honouring and appreciating taxpayers for their valuable contribution towards revenue collection. The activities also act as a platform to encourage citizens to pay their fair share of taxes towards the country’s economic development. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya