Residents of Baringo are a worried lot after water from flooded Lake Baringo started seeping into the ground through a mysterious crack. The fissure appeared at Koleon farm, at the bottom edge of Chelelyo rocky ranges on the Loruk-Chemolingot-Marigat road. “The water has been flowing into the hole for the last three weeks,” Loruk village elder Johana Chepyator said on Thursday. He said despite huge volumes of water draining in the crack, there is no sign of it getting filled up anytime soon. “We only hear a slight gurgling sound as water seeps inside the stony opening. We have no idea where the water goes,” Chepyator said. He said the area surrounding the crack is dry and there are no signs of a swamp forming around the crack. They fear the ground might get soggy and cave in. “Our only big worry as residents is the destination of the flowing water because we do not know what will happen if the ground gets soaked?” Chepyator said. Loruk assistant chief Samuel Kamuren said though the opening in the ground has helped get rid of some water from the swollen lake, residents fear it could end up in disaster if the crack widens. He called upon geologists to visit the site to explore and find out possible dangers posed by the new outlet. Local geologist and Egerton University lecturer Dr Clement Lenashuru said the crack may have been formed due to excess water on the surface. He said the northern part of Lake Baringo is tilted towards the huge rocky volcanic valley, which forces the water to flow and find natural fissures. “The water flows into the depression and once it gets filled up, then it either stabilises, recedes back or finds more fissures to flow into,” Lenashuru said. He said, however, more research needs to be done to find out what is really happening. The area around Lake Baringo has had its fair share of shocking occurrences since the floods started in July. In September, the ground sank, smoke poured out, water splashed out, and a huge sinkhole opened at O’Loropil village in Ilchamus ward, Baringo South. Hundreds of terrified residents of O’Loropil village fled their homes. Residents are still reporting mysterious earth tremors in the area, which are felt up to about 10km around the lake. “The tremors normally occur at night, causing the earth's surface to shake,” Loruk resident Alex Sarit said. He said residents fear something terrible might happen if the tremors continue. Lake Baringo is not the only flooded lake in the county. Others are Lake Bogoria and Lake 94. The swollen lakes have so far led to the displacement of more than 30,000 residents. Several business premises, schools, churches and dispensaries have been submerged. “We are appealing for more food and non-food items like tents, utensils, mosquito nets and warm clothes to help the victims,” Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis said. Last week, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa visited the area and attributed rising lake water levels to climate change. He said the government would help the affected residents.   