Baringo has a shortage of staff to carry out key functions in the livestock department. Officials have warned of a crisis owing to the inadequate number of veterinary and livestock health officers. At least 150 more workers are required. The last employment of the veterinary and animal health officers was a decade ago before the onset of devolution in 2013. It means the county government has not employed any official to the department. “As it is now, one veterinary doctor covers two subcounties and most of the 30 wards do not have staff,” county livestock director Dr. John Wameyo said on Monday. Wameyo said a number of the officers are already seniors and are expected to retire between 2022 and 2026. “This means without immediate replacement then a huge crisis is underway,” Wameyo said. He said the shortage has caused strenuous workloads with frequent delays and failed extension programmes like livestock vaccinations and training of farmers. “Something needs to be done urgently to employ more animal specialists so that we can spend enough time to train and familiarise them with the fieldwork pending official handing over,” he said. He said the 150 officers are urgently needed to do critical work. They include seven veterinary medicine degree graduates deployed to Baringo North, Tiaty, Baringo Central, Mogotio, Eldama-Ravine and Baringo South subcounties. Another 30 diploma livestock officers are required for deployment to the wards. Ninety 90 certificate holders in animal health should also be hired, three per ward. The officers also serve as meat inspectors in their respective jurisdictions and offer agricultural extension services to farmers. “We also require leather development officers - hides and skins specialist, one per subcounty. Currently, there is none after all the previous officers retired,” Wameyo said. Agriculture and specifically livestock keeping is the main economic activity for Baringo residents. The place is also known for the famous annual Kimalel Goat Auction. “We always sell animals to meet our basic needs and even pay fees for our children. It sounds very alarming to learn our county lacks staff in such a critical sector,” Salawa farmer Joseph Noti said. He said it was ironic that the county government was urging farmers to adopt hybrid crop and animal breeding without specialists to monitor and guide them. Farmers have complained after thousands of goats died in an outbreak of Contagious Caprine Pleuro-Pneumonia (CCPP) in April due to delayed vaccination. Kimalel chief Reuben Kigen confirmed a majority of farmers were angry after losing their animals. “There is an urgent need for inspection to ascertain the cause and vaccination to avert more deaths,” Kigen said. Livestock chief officer Dr Winnie Bore said they have already availed drugs. "We were only finalising on the logistics so that we commence the mass vaccination. That will start probably next week,” she said. She said the new members to the County Public Service Board just took over recently and that they were aware of the staff shortage. Governor Stanley Kiptis maintains the county is straining with a huge wage bill that currently stands at 56 per cent. “It is for this reason that our hands are tired on employment,” Kiptis said. The county is also struggling to complete a multimillion-shilling Maoi modern slaughterhouse funded by the European Union. Apart from creating 3,000 jobs, the abattoir also targets to start packaging and exporting meat products.  Edited by P.O