It would cost the National Health Insurance Fund up to Sh22.5 billion to finance the treatment of members diagnosed with Covid-19. NHIF chief executive Peter Kamunyo told the Senate Standing Committee on Health that the amount would be 35 per cent of the total annual collections. “It would not have been financially viable for NHIF to finance the treatment of Covid-19 for the current National or Enhanced Medical Scheme members of the fund,” he said. Kamunyo had appeared before senators to explain why NHIF has declined to meet the treatment costs of its members who have been diagnosed with the disease. He explained that financing Covid-19 testing and treatment for NHIF beneficiaries would be a burden as it was not envisaged in the current premium computation and the existing benefits package. He said NHIF would not have a financial obligation under globally recognised best practice, or its present model of operation, to finance the testing or hospitalisation related to the pandemic. “NHIF would, therefore, request the committee to consider the global best practices and sustainable model of managing pandemic responses through a centrally coordinated and financed model,” he stated. In his presentation to the committee on Wednesday, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said it is not practical for NHIF and private insurance companies to cover pandemics. The CS, however, said the government has come in handy to subsidise and write off treatment costs for poor Kenyans. Kamunyo said pandemics and epidemics, generally, are excluded in health insurance because of their nature in terms of cost and uncertainties. “Globally, the World Health Organization guidelines state that while all sectors of society are involved in pandemic preparedness and response, the national government is the natural leader for overall coordination and communication efforts,” he added. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, however, said NHIF should have said how much it would need from the government to finance the treatment of Covid-19 patients at the onset of the pandemic. “NHIF should have pleaded for additional funding from the government because 90 per cent of its members are low-income earners. As legislators, we would have looked at the available options,” he said. Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali wanted to know the amount that the Fund could have spent without going bankrupt. “We need to know the amount that NHIF would have spent without getting into problems,” he said. Tom Gichuhi, the Association of Kenya Insurers executive director, said pandemics are catastrophic in nature, a reason that makes members keep off. “We have not completely abandoned our customers. It is just not sustainable,” Gichuhi said. Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito said it was regrettable that institutions “care more about not getting bankrupt and care less about Kenyans losing their lives because of lack of money to finance their treatment”.