There are plans to fly Tyler Ongwae (Denmark) and Joel Awich (France) directly to Kigali, Rwanda for the FIBA AfroBasket qualifiers. Head coach Cliff Owuor revealed that he has asked the national team board to look into ways of flying the duo to Kigali directly due to time constraints. "Due to limited time, there is no point in bringing them here," said Owuor, adding: "Booking them flights to Kigali will save us time and money". Ongwae, who plays for Baken Bears and Awich, who turns out for Dax-Garmade, are expected to play a key role in the teams return to the show for the first time in 27 years. Owuor was speaking after the 10man national team board, chaired by Thomas Kwaka was unveiled over the weekend. The board intends to raise Sh15m for the two-leg qualifiers. Meanwhile, the national team camp will get a huge boost when Preston Bungei (Australia) and Ronnie Gundo (USA) jet in on Wednesday. Gundo was an ever-present player in the team's last three campaigns in Kampala, Bamako and Nairobi while Bungei is a first-timer. The tactician said he is in talks with the star centre, Kigali-based Tom Wamukota on how he should also join the team early this week. Wamukota led his Patriots side to the Rwandese national league title. Owuor said Morans will move to Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Wednesday to start camping for the November 25-29 tournament. He revealed that players and technical officials did their Covid-19 tests and will switch base once the results are out. "We all did the tests on Saturday and once we get the results, we will move to Kasarani to start intensive training for the championship," he disclosed. Kenya will play Senegal, Angola and Mozambique. "For us to qualify for the AfroBasket championship, we are targeting at least three wins in the two tournaments," he pointed out. The top three teams from the two qualifiers will advance to the continental show that will also be held in Rwanda next year. Squad: Griffin Ligare, Eric Mutoro, Victor Bosire, Victor Odendo, Victor Ochieng, Joseph Khaemba, Faheem Juma, James Mwangi, Fidel Okoth, Valentine Nyakinda, Diaspora based: Ariel Okal (Algeria), Tom Wamukota (Rwanda), Desmond Owili, Preston Bungei (Australia), Ronny Gundo (USA), Joel Awich (France) and Tyler Ongwae (Denmark).