Representatives of People Living with Disabilities want 18 seats reserved for the group in the National Assembly. They also want four seats allocated for them in the Senate and in each of the 47 county assemblies to ensure their interests are articulated in the country's crucial decision-making platforms. The 15 lobby groups said the report in its current state has left them out of key decision-making organs and in effect clawed back the gains people living with disabilities enjoy in the 2010 Constitution. These are some the demands presented to ODM leader Raila Odinga by nominated senators Isaac Mwaura and Getrude Musuruve on Sunday on the sidelines of the pro-BBI legislators' retreat in Naivasha. The team maintained that the BBI report unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila remains a mockery of the very inclusion it seeks to foster in its current form. “We want to say that the BBI report makes recommendations which undermine the letter and spirit of the inclusion of persons with disabilities which is captured in the Constitution,” their joint statement said. According to them, the report removes the seats reserved for persons with disabilities in the National Assembly and the Senate under Article 97 and 98 of the Constitution, thereby degrading the institutional arrangements via which persons with disabilities exercise representation. BBI has recommended a 94-member Senate with each of the 47 counties electing a male and female representative. In the National Assembly, the report recommends a mixed representation of 360 members where 290 MPs will be elected on first-past-the-post basis and an additional 70 seats allocated based on actual votes cast per county. But the lobby groups argue that Articles 97 and 98 expressly provide for representation of persons with disabilities in the bicameral House. “The county assemblies similarly include legislators with disabilities, pursuant to Article 177 of the Constitution. “Reserved seats for persons with disabilities in Parliament and County Assemblies are a critical component for redressing the disadvantage and discrimination faced by persons with disabilities as guaranteed in Article 27 of the Constitution which prohibits direct and indirect discrimination on the basis of disability.” The lobbies were United Disabled Persons of Kenya, Caucus for Disability Rights, Kenya Disability Parliamentary Association, Kenya National Association of the Deaf, Short Stature Society of Kenya, Albinism Society of Kenya, Clubfoot Society of Kenya and Autism Society of Kenya. The others were Kenya Society for the Blind, Down Syndrome Society of Kenya, Disability Initiative (DIESK), Women with Disabilities League, Youth with Disabilities Forum, National Voice of Parents of Children with Disabilities and Society of Visually Impaired Professionals.  - mwaniki fm 