“Kenya has no president-elect, there's somebody holding and masquerading as one.” Those were the words of then-powerful National Super Alliance chief executive officer Norman Magaya three years ago. It was on Monday, November 27, 2017, a day before President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto were inaugurated for their second term in office. On another November Monday a day ago, Magaya posted tweets that sent friends and sympathisers scurrying to find him. In a series of since-deleted tweets, Magaya sent out a distress call, lamenting about high medication costs, being on the verge of eviction and the possibility of sleeping on the streets with his two daughters. It would be the happiness of his enemies, he said. "For I know this will be a day of joy for my detractors and I will gladly give it to you! From the cold street with my toddler daughters, I shall rise high because there is a God". "As the true son of my late father and mother, I shall not beg. I am ready for the consequences and enough of tormenting me and my innocent kids. I have no duty to please anyone. Goodbye world!" he tweeted. Economist David Ndii, a former Nasa strategist was among the first to reach out. Magaya did not pick calls. To Ndii he responded in a text message: “Bro decided to go open. I am off and out. I doubt I will last this night. Keep the memories”. City lawyer and a friend of Magaya's Silas Jakakimba, however, said he managed to meet up with him in Machakos county and drove him to a hospital in Nairobi for a medical check-up. "Whereas he is generally fine, his doctor has recommended some check-ups. We are at a city hospital and I have alerted his wife. I urge that we desist from preferring assumptions," Jakakimba said on Twitter. Magaya collapsed at the Bomas of Kenya in August 2017 during the tabulation of presidential votes in the 2017 General Election. In September last year, he was admitted to Nairobi Hospital before being flown to India for specialised medical treatment after a heart attack. That would be the last time Magaya was ever seen in public, but he has been active on social media. In his tweets on Monday, Magaya said the costs of his treatment for an illness he didn't specify was Sh100,000 per month. It is too high. Unacceptable. “The cost of medication in Kenya is an indirect death sentence. How does a person out of work and on shoe lace budget maintain drugs demands of 100k per month! Torture this is!” he tweeted. Like it had been for many of his friends, the Star could not reach Magaya on the phone. Magaya's tweets sparked a debate on social media as to whether Nasa had abandoned him. But when contacted, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party could not comment on the matter. However, when asked by Ndii on Monday whether Nasa had abandoned Magaya, Sifuna said, “Why would you conclude we have abandoned him? Daktari we are dealing with an extremely delicate situation and you going about it in this way is very shameful indeed. Not everything is an opportunity to score cheap points.” Some people were not convinced about the truth of Magaya's tweets. Blogger Robert Alai disputed Magaya’s statements, saying he is trying to blackmail ODM. He said Magaya is living a life his pay cannot sustain. Magaya is an advocate of the High Court. He served as a national returning officer for Nasa in the August 2017 election at the Bomas of Kenya. Was Magaya on the verge of harming himself? Was he about to be evicted? Where does he live? Why were the tweets deleted? He may have gone out of the public limelight, but Magaya's Twitter timeline still is a testimony to his democratic ideals. In fact, shortly after the now-deleted tweets, he commiserated with the Tanzania Opposition politician Tundu Lisu who had been arrested for organising protests in Tanzania. “Better to suffer on your feet bro than live on your knees. Magufuli is a disgrace. Aluta continua. Sending much love and support from Kenya!” he said in response to a tweet by another Tanzanian opposition politician Zitto Kabwe. (edited by o. owino)