National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has announced they will appeal against the court’s decision nullifying 23 laws passed without the Senate’s approval. Speaker Muturi, in a communication to the House, termed the High Court judgment "unconstitutional, erroneous and flawed in law". The House Business Committee met on Friday last week and agreed to move to the Court of Appeal. Muturi also announced that the House has suspended any legislative business until the matter is determined and way forward issued. National Assembly resumed sittings on Tuesday after a two-week recess. "The National Assembly does appeal the decision of the High Court in Constitutional Petition No, 284 of 2019 as consolidated with Constitutional Petition No. 353 of 2019," Muturi said. "In the meantime, no legislative business will be undertaken by the House in the coming days, whether from the National Assembly or the Senate pending a way forward on the decision contained in the High Court’s Judgment, while seeking stay or setting aside of the Judgement by the Court of Appeal." Muturi argued that the judgement curtails the mandate of the National Assembly as the law clearly allows the Senate to participate only in the enactment of laws concerning county governments. "Article 109 of the Constitution mandates the National Assembly to enact bills not concerning county governments without the participation of the Senate," Muturi said. Majority leader Amos Kimunya said the judgment has grave implications and challenged the Judiciary to return the allocations it has so far received from the Exchequer as a result of the nullified laws. “According to the judgement, the Appropriation Act of 2019 is illegal, same to Appropriation Act of 2020. We should, therefore, ask the Treasury to freeze the Ifmis (Integrated Financial Management Information System) so that people can wake up to the reality,” Kimunya said. His Minority counterpart, John Mbadi, echoed the sentiments, saying the  Constitution needs a repeal to eliminate some sections that he noted are retrogressive. “The problem we made was to allow the civil society to take over the role of coming up with a new Constitution. There are some issues that should not have been in the Constitution,” Mbadi said. Last week, the High Court nullified 23 laws that were passed by the National Assembly without involving the Senate. A three-judge bench last Thursday ruled that the Speaker of the National Assembly must involve his Senate counterpart. “The impugned acts are in contravention of Article 96, 109, 110, 111, 112 and 113 of the Constitution and are therefore unconstitutional, null and void,” the judges ruled. Some of the laws affected include the Computer Cyber Crime Act and Finance Act 2018. “We are properly guided and in the circumstances of this case shall suspend our orders to nullify the impugned acts for a period of nine months within which period the National Assembly ought to have complied with provisions of Article 110 of the constitution and regularised this Acts and in default, they stand nullified,” the court ruled. Justices Jairus Ngaah, Antony Ndung'u and Teresiah Matheka unanimously ruled that one speaker cannot unilaterally make a decision to whether a bill does or does not concern counties. The court further held that it is mandatory and a constitution precedent for any bill that is published by either House to be subjected to a concurrence process to determine in terms of article 110 (3) whether the bill is special or an ordinary bill. “Such a determination is more dependent on a question arising to whether the bill in one that concerns counties." The Senate had moved to court challenging the decision by the National Assembly to pass bills without their input. Edited by EKibii