Dr, Ekuru Aukot, the expelled Thirdway Alliance Party leader is not yet done with the battle which saw him being kicked out of the party leadership position. On November 18, in a letter addressed to the party Secretary General Fredrick Okango, the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu said that her office was satisfied by the disciplinary process that led to Aukot’s dismissal. “This office is satisfied that the disciplinary process followed the provisions of the PPA and procedure provided under articles 14 and 25 of the Thirdway Alliance Party constitution,” Ann Nderitu said. Aukot has not been pleased by the decision taken by Ann Nderitu, saying that her office ratified the decision of the party, which he purported to be unlawful. Through KMK AFRICA LAW ADVOCATES, Aukot protested the move, saying that the registrar agreed with the party’s decision despite the active case in the court regarding his dismissal. “As you must be aware, there is pending High Court Petition …and PPDT 16 and 17 of 2020 at the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal, all of which are pending judgment. Your communication is thus an overt violation of article 10 and Chapter 6 of the Constitution which requires you to uphold the rule of law,” part of the letter from Aukot’s advocate reads. Aukot has also accused Ann Nderitu of being bias and acting on pressure from external forces. He threatened to take the registrar to the court for violating his rights. “Accordingly, we shall be commencing appropriate court action against you and your office to protect the rights of our client in the face of apparent impunity.” She added that “The party is guided to ratify this decision of NEC as provided under article of 14(k) of the party constitution.” However, Nderitu said that Aukot’s expulsion as a party member did not satisfy the set requirements including Article 6.3 of the party constitution, hence she declined the move. Aukot was expelled by the party in September over financial impropriety and lack of transparency to party members. Okango had said that the decision was made "without any malice, bias or hatred" despite the former party leader hopping from one media house to the other to disparage the party's NEC decisions. JP de-whips three nominated Nairobi MCAs