How can I work with some Council Members who take orders from a secretary who was fired?  LSK chairman Nelson Havi has posed. Havi took over the helm of the LSK eight months ago, was referring to CEO Mercy Wambua with whom he has had a difficult relationship with. Wambua was suspended in September but later reinstated by the court. The LSK council also said that the charges of gross misconduct levelled against Wambua did not hold water. But on Monday,  Havi claimed he is unable to work with all the council members since they still take orders from Wambua. "I have heard your calls that I need to speak to rebel Council Members and work together with them. A brilliant idea indeed," he said. "In fact, that is what I had been doing since March when I took them to the All Saints Cathedral for prayers. " Havi noted that there was, however, an underlying problem. "....she has refused to vacate office on the protection of CS Interior, Attorney General, Philip Murgor and Fred Ojiambo? They erroneously see LSK as a Government parastatal! " Havi claimed. The bad blood between Havi and Wambua has grown over time. Two weeks ago, their fight took an ugly turn amid a call to the ICT office to delete Wambua's official email accounts. Havi directed ICT officer Geoffrey Karani to delete the accounts, saying Wambua's contract had expired. Havi claimed that the CEO’s contract had ended in March. The LSK boss also sought control of the society’s social media platforms in his call to the IT team to surrender credentials of the said pages. Havi asked Karani to confirm the identities of all staff members who have access and control of email addresses and the official LSK Twitter handle. Wambua has maintained that she is rightfully in office. “Whatever you have seen is the decision of the president. He has no powers to veto the council,” she said. While clearing her, the nine-member team said they had observed with a lot of "displeasure" the continued attempt by Havi to disrespect the council. They said they voted against the removal of the CEO after finding out that the allegations did not amount to misconduct. Wambua had faced 17 charges, including alleged failure to submit reports to the president, implement council resolutions, keep proper records of society’s affairs, and communication of council and releasing the same to the media.