President Uhuru Kenyatta has revealed that if it were not for the handshake, Kenya would have been brought to its knees. Uhuru said after the 2017 disputed election, stakes were high with each side of the political divide making their demands. "We were on the verge of disaster divisiveness ..... If there would have no handshake, Kenya would have been brought to its knees," he said. Uhuru spoke on Wednesday during the official launch of the signature collection for the BBI referendum. “The reckless aggressiveness of some triumphant something and stonewalling by others. The country was sharply divided and we were headed in a dangerous moment but luckily handshake stabilised the country,” Uhuru said. He said that move has afforded everyone an opportunity to identify the practical solutions that would strengthen unity, inclusivity and equity in governance. “The BBI was basically a vehicle for us to have a national conversation on the recession. For the last two years BBI provided an opportunity for Kenyans to see what was on their mind and to provide ideas that could be effected to solve Kenya's most intractable problems,” he said. Uhuru said the BBI bill is not however seeking to replace the current constitution as it has been said. “The need for a change of our Constitution has been with us for some time and has been evident in the never-ending threat of post-election violence and the growing feeling that it's designed likes inclusivity and that it promotes unfair and skewed representation and unfair distribution of national resources,” he said. “Now I want to make it clear that we are not talking about replacing a Constitution, we are talking about amending the Constitution, the first of many possible amendments that will come over a period of time as Kenyans change and evolve.” He added, “And if we are to continue our decades-long journey in seeking to advance the well being of all Kenyans, we must be a society that is willing and capable of adapting to change”. Uhuru said together with the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga they came to the realisation of this fact and held talks that led the handshake in 2018. “And because of these, peace has prevailed in this country. Since then, many Kenyans have forgotten what was happening,” he said. The head of state said Kenya’s democracy is dynamic because people are dynamic with changing individuals and families. “We encounter challenges, some unexpected and others that are devastating, as well as some that create hope. We embrace opportunities many of which are the transformative and uplifting reality of life that demands constant change,” he said. “I strongly believe that the reason our founding fathers and mothers bequeath as a democratic system was to offer us this dynamic ability to change to change with time and to change as equal citizens of this beautiful land,’ he added. Raila reiterated the role of the BBI in improving Kenya's governance. He said that the issues touching on the common Kenyans such as the economy and unemployment can be achieved through legislation and policy.