President Uhuru Kenyatta will deliver the 2020 State of the Nation Address on Thursday at a joint sitting of Parliament. The President will be focusing a lot on the fight against corruption after he received a report on the same from the Director of Public Prosecutions on Monday. Other than the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the proposed amendments to the Constitution will also feature in the president’s speech as will the quest for electoral reforms. Kenyans will also be keen to hear what the President will have to say about the Big Four Agenda which appears to have taken a back seat as his administration tackles the pandemic and focuses on the Building Bridges Initiative. Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s latest barrage of attacks directed at President Uhuru Kenyatta has lifted the lid on behind the scenes political battles to control the capital. Sonko has been relegated to the periphery in the management of the county following his arrest and prosecution over graft charges and signing away of key county functions to the national government. The flamboyant county boss now sees Uhuru as the architect of his woes that have seen him reduced to a mere figurehead – without a budget to control. But without mentioning anyone, Uhuru on Tuesday has urged leaders to stop politics and focus on development. "There is no need of going around making noise instead of bringing development to Kenyans," he said. The New Nairobi Commuter Rail Service will now serve 3million people in a month up from 1.2million people in the same period. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday launched the Sh1.2 billion project that is expected to help ease traffic congestion in the city. The rehabilitation and modernization of the Nairobi Commuter rail begun last year in October and it's premised on a rail master plan, which included rehabilitating existing infrastructure and constructing new stations. The Nairobi Central Station will serve as the nerve centre of operations connecting to 10 stations in satellite towns, including newly built stations in Donholm and Pipeline. On average, the system will be transporting 30,000 – 40,000 Kenyans on a daily basis. To beat traffic, the journey via the commuter rail system will not take more than an hour to and from the Central Business District. Kenya loses one child due to pneumonia every hour, and approximately 9,000 every year, a data report from the Health Ministry shows. The disease is a leading infectious killer among children below five accounts for 15 per cent of all deaths. As Kenya joins the rest of the world in marking the World Pneumonia Day on Wednesday, calls have been renewed to ensure early care-seeking behaviour among Kenyans, with data showing that only 67 per cent of children with the disease are taken to a health facility for care and treatment. The report states that while Kenya has made significant progress in reducing under-five children’s deaths since 1990, it is estimated that 60,000 children under the age of five died due to the disease in 2018 alone. Members of County Assemblies now was the Building Bridges Initiative amended to propose that they qualify to be appointed to County Executive Committees. They want a proposal similar to that allowing the President to appoint MPs to Cabinet included in the provisions in the Constitution on who Governors can appoint. The ward reps also want the BBI to repeal a law passed in 2012 but suspended, that requires that MCAs must be degree holders. Similarly, Governors want a provision requiring that they select deputies of opposite gender deleted from the BBI proposals. The Governors and MCAs are expected to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga today over the proposals.