The management of debt and government liabilities is a challenge to Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi's administration. Abdi blames this on myriad factors, among them delayed release of funds by the Exchequer, which, in turn, slows the implementation of development projects. This also translates into accumulation of pending bills. This was particularly so in the 2018-19 financial year and to a smaller extent 2019-20. Abdi, who spoke in Wajir town on Tuesday, said his government has initiated pending bills verification process with the aim of paying them expeditiously if they are verified as correct. “We have earmarked approximately Sh2 billion to offset verified pending bills. The verification and inspection will continue for the remaining projects. This ensures that no one is left behind and we will prosper together as a nation and as a society,” he said. The governor directed Finance and Economic Planning CECM to come up with a debt management strategy paper on pending bills and other liabilities. He said in as much as the county government was not anticipating external funding in the medium term, it was critical for the cabinet to approve the strategy document. He said an executive task force had vetted the pending bills and a report developed for implementation this financial year. On Tuesday last week, the governor appeared before a Senate oversight committee to shed light on alleged link between his top officials and a company that supplied more than 75 per cent of fuel for county vehicles. The governor was also questioned on alleged questionable procurements worth more than Sh300 million and late submission of financial documents. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments committee had summoned him over audit queries flagged by former Auditor General Edward Ouko in 2017-18 financial year. The audit report showed that out of the Sh59.44 million the administration spent on fuel, oil and lubricants in the year, fuel worth Sh44.16 was procurement from one supplier. The county boss explained that his administration procured the bulk of the fuel from one supplier because the others were unwilling to supply on credit. “The supplier in question was given bulk fuel tender due to the fact that there has been a delay of the release of funds and other suppliers were unwilling to supply on long-term credit,” he said. Committee members led by chairman Sam Ongeri (Kisii) questioned why only one company was willing to supply fuel on credit out of the nine prequalified. “There is no justification whatsoever to break the law because other suppliers were unwilling. It is the responsibility of the county government to ensure that they prequalify companies that have the capacity and are ready to supply the county,” Ongeri said. Wajir Senator Mohamed Ali said there are many ‘competent’ fuel suppliers in the county, adding that there was more than meets the eye in the procurement of the bulk of the commodity from one company.  - mwaniki fm