Some 65,000 children have been immunised against malaria since a large pilot began in Kenya in September last year. This is the world’s first malaria vaccine. It is called the RTS,S. The progress was revealed when President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a new campaign to eradicate malaria. The aim is to vaccinate about 120,000 children per year in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori, Siaya, Busia, Bungoma, Vihiga and Kakamega counties. “As we enter the decade to end malaria, I am committed to ensuring that we accelerate progress and end this ancient scourge,” Uhuru said in a statement. He spoke in Mombasa where he launched the Kenya’s Zero Malaria Starts with Me campaign. The ongoing pilot is the last phase before the malaria vaccine is introduced in Kenya’s immunisation schedule. Researchers are specifically assessing the feasibility of administering the recommended four doses of the vaccine in children and its effectiveness. The biggest concerns, however, is the vaccine's safety. During the clinical trials between 2009 and 2014, children who received the RTS,S vaccine, also called Mosquirix, had a risk of meningitis 10 times higher than those who received a control vaccine. In all cases mortality also doubled in girls who received the vaccine. Mosquirix may not have triggered the meningitis cases—there are other possible explanations—but the possible risk worried the global health community so much that, rather than rolling out the vaccine across Africa, the World Health Organization decided to set up the ongoing pilot in Kenya, Malawi, and Ghana. Convulsions after vaccination, though rare, also occurred more often in malaria vaccine recipients than in controls. The vaccine is available to children from six months of age, and provides only about 40 per cent protection, which wanes with time. The pilot is a collaboration with the Ministry of Health and international partners, including the WHO, Path, a non-profit organisation, and GSK, the vaccine developer and manufacturer. “The ongoing pilots will provide the key information and data to inform a WHO policy on the broader use of the vaccine in sub-Saharan Africa. If introduced widely, the vaccine has the potential to save tens of thousands of lives,” said Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa during the launch in Ndhiwa last year. Phase 3 clinical trials were conducted between 2009 and 2014 through a network of African research sites, including three sites in Kenya (Kombewa, Siaya and Kilifi). More than 4, 000 children were involved. In the coming months, Uhuru said he will also lead the distribution of more than 15 million mosquito nets in Kenya to push coverage to 25 million. He said 1.8 million Kenyans were protected from malaria through insecticide residual spraying in 2018. The President also chairs the African Leaders Malaria Alliance. 