Baringo Senator and Kanu leader Gideon Moi has said the party is banking on the Building Bridges Initiative to have the independence party gain in the forthcoming general elections. Moi said with the passing of the report, Kanu’s “future is bright" adding, "we are reviving membership across the country to ensure we first of all pass the BBI report". He spoke on Friday in Migori town’s Maranatha grounds where he was hosted by immediate former Migori speaker Gordon Ogolla who is also a board member of   Kanu party. “After we have passed the report, which we are sure Kenyans will ensure sails through, we will be prepared to be in the next government,” Moi told party delegates drawn from Nyanza. In a thinly veiled attack on Deputy President William Ruto, who hails from his Rift Valley backyard, Moi said the region will directly support the BBI referendum push. “Who said that people from Rift Valley region are not supporting the BBI report? The truth of the matter on where the region will be in 2022 general elections will be known in the referendum ballot,” Moi assured. Despite being the independence party and being in power for over 40 years, the party’s fortune has dwindled and has only 10 out of 348 MPs and three out of 67 senators. Kanu is planning to pick on the void left through the BBI to marshal up numbers in the ballot by having more elected leaders in ODM leader Raila Odinga’s backyard. Others present at the event were Tiaty MP William Kamket, former Kanu cabinet ministers Julius Sunkuli and Wilfred Ombui, who said the BBI report will be journey for Kanu to be in the next government. “Moi and ODM leader Raila Odinga are working closely and will carry each other in the presidential seat in next elections, first we will make a statement in the BBI report,” Kamket said. Kamket accused Ruto of "hoodwinking" Kenyans by distributing wheelbarrows and being lukewarm in supporting the BBI drive. “We are keen on working closely with Raila in Nyanza region and we not only expect to be in the next government as a party, but to  gain more seats across the country,” Sunkuli said. Ogolla and Ombui said they have already started the streamline party membership and hunt for aspirants across Nyanza ahead of 2022 general elections. “Our push for referendum will be key in getting us strong point men from ward to county level for support,” Ogolla said.