First of all, I am a proud Luo woman. Yes, my skin is dark. No, I do not necessarily have a big behind. Well, it depends on what you call big or what angle you are looking at it from. True I am many things but arrogant, lazy and ohangla fan (I will dance to the odd song at a function, also there is nothing wrong with the musical genre) are not words that can be used to describe me and many other Luo women. I am not averse to business, on the contrary, I am a serial entrepreneur and no, a salon is not one of them. Again, nothing wrong with salons. I may be difficult to deal with according to some people, but so is every woman. This stereotyping of Luo women will one day be disastrous. We will then have young Luo girls struggling with their identity and even safety because they are either over-sexualised or described unfavourably because of physical features or imagined behavioural problems. There is a group of women in the West who have been described as angry, lazy, unfeminine for so long and when no one has anything ‘nice’ to say, they are over-sexualised. It did not happen overnight, some bugger started a false narrative that was repeated until it sounded like the truth. So, please, just ducking stop it. Covid-19 has brought with it some unusual changes. Apart from the fact that we can no longer blow our saliva on the cake and feed it to our loved ones, it has totally changed the way we meet people. While many people have met on the digital space before, now with everyone having to head home early like goats, the online space has become a very active playing ground. This is no reason to behave like you have no home training. Let me start off by saying the fact that someone has got the courage to approach you via inbox, do not use the opportunity to make fun of them or cause any embarrassment. If you are not interested in whatever they are proposing, say so clearly and keep it moving. Even just block or mute. (This is not to mean you act civilised with the lewd characters asking for ungodly things, those, put in their place). If a person is respectful, accord him or her the same treatment. It is not easy to shoot your shot. If you have shot your shot and it missed the target, please believe me you will live to shoot another day. Stop negotiating, stop badgering. When you get the courage to get in the inbox, please do not wave people to death or hi them to oblivion. Say something constructive, yawa. A little humour is always an ice breaker. Be careful though about what you send, especially if it is a forward. Stay away from love, sex and politics. As it is off line, so it is online. Speaking of forwards, do not send those chain things for heaven’s sake! The bad luck you believe in is your concern, do not drag others into it. Your sanity may come into question. Do not try to call on social media plattforms, voice or video if you do not know the person. It is even worse when you try to call people’s phones or Facebook after 10pm. Please, do not confess your love to a total stranger. What you see on social media is not always real. While it is true there is serious business carried out on social media, most people use the platform to joke and others use it to live fake lives. Everyone tries to take good pictures. Smiling, nice background, ideal lighting, etc. They are not always smiling, ok or happy. So chill. Businesses have not been left behind in this time. Everyone is trying to leverage the platform. If you are trying to sell things, make it easy for everyone to make a quick decision. Give full descriptions. People should not have to pry you open as if you are a box of secret treasures. You either want to make a sale or you are looking for attention. If it is the latter, there are online groups for your kind. Lastly, if you read a post and you do not like it, do not agree with it or you just do not like the person, exercise your right to unfollow, unfriend or block. It works. Do not preach, not everyone cares for your beliefs. Do not insult people you know nothing about, especially if you do not have the guts to do it to their face. fellyoyuga@gmail.com