Residents of Majengo in Mvita, Mombasa, have petitioned the court to suspend the setting up of a Covid-19 isolation and treatment centre at the Mvita clinic. They say such a move will pose a health hazard, especially to children with weak immunity. In the petition filed at the High Court in Mombasa under a certificate of urgency, the residents say it would be unwise to set up the facility within a residential area. Their lawyer Leonard Shimaka said Mvita clinic is surrounded by schools and other amenities frequented  by children. He said the area also has a Jua Kali sector within its proximity and can easily act as a breeding ground for Covid-19 infection if the county proceeds to establish the isolation centre. “Young children stand a higher risk of being infected. We are not a gated community; therefore, our children roam freely,” Shimaka said. The lawyer said other businesses in the area are also expected to suffer if the plan is allowed. Shimaka said the centre will also pose a health threat to the general public, hence it is in the interest of residents that it be put up in a place far away. The petitioners have sued the county government, the Ministry of Health and the Attorney General. Mombasa initially set up a quarantine and treatment centre for Covid-19 at the  Technical University of Mombasa but the facility was closed after students resumed learning. The TUM centre had a capacity for 300 beds. The Mvita clinic had been identified to accommodate 80 beds. On Monday, county public health communication officer Richard Chacha said Tudor Hospital would accommodate 35 beds and another five for ICU. “Renovation of the two hospitals is still underway and it is expected to end this week before the beds are taken there,” Chacha said. Earlier, county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said hospitals have no adequate space to accommodate Covid-19 patients. He said beds in all the main hospitals, including Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital, Mombasa Hospital, Pandya and Aga Khan hospitals, were full.  Edited by P.O