Nyeri Water and Sanitation Company managing director Peter Gichaga has died of Covid-19. The 43-year-old water boss died on Tuesday evening while undergoing treatment at the Outspan Hospital in Nyeri town. Nyewasco board chairman Patrick  Munuhe said  the last time he was with him was during a consultative meeting in Nanyuki  on Monday, October 26. The meeting was attended by Nyeri MCAs, CECs and senior officials from other water services providers in the county. “That is when I realised that the man had a cough and I advised him to see a doctor ,” Munuhe said. The MD went to Outspan Hospital where his sample was taken for a Covid-19 test. Munuhe said the test results took long, from Tuesday to Friday. He told the Star Gichaga tested positive for Covid-19 and was taken to the intensive care unit and put on a ventilator. He advised the chairman to go for a Covid-19 test, which he did and the result was negative. The board chair who had worked with the MD for over two years said he was active and committed to his work. “He is a man I will remember because of his decisiveness in whatever he did. He was a man who you could consult, a very respectable person,” he said. Munuhe described the MD as a committed Christian who until his death was the chairman of Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Cathedral in Nyeri town. He attributes the company’s success to his way of work, as he treated everybody including the board and all members of staff equally. Munuhe said Gichaga, who rose to Nyewasco’s top office in October 2015, played a big role to make the company the best in the country. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga described the late MD as a dedicated person. “ MD Peter Gichaga has built Nyewasco into an internationally recognised company and water provider that has recently been awarded a global award. Nyeri is poorer with his passing on and we reach out to his family, his staff and everyone associated with him,” Kahiga said. Nyewasco was incorporated in September 1997 and commenced operations in July 1998. It provides water and sanitation services to people in Nyeri Central and its environs. The company has been evaluated for the 12th time a row as the best performing water services provider. Nyeri Water executive Fredrick Kinyua said Nyewasco is the only company out of five in Nyeri county that has achieved the international benchmark for non-revenue water. Nyewasco’s non-revenue water is around 16 per cent while internationally best practices should be below 20 per cent. Non-revenue water is water produced but lost before reaching consumers. In August, the company announced it had been recognised internationally by the Global Water Leaders for exemplary services. The award recognises the most important achievements in the international water industry within several categories. A customer, James Gatama, described the late MD Givhaga as an outstanding technocrat who was young, energetic and provided transformative leadership while at the helm of the company. Edited by Henry Makori