The first phase of a refurbished mangrove boardwalk has been unveiled in Kwale. The bridge, which has been enhancing ecotourism in the area, has a new look thanks to poles and planks recycled from plastic waste. Unveiled on Monday, the bridge was renovated under a recycling project by Absa Bank in collaboration with Lorna Rutto of Eco-post Limited. Eco-post Limited has reprocessed over three tonnes of plastic waste from its rebranding project that consisted mainly of brand signage. The project was executed in partnership with Base Titanium. “Plastic waste is a huge menace accounting for over 20 per cent of an estimated 22,000 tonnes of solid waste generated in Kenya daily." "As we have seen with this boardwalk, it can be disposed sustainably and partnerships such as this particular one with Absa and Base Titanium are playing an important role in actualising this,”  Rutto said. Speaking during the handing over ceremony of the Gazi Mangrove Boardwalk to the community, Absa’s head of Responsible Business Partnerships and Sustainability Jane Waiyaki lauded the collaborative effort and affirmed the bank’s dedication towards driving the green economy through sustainable practices. “This boardwalk not only helps to conserve the heritage of the mangrove conservancy but also elevates the coastal tourism ecosystem. We are, therefore, delighted to have been part of this project, which promotes a sustainable consumption and production culture while fostering economic activities,”  Waiyaki said. The boardwalk is run by Gazi Women Group, a community-based organisation located in the South Coast of Kenya at Gazi Bay. It has been generating income for the community while boosting their involvement in conservation efforts. “We are delighted to see the completion of the first phase of this boardwalk makeover. It is more sustainable and durable after the wooden clamps were replaced with materials made from recycled plastic that can withstand damage by the elements particularly salt water and rain,” Micah Muema, Superintendent Environmental Programmes at Base Titanium, said. “As an organisation, we are guided by the principle of reduce-reuse-recycle, which aims at protecting the environment by preventing pollution, maximising on resource efficiency and encouraging responsible behaviour in others, ” Muema added. The second phase of renovation, which will cover 300 metres of the 500-metre boardwalk, is expected to commence soon. “As a bank, we have committed to operating in a sustainable way that protects the people, the environment and the well-being of our communities. This entire initiative is captured under SDG 12(responsible consumption and production), which is one of our priority goals, as we seek to reduce our carbon footprint," Waiyaki said. She added that they are steadfast in finding solutions to deep-rooted societal, economic, and environmental challenges. "This inspires us to embrace the power of collective action by working together with our business partners and communities in order to make a meaningful impact,” she added. 