Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola on Saturday reiterated his desire to stay with the Premier League club and ruled out a potential return to his former club Barcelona when his contract expires at the end of the season. Barcelona have been in turmoil for months; club president Josep Maria Bartomeu resigned last week to pre-empt a vote of no confidence, and presidential candidate Victor Font is keen to reunite Lionel Messi with Guardiola. Guardiola spent four seasons as Barca manager, winning three league titles and two Champions Leagues. But he told BT Sport that he backed Ronald Koeman, the current manager, and would only return to the club as a fan. “My career as a manager in Barcelona is over. There are incredible people who can be in charge,” Guardiola said after watching City beat Sheffield United 1-0. “Ronald Koeman is an excellent manager. So it’s over (for me). I will come back to watch a game, but it’s done. I am happy here, I have the desire to do well and this is the most important thing. “Now there will be elections in Barcelona and hopefully they can choose the right person and the right board to maintain this incredible club as it is, at the highest level.” Having appointed former player Koeman as manager in the close season, Barca have won only two of their opening five league games, and lost 3-1 at home to rivals Real Madrid, while Messi is yet to score from open play. Meanwhile, Barcelona failed to win for the fourth successive La Liga game after being held by 10-man Alaves. The hosts, who started the day 15th in the table, took a surprise lead when Brazilian keeper Neto was dispossessed by Luis Rioja. Alaves were reduced to 10 men when midfielder Jota was sent off for a second yellow card in the 62nd minute. Antoine Griezmann equalised a minute later but Barca could not find a winner. Ansu Fati was denied a goal on his 18th birthday by Fernando Pacheco’s excellent save, while Griezmann had a goal ruled out. Pacheco frustrated Barca with further saves to keep out Lionel Messi, Miralem Pjanic and Sergino Dest. While Barcelona top their Champions League group after wins over Juventus and Ferencvaros, they trail leaders Real Madrid by eight points in La Liga after dropping 10 points in six games. “We are very angry because we really wanted the three points and we have to improve a lot,” said Griezmann. “We are missing a lot of chances, me more than anyone, but it’s still early in the season and I know we’re going to get better.”