Dr Jacqueline Wangeci Njoroge always gave her patients the best care to alleviate pain and ensure the path to recovery was comfortable. Dr Njoroge died on Saturday while receiving treatment for Covid-19 at the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral & Research Hospital. She was 38. She contracted Covid-19 while helping her patients battle the disease. She was one of eight healthcare workers who died over the weekend from the disease. Her friends and family described her as a sociable, kind-hearted and ambitious person. She always sought the next barrier to surmount in her path to success. Despite her career’s strenuous demands, Dr Njoroge earned a masters’ degree in internal medicine in 2016, specialising in lupus treatment. She had also risen to be the deputy medical superintendent at Thika Level 5 Hospital. With time on her side and the opportunities in her field, the future appeared hers to grab. But this was not to be. Dr Njoroge is survived by her two children Angel and Adrian and her husband Joshua Chokera, an engineer at Kenya Power. Her funeral service is scheduled for Friday at Gathambara Primary School grounds next to Thika Cofee Mills. A private interment ceremony will follow at Westwood Gardens Estate, in Gatanga, Murang’a county. Dr Njoroge also tried her hand in business. She owned and run Equity Afia Medical Centres in Thika and Kahawa West. Equity Afia uses franchising principles to train and monitor a network of medical entrepreneurs to provide standardised, quality and affordable healthcare services throughout Kenya. She was also a pioneer of the Equity Leadership Programme. “Jackie was warm, kind, compassionate, and if you needed her help; she did it with a pure heart. Go well sweetheart- for indeed you were one and you called people by that name- and I know you meant it because you loved wholeheartedly,” a friend posted on social media. Another friend mourned, “Met the bubbly intelligent girl once at Nakuru and for sure she had a great future!” “She was a special kind of person established friendships quickly and maintained them with love and respect. She had a special way of making people around her feel special. Jackie was a well collected real definition of a beauty queen,” yet another friend posted. 