 Parents and guardians have been asked to ensure children are vaccinated despite restrictions and fears associated with Covid-19. Vaccines improve health and reduce mortality among children. But the Covid-19 crisis has put national immunisation programmes are at risk of suspension due to either the severe health system constraints or physical distancing measures in place to mitigate the pandemic. The fear of contracting the virus has also kept away parents from visiting health facilities hence missing out on routine immunisation for their children. Experts deaths caused by failure to get these immunisation jabs far outweigh the risk of contracting the virus. They have urged parents to do everything possible for children not to miss their immunisation. “Vaccines have shown to protect our children from diseases like Tuberculosis, pneumonia, meningitis, and measles. These diseases kill thousands of children in Kenya every year and therefore it is important that we protect them from these diseases,” Unicef Kenya health specialist Dr Peter Okoth said. “Failure to do so further weakens the immunity of these children, making them suffer severe outcomes and even death when they contract Covid-19.” Fortunately, many children who contract the virus develop a mild course of the illness or are asymptomatic. But experts have warned against taking chances. “These diseases can also weaken a child’s ability to withstand Covid-19 infection in case the children get infected. It is therefore very important that children receive all the doses of the routine vaccines at the right time even as we ensure they remain protected from Covid by observing the ministry of health guidelines,” Okoth said. He said girls turning 10 years should ensure they get the two doses of the HPV vaccine so as to be protected from cervical cancer. Unicef has been working with the government and communities to ensure safe vaccines are made available to all children wherever they are. This is done through procuring the routine childhood vaccines on behalf of the government of Kenya, working with the government to ensure these vaccines reach every child including children in remote areas and partnering with communities to address their concerns. “Immunisation has saved millions of lives of children over the years in Kenya. It is therefore important that we do all we can to ensure that all children receive their vaccines when it falls due as per the schedule provided by the government.” The government has come up with guidelines on how immunisation services are to be conducted amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidelines will ensure vaccination services do not cause danger to the clients. For instance, children who are well and are just coming for growth monitoring and vaccination services and nutrition will be attended to in separate areas. “We have shared guidelines for the conduct of immunisation services and they include how to ensure there is that social distancing when they offer these services to try and ensure that the clients are screened for the virus,” head of vaccines and immunisation Collins Tabu said. On March 26, the World Health Organisation released guiding principles for immunisation activities during the Covid-19 pandemic. WHO says governments should put in place mechanisms to ensure immunisation is conducted under safe conditions, without undue harm to health workers, caregivers and the community. The government is required to maintain and reinforce surveillance to enable early detection and management of vaccine-preventable disease cases, and where feasible, contribute to surveillance of Covid-19. “Where feasible, influenza vaccination of health workers, older adults, and pregnant women is advised,” WHO said.  