The government has constituted a multi-agency team to investigate allegations of child theft and trafficking in the country. Labour CS Simon Chelugui on Tuesday reiterated the government’s commitment to ensure safety of children in the country, adding that he will do everything possible to get to the bottom of child trafficking claims. This comes after a BBC documentary that exposed how babies are being stolen in Kenya to feed a thriving black market. In its expose titled 'Buying a baby on Nairobi's black market', Africa Eye infiltrated the trafficking rings selling children for as little as Sh300,000. “We therefore assure Kenyans that our health facilities are secure and safe for mothers and children. We further urge the public to report to government agencies any case involving child loss,” the CS said. “Further, the government is committed to safety and security of all children in Kenya and would like to inform, Kenyans who for one reason or another may not have children of their own that there are legal procedures for adopting children guided by the recently gazetted National Adoption Committee.” According to the CS, the ministry has children officers across the country where information on adoption process can be readily accessed. He called on the public to report cases of all violations of children’s rights including trafficking, through the Child Helpline 116, the police or other relevant government agencies. “We condemn in the strongest terms possible the alleged stealing and sale of babies in Nairobi and any other part of the country. This is unacceptable and the government will deal with it decisively,” Chelugui added. He added”” I warn those who are stealing and or selling children that they will be met with the full force of the law.” The CS said that those who are buying such children are equally guilty as it is a criminal offence. The CS said Kenya prides in and is protective of its children, for they are the country’s herniate and an assurance for a better tomorrow. He said his ministry takes the issue of child protection seriously, adding that Kenya is a signatory to numerous international conventions and protocols that protect the rights and welfare of children These, he said, include the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking on Persons especially women and children and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child.