The Ford Kenya party has kicked out its Kisii party chairman Job Nyakenyanya. Nyakenyanya was on Sunday shown the door following his support for Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi who is leading a faction that wants to overthrow its leader Moses Wetangula. Swahili books author Timonty Arege was picked as the acting chairperson. Party leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula said Arege, who unsuccessfully contested the Kitutu Chache parliamentary elections will serve in the acting capacity until the party conducts proper polls. The changes at the party come a month after Wamunyinyi who was holding a meeting of rebel members at a Kisii restaurant escaped a police arrest over failure to notify the police as required by the government. Wetangula who was in Kisii Sunday to meet party members and officials also rooted for the BBI process. He said the document embraces much that is good for the country especially in dealing the vicious circle of electoral violence and mainstreaming women into the country’s leadership. He observed that equity runs through the strand of the entire document adding that with it the country will be united more. He said it will help galvanise the country together where the work and effort of each Kenyan counts. “Equity is the underpinning that informs the discussions on the BBI, as Kenyans we want where elections bring us together more than dividing us, where people’s hard work is respected, where women play their rightful role in the political process,” said Wetangula. MPs Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache) and Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) attended the function. Nyakenyanya is said to have unsuccessfully tried to bar the Ford Kenya meeting from taking place. Wetangula said BBI is a process owned and driven by Kenyans and no politician should be allowed to hijack it. “This is not a journey of one or two people alone, it is a collective process that needs every Kenyan to come on board,” he said. The signature collection, he said is so far going on peacefully. The signatures will later be validated by the Independent and Boundaries ahead of subjecting it to the plebiscite. Onyonka urged Kenyans of goodwill to ensure that they append their signatures on the document before it heads to the referendum