The Kwale government will scale down the number of workers physically reporting to offices to curb the spread of Covid-19. Governor Salim Mvurya said only crucial service providers will be allowed to report to work. “We are going to limit the number of staff and let those offering the most important services to come,” the governor said on Sunday. The new development comes as infection cases in the country rise. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Monday announced 559 new Covid-19 cases from a sample size of 3,074 bringing the total to 70,804. And while 478 patients were reported as the latest recoveries, bringing the total to 46,244, 18 more deaths were recorded, pushing the total recorded fatalities to 1,287. Reacting to the surge, Governor Mvurya said the rest of the staffers will work from home and only report to work when urgently needed. Mvurya said the move will help decongest the county offices and cut the virus transmission chain. The directive is expected to take effect this week. Mvurya said those above 50 years and workers with underlying conditions are among those targeted in the new measures. He spoke at a press briefing in Matuga subcounty. “The majority of those who are very sick at Msambweni Covid-19 Unit have other ailments, so we are going to be proactive and protect our staff,” he said. The governor said his administration has put in place enough resources to sensitised and mobilise locals at the grassroots and in the urban areas. He said over 40,000 face masks were bought and are being distributed to the residents. Mvurya said the weekly fumigation has been re-introduced to ensure all public places, market stalls and towns are disinfected. The county chief said tourist hotels along the Diani belt will also be thoroughly fumigated. He said the county was in the process of opening a Covid-19 laboratory to conduct mass testing. The governor called upon Kwale residents to comply with Covid-19 regulations, warning that county health department might be overwhelmed if they behave  recklessly.