 The Kisumu county government will only pay pending bills owed to genuine contractors and not masqueraders, Governor Anyang Nyong'o has said. Speaking during his state of the county address on Thursday, Nyong'o expressed concern about unscrupulous people posing as contractors doing business with the county government. While stressing the need for the government to expedite paying pending bills, Nyong’o asked contractors to be honest in their work. He said his administration will only pay for services offered by genuine contractors. The governor said pending bills presented great constraint to the growth of local business and livelihoods. He said that the county government had streamlined debt management by formulating the county debt management policy. "In the last financial year, the county government paid Sh592 million in pending bills. My government is doing everything possible to fast track the payment of these bills to avoid causing distress to the contractors,” Nyong'o said. He added, "I will not pass the buck to the government before us, but many of you already know that my government inherited a huge debt book, which included debts owed by the former municipal council. It is possible to wipe out pending bills entirely if we award contracts in time while the contractors move fast to fully accomplish projects without raising partial payment certificates where unnecessary." The governor also announced a raft of measures being undertaken by his administration in a post-covid economic recovery strategy. Nyong’o said among the strategies being implemented by the county government to aid economic recovery include provision of inputs to farmers and financial support to the small-scale traders. He said his government was keen on supporting farmers to enhance their productivity and had partnered with the national government agencies in the distribution of 20.8 metric tonnes of certified seeds to rice farmers. The seeds are worth Sh4.800 million. “As we give priority to developing the smallholder household food production, we must not lose focus of building commercial agriculture which will overtime shape our industrial revolution,” Nyong'o said.  