Kenya has started trials for the ChAdox nCovid 19 Vaccine at the Kenya Medical Research Institute in Kilifi county. The vaccine was developed by the University of Oxford in partnership with AstraZeneca and is being evaluated in several countries, including the UK, South Africa and Brazil. In a press release, Kemri Wellcome Research Programme said the trial team has already vaccinated its first volunteers after receiving the necessary regulatory approvals, ethical approvals, and a go-ahead from the Ministry of Health and the county government of Kilifi. Kemri Welcome Trust Research programme based in Kilifi is a collaboration between Kemri, the University of Oxford, and the Wellcome Trust in the UK. "Kenya has joined the global efforts in search of an effective vaccine for Covid-19 with the start of a trial evaluating a leading Covid-19 vaccine candidate ChAdOx1 nCoV-19," the Press release read. The statement said the trial aims at evaluating whether ChAdOX1  nCovx1 is safe, effective and has good immune responses in adults in Kenya aged 18 and above. The experts said the trial will first involve 40 frontline workers in Kilifi county and once confirmed the experts will recruit further 360 volunteers and a possible expansion to other counties. Kemri revealed that after immunisation, the vaccine trial volunteers shall be monitored for 12 months to access their health, any vaccine side effects, and how their bodies will develop immunity in response to the vaccine. "Vaccines which work in one population do not necessarily work in all populations; this has been witnessed in the case of vaccines against malaria, rotavirus and Ebola," the press release said. Kemri said to ensure that Kenyans benefit from the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine if it proves to be successful, there was a need to assess its performance among volunteers. "For this reason, Kemri expressed an interest to evaluate the vaccine in Kenya, leveraging the institute’s well-established capacity in the conduct of clinical trials in Africa and longstanding collaboration with the University of Oxford." Previously, the institute has been involved in pre-clinical vaccine development, first human trials as well as early and late-stage evaluation of vaccine candidates against malaria, Ebola, Shigella, Yellow fever, and pneumonia. The experts revealed that ChAdOx1 nCOV-19 vaccine was developed by incorporating genetic materials from the Sars-CoV-2 virus into the ChAdOx1 adenovirus vaccine platform, which has a well-established track record in terms of its ability to safely elicit immune responses in Humans when used for other diseases. "This has allowed the clinical development of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 to move forward rapidly, with over 10,000 volunteers immunized across the global trial sites and the vaccine found to be well-tolerated," the report said. By last Friday, there were over 44 million confirmed cases globally, with more than one million deaths. So far, there is no vaccine for Covid 19 but only several prevention and contention measures being implemented globally and nationally. They include lockdowns, restrictions on travel, physical distancing, wearing of masks, and handwashing, among other measures. "The Covid-19 pandemic has also had an overwhelming impact on healthcare systems and economies throughout the world and a vaccine would help alleviate these burdens," the press release said. Kemri-Wellcome Trust Research Programme was formally established in 1989 and is a partnership between the institute, the University of Oxford and the Wellcome Trust. It conducts basic, epidemiological, clinical, and health systems research in parallel, with results feeding directly into local and international health policy. It also aims to expand the country's capacity to conduct multidisciplinary research that is strong, sustainable, and internationally competitive.