The government is reviewing its agricultural research policy to make it more responsive to needs, address challenges and improve output. With the review, the Agriculture ministry seeks to prioritise national research that can tackle the current pandemic and other challenges. Agriculture CS Peter Munya confirmed that the National Agricultural Research System Policy — enacted in 2012 — will be redeveloped to position Kenya as a hub for research and innovation in the region and beyond. “It will also take into account economies of scale to not only use the current scientific, human and physical capacities across the various actors but also help put in place a mechanism that is consultative, efficient and effective,” Munya said during a forum with researchers. Munya said the policy will also focus on problem-solving and impact-driven research for national development. On Tuesday, Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga told the Star the ministry seeks to strengthen the coordination of research between public and international centres, universities and tertiary institutions and the private sector. Boga said a mechanism will be put in place to promote collaborative utilisation of resources, relevance and responsiveness of research and diverse institutional output. “The essence of the research policy is to know who is doing what research; how are they being facilitated; how they are collaborating with others and how they are linking research to all levels of the value chain,” Boga said. Oscar Magenya, director for research and innovation at the Crop Development and Agricultural Research department said they will collect views from county governments after engaging their research peers. “This process was supposed to happen early this year but it was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. We want to collect inputs from all relevant players in order to harmonise all the agriculture research activities from universities, international research centres, public research institutions such as Kalro and the private sector,” he said. Once views are collected from all players, the policy will then be validated before it is tabled in Parliament by March next year.