The Building Bridges Initiative referendum bill has not addressed the concerns we, as the church and the general public, had. We were told the issues we raised will be looked into but they haven’t. We want to hear them [President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga] say clearly that there will be a Christian court or the Kadhi's court will be abolished so every religion is equal. We also want to hear the President direct the Attorney General to lift the moratorium on registration of churches. That does not need a referendum. We have a feeling that freedom of worship is being taken away, especially since Jubilee came into power. I still don’t understand how having a prime minister and two deputies who are appointed by the President will address the issue of inclusivity. There is no rider on the proposal, which means the president will be at liberty to appoint anybody, including his brother or wife. They should have put a clear rider because it is meant to address inclusivity, to ensure the President does not appoint anybody from his tribe or party. That way the president would have to reach out to the losing party (ies) and give them those three posts to bring the country together. But we are happy with some of the changes. The appointment of the Judiciary Ombudsman, for instance, will now go through a process. The Ombudsman will not be handpicked by the president. This will ensure the president does not arm-twist the office-holder. The abolishment of the Kenya Police Council was commendable. When the Interior CS is allowed to control the police service, how will he treat the opposition? There will be no fairness. The police should be independent. On Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta told off DCI George Kinoti [on the revival of post-election violence cases]. That was wrong. It implies that Kinoti cannot work independently. He has to listen to what the President wants. The national chairman of the Church and Clergy Association of Kenya and Bethel Christian Pentecostal Church Bishop spoke to the Star