The pastoralist community has been given a chance for a review of the Building Bridges Initiative report after they promised to oppose it if concerns were not addressed. ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday said the leadership of the pastoralist 'nation' will appoint three experts to sit down with the BBI technocrats to thrash out their issues. Raila said the BBI report would include views from people who have raised concerns, revealing that the document could be amended. “The issues will be taken on board. The technical team will sit down and look at them,” Raila said after meeting leaders from the pastoralist community in Nairobi. The pastoralist leaders want an extension of the Equalisation Fund for 20 years, the establishment of the Livestock Marketing Authority and deletion of the proposed amendment on Article 203 (1) of the Constitution on revenue allocation. The leaders had last week identified 10 areas that they wanted amended but have since narrowed them down to three. Concerns identified earlier but were dropped included securing and protecting the 290 existing constituencies, making Senate the Upper House and creating a health service commission. Raila said all Kenyans should be given equal opportunities to exploit their full potential, including the people from the pastoralist areas. “Pastoralist areas are rich in resources and have the potential for tourism and other businesses. Infrastructure is also critical in these areas because these regions have been subjected to marginalisation for a long time,” he said. “We are reading from the same page and talking the same language. Each and every Kenyan is equal." The pastoralist community had last week warned they would reject the BBI report if their concerns were not addressed and their issues adopted in the document. The Pastoralist Leaders Forum, which comprises governors, MPs, CSs, PSs and speakers of county assemblies, on Monday said members had resolved to throw their weight behind the BBI process. Led by Jubilee coalition secretary Aden Keynan (Eldas) and National Treasury CS Ukur Yattani, the group of over 40 leaders said Raila assured them that their concerns would be addressed. “I can confirm to you that we have been deliberating on the matter and we have now resolved to support the BBI in totality. We want to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for having a special place for us in this matter,” Yattani said after the meeting. Keynan had last week during an in-house meeting of leaders from the pastoralist regions said he would arrange for a session with the BBI principals to present their grievances. On Monday, he said their issues would be taken care of before the final BBI report is drafted. "The pastoralist communities unconditionally support the BBI process and we are happy that the former prime minister has agreed to our issues which are now going to be brought on board," Keynan said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale expressed optimism that their issues would see the light of the day in the BBI report. “During the meeting with our leadership and members, the right honourable Raila Odinga unequivocally supported our issues and said they will be taken into consideration when the final report will be drafted,” Duale said. On November 3, leaders from the pastoralist community said the BBI report had excluded presentations they made during public participation forums. The group said they would be cheating the country if they declared that the pastoralist community is happy with the document. But Keynan said there are no divisions in the pastoralist community on the BBI report. “We are all happy and have resolved to unanimously support the document. The Pastoralist Parliamentary Group is not divided on this matter,” he said. He added that the stand by the community on the BBI report has nothing to do with the 2022 politics. Others present during the meeting were CS John Munyes, leader of Majority at the Senate Samuel Poghisio, governors Ali Roba (Mandera) and Mohammed Kuti (Isiolo) and legislators Ledama Olekina, Naisula Lesuuda and Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo among others. Roba said they would continue to engage the BBI team to secure the interests of the community. “Our issues are not political. What we are raising are matters to do with the pastoralists,” he said. Dullo said they will have more meetings with the BBI team and even with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. “We have been assured that our concerns will be taken on board. We want to sit on the negotiations table,” she added. Earlier, the group had demanded that human rights violation be addressed in the BBI report and funds be set aside for registration of persons and issuance of national ID cards and other crucial documents in their regions They said all pastoralists of age need to be registered so they can access services as any other citizen. On education, they had proposed that the recruitment of teachers in the high-risk Northeastern region be localised. They regretted that the Teachers Service Commission had withdrawn non-Somali teachers from Northeastern counties with no strategies in place to bridge the gaps.