The government has been urged to allocate more funds for development to end insecurity in the North Rift. More than 50 leaders and 300 residents resolved this during a two-day consultative peace meeting at the Kenya School of Government in Kabarnet, Baringo on Friday. “The only sure commitment we can make as leaders to end banditry and bring about lasting peace in the region is when the government allocates sufficient resources,” Tiaty MP William Kamket said. The meeting, chaired by the Rift Valley regional commissioner Gorge Natembeya, brought together leaders from Turkana, West Pokot, Elgeyo-Marakwet and Baringo. “President Uhuru Kenyatta gave one assignment to end persistent insecurity in North rift and I can’t do it alone that is why we are assembled here today,” Natembeya said. Kamket said the government should pump sufficient funds to develop the region, like opening up road networks, water, putting up more schools and health facilities to end the animosity of banditry and cattle rustling. “All these have been impossible with the meager government fund allocation” he said. Turkana East MP Ali Mohamed noted that the 2014 presidential directive to tarmac the 100-kilometre Chemolingot-Kapedo security road, is yet to be done. North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) chair and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago urged communities along the Kerio Valley to end disputes and coexist in peace. Present were Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, Josphat Nanok (Turkana)  and Elgeyo-Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich. Others were Baringo South MPs Charles Kamuren(Baringo South), Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central), James Lomenen (Turkana South), David Pkosing (Pokot South) and several MCAs. At least 300 people including children have been killed, several maimed while thousands have been rendered homeless and their livestock stolen by armed bandits since 2005. The region is inhabited by the warring Tugen, pokot, Marakwet, Turkana, Ilchamus and Samburu pastoral communities. Over 6000 illegal guns across the region still lie in the hands of civilians while the government is still contemplating choices between forceful disarmament or urging the handlers to surrender them voluntarily. Resolutions Among the 14 resolutions reached at the meeting are frequent joint-peace meetings among the affected pastoral communities. Leaders also asked the government to honor presidential directive to open up more security roads and communication network along the volatile Kerio Valley borders. It was also agreed that security officers will be escorting people and ensuring free movements until security normalcy is back. Also provision of social amenities, clean water and schools were resolved. The leaders also agreed that the government should motivate peace champions by rewarding them and more open air markets be established to act as social joints. Furthermore, a serious crackdown was agreed to mop up illegal guns and intensifying security patrols. West Pokot Governor Prof John Lonyangapuo and Tiaty MP William Kanket opposed calls for victims of bandits attacks in North Rift to be compensated “If the government is really committed about seeking lasting peace in the region, then it should shelve mentioning anything to do with compensation to the affected victims,” Kamket said. “Personally I am willing to attend as many peace crusades to unite the warring communities, but don’t support plea for compensation” he said.