Vihiga Senator George Khaniri has urged the BBI team to strengthen the Senate for proper checks and balances that ensure resources allocated to the counties are used prudently. He warned that corruption could increase in the devolved units if money is increased to at least 35 per cent but the Senate's oversight powers are weak. "Failing that, all resources channelled to counties will go to waste as corruption will mar those devolved units,” he added. He said changes the BBI document should be amended to cater for that. Khaniri spoke in Luanda South during the burial of former councillor Ezekiel Muya. Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo and former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende were among those present. Khaniri urged that the report be made available to the public to read so they can make informed choices. “Don’t just tell people to read the BBI report and it is not available. Also, it must be of benefit to all Kenyans and not leaders to read and interpret to the public in favour of their interest,” he said. Ottichilo said he will ensure residents get the right information about the content of the report. On the use of county resources, Khaniri urged Ottichilo to hold his staff accountable to tame corruption. "Governor, you are at the helm of the county, if something goes wrong, you will be held responsible. Therefore, hold your officers accountable over county resource to achieve your expectations," Khaniri said. Ottichilo had said each officer will be held responsible for his or her work. Marende accused Deputy President William Ruto of not being satisfied with the BBI report. He said the DP’s camp is planning to oppose the report just like they did with the 2010 Constitution. Marende said the current document is the best and will better the lives of millions of Kenyans in terms of service delivery, economy and development countrywide. Ruto 0n Friday gave the strongest signal that he will oppose the report if the document is not opened for further amendments. He said he won't have a problem with the report if it factors in what he termed as "issues touching on the lives of the poor and farmers". He said their resolve for the inclusion of agricultural reforms will not be defeated.