Allies of Deputy President William Ruto are preparing to launch an opposition campaign to the BBI proposed referendum saying that the initiative fails to capture the aspirations of Kenyans. They argue that BBI has not talked about how the livelihoods of Kenyan farmers and small-scale traders will be protected and uplifted. On Thursday, Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa offered to lead the ‘No campaigns’ in rejecting the BBI, saying it does not promise to address the problems of the common man. Ruto has been at the forefront of opposing constitutional changes calling for consensus and dealing with issues that affect the public. The process entered a crucial stage on Wednesday with the launch of the collection of one million signatures. Vice-Chancellors have sought parliament nod to allow the institutions to raise fees paid by students beginning 2021. The suggestion, by university vice-chancellors, seeks to have State-sponsored university students pay Sh48,000 in tuition, three times the current Sh16,000 a year. However, the dons want this done in three phases, three years apart. In the first phase, the university heads want the fees raised to Sh24,000; the second phase will see the fee raised to Sh36,000 while the final phase will achieve the proposed Sh48,000. The MPs, through the Education committee in parliament, will next week meet to deliberate on among other proposals to review - upwards - fees paid by government-sponsored students. The National Police Service Commission could be reduced to a shell body if the proposals in the BBI referendum Bill go through. The Bill delegates most of the functions of the Commission, including the hiring and firing of officers, to the Inspector General of Police. Meanwhile, the office of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations will be elevated to be independent and embedded in the Constitution if proposals in the referendum are successful. The Bill amends Article 243(2) of the Constitution that establishes the National Police Service to include the DCI together with the Kenya Police Service and Administration Police Service. The DCI has been under the NPS and was only mentioned in the NPS Act as one of the many units in the service. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga’s political influence coupled with sweeteners in the BBI referendum Bill are likely to guarantee easy passage in most county assemblies. In addition, the support of influential governors and other seasoned politicians – party leaders – who have thrown their weight behind the constitutional changes will give impetus to the Bill. About 30 governors and five party leaders attended the launch of the collection of at least one million signatures at KICC on Wednesday, underscoring their support for the document and a plebiscite. Uhuru and Raila enjoy sizable support in the country, though this has been threatened by the growing influence of Deputy President William Ruto. The DP, who has opposed the clamour to amend the Constitution and has been pushing for consensus, has made inroads in Uhuru’s bastions – selling his hustler narrative and trashing the BBI report. Austerity measures and reduced spending on capital projects are likely to feature widely in Treasury CS Ukuru Yatani's 2021/22 budget, as he moves to plan within the Covid-19 pandemic era. The CS who on Wednesday launched a three-day public sector hearing on the budget proposals for the next financial year and the Medium-Term, which ends today, signalled reduced spending and a cut on borrowing, as he targets to bring down the country's fiscal deficit to 3.5 per cent of GDP. Treasury has projected overall expenditure and net lending at 23.7 per cent of the GD. His budget plans put the deficit at about Sh830 billion which the government will depend on borrowing to bridge, as Kenya Revenue Authority collections remain below the spending plans.