Eight North Rift counties are implementing an economic recovery strategy to support existing investments and attract new ones despite the Sh15  billion lost to Covid-19. The counties have recorded more than 5,000 cases of Covid-19 and a number of deaths. Despite the Sh15 billion loss since March, counties in the the North Rift Economic Bloc hope renewed development strategies will succeed. Officials from the chamber of commerce and Moi University have been assessing the impact of Covid-19 on the region. Most of the losses come from failed revenue collection and suspended projects. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. the Noreb chairman, said on Saturday the partial reopening of the economy will allow implementation of the recovery strategies while ensuring full adherence to Covid-19 control measures. “Our people must strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols while ensuring our economy continues to grow," Mandago said. He said his administration is committed to ensuring the county and Eldoret attract more investors. Mandago spoke while presiding over the opening of a new mall in Eldoret town. He said for eight years his administration has initiated projects to upgrade the town, leading to more investments. "We want this town to be a destination for many investors," he said. The governor cited setting up the Nova International School, the Toyota showroom and Rupa Mall as among the investments creating jobs. He said Eldoret was the Noreb business hub and counties were working on joint economic recovery strategies to improve the lives of more than six million people. Governor Patrick Khaemba separately said they were focusing on agriculture as a major sector driving economic recovery. “We will continue to support our farmers because the agriculture sector provides food and creates so many jobs for our people," Khaemba said. In Eldoret, Mandago said they are working on improving the backstreets within the CBD to create more business spaces for traders. He urged traders to attend public participation forums for finance bills because that is where key input on on licence fees and other key financial issues are made. "If you cannot attend the forum you can always write a memorandum so your views as traders are captured," Mandago said. Eldoret Municipal Board chairman Julius Kitur said they are ensuring the interests of all residents are taken care of. County Trade executive Emily Kogos said her department will work with Eldoret traders and improve their working environment. (Edited by V. Graham)