The construction of three footbridges along the expanded Ngong’ Road will be completed within a year, the Kenya Urban Roads Authority has said. The first bridge will be at the main gate to Kenyatta National Hospital, the second at Coptic Church-Muchai Drive junction and the third at the University of Nairobi Kenya Science Teachers College campus. The bridges will have steel girders with concrete decking. They will also have access ramps, roofing and lighting to enhance security. They will ease the movement of vehicles, which presently are forced to stop to allow pedestrians to cross the road at certain places. The contractors are currently relocating power poles and cables, fibre optic cables and sewer lines. They will also have to minimise dust and noise pollution in some instances, and the disruption of traffic when erecting steel girders. When completed, pedestrians, among them patients and students, will access either side of the road safely. Institutions, businesses and public agencies on either side of the road will also benefit as their access will be seamless. According to Kura, there will be frequent consultations with service providers to minimise disruption of services as the construction continues. Kura corporate communications officer Stephen Njogu said proper and adequate communication will be given to the public on any disruptions. “Adequate measures will also be taken to ensure the safety of motorists and pedestrians during launching and minimisation of dust and noise pollution,” Njogu said. The expansion of Ngong’ Road is three-phased. The first phase is between Kenya National Library and Prestige Plaza. The second starts from Prestige Plaza to Dagoretti Corner. These two phases have been completed. The third phase starts from Dagoretti Corner to Karen Shopping Centre. It is 80 per cent complete. Apart from the construction of footbridges, street and traffic lights will be installed as well as guard rails, traffic signs, and other amenities essential in modern road infrastructure. 