 A Martha Karua-led lobby group wants Kenyans to reject the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020, saying it is an illegitimate process. The Linda Katiba Movement further said the BBI constitutional amendment initiative launched last week is a political project “to restore a system that a certain group of people prefer.” “Let us speak up together and resist the illegalities that have come with attempts to overthrow the 2010 Constitution,” Karua told reporters. She said BBI is an illegality because it is not a people-driven initiative as its proponents claim. According to the Narc Kenya leader, “a popular initiative cannot come from the State and organised using public resources. If the State wanted to amend the Constitution, it should have gone the parliamentary way.” Karua said it was illegal for the State to ask the provincial administration to spearhead the collection of signatures. “The provincial administration have been made to violate the Constitution. Dear Kenyans, you are not alone. Let us join hands because we are many. We are also appealing to the media to ensure that alternative voices also get a hearing.” With her were economist David Ndii, Daisy Amdany of the National Women's Steering Committee, activist Boniface Mwangi, former NCIC commissioner Gitile Naituli and policy expert and activist Jerotich Seii. Like the Narc-K leader, Ndii said the BBI process is illegal and flawed and intended to return the country to the dark days when the provincial administration was used as an enforcement arm of an imperial presidency. “We should all rise up. We are the majority. Linda Katiba Movement will come with litigations in court to stop this illegality,” he said. Mwangi said the BBI is a project of two people- President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga- and not one of ordinary Kenyans. “Do not let somebody cheat you that these two people care about you. It is all about them,” he said. He asked: “How will BBI fight corruption and other ills facing Kenyans? What makes you believe they will implement the Constitution after it is amended?” Amdany said the 2010 Constitution is a good document that had been proclaimed as one of the most progressive in the world when it was promulgated 10 years ago. “I want to ask Kenyans to join us as we build a movement- the Linda Katiba Movement- to defend the Constitution, defeat impunity and advance transformational agenda that was set a decade ago,” she said. Seii said there is concerted effort to make it appear as if Kenya is facing a constitutional moment and that the BBI had come to the rescue. “The BBI popular amendment initiative is a cynical mockery of constitutionalism, the rule of law and good governance. It is a travesty of justice,” she said. Seii said Uhuru and Raila did not tell Kenyans they were setting out to review the Constitution when they shook hands in March 2018. “In the handshake memorandum that they made public, Kenyatta and Odinga promised and undertook to personally lead the process of healing the nation from the divisions caused by the elections,” she noted.