With Tottenham sitting at the top of the Premier League, Harry Kane has been cheering Jose Mourinho for the way he has improved his football since joining Tottenham. Harry said in training that he has learned so much from the ‘Special One’. He revealed that Mourinho expects more from him in wider areas of the pitch and not just in front of goal. He pointed out that he is playing deeper than last season and Jose has instructed other players such as Sonny, Moura and Stevie Bergwijn to run behind him. It creates more space and enhances his influence and presence because he covers more ground. He also said under Mourinho’s instructions, they play more in a midfield block and move further up field together which makes a counter-attack much easier. Spurs fans had a genuine love affair with Mauricio Pochettino and loved his style of attacking football despite not winning any trophies. They complained loudly when he left and doubted that replacement Mourinho could create the ‘Tottenham style’. Comments such as, “He will never understand our philosophy and our direct approach to football because Mourinho teams are primarily based on defence while we play attacking football.” Despite not being able to go to White Hart Lane at the moment, Mourinho has won them over and he has become a firm favourite and they now recognize that he is using an attacking strategy. Kane and Son have developed their strike partnership to become the most feared in the league and at the back Eric Dier has at last realised his potential and formed a solid partnership with Toby Alderweireld. Serge Aurier used to be vulnerable and could lose a game on his own but not now because he has become Mr Dependable. Tanguy Ndombele works hard in midfield and is capable of controlling games under Mourinho. Suddenly the Special One has regained his magic touch and looks like the Mourinho of old when he won big trophies. Who would bet against Spurs lifting the championship title this season? This weekend Spurs visit Stamford Bridge to take on Chelsea in a huge top of the table clash which will again test Mourinho’s attacking approach.  Knives out for Arteta There has been some vocal criticism aimed at Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta this week. Many supporters are not happy with either the manager or the club’s progress this season. The players have bought into Arteta’s new approach and the way he has changed training and a strategy with a more attacking and simpler style of play. However, impatient fans have voiced their concern over the ongoing situation with Mesut Ozil and point out that whilst Arsenal are not winning games, he sits at home earning £350k-a-week.  They are concerned that Arsenal sit in only 12th place in the league with fewer wins, fewer goals and fewer points than this time last season. Arsenal have registered the least number of goals at the start of a campaign since 1998/99. During Monday’s training session, Arteta worked with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang because his goals have dried up having not scored in his last eight games. It has now become obvious that much of Arteta’s success has come through Aubameyang’s goals and the striker’s current drought has highlighted failings in the Gunner’s strategy. With Ozil sitting watching matches at home, it seems to fans that this play-maker should be creating opportunities for the strikers and Arteta should bring him back into the first team squad. Klopp upset with Salah Whilst refusing to make public what he said to Mo Salah, Jurgen Klopp’s body language and carefully chosen words revealed his annoyance when he lost his striker for the Leicester game last weekend. Mo was pictured at his brother’s wedding in Egypt not wearing a mask and surrounded by guests. He consequently caught Covid-19 which meant missing the African Cup of Nations match against Togo and having to self-isolate when returning back to the UK. Klopp said that Salah should have missed the event and pointed out that the same thing might have happened to him in the summer when he was invited to a friend’s birthday party but he declined to go. Rodgers attacks Klopp A row broke out this week between Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp and Leicester’s Brendan Rodgers. The two agree the current hectic playing schedules are dangerous to players but Rodgers attacked Klopp’s constant moaning about having too many injured players. He claimed that too much had been made of Liverpool’s current injuries and pointed out that Klopp could call on his hugely expensive squad of reserves including James Milner, Fabinho and Joel Matip to cover Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez, Trent Alexander-Arnold and captain Jordan Henderson. However, Rodgers concluded by saying, “Their unbeaten home run is an incredible record and it shows you the power and the strength in depth that they have. They are an outstanding squad of players.” Ancelotti top manager To see how a world class manager can influence his team and gain the best results, one only has to look at Carlo Ancelotti’s recently adjusted strategy at Everton. The team had been failing down the right-hand side of the pitch since Seamus Coleman’s injury. Ancellotti spent much of last week working out the best way to play Fulham at the weekend and how to make the most of the right-hand side of the pitch. He decided to play with two wing-backs and three at the back in defence. He played Iwobi at right wing-back and Lucas Digne on the left. The result was that the team had much better width and balance. It was as though the pitch was suddenly larger which created more space in which to play. It freed up Richarlison and James Rodrigeuz who both had more  freedom to threaten the goal alongside Calvert-Lewin. It meant the three could play much closer together because when they moved forward they were covered from behind. Iwobi’s excellent series of crosses from the wing gave the three in the centre several chances from which to score. The result was that Everton took the game to Fulham and of course came away with a 3-2 win. Ancelotti is a world class manager and with him at the helm Everton are always going to be a tough team to beat. Burnley’s Clarets about to get rich Burnley are rooted in the relegation zone of the EPL and even with their talented manager Sean Dyche it is hardly surprising. I have been talking with several Burnley staff and they readily admit they are the poorest club in the Premier League and if you examine their financial investments compared with other top-level clubs it is surprising that Burnley are even in this league. These facts are supported by looking at the previous transfer window. Chelsea, for instance, spent over £200 Million. How much did Burnley spend? They forked out just £1million on Brighton midfielder Dale Stephens. That could change very shortly as owner Mike Garlick, who is worth £62 Million, is currently in advanced talks to sell his stake in the club to either Egyptian businessman Mohamed El Kashasky (worth £9.65bn) or American group ALK Capital LLC who are a wealthy investment company. The Premier League has 17 billionaires owning top-flight clubs and it will be inspiring if manager Sean Dyche is able to buy top quality players who will enable him to build a much stronger team. He has performed miracles at Burnley for eight years and deserves to be in charge of a better quality team who can challenge for silverware.  Sebastien Haller’s still not smiling West Ham fans are relishing their resurgence as they climb the table and sit in 8th position. But why, everyone is asking, doesn’t new £45 Million signing Sebastien Haller ever smile? His goal return hasn’t been exactly spectacular and that could be the reason. He scored against Fulham at the weekend but instead of smiles and celebrations he simply stood and raised his arms and his face remained solid and serious. I spoke with some Hammers staff after the game and asked why. “What you don’t know,” they replied, “is that when he reached the dressing room after the game, he was all smiles and hugging players and was clearly excited and enjoying himself. Pity Hammers fans could not share in his excitement. Try and smile next time Sebastien, after all, the fans love you!  Pogba’s future again uncertain Once again the rumours are circulating regarding Paul Pogba. Manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer prefers his midfield trio of Nemanja Matic, Fred and Scott McTominay which leaves Pogba out in the cold and indeed he has been on the bench more times than he has started games. Pogba himself has been showing frustration at not being first choice and has again told close friends that he would like a move. Juventus and Real Madrid, I am informed, have been contacted by Pogba’s agent Mino Raiola. However, it appears PSG are also showing interest. PSG would be attractive to Pogba as it would give him his first chance to play in his native France. The midfielder enjoyed four years at Juve before joining United and again this would prove a good move from his point of view. Neither Pogba or United are rushing to renew Pogba’s contract next summer and United could cash in with a transfer move. I have been told secretly by my Madrid contacts that the President of Real, Florentino Perez, does not want to spend big money bringing in Pogba. Rest in Peace Maradona He never played in the Premier League but I must pay tribute to the great Diego Maradona whose skills and talent enriched our sport of football in ways other players can only dream of. A true legend who will never be forgotten.