Crucial Garissa government data are at risk because the county has yet to set up an ICT policy for recovery plans in case of a disaster. But Garissa Governor Ali Karone told the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee chaired by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri that he has appointed a chief officer to spearhead the process. “The directorate does not have an ICT policy in place, however, it has engaged a consultant to develop an ICT policy. This policy will also have a framework for data security and disaster plan,” he said. The governor appeared before the Senate committee to explain own-source revenue targets. The lawmakers felt the targets were unrealistic and hampered implementation of various county programmes. CPAIC had summoned Korane to respond to audit queries raised by former Auditor General Edward Ouko in 2017-18. Senators termed Korane's response as shallow and a testament to the county’s non-committal to put in place a policy to protect crucial data. “Why is it taking you too long to put in place this policy? We have seen several disasters; floods, terrorist attacks, drought and even locust. Why don’t you have this policy?” Ongeri asked. Taita Taveta Senator Johannes Mwaruma said the county was not committed to putting the policy in place as the auditor flagged the same query the year before. “It seems the county is not keen on developing this policy,” Mwaruma said as his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei agreed. The governor said his administration has already developed a disaster and risk management policy that is currently undergoing stakeholder engagement. Korane was also questioned over his administration’s failure to meet its own-source revenue target by Sh159.80 million during the year under review. The administration collected Sh90.19 million out of a target of Sh250 million. Nearly all the departments registered a shortfall in revenue collection. “No satisfactory explanation was provided for the shortfall,” he said. The governor said that prolonged electioneering period, frequent insurgency attacks, burned market stalls, drought and change of leadership in the county led to the low collection. “There was a prolonged nurse and medical staff strike that took long to be resolved. In this regard, the cost-sharing revenue drastically went down for the entire period of strike,” he said.