Governors want the government to compel insurance companies to pay for Covid-19 medical treatment. Private insurers stopped covering hospitalisation and most treatment expenses in July during the first wave. The insurers said the pandemic is highly infectious and treating patients in intensive care is unsustainable, costing between Sh600,000 and Sh1.5 million, with some incurring  bills as high as Sh9 million. At least 30 governors who attended a virtual council meeting before Wednesday’s presidential address said this is “heartless”. They said the second wave will destabilise families if treatment is not covered. “It is unacceptable, heartless and unethical that the private insurance companies who have been paid colossal amounts of money now deny desperate Kenyans access to medical care demanding more monies from the already overburdened population,” Council of Governors chair Wycliffe Oparanya said. The insurers claim they have not abandoned Kenyans and were paying for treatment until it became unsustainable. The Association of Kenya Insurers says by June they had paid more than Sh120 million in Covid-19-related claims, and some firms paid up claims of Sh10 million per person for Covid-19 treatment. The insurers accuse hospitals of price gouging, by inflating the costs of treatment. “The average cost of care, especially if it’s intensive care unit-related, is completely unsustainable,” said Minet Kenya CEO Sammy Muthui in August. Medical insurance is generally a loss-maker in Kenya due to medical fraud and unjustifiably high hospital bills. In 2019, medical insurers’ underwriting loss doubled to Sh75 million, according to AKI. AKI chief executive officer Tom Gichuhi argues the classification of Covid-19 as a pandemic meant patients would settle their own bills. Many insurers also say they do not cover the cost of consumables used in the treatment of a disease. Consumables are single-use items such as PPE, masks and gloves. On average, consumables should account for about 10 per cent of the treatment cost. However, for Covid-19 treatment hospitals have hiked the cost multiple times. A July policy brief by the Kenya Medical Research Institute- Wellcome Trust says consumables (mainly PPE) accounted for approximately 65 per cent of total costs of Covid-19 treatment in Kenya. In their resolutions, governors also called for regulations to standardise the cost of treating Covid-19 in private and public sector hospitals. “Hospitals have continued to demand hefty amounts ranging from Sh200,000 to Sh600,000 before admission of Covid-19 patients,” Oparanya said. In the July policy brief Kemri- Wellcome Trust said costs in hospitals range from Sh21,359 per day for asymptomatic patients, Sh21,361 per day for patients with mild symptoms, Sh24,705 for patients with severe disease to Sh51,684 for critical Covid-19 patients in ICU. The governors also called for other ways of testing Covid-19 as thermoguns are no longer reliable. The CoG said it will obtain professional advice on other  testing options such as pulse oximeters, a small device that sides on a finger and uses infrared light refraction to test oxygen levels.