Former Nasa CEO Norman Magaya has opened up about the woes he has been going through to the point of feeling like giving up. Magaya took to Twitter on Monday and painted a picture of devastation in a series of back to back tweets. The last time he was seen in public was in September 2019, when he flew to India for specialised medical treatment after developing a heart attack. He had been admitted at the Nairobi Hospital before being flown to India. On Monday, Magaya said he was in a dire situation and could not keep silent anymore. “As the true son of my late father and mum, I shall not beg! To hell be the consequences, am ready! Enough of tormenting me and my innocent kids! I have no duty to please anyone. Worst are the allies who pray to see one’s downfall! Enjoy it all! Damn the consequences! Goodbye world!” he tweeted. He went on to explain that the cost of medication in Kenya is an indirect death sentence. “How does a person out of work and on a shoelace budget maintain drugs demands of 100k per month!!! Torture this is.? He continued: “I share this not to seek any sympathy nor seek support! I am happy to bear my current position because I have earned it. Given another opportunity I would take the same position. Democracy has a price and is happy to pay my part.” Magaya said medical expenses as well as providing for his family had pushed him to the brink, with the risk of being evicted. “On the verge of eviction and embarrassment, I fear nothing, absolutely nothing! For I know this will be a day of joy for my detractors and I will gladly give it to you! From the cold street with my toddler daughters, I shall rise high coz there is God! Damn the consequences.” Economist David Ndii tweeted that he tried to reach Magaya on the phone but could not do so and only sent a message. Last year, ODM had said it was committed to supporting Magaya in his medical journey and wished him a quick recovery after the heart attack. “The Orange party continues to stand with our luminary through this process until his return,” the statement concludes.