ANC party legislators have resolved to back the BBI report, giving President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's push to amend the Constitution a shot in the arm. The boost by ANC lawmakers came amid growing calls to have some of the proposals in the report amended. MCAs, governors from pastoralist communities and lawmakers have vowed to campaign against the document if their views are not incorporated. ANC had also asked Uhuru to open another window for consultations on contentious issues. The County Assemblies Forum on Wednesday threatened to scuttle the process if their demands are not met. The ANC party on Thursday held a parliamentary group meeting to decide their take after it emerged that there would be no window for further amendments. Lugari MP Ayub Savula, who is the chair of parliamentary group, said the meeting resolved to support the report as they “quietly request for further changes to the document.” “There were a number of changes we wanted in the report but we will nonetheless campaign for the document,” Savula said. He said the meeting proposed that leaders of parties supporting the BBI should lead the Yes campaigns for the referendum. “We want ODM leader Raila Odinga to lead his party in drumming up support for the report, Kalonzo Musyoka to spearhead Wiper campaigns and Moses Wetang'ula to take charge of Ford Kenya's rallies. For us, we will have Musalia Mudavadi leading our campaigns.” Savula who is the deputy party leader said ANC will strive to get the majority of Western residents to support the constitutional amendments push. “We want to lock Western and make sure it will be a Yes region,” Savula said. ANC had said the document has positive provisions but pointed out that "there are several proposals that require further consultation and consensus." The party wants amendments made to proposals to have a Judiciary ombudsman, on the National Police Service Commission, vetting of appointees by the National Assembly and Salaries and Remuneration Commission among others. The county assembly forum said they will seek a meeting with the President to urge him to open another window for consultations and consensus-building. CAF said it is determined to strengthen devolution and will fight off any attempts to weaken counties. The forum's chairman Ndegwa Wahome said they want the best for counties and were therefore demanding that assemblies be empowered.