A UN agency has called on the government to prioritise the protection of female refugees as they are at the highest risk of gender-based violence. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees said there was urgent need to shelter refugees, displaced and stateless women and girls especially at this time of Covid-19. Doors should not be left open for abusers and no help spared for women surviving abuse and violence, assistant high commissioner for protection Gillian Triggs said on Monday. As of September, Kenya had 447,141 refugees and 51,218 asylum seekers. The figures do not indicate the number of women. Kenya is one of the countries hosting the highest number of refugees in Africa. Dadaab in Garissa has 44 per cent of the refugee population, followed by Kakuma and Kalobeyei (40 per cent) and urban centres (16 per cent). The agency says that refugee women and girls were already at high risk of sexual and gender-based violence before Covid-19. Measures put in place to fight the pandemic have led to restricted movement, reduced community interaction, the closure of services and worsening socio-economic conditions. All these factors, Triggs says, significantly exacerbate the risks of intimate partner violence. “Some women and girls may end up confined to their shelters and homes, trapped with their abusers without the ability to distance themselves or to seek in-person support. Others may be forced into survival sex or child marriages by their families,” she noted. UNHCR has called on states to include displaced and refugee women and girls in their Covid-19 response programmes and place their safety first as they respond to the pandemic. “To preserve lives and secure rights, governments, together with humanitarian actors, must ensure that rising risks of violence for displaced and stateless women are taken into account in the design of national Covid-19 prevention, response and recovery plans,” Triggs said. She said critical services for survivors of gender-based violence should be designated as essential and are accessible to those forcibly displaced. “These include health and security services for survivors, psycho-social support and safe shelters. Access to justice for survivors must also not be diminished,” the UNHCR states.