The anti-corruption agency wants two luxury cars belonging to Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s family seized, in fresh documents filed in his graft case. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said it has received critical evidence from Australia showing the vehicles were bought with fraud money. “Material received from Australia through the Attorney General’s office revealed that part of the money sent to Achola Dan Okoth [Obado’s son] was used to buy two motor vehicles, Toyota Land Cruisers,” EACC says in court papers, exclusively seen by the Star. EACC also wants an extension of orders preserving a multi-million house in Loresho — registered in the name of Jared Oluoch Kwaga, a supplier to the county — in which Obado’s daughter is allegedly collecting rent. EACC says it received a statement from international freight firm Mclintock International confirming that payments for the two cars were made by Kwaga. One of the cars, KCK 722B is registered in Achola’s name. The other Land Cruiser, KCK 997W is registered to Oliver Okeno Odhiambo. “There is urgent need to preserve motor vehicles Land Cruisers KCK 722B and KCK 997W which are currently in possession and use of the 4th respondent [Achola] and which were equally bought from proceeds of corruption emanating from Migori County Government,” EACC said. Meanwhile, the Star understands the EACC sought legal assistance from Scotland, UK and Australia in the graft case. Obado and his four children Achola, Susan Scarlet Okoth, Jerry Zachary Okoth and Adhiambo Evelyn Okoth were charged in August in a Sh73.4 million graft case. Also charged is Kwaga and six members of his family including wife, mother and two of his brothers and sister-in-law. EACC had earlier said Sh38.9 million of county cash was wired directly to Obado’s children abroad from major suppliers said to be the governor’s proxies. These firms are owned by the Kwaga’s family and are said to have received over Sh2 billion from the Migori county government. At one point, Kwaga was paid Sh139.9 million through his various firms. He then wired it to his personal Cooperative Bank account from where he sent Sh15.6 million directly to Obado’s three children. Achola Dan Okoth received Sh11.3 million, Susan Scarlet Akoth Sh1.9 million and Jerry Zachary Okoth Sh2.3 million. 