President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday took a swipe at the Director of Criminal Investigations boss over the revival of the 2007-08 PEV cases. Uhuru said such a move would be dangerous for a country that has enjoyed tremendous peace in the last two years. While launching the signature collection drive for the BBI bill, Uhuru said he was not going to allow the country to head back to dark days. "Wale ambao wanajaribu kuchimbua makaburi, nimesoma kwa gazeti juzi wasifikiri wanacheza, mimi siwezi kukubaliana na mambo kama haya. Tumetoka  huko na mambo haya tumezika katika kaburi la sahau. Kwa sababu ukijaribu kuleta maneno hapa, wewe hujui ni shida gani. Na wengine hawafikirii,"  Uhuru said. (Those who are trying to dig the graves, I read in the newspaper, let them not think they are joking, I cannot accept such things because we moved on and buried those memories. If you try again you don't know what problems you might cause) Uhuru added, "You don't think before you talk, you don't think before you act. You must always think before you do something. Sisi hatutaki vita katika taifa letu la Kenya (We don't want conflict in Kenya)". Kinoti on Monday said the state would reopen cases on the 2007-08 massacre, with victims of the horrendous Kiambaa Church ready to testify. The move came more than seven years after the government officially announced that there was no evidence to prosecute perpetrators of the bloodbath that left more than 1,100 people dead and 650,000 forced from their homes. Just three weeks ago, lawyer Paul Gicheru surrendered to the ICC in what others claim is an attempt to revive the crimes against humanity charges against Deputy President William Ruto. Kinoti after meeting victims who had flocked to the DCI headquarters to record statements, said 72 murder cases, 44 land displacement cases and 118 of threats linked to the 2007-08 post-election violence had been lodged. The DCI boss vowed to do whatever it takes within the law to bring the perpetrators of the post-election violence to book, saying that would happen “very soon”. "Very soon you will see the outcome of this event. We will look for them. I know they are waiting for another poll violence to occur. Let them try again. We will follow the truth, prepare all the files and say this is the person who killed this person," he said. A day later after public outcry, the DCI boss dismissed the claims saying his message was misinterpreted. He rather said address on Monday was not intended to mean that the DCI was going to open completed cases that were investigated and closed. He said that was an acknowledgement of concerns raised by the affected Kenyans to assure them of DCI's commitment to investigate all reported threats to security and sensitise the public on the need for a peaceful co-existence. "The directorate had received complaints of fear and apprehension by members of the public who feel their lives and property are in imminent danger owing to threats," he said. "We remain true to our mandate to prevent, disrupt and deter crime before it occurs. We shall continue to embrace proactive crime management and to safeguard the lives and properties of all Kenyans and apprehend those who breach the law and endanger their fellow citizens." On Wednesday, Uhuru denied claims that the BBI document was seeking to cause more divisions among Kenyans than unite. Uhuru said before the handshake, the principals asked themselves whether they were seeking leadership for people to fight or to see Kenya prosperous. "As Kenyans, we are very forgetful because many of you think the peace we have enjoyed for the past two years is normal. It is not normal," he said. He said just as he reached out to his Deputy William Ruto before the 2013 election, he extended the reach-out to Raila so that peace can prevail across the country. "This was not my first time to reach out. I reached out to Ruto; where is the problem when I reach out to Raila," he posed. Uhuru said a time has come for all Kenyans to be faithful to the peace and stability of the country. He said there are those who want their views featured in the document but unfortunately have been left out. "This is not the last; Kenya will still be here forever and there will be more amendments because the Constitution is a living document," he said.