A police officer based at Kilimani police station and a clinical officer at Nairobi  Women's Hospital on Monday narrated how a woman tried to fix a Turk in a rape case. Joyce Patricia Nzau is charged with making false allegations against Kiran Sinan, claiming he raped her on August 24, 2018. He is also accused of giving false information to the police and forging medical documents. She reportedly issued them to Upendo Medical Clinic and Nairobi Women’s Hospital. Nzau denied the charges on Monday and was released on bond by Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani. In their testimonies, corporal Jacob Ndunda and medic Winfred Wanza told the court that Nzau was not raped as alleged. Ndunda said he received a distress call from the control room from a woman in an apartment in Kilimani to which he responded with his colleagues. “... we found a man standing facing the entrance. The woman told us  she had been invited by her friend, a Turkish national, and during the party, the said friend requested her to accompany her in another room where he started some sexual advances,” Ndunda told the court. The officer testified that Nzau told him that Sinan forcibly tried to have sex with her and she decided to call 999 for assistance. “She told me that the man forcefully picked her mobile phone and smashed it. We then arrested the man and took him to the police station,” Ndunda said. He told  Gandani that he later learnt after investigations that the woman lied to him. Wanza, on her part, told court that she was at the hospital on the day Nzau claimed  she is the health officer who examined her on the said date when she arrived with police officers. She could not recollect handling such a case. She told court that she called her colleague top confirm whether she had seen such a patient  the previous night. The colleague said she had not attended to Nzau, upon which she refused to fill the P3 form. “The P3 form had a lot of altercations and I doubted it. I interviewed the patient who said she was in the hospital on August 24. I informed the officers that I was not at work on the said day," Wanza said. The magistrate directed the case to proceed next month.