Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has offered to lead the No campaigns in rejecting the BBI, saying it does not promise to address the problems of the common man. Barasa, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday said the document fails to capture the aspirations of Kenyans. He said BBI has not talked about how the livelihoods of Kenyan farmers and small-scale traders will be protected and uplifted. "Kenyans have been made to believe that you can only benefit from a government if one of your own is at the top. That is why BBI is expanding the Executive and increasing the number of MPs," he added. Barasa further added that BBI did not adequately incorporate the views of ordinary Kenyans. "The views of all Kenyans are equally important. The views of people in expensive suits are not more important than those of a Mama Mboga who is in slippers," he stated. Barasa added that he does not expect to run into problems with the government for asking people to vote No since Kenya is a democracy. On Wednesday, Ruto insisted there is still time to build consensus on BBI even after the launch of signature collection. Via Twitter, Ruto said Kenyans still have a chance for a non-divisive referendum. "Even with the signature launch there is still a real chance at consensus for a  non-divisive referendum that will give Kenyans the opportunity to express  themselves without an us vs them, win vs lose contest," Ruto said. He further reiterated that unity is the strength needed to fight the current health crisis as well as re-organize the country's economy. President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled the final constitutional review bill containing fresh changes. The new bill seeks to create 70 new constituencies distributed in at least 28 counties. It allows for nomination of women to Parliament and county assemblies but only those who stood for election. In fact, preference would be given to those women who received the highest number of votes, ending the culture of tokenism and rewarding 'girlfriends'. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 also proposes enhanced Senate powers and gives MCAs an opportunity to serve in the coveted County Executive Committee posts. The proposal gives the President powers to appoint at least 14 Deputy Ministers from among members of the National Assembly to deputise Cabinet ministers. The bill, however, dropped some of the initial contentious proposals that had generated political heat. These including political parties nominating Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commissioners and the establishment of the police council. The new bill also makes no mention of plans to kick out the current IEBC commissioners led by Wafula Chebukati. 