President Uhuru Kenyatta appeared to create a window for the BBI report discussions even as he banned political rallies until January. The President said that political gatherings can happen in town halls as long as they adhere to the Covid-19 prevention protocols. Proponents of the BBI constitutional changes can use this as an opportunity for sensitization as well as the collection of signatures as they seek support for the document. The President banned the rallies as he announced fresh measures aimed at taming the spread of Covid-19 in the country. The President also extended the nationwide curfew by an hour while also ordering bars and restaurants to close by 9pm. A new hurdle has emerged in President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's quest to amend the Constitution. County assemblies have threatened to scuttle the process if their demands are not incorporated in the Building Bridges Initiative report after it appeared that there would be no further amendments. County assemblies are critical in the process since they required to approve the referendum push. On Wednesday, the County Assemblies Forum said it would seek to have a meeting with the President to urge him to open another window for consultations and consensus-building. Kajiado county assembly speaker Johnson Osoi said there are issues they had raised with the BBI taskforce but were not included in the final report. Deputy President William Ruto is faced with the dilemma of supporting or opposing the BBI report and proposed referendum. With 2022 in sight, the DP and his allies are weighing the political repercussions of supporting or opposing the documents supported by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto has insisted that the BBI proposals need to be amended to cater for the needs of Kenyans and cannot be passed as is. However, Uhuru, Raila and their allies have put together a programme of events to popularize the document. Ruto and his allies may have to await the document in Parliament to push through amendments before the proposed referendum in April 2021. The cost of treating children with cancer in Kenya is among the highest in Africa, and more than 50 per cent of patients abandon their treatment midway. A new study across four countries in Africa calculates that the family of a child at the Kenyatta National Hospital spends about Sh3 million in the course of cancer treatment. The amount is largely driven by the high cost of medication, administrative costs and accommodation of patients and the caregivers in Nairobi. As a result, 55 per cent of all children being treated for cancer at the KNH abandon their treatment. Kenya has the highest costs in a public facility while the lowest is Zimbabwe. When President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 25 to help fight the spread of Covid-19, many Kenyans worried how the police would interpret the directive. As feared, armed with batons and guns, the police landed on Kenyans with the kind of energy used during exchange of fire with armed robbers or terrorists. They pounced on people rushing home to beat the curfew, women selling at the market and many more. According to Human Rights Watch, at least 10 people lost their lives in the first 10 days of the curfew. In the Coast region alone, three people died allegedly in the hands of the police. These were just the reported cases of deaths. The question remains how many people really died and how many were lucky to have lived to tell the stories.