Bungoma MCAs are probing how public funds were spent during Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s celebrations of three years in office. The public accounts committee chaired by Lwandanyi MCA Tonny Barasa on Monday summoned three chief officers to explain how much money was used for the fête held in September. The team also wants to know the importance of the event. The three are Diana Makokha (Finance), Public Administration's Abidan Kapchanga and Denson Barasa (governor's office). Kapchanga and Barasa differed on the exact amount that was spent. Barasa said Sh9.8 million has been spent, while Kapchanga put the figure at Sh10.9 million. “So far, the money that was used and paid was Sh9.8 million. However, some money is yet to be paid to other service providers and allowances to some members of staff so the figure will rise,” Barasa told the committee. However, Kapchanga said the money already paid for the exercise was Sh10.9 million. Ndivisi MCA Martin Wanyonyi wondered why the figures were different, yet the twoofficials were accounting officers in the same government. Barasa said they had projected to spend Sh10 million, but the figure was reduced to Sh9.8 million, when some services were withdrawn after the county decided not to have the events run simultaneously in the sub counties. “That was the initial figure, but if you subtract the money for services withdrawn it comes to the same figure of Sh9.8 million," Barasa said. The chief officers also said media houses that televised the event live have not been paid. When the assembly team told the three to present the payment vouchers, they did not have them. The three said some beneficiaries had not submitted payment documents, despite receiving the cash. “The reason we can’t account for some money is because those forms were never returned as it was late in the evening,” Barasa said. He said MCAs are some of those who have not surrendered payment documents. Barasa said he was following up on them to ensure payment vouchers are surrendered. The assembly team told the three to table all payment documents before the close of business Wednesday as the committee retreats to write its final report on Thursday. When put to task on the importance of the event, Kapchanga said it was aimed at showcasing and reviewing Wangamati's scorecard. He termed it a 'normal practice.' The celebrations were held at Kibabii University, during which the governor outlined his development scorecard since taking over from Kenneth Lusaka in 2017. Wangamati said the county government is investing in long-term projects that will offer permanent solutions to the challenges residents face. The county government has been focusing on education, infrastructure, water, food security, health, youth and women empowerment, he said.