The US, one of the most stable democracies in the world, is not that stable after all. President Donald Trump has tried every means possible to effect a coup after losing the election but the system the founders of America put in place has rebuffed him. It has, however, shown vulnerabilities that might make this possible in the future, unless President-elect Joe Biden and the rest of rational politicians in Washington do something to fix the loopholes that Trump exploited. While Trump was relentlessly trying to mount a coup, he predicated the unprecedented efforts on a thuggish lie that he won the election but was rigged out by Democrats. Everyone, including the man himself, knew that was a lie. Rigging is common in the third world, it is unheard of in advanced democracies such as the US. Trump, however, started setting the stage long before elections, saying he will only lose if he is rigged out. No normal person says that. A free, open, and transparent election means the contenders must accept the reality of losing and nobody goes in with any assurance they will win, other than in a rigged system. In all countries where rigging is common, it is done to benefit the incumbents, or their successors of choice, in the rare cases where the incumbents are barred from seeking another term. The rigging is done by able hands known variously as 'the system',,” 'the deep stat” or simply the president’s men and women. They will rig at will and there is nothing you will do about it. This, however, is not possible in advanced democracies for reasons there is no need to enumerate here. Rigging in Kenya, however, is real and something one can write tomes about but that is for another day. For now, we can all agree, and no one disputes that rigging has been a staple in our country. Indeed, it is the desire to end violence, destruction of property and deaths following each disputed election that made President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga  shake hands, which is still shaping our history. The point in this piece is to simply talk to brothers and sisters who keep chest-thumbing about how the 'Hustler Nation' leader can defeat 'the system' .That is a pipe dream. The system, with Uhuru being a major part of it, has long decided Deputy President William Ruto cannot step inside State House as president, not in 2022, perhaps never. Those in the system know if Ruto becomes President, he will finish them all. Would you let someone come to power to finish you? Obviously not, and that is what we have here. Yes, Ruto can excite and incite the hoi polloi and dish out the proverbial Sh100 the late President Daniel Moi used to say was all he needed to buy any number of votes he needed to win. But in the end, 'the system's' chosen one besides him will be sworn as president regardless of whether  he wins the majority vote. If in doubt, ask Raila and if still in doubt, ask him again. If our brothers and sisters don’t catch on to what is being said here and insist on rejecting BBI, the system can simply do away with it and rig in their preferred candidate. None of your refusing to see that reality will do anything about it, as it has happened before. Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator