Mombasa MCAs have described the late ODM chairman Mohammed Hatimy as a politician who was passionate about his work. Hatimy, a nominated MCA and the chairperson of the Finance and Budget committee of the county assembly, succumbed to what is suspected to be Covid-19. He was among seven MCAs who tested positive for Covid-19 on October 27, leading to closure of the county assembly. Deputy speaker Fadhili Makarani said Hatimy was not only a colleague but like a father and a mentor. “He gave us big support at the county assembly and in Mombasa as a whole. He took the lead in passing of so many motions in the assembly and his demise has left a big gap,” Makarani said. He said Hatimy acted as an advisor and counsellor in their families and was always there for them in any time of need. He said that he played a big role as chairperson of the Finance and Budget committee. “We have people who have the knowledge of handling issues in the department but it will take time to adjust to what he was doing,” Makarani said. Nominated MCA Milka Moraa described Hatimy as a knowledgeable person in devolution matters. “I have lost not only a friend and a colleague but my classmate at KCA University. We have lost a very important person, someone who understood what he was doing and a very wise person,” Moraa said. Majority leader Hamisi Musa who worked with Hatimy for a long time in politics said he was a hard working person who used to take responsibility in everything he did. “We have really been affected because the late Hatimy has left a very big gap which will take time to be filled. He was a good person and a very respectful leader,” Musa said. Likoni MCA Athman Mwamiri said Hatimy held his hand in his political journey and took the lead in  fighting for the rights of people. “The late Hatimy was a person who ensured that we have free and fair nominations. He brought so many motions on board and mentored so many. This is a big blow to us as young people in politics,” Mwamiri said. Edited by Henry Makori