Three Kenyan top flight clubs will lock horns in a pre-season mini-league slated for November 21 at the Jamhuri Show Ground. Kenyan Premier League defending champions Gor Mahia, Posta Rangers and newbies Nairobi City Stars have all confirmed participation. The mailmen are the hosts by default, given that they normally use the venue as their training ground. The sides will be using the tournament to gauge the quality of their new acquisitions ahead of the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League which has now been scheduled to commence on November 27. Gor Mahia will also be seeking to assemble a competitive squad that will enable them challenge effectively for the Caf Championship. The local giants invested heavily during the ongoing transfer window after losing their dependable players to more endowed regional and local clubs. The 18-time KPL champions parted ways with Harambee Stars' centre back Joash Onyango who found a new home at Simba SC in Tanzania, Dickson Ambundo (Dodoma), custodians David Mapigano and Peter Odhiambo who moved to Azam FC and Wazito respectively, as well as forwards Boniface Omondi and Clinton Okoth who also inked deals with the moneybags. K'Ogalo in turn acquired the services of former Mathare United defender Andrew Juma, Andrew Malisero from Malawi, Benson Omalla, Sydney Ochieng, Samuel Njau and Kevin Wesonga from Western Stima, Bertrand Konfor, John Macharia, Jules Ulimwengu (Rayon Sports), Levis Opiyo (City Stars)  and John Ochieng Chemilil Sugar. Posta Rangers have also been on a shopping spree, acquiring Elijah Mwanzia from NSL side Mt. Kenya, Kevin Opiyo (APS Bomet), Denis Oalo (Gor Mahia) and Timothy Omondi (Chemelil), Emmanuel Pala (Sofapaka) and Eliud Lokuwam (Gor Mahia). The Mailmen had lost Danson Kago to Mathare United and parted ways with Brian Osumba, Marcellas Ingotsi, Gradus Ochieng and Humphrey Okoti who are all currently unattached. City Stars on the other hand are basking in the glory of their recent promotion to the top tier after finishing at the summit of the NSL log in the previous season. They've brought in Herit Atariza and Rogers Okumu from Coast Stima, Rowland Makati (Vapor FC), Yusuf Mukisa (Proline, Uganda), Steven Njunge (Wazito), Kennedy Onyango (Homeboyz), Eric Ombija (Gor ), Elvis Ochieng (Hakati Sportiff), Timothy Ouma (Laiser Hill), Ronny Oyaro (Kenya School of Government) and Sven Yidah (Kariobangi Sharks). They lost Levis Opiyo to Gor, Kevin Okumu (Wazito), as well as Tedian Esilaba, David Gateri, Eric Ochieng, Noah Odhiambo and Eric Kagunzi. 