The number of cases handled by the gender-based violence hotline 1195 in Kenya rose from 86 in February to over 1,100 in June but have since been declining. This is according to data from the Gender Ministry that launched 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence (GBV) on Wednesday. "According to the National Helpline 1195 data, since the month of July to date, as a result of the advocacy by different stakeholders across the country, there has been a decrease of GBV cases by 41 per cent," Youth and Gender PS Collette Suda said. Nairobi, Kakamega, Kisumu, and Nakuru counties recorded the highest number of GBV cases during the lockdown, while Isiolo, Samburu, Tharaka Nithi, Garissa and Marsabit recorded low cases. According to the World Health Organization, the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence is an annual international campaign that kicks off on  November 25, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and runs until December 10, Human Rights Day. "It was started by activists at the inaugural Women’s Global Leadership Institute in 1991 and continues to be coordinated each year by the Centre for Women’s Global Leadership. "It is used as an organising strategy by individuals and organisations around the world to call for the prevention and elimination of violence against women and girls," WHO said. GBV is described as any act that results in physical, sexual, or psychological harm or suffering. According to the Gender-Based Violence Recovery Centre, this includes threats of such acts, coercion, or arbitrary deprivations of liberty—whether occurring in public or private life—perpetrated against a person based on socially ascribed gender differences. The recovery centre has supported more than 44,000 survivors since its inception in 2001 and receives an estimated 3,000 survivors yearly. Data shows 45 per cent of women and girls aged 15 to 49 have experienced physical violence and 14 per cent have experienced sexual violence. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said GBV response services should be regarded as essential services and therefore available during emergencies like Covid-19. She added that safe shelters should be integrated so GBV survivors can seek legal, mental, and physical health services under one roof. Mwangangi also acknowledged that as household income decreased because of Covid-19, the unpaid care work for women increased. Unpaid care work entails activities such as cooking, cleaning, going to the market, and taking care of the sick—roles that are traditionally held by women. The latest Oxfam report states that where women spend about five hours on unpaid care work daily, men spend just one.  Edited by F'Orieny