Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has ordered the closure of the county headquarters after staff tested positive for Covid-19. In a circular, she said the county headquarters will be temporarily closed from November 16 for two weeks. She directed the Health executive to carry out mass testing of officers in the affected departments. Waiguru said it had become imperative to institute urgent measures while avoiding grounding critical operations. "Infections have been spreading rapidly among county officers despite implementation of prevention and control measures," Waiguru said. She directed county staffers affected to start working from home, adding that the county executive and chief officers will be required to develop plans that will ensure critical departmental functions are performed. “Departments should conduct virtual meetings and use electronic devices in the transmission of information and data as much as possible,” Waiguru said. She instructed all officers to be available on phone especially during working hours and respond in a timely manner to communication via email. “The executive will continue monitoring the situation closely and will issue further guidelines and advices as it becomes necessary”. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua had directed that public officers who are 58 years and above and those with pre-existing conditions work from home. Meanwhile, Murang’a department of Health has advised the county government to scale down operations following an increase in Covid-19 cases. County Secretary Patrick Mukuria said in a letter that all the staff offering non-essential services should proceed on a 12-days leave, starting November 16. Mukuria said all the county government offices will be fumigated and asked staff to continue observing Covid-19 guidelines. Kakamega and Nandi counties also closed their headquarters following reported cases of the virus among the workers. In August, the county assembly of Kirinyaga was ordered closed for 21 days until Monday September 14 when the house was expected to resume operations. Clerk of the county assembly Kamau Aidi urged the MCAs to self-isolate for three weeks and strictly adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health. Edited by Henry Makori