Frequent health workers’ strikes could soon come to an end if a Senate bill seeking to address their welfare is enacted. The Health (Amendment) Bill 2020 provides for a framework for management of human resources for health by both the national and county governments. “The bill seeks to enhance the functions of the Kenya Health Human Resource Advisory Council in order to empower it to advise the national and the respective county governments on health human resources,” it reads.. The proposed law is sponsored by Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali and is set for introduction in the Senate for first reading. “This bill seeks to enhance the scope of the functions of the council. The proposed enhanced functions of the council will affect the dual functions of the counties to manage health facilities and hire human resources,” the bill says. It says that the council shall review and advise the two levels of government on remuneration, recruitment, training and transfer of the health care professionals. The bill states that the council shall undertake an audit of healthcare workers in the national health system and advise the governments on the gaps in recruitment, employment and deployment of registered workers. “The council shall advise the national and the respective county governments on the promotion of healthcare professionals and review and make recommendations for inter-county transfer of healthcare professionals,” it says. The bill, if approved by Parliament and signed into law by the President, will address the welfare issues that have been at the centre of frequent strikes by the medics. The workers have been downing their tools for lack of promotion, allowances, harmonisation of their pay and lack of training among a raft of other issues that the proposed law is seeking to address. “The council’s enhanced mandate is expected to improve health service delivery in devolved units through the promotion of cooperation between the two levels of government in the critical area of human resources for health.” Currently, the principal Act mandates the council to review policy and establish uniform norms and standards for posting of interns to national and county government facilities, inter-county transfer of healthcare professionals and transfer of healthcare workers from one level of government to another. The council also advises on the management and rotation of specialists and maintains a master register for all health practitioners in the counties. “Due to the enhanced responsibilities of the council, the bill also proposes to increase the representation of the County Public Service Boards in the council.” Edited by Henry Makori