A struggle common to everyone is fear. We all have experienced it as we do life. Fear is ever with us. Some people argue that fear is a good thing, others look for ways to eliminate it, and some are indifferent – they feel it but don’t think much of it. Whatever your feelings, thoughts, or experiences are, I honour them because I know that it takes a lot to deal with fear. Let’s face it: fear is uncomfortable. It does not feel good; we do not enjoy it. However, despite the unease, what do we do with fear? I don’t have all the answers because fear can be complex. It rises when things go wrong or right. Good or bad can cause fear – it’s strange how it works. But how do you face it? First: acknowledge what you feel – do not deny it. The fear that you feel is real, and it is happening. Acknowledge it; name it. You are afraid of spiders; you are afraid of heights; you are afraid of intimacy, etc. Whatever fear that you feel, acknowledge it, do not fight it. You are terrified for a reason. In essence, fear is the doorway to a breakthrough; that is why you must walk through the door. Second: find out why. You have been afraid of heights most of your life, but you have never questioned your fear. Why are you afraid of heights? Why are you afraid of intimacy? Why are you afraid of success? Why are you afraid of whatever? For once, interrogate your fears, investigate your fears. Stop and look your fears in the face. Why is this important? It is because you want to understand your fears. You want to get to the root of what terrifies you. You want to take a closer look at what makes you flee or freeze. Perhaps, it is not what it seems. Maybe it is not as powerful as it appears. But how would you know if you do not question it? Third: keep moving forward. With understanding comes the opportunity for courage. So now that you understand your fear, would you stop or advance towards your goal? Understanding your fear may not change how you feel, but it helps your decision-making. You have enough information to move forward. Fear does not have to cripple you. See it for what it is and keep moving forward. You are winning if fear does not stop you – now, that’s courage. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 