ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said consensus building in the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative debate should incorporate Kenyans from all walks of life. Mudavadi said on Sunday that Kenyans at various levels and on an individual basis should own the consensus process if the country is to have a non-contested referendum. “As Kenyans, we need to zero in on a more conclusive and accommodative approach that will help unite the country after the BBI process is over,” he explained. He spoke after attending a church service at the Christ is the Answer Ministries Valley Road in Nairobi. The former Vice President cautioned leaders who might want to take the advantage of the BBI debate to score political points. The ANC leader said the ongoing shuttle discussions on the BBI process under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta is giving an indication  a deal will finally be struck. Mudavadi and leaders of other political parties met the President last week. He affirmed the head of state is willing to give dialogue and consensus-building a chance before the ultimate decision is made on the BBI report. He insisted that a few amendments should be made on the report before Kenyans can go to a referendum. He further said Kenyans should not be misled that the referendum will be a benchmark for the 2022 political formations. Mudavadi said the outcome of the referendum ultimately will not be the real picture of what will happen during the general election, giving the scenarios that played out in the 2005 and 2010 referendums. He said they were not the same formations that went to the 2007 and 2013 general elections. The ANC boss urged Kenyans to remain focused on the contents and the spirit in which the BBI process is anchored. He added that what will play out during this period should help in uniting the country rather than dividing the people. He encouraged other leaders to take a bold step and embrace the ongoing consensus-building process. He said civil society and religious leaders should also weigh in on the debate. Mudavadi said the spirit of closing ranks should be the guiding factor in the process, adding that an improvement is welcome as long as it accommodates the aspirations of Kenyans. He praised the President’s shuttle consultations, saying the positive nature that their meeting took should be an indication that the process will ultimately bear fruit. (Edited by V. Graham)