Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro wants bigger constituencies allocated more funds instead of being subdivided as proposed in the Building Bridges Initiative report. Ndindi on Monday said subdividing the constituencies will result in extra expenses that will further overburden Kenyans who are already suffering with the slumped economy. He spoke while issuing bursary cheques to university students in Murang'a town. He maintained that an MP, whether elected or nominated, requires about Sh50 million annually for staff salaries and maintenance. He said the proposal to have 70 extra constituencies and about 100 nomination positions is outrageous. "Kenyans are more interested in the amount of funds being channeled towards development and how they impact them economically," he said. “My opinion is that the money that would be used for the extra positions should instead be taken to the grassroots. I say this knowing too well that my constituency is the biggest in Murang’a county,” he said, adding that the only challenge he faces is insufficient resources. He said the government should instead ensure there is equitable distribution of resources so that Kenyans who live in big constituencies get more development. Nyoro said more funds could also go towards establishing a kitty for cash crop minimum guaranteed returns and empower small and medium enterprises that have been hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many parents are struggling to raise school fees and a little help would go a long way,” he said. He added that once the country begins subdividing constituencies, more parts of the country will feel left out and the numbers will continue to rise. “The gender top-up is okay if it is common Kenyans who will be nominated but if it will be used to nominate senior leaders’ girlfriends, then we cannot overburden poor Kenyans so that people’s girlfriends can be awarded,” he said. He challenged the government to give an allowance for the contested issues to be debated and agreed upon. The MP said this as the collection of signatures for the referendum continues in most parts of the country.