 @alalmaurice The Kisumu county government is considering a ban on burying bodies within the jurisdictions of the city. Acting city manager Abala Wanga said plans were underway to pass a law that will prohibit burials in the city. He said families in Manyatta, Obunga, Nyalenda, and Bandani slums were  burying their loved ones within the estates. “This should not be the case. We are working on a bill to be tabled to the assembly,” Wanga said. He said Kisumu City Board will work closely with the County Assembly to enact a law that will prohibit such burials. Wanga, however, urged residents in slum areas to bury their loved ones in the gazetted cemetery in Mamboleo or take them to their rural homes. “Everybody who came to Kisumu must be ready to ferry their loved ones home for burial if they don’t want to bury at the cemetery,” Wanga said on Friday during a clean up exercise in Nyalenda. He said the city status requires burials in the cemeteries and urged locals to comply once the law is put in place. Wanga said future plans for the expansion of roads and other amenities in the city may stall if burials within the estates are not stopped. He announced plans to draft waste management regulations that will ensure strict disposal and penalties. Wanga said they are working on the best ways to make Kisumu clean with the regulation on waste management in the offing. He said the regulations will give the enforcement officers powers to hold and take to court those who carelessly dispose of waste. “Once the law is in place, those who carelessly throw waste in the city or spit will be held and charged,” Wanga said. He urged residents to strictly dispose of waste in the installed bins and designated points in the city. “Let us join hands in making our city clean. Stop throwing waste aimlessly,” he said. The official said they are putting structures in place to have the city cleaned up at night like other cities. On the welfare of casual workers, Wanga said he was negotiating with the county government on how they can be given yearly contracts. The city has more than 140 casual workers. They include cleaners and drivers of tippers. “These are the most important workers and without them, the city cannot be clean,” Wanga said. They have also embarked on sensitising the public on how to manage waste in their offices and households. Wanga directed enforcement officers to ensure strict adherence to waste disposal in collection points. Recently, he ordered the immediate closure of the garbage collection site near Kisumu Water and Sanitation Company (Kiwasco) and the Jua Kali area. He also told the city director of environment Bernard Ojwang to ensure daily waste collection. This comes even as Kachock dumpsite is set for relocation to Kasese in Muhoroni sub-county. 