Kenya has started making logistical preparations to store Covid-19 vaccine once approved. Currently, 42 vaccine candidates are in clinical trials and 151 in pre-clinical evaluation. From the time it is manufactured to the time it reaches the syringe, a vaccine requires stable temperatures, mobile refrigeration, sound roads and reliable electricity. Once approved, the vaccines will require storage at 2-8 degrees celcius. Unfortunately, such medical freezers are rare even in the developed world. Some will require to be stored in ultra-cold temperatures. “We are making logistical preparations to handle the vaccines and their special storage characteristics including temperatures as low as -70 degrees Celsius in readiness for when such a vaccine becomes available,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement on Wednesday. For instance, the Pfizer’s promising vaccine is based on new technology that uses synthetic mRNA to activate the immune system against the virus needs to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius, a requirement likely to hamper the inoculation programme. This comes barely two weeks after health experts warned on the need to expand existing cold chain networks to meet the storage demands for Covid-19 vaccines. According to the World Health Organisation, a fraction of vaccines globally are lost to wastage due to exposure to heat or as a result of breakage of vials while on transit hence the need to modify existing cold chain networks to align with efficient immunisation approaches. Kagwe noted that Kenya will not be in a hurry to pre-order the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine candidate that has shown to be 90 per cent effective, noting that the vaccine is yet to undergo the requisite global and local regulatory evaluations and approvals to support their efficacy and effectiveness. “It is my assertion that in the absence of certainty and in response to the doubts that have been publicly cast by global experts, we will not commit the taxpayer's money to pre-order the vaccine candidate,” Kagwe said. The CS added: “We should instead wait for globally and scientifically approved and acceptable vaccines. We are on the side of caution.” He noted that the ministry is engaging and monitoring several vaccine candidates that are at the advanced clinical III trials with a view of protecting Kenyan lives and availing the safest options at the soonest appropriate time. Kenya last month joined several countries including the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil in conducting evaluation trials on Oxford vaccine candidate ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. The trial is being hosted at Kemri at the agency's Kilifi-based Kemri-Wellcome Trust Research Programme, a longstanding collaboration between Kemri, University of Oxford and the Wellcome Trust in the UK. The study plans to evaluate whether the vaccine is safe, effective and elicits good immune responses in adults in Kenya aged 18 years and above. The trial in Kenya will initially involve 40 frontline workers in Kilifi county. “We proudly stand behind our research institute Kemri and the National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group which have been a core part of the global efforts to develop and introduce new vaccines including Covid-19 vaccine." 