The construction of water pans in Ademasajida in Biliq village, Wajir West, has restored livelihoods for the pastoral community. The water pans are part of the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Project, a programme under the North and Northeastern Development Initiative, a Sh100.5 billion project initiated by the national government in collaboration with World Bank and other stakeholders. Ademasajida location chief Mohamed Aden says the water pans have brought hope and restored the dignity of the people and a land ravaged by hunger and thirst for ages. More than 1,000 people now have access to affordable water for themselves and their livestock. During the launch of the Tawakal water pan project in Biliq, residents sang, danced and jumped joyfully as they celebrated and praised God for granting them their biggest wish — water. The thrill in the entire village revolved around the Tawakal water pan, whose construction brought with it a ray of hope. Before the pans were installed, water came at a relatively high cost for the community. For decades, women and girls in Wajir— a sweltering, water-scarce county — have trekked daily for long distances and insecure routes in search of water. On a good day, they would get water from county government-funded water boozers, which supply water to remote areas. “When the water boozers failed to show up, we were forced to walk over 30 kilometers for a whole day in scorching heat to the water points with our entire livestock,” Fatuma Mohamed, a livestock farmer in Biliq village, said. Wajir is one of 10 counties benefitting from the project,  which aims at reducing development gaps in the region. To sustain the water pan, a community-led management committee charges a small fee for the livestock. The fee helps with maintenance — desilting the inlet and other works. The Biliq community has been trained to undertake catchment protection activities to ensure longer term water harvesting and minimise siltation into the pan. Edited by EKibii