Francis Kimanzi’s reign at Wazito took off on a low note after his charges crashed  4-0 to Kariobangi Sharks in their opening Kenyan Premier League match at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. Both teams lived up to the billing in the initial minutes of the match, stringing short and crisp passes. Wazito made several menacing breaks towards goal, but the centre-back duo of Kuol Chol and Eric Juma stood tall throughout the game, screening  Brian Okoth from the prowling forwards. Wazito survived an early scare in the fifth minute when James Mazembe ran down the left channel in an attempt to squeeze a shot from a tight angle, but his intention was well-read and thwarted by Kevin Okumu. Sharks looked strong on the right flank and even Wazito’s experienced left-back Denis Ng’ang’a could not contain a marauding Dan Sakari, who eventually broke the deadlock in the 34th minute with a thunderous shot. Eric Kapaito lobbed the ball over an advancing Odhiambo to stretch Shark’s lead. Kapaito was soon on the loose again, bagging a brace in the 77th minute before Julius Masaba hit the fourth in stoppage time. Despite the terrible start, Kimanzi received affirmation Wazito owner Ricardo Badoer. "Lets give it time and have coach Kimanzi get us where we need to be," Badoer said on Twitter. Meanwhile, KCB kicked off the campaign with intent, walloping a hapless Posta Rangers side 3-0 in the first match of the day. KCB’s Simon Munala Munala was in a class of his own, threatening the Rangers goal at will and in the 11th minute, he beat his marker to unleash a rasping shot that went a few inches wide. KCB broke the deadlock in the 20th minute after Derrick Otanga picked up the ball in space and pulled off a cheeky stunt on Rangers’ centre-backs right on the edge of the area before finally hurling the ball into the back of the net. Henry Onyango doubled the lead for the Bankers in the 71st minute through a well taken strike before Enoch Agwanda hammered the final nail into the Mailmen’s coffin in the 87th minute to secure maximum points for Zedekiah Otieno’s charges. Elsewhere, Nairobi City Stars made their debut with a convincing 2-0 win over Nzoia Sugar at Narok Stadium as Western Stima and Bidco played out to barren draw at Moi Stadium in Kisumu.