Education CS George Magoha has been asked to close Kolanya Boys High School in Busia county after 52 students tested positive for Covid-19. Six teachers and two non-teaching staffers have also tested positive for the virus. Kenya National Union of Teachers' Teso branch executive secretary Deogratius Owaya said closing the institution was the surest way of protecting the other learners from contracting the contagion. “Our position as Knut is that the school be closed because we are endangering the lives of other students," Owaya told the Star on the phone on Wednesday. He said he spoke to some teachers from the school and they feel stigmatised because members of the public no longer want to interact with them. Owaya said all the other students should be tested and those found safe asked to go home. “Those who will test positive should be taken to hospital.” A teacher at the institution said a team of health experts is expected there on Friday to conduct tests on the students whose samples have not been picked. Kolanya Boys High School has 287 students in Form 4. Sixty out of the 100 samples picked from students, teachers and non-teaching staff returned positive results on Tuesday. The teacher who requested anonymity said anxiety was growing at the institution as students wait for their samples to be picked. Six police officers have been deployed to ensure movement in and out of the school is controlled to limit the spread of the virus. “The thing is we volunteered to test and by bad lack 52 students and six teachers tested positive. It is something we did willingly,” the teacher said. “We expect health officials to return on Friday to do more tests on the other students because those who tested positive have been interacting with them.” On Tuesday, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong dispatched a team of health officials to monitor the situation. Kolanya is a county school which means it admits students including those from outside Busia county. Ojaamong on Tuesday said students whose results turned positive have been isolated within the school and medical staff deployed to manage them. He said the rest of the school fraternity has been quarantined within the institution.  Edited by P.O