Police in Kisii on Monday afternoon stormed a venue in Ogembo where Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi was holding a party meeting. Wamunyinyi was meeting Ford Kenya party members and officials from Kisii and Nyamira counties at a restaurant on Kisii-Kilgoris road when police on patrol stormed in minutes to the end of the function. A brief altercation ensued between an officer and the MP before they ordered that he accompany them to Ogembo police station to record a statement. It was at this point that Wamunyinyi left the venue. Rival factions battling for the control of Ford Kenya have clashed over a National Delegates Congress set to endorse the ouster of party leader Moses Wetang'ula. Wetang'ula has declared as illegal, null and void the November 21 NDC convened by the Wafula Wamunyinyi-led camp, saying it has not been sanctioned by party organs. In a public notice, Wetang'ula asked party members to ignore the meeting, which he maintained has been invalidly convened. "Neither the party nor any of its organs instructed and or authorised Eseli Simiyu to issue the Notice on October 31, 2020 and November 1, 2020," Wetang'ula said. Earlier, Wamunyinyi had told Wetang'ula to attend the planned delegates conference on November 21 if he wants to vie for any party post. He said the party was now focused on revamping itself ahead of the General Election. In May, Wamunyinyi and a camp against Wetang'ula tried to unseat him from the party chairman position, accusing him of failing to offer leadership to the party. He said the party members are going to meet at Bomas to pick fresh leaders, adding that the party was 'in wrong hands'. "One may ask if we ever had a candidate who successfully ran for presidency. If it is Wetang'ula he had been doing so perennially without fruits," said Wamunyinyi. The meetings in Kisii were to rally members to attend the upcoming national delegates conference to elect new leaders, he told journalists. "All of you are aware that the party has not conducted any elections for more than a decade now which is illegal according to registrar of the political party's act," said Wamunyinyi. The upcoming event is for all party members where they will be eligible to vie so that we get new leaders, stated the MP. On BBI, Wamunyinyi said party was supportive of the initiative.