Nakuru county is fast running out of ICU beds due to a surge in serious Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic in black November. With only 19 ICU beds and 40 ventilators, officials admit health facilities are overstretched. The county has 38 patients in critical condition, 17 requiring supplemental oxygen. The county has recorded 3,365 positive cases. The death toll is 81, most of the victims were elderly. So far, 30,251 people have been tested. Several months ago in a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta, it was agreed each county would have at least 300 isolation beds. Many counties admit they can't afford them. Nakuru county officials met senior security officers in Naivasha to strategise on carrying out a major crackdown targeting the Covid culprits who defy safety regulations. Health CEC Dr Kariuki Gichuki said hospitals and workers were overstretched. He said past experience has proven that whenever there was a crackdown, the number of cases dropped, so it was important to work with security officers. “We have 38 seriously sick patients in our wards and of that number, six are in ICU and the rising trend is worrying,” he said. Addressing the press on the sidelines of the meeting, Gichuki said 222 health workers had tested positive for Covid-19 though no death has been reported. “The county is catering for all medical fees incurred by health workers who turn positive and we have provided protective gear to all our staff in all health centres,” he said. Gichuki called on residents to observe safety protocols, such as wearing masks, keeping social distance and washing hands. “We are engaging enforcement officers in this fight to reduce the rising cases that burden the health sector," he said. Deputy Governor Eric Korir said they were meeting all the security forces to strategise. He said rural areas are now the worst-affected. He said a crackdown was the only way forward. “We have increased our testing capacity. The county is working with all stakeholders to tame the rising cases," Korir said. (Edited by V. Graham) 