National government administrators and security agents who collaborate with operators of Chinese gambling machines in Machakos county risk losing their jobs. County commissioner Fredrick Ndunga called on such officers who work in cahoots with gaming operators to choose between working for the government or going full-time into the banned business. Gaming has been blamed for idleness and promoting crime among the youth. “I am sounding a warning to officers found collaborating with operators of these gaming machines to choose either to work for the government or to go out and concentrate on the gaming business,” Ndunga said. The county commissioner urged the officers to support the government's efforts to stamp out the slot machines whose disadvantages, he noted, far outweigh their economic value. Ndunga spoke when he witnessed the burning to ashes of 172 machines outside the Machakos deputy county commissioner’s office. They were impounded from various parts of the county in the last two weeks by disgusted members of the public with the assistance of the police. The machines went up in fierce flames, sending billows of dark smoke to the skies as members of the public cheered. Ndunga, who was flanked by members of the county security committee led by the county police commander Issa Mohammed, assured Machakos residents that local security organs will not rest until the war against those operating the banned machines is fully won. He thanked wananchi who assisted the security agents in identifying places where the machines were clandestinely being operated and helped in confiscating them. The police commander said his officers would continue to provide support to members of the public leading the war against gambling. Mohammed said the slot machines were the genesis of many evils in society and maintained that they should be eliminated. He said some police officers were involved in operating the banned machines and warned that if any officer is found to be doing so, then he or she will be dealt with in accordance with the law. Edited by Henry Makori