Victims of wildlife attacks or their families are to benefit from a Sh524 million compensation fund from the government. Families who lost their loved ones, those injured or whose farms were destroyed between 2014 and 2017 will be compensated. “Though the kitty is small, but as government we are trying to reduce the backlog and just to say sorry to our fellow citizens,” Tourism and Wildlife PS Fred Segor said on Thursday. Among persons to be compensated are victims of snakebites, crocodiles, hippos and elephants attack. “Like for Baringo alone, we have set aside Sh22 million to compensate the attack victims and another Sh13 million for the locals whose crop farms were destroyed,” Segor said. He said 86 deaths and injuries have been reported in Baringo alone since 2014 and additional 196 farmers had their crops destroyed. “Once again we feel for the victims and saying sorry as government,” the PS said. He said that the government had initially withdrawn the compensation kitty owing to the enormous accrued amount. “Thereafter, various stakeholders sat down and agreed that it was fair for the fund to be revived to cover for losses and console the victims,” Segor said. He spoke when he opened the 10th anniversary of celebrations of the adoption of Nagoya Protocol and the unveiling of Lake Bogoria National Game Reserve Management plan on Thursday. He was accompanied by Tourism and Wildlife CAS Joseph Boinet, KWS Research and Development head Patrick Omondi and Baringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony. Segor said the government shall release salaries for the 3,500 community rangers hired to man game reserves across the country. He said among the 110 community scouts based in Baringo reserves, half were volunteers. “They will be considered in permanent payroll in the next one year” he said. The PS however said the recent employment exercise was tedious owing to limited vacancies. “But at least we picked two or three persons per ward.” He urged partners and the county governments to join hands in conservation and protection of the environment and the wildlife.