Ford Kenya will soon go to the polls to elect new national officials to end infighting, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has said. He said once the Covid-19 situation improves, the party would hold its National Delegates Conference (NDC) at Bomas of Kenya where members would pick their leaders. The Bungoma senator said he is ready to face his rivals in party polls. There are two factions in the party that have been fighting. One is led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and the other by Wetang'ula. “Ford Kenya is not a party of coups. This is the party that brought democracy to this country, and we must stick to the tenets of democracy even in our leadership,” Wetang'ula said on Saturday. The Bungoma senator said those interested in the party leadership should use the right channels by facing delegates at the planned NDC. He spoke after meeting with North Rift counties officials in Eldoret. The officials were from Uasin Gishu, Bungoma, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties. They pledged to back him to enable the party to achieve its plans during the 2022 General Election. Wetang'ula said some of the branches had conducted grassroots elections for officials before the Covid-19 situation disrupted plans for an NDC. Officials led by Michael Kolum from Baringo and Stephen Masinde said they strongly believe in the party and would support its democratic system to work effectively in deciding on leadership and other matters. “Wetang'ula is still our leader and those who are interested in any position should just be patient and wait for the NDC then as party members we will decide on the way forward,” he said. Wetang'ula said external forces were working to undermine and weaken the party as part of a wider scheme to kill democracy in the country. “We will not allow external forces to interfere with Ford Kenya affairs at all. This party has its own members who know how to carry out its affairs,” he said. The meeting also discussed national matters, including banditry in parts of the region and the Covid-19 situation. Wetang'ula said all frontline health workers dealing with Covid-19 should urgently be given comprehensive medical insurance to enable them to continue helping Kenyans. He said the government should urgently meet with medics at all levels to urgently deal with their worrying complaints over lack of medical insurance at a time when they are putting their lives on the line to treat Kenyans battling Covid-19. Wetang'ula said the continued complaints from doctors and medics along with threats of strikes will undermine the war against the disease that has killed a number of medics and many Kenyans.