More than 1,200 farmers from Murang’a county have benefitted from a Sh20 million programme aimed at boosting food production. The Sustainable Land Management project carried out by the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project has enabled the construction of more than 140 pans to help farmers conserve rainwater, especially runoff, for use during dry seasons. About 80 water pans have been built in Kigumo, while 60 other farmers have benefitted in Kahuro. Farmers have also been able to build gabions to stop soil degradation caused by erosion, which has been blamed for reduced harvests. Programme coordinator Regina Thamaini said the initiative has the potential to drastically improve farm produce and empower farmers. She said farmers no longer have to rely on unpredictable rains to grow their crops and can now engage in agricultural activities all year round. Thamaini noted massive land degradation as a problem in many parts of the county, adding that many farmers have been at a loss and had no idea how to fix it. “This has caused many farmers to get meagre harvests that are not enough to support them, making them dependent, which is what informed this programme,” she said. About Sh6 million has been set aside to contract the youth to build water pans for the vulnerable and the elderly. The programme also incentivises farmers by issuing them with fruit seedlings that will further boost their earnings. Many farmers have now resorted to irrigation agriculture, ending soil degradation and clawing back the gains previously witnessed in the sector. “Some of the farms who have benefited had developed huge gullies that reduced their farming area and lowered their yields." Amos Irungu, a beneficiary, said he has adopted horticulture after a water pan was constructed on his farm earlier this year and his incomes are now consistent. Irungu has diversified farming by also keeping fish in the 50,000-litre water pan. This will increase his earnings. James Mbau, another farmer, said his farm was badly destroyed by soil erosion and he is in the process of constructing a water pan. Once done, Mbau will engage in agribusiness, especially fruit farming, which he said has more returns. The residents said their lives will turn for the better as the project has given them a lifeline after years of suffering in poverty. Edited by F'Orieny