More than 40 MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have launched a scathing attack aganist DCI boss George Kinoti for reopening investigations into the 2007-08 post-election violence. The Tangatanga lawmakers accused Kinoti of inciting violence between communities living in the Rift Valley. They spoke on Tuesday at a press conference at Parliament Buildings. "Kinoti and his handlers are back in town.. ..It is clear that Kinoti and his masters only wish to cynically exploit the terrible trauma of PEV to anchor a diabolical divisive political agenda, distract attention from his paymasters' political frustrations and incite communities into violent conflict," Nakuru senator Susan Kihika said. While reading a statement on behalf of the leaders, Kihika attacked Kinoti, claiming that he was being used to force Kenyans to support BBI and shape the 2022 succession . They said that Kinoti had proved insensitive to the plight of victims of post-poll chaos. "For Kinoti and his masters, PEV is all about selling fear in the Rift Valley and coercing its residents into supporting toxic and divisive political enterprises," Kihika said. The leaders called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to rein in Kinoti and urged him to inform the nation on the progress his administration has made in implementing the Wako report, TJRC and other reports. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen alleged the DCI was "inciting violence in Rift Valley" to portray Ruto as violent so that he can be barred from running for President in 2022. On Monday, Kinoti said the government had instructed his office to ensure that no more violence and deaths are experienced. "Let them try again. We will follow the truth and we will prepare all the files and we will say this is the person who killed this person, " he said. "Very soon you will see the outcome of this event. We will look for them. I know they are waiting for another poll violence to occur." However, on Tuesday, Kinoti dismissed claims that the directorate is reopening cases of the 2007-08 post-election violence. The DCI boss said his address on Monday was not intended to mean that the DCI was going to open completed cases that were investigated and closed. He said that was an acknowledgement of concerns raised by the affected Kenyans to assure them of DCI's commitment to investigate all reported threats to security and sensitise the public on the need for a peaceful co-existence. "The directorate had received complaints of fear and apprehension by members of the public who feel their lives and property are in imminent danger owing to threats," he said. "We remain true to our mandate to prevent, disrupt and deter crime before it occurs. We shall continue to embrace proactive crime management and to safeguard the lives and properties of all Kenyans and apprehend those who breach the law and endanger their fellow citizens."