Chief Justice David Maraga has decried the use of political parties as seasonal vehicles for winning elections as opposed to institutions of ideological alignments. In his advice to the Registrar of Political Parties, Maraga beseeched Ann Nderitu to do whatever she can to help parties become institutionalised as long-term centres of ideological alignments. Maraga spoke on Monday during the swearing-in of Nderitu as registrar and Ali Abdullahi and Florence Tabu as her deputies. The CJ said it will be the Registrar's duty to ensure parties respect their internal democracy and to supervise how they relate to each other. “To do this, you must be very bold and fearless, but also always fair. Not only will you have a resounding impact on the individuals and the parties involved but also on the country’s political climate,” Maraga said. Nderitu will also be managing funding for political parties. Maraga said her role in the funding is important for the country because the purpose is to make parties well-organised tools for political management. “When new parties come and go with every election cycle, this objective is defeated and the funding becomes a waste of public funds. That is why parties should become institutionalised,” the CJ said. Nderitu said they are working on institutionalising parties as the public has a right to know what is happening within each party. “We will focus on how parties are governed,” she said. The registrar said as per last month, they have received close to 600 applications pending processing for registration. She said no party can be registered without establishing a mechanism on how internal issues will be resolved. Meanwhile, the CJ also swore to office the National Heroes Council. Those who took the oath of office were chairman Adan Wachu, and council members Josephat Mukobe, Christine Omwakwe, Mau Mau veteran Gitu Kahengeri, Eliud Kipchoge, Bernice Gachegu and Peter Tabichi. Maraga told Adan that the council must establish a clear criterion for the selection of heroes. “Those that you identify as national heroes must represent every facet of our nation’s noblest aspirations without being unduly influenced by factors such as tribe, gender, political persuasion and religion,” Maraga said. Edited by EKibii