 The Kisumu county administration has issued a fresh alarm over Covid-19 infections in the county with residents asked to strictly adhere to containment measures. The Kisumu Covid-19 Multi-Agency Committee led by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o and county commissioner Josephine Ouko said the region was witnessing a steady rise in new cases. They said residents were not strictly observing safety protocols. “We are issuing this statement to alert our people that the Covid-19 pandemic is spiraling out of control in the country and that Kisumu has not been spared,” Nyong'o said. A total of 1,610 cases had been confirmed in Kisumu as of Friday from a tested sample of 16,562. About 99 per cent were from community transmissions. Some 39 cases involved schools with 16 teachers and 23 students testing positive. Kisumu has lost 45 lives to Covid-19. “From this outlook, it’s clear the disease is overwhelming our people and urgent interventions must be taken,” the statement said. The two leaders appealed to residents to observe containment measures and ensure bodies are buried within 48 hours of death. Only 100 people are allowed to attend a burial at any given time, according to revised guidelines by the Inter-Faith Council for Covid-19 Response. Out of this, only 15 will be allowed to the graveyard. Night vigils remain banned and there will be no mass eating at funerals. “Burial ceremonies must not go beyond one hour and security officers will strictly enforce this,” Nyong'o said. County employees planning to attend the burial of colleagues were directed not to travel in groups. They must notify the county secretary of such planned trips. “All gatherings in towns and villages must be held in strict accordance with the health guidelines. Wearing of masks in public offices and open places and keeping 1.5m social distance remain mandatory.” The two leaders asked traffic police officers to ensure public service vehicles do not carry excess passengers. They said keeping social distance, sanitising hands regularly and wearing of masks in matatus remain in force. “Law enforcers from both the county and the national government are under strict instructions to ensure these measures are observed."  Edited by P.O