Bondo Subcounty Hospital Nurses Welfare Association has been criticised by the public for purchasing a hearse for business. The welfare association on Monday unveiled the newly acquired hearse as part of its income generating activity expected to better the lives of its members. The move has however attracted heavy criticism from both the general public and stakeholders who have cited possible conflict of interest among the health care givers. Residents trolled the facility management on social media for allowing the association to venture into the hearse business. Association chair Dominic Omollo however defended the move, saying it will not compromise the work of nurses. Omollo allayed fears expressed by members of the public especially on social media saying nurses work under oath to protect lives therefore cannot take advantage of their patients to promote the hearse business. The senior nurse revealed that they ventured into the business after realizing that they were spending a lot of money to hire hearses whenever their members or close relatives passed on. "Most people think that we have bought the hearse for business but that's not the case. It is for the benefit of our members whenever there is bereavement. We have been paying up to Sh30,000 to hire a hearse service leaving us with nothing to give to the bereaved family after burial hence this will be cheap and convenient for us," Omollo said. He added that the hearse will also benefit members of the community in case they need to transport a body cheaply. "On many occasions we have had requests from members of the public who are completely overwhelmed on how they can transport the bodies of their loved ones and this will offer immediate solutions to such cases where they will only need to fuel the vehicle," Omollo explained. Siaya County Chief Officer of Health Dr Eunice Fwaya, who spoke to KNA, backed the nurses, saying that the welfare association has every right like any other Kenyan entity to venture into any form of legal business. "The nurses’ welfare saw an opportunity and ventured in it. We can't stop them because it's a legal business and are not interfering with their normal work," Fwaya stated. Fwaya said that the kind of business that the association has chosen has nothing to do with their profession as nurses, adding that it does not mean that they will put the lives of patients in danger. "Mortuaries are built in hospitals does it mean that the doctors in those hospitals want the patients to die? No!" she retorted. The Chief Officer reiterated that nurses are guided by professional conduct that ensures they uphold the life and dignity of patients even in death and therefore starting a hearse business is in line with ensuring dignity is preserved even in death. The hearse business is booming in Bondo with the Catholic Women Association from St. Andrews and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology already providing the service.