 The Building Bridges Initiative is likely to create more divisions in the country unless those championing it reach a consensus with opponents. Head of Anglican Church South Nyanza Diocese Archbishop John Omangi said priority should be put on efforts that improve the welfare of citizens. “If they want this document to unite all of us then they must create unity amongst themselves first. It would only serve the country's political good if we go to the referendum united as a nation,” Omangi said. He was speaking during the homily and launch of his book ′Surprised by God′. The archbishop said the BBI provides the singular opportunity for all political leaders from across the divide to willingly make necessary sacrifices to allow adjustments to the document ahead of the referendum. “It would be a great moment if BBI tackles all the issues in our current Constitution so that we have a no-contest referendum to ensure that the country is not polarised along the lines of those who are for BBI and those who are against it,” Omangi said Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tong'i who was present during the launch said while he stood for the improvement of the current Constitution, it should be done within the confines of harmony'. He told Kenyans to continue reading the BBI report and point the grey areas that need to be amended. “We are currently in a historic moment, BBI is meant to address some shortcomings in the 2010 Constitution, all Kenyans of goodwill should rally behind the President and ODM party leader who is spearheading this initiative,” Tong’i said. Kisii University Vice-Chancellor Professor John Akama who was the chief guest said that the two leaders wanted to leave behind a good legacy and that Kenyans should heed their advice as far as BBI is concerned. Akama encouraged Kenyans to embrace a reading culture and not depend on other people to read on their behalf since they will be able to make informed decisions on matters that will likely impact on their future  Edited by Kiilu Damaris