The County Attorneys Forum wants swift creation of county attorney's offices in all 47 counties. County government's should move swiftly to implement the law, they said. Only 10 to 12 counties have opened offices of county attorneys, while others are following suit. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law the Office of the County Attorney's Act on July 9. The offices will play a major role in devolution. The county attorneys are on a three-day retreat in Malindi at Dream of Africa hotel. The theme is 'Robust Attorney's Offices for Effective Services'. Bibi Fondo, chairperson of the County Attorneys Forum, said the retreat was a first for the county attorneys and a great day since the law was passed in July. "This Act elevated the county attorney to a member of the Executive committee," she said. They will be independent offices or departments. The county attorney plays a pivotal role in implementing the fourth schedule of the Constitution in drafting laws for county governments. Fondo, who is from Kilifi, said all but three or four counties had attorneys before the Act was signed into law. About 10 or 12 who have taken the oath of office; others working before the legislation was passed have been doing good work, she said. The county attorney puts in place necessary laws to be passed by assemblies . The chairperson said licensing of bars, restaurants and alcohol sales outlets must be regulated and county attorneys will draft enforcement laws. "You are going to see robustness and a lot of publicity because we are now a department, we will have committed budgets and resources to enable us to work," Fondo said. County attorneys will also draft legal contracts to reduce lawsuits  caused by contracts not drafted by county attorneys. Caleb Nyamwange, vice chairman of the forum, said the county attorney offices will employ a county solicitor, directorates under the office and legal counsel. The backlog of cases will be reduced and county attorneys will vet matters that must be dealt with in-house and those that may require outsourcing because of conflict of interest. Riziki Emokule, chairperson of Kilifi's Law Society of Kenya, said  county attorney's offices will provide job opportunities for members, particularly young lawyers. (Edited by V. Graham) 