President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are today expected to address pro-BBI MPs in Naivasha. The MPs drawn from both the Senate and National Assembly have been meeting in Naivasha for a retreat to breakdown the contents of the BBI report. The MPs allied to Uhuru and Raila are pushing for common ground with those opposed to the report. The Meeting is aimed at enlightening the participants with the contents of the report ahead of it being debated in parliament. There have been mumbles from some quarters over some proposals in the report amid calls for debate and consensus. With the handshake partners gracing the retreat, sources say it will pave way for the collection of one million signatures that will spearhead the process of referendum. Some of the MPs in the retreat said they had critically looked at the matters affecting the Ward development fund, the 35 per cent allocation to counties and issues relating to women and persons with disability. The legislators said constitution-making is a complex and dynamic process that not everyone can agree. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula and Kanu's Gideon Moi are also among the attendees. Earlier on, National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya downplayed claims of locking out of Ruto allies, saying the meeting is inclusive. “This is a consultative meeting meant to fine-tune the recommendations of the BBI task force and all parties have been involved. “This is just one of the many meetings that we are going to hold and we shall definitely invite all the parties,” he said. The BBI document has become the new political battleground, sharply dividing the country’s political class. Since its launch last week, two camps have emerged – one pushing for its amendment and the other for its retention as it is. While President Uhuru Kenyatta's and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies are leading calls for the passage of the document without changes, those of Deputy President William Ruto are for its amendment. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is on the same side as Ruto, calling for amendments before the referendum. Both Ruto and Mudavadi say the contentious sections of the BBI report a derogation of constitutional gains which must be relooked.