The National Olympic Committee of Kenya needs an additional Sh250 million to adequately prepare various teams for the rescheduled 2020 Tokyo Olympics. NOC-K had initially set aside Sh500 million for the preparations but the federation says the Covid-19 pandemic has brought extra expenses with it including tests and rescheduled qualifiers for different disciplines. “We need about Sh600 million since we have to carry out Covid-19 tests for the players. You must remember that we also have qualifiers lined up for various disciplines and our budget also includes the Kenya National Paralympics Committee. So, in total, this comes to about Sh750 million,” NOC-K treasurer Antony Kariuki said. The disciplines that are set to benefit from the additional funding in preparation for their respective qualifiers include boxing, wrestling, cycling, rowing and beach volleyball among others. NOC-K's acting secretary general Francis Mutuku added that the revised budget has been presented to the Ministry of Sports in the form of a proposal after which both parties will seek a way forward starting next month. “The budget has been presented to NOC-K’s steering committee to review it because they will be the ones to spend it. We were supposed to have a meeting with the cabinet secretary in Mombasa but that has been pushed forward to December when we will find a way forward,” Mutuku said. The two were speaking in the aftermath of NOC-K’s Ordinary Session of the General Assembly on Friday afternoon in Nairobi. Participants at the half-day session — including heads of different sports federations in the country — took stock of the progress of NOC-K and its member federations amidst the Covid-19 pandemic that halted many sporting activities for extensive periods. NOC-K president Paul Tergat described the meeting as a ‘housekeeping’ exercise to ensure that all federations are moving in one accord. “This was necessary to update our members on where we are as a committee. Also, in the aftermath of Covid-19, it was necessary to discuss and lay modalities to ensure that we as a nation and Team Kenya perform well regardless of the circumstances,” Tergat said. He expressed confidence that NOC-K’s efforts in developing various sports in the last one year will pay dividends in July 23-August 8 next year when the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics will be staged.