@alalmaurice Chairman of the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority Erick Okeyo has denied claims he owes the Kisumu government Sh5.4 million in rent arrears. Okeyo on Tuesday said he had been given notice of eviction by acting city manager Abala Wanga over the accrued rent but dismissed claims that the house was in a deplorable condition. The county wants him to vacate so the house can be renovated. Okeyo also disputed the arrears, saying he used Sh6.5 million to renovate the said house on Milimani estate. He has accrued rent arrears of Sh5.4 million according to the notice of eviction dated October 8. The notice was signed by Wanga. “Our record indicates that you have not been making payments regularly since you occupied the premise,” the letter reads. “This contravenes clause 2 (a), and 5 (a) of the tenancy agreement and hence liable for eviction and to institute legal action against you to recover the full amount. This letter serves as firm notice to vacate the above-mentioned premises not later than Monday, October 12." Wanga said failure to comply will lead to forcible eviction and "any damages incurred at your expense without any further reference to you”. Okeyo termed the notice malicious and ill-intended. He claimed that he has lived in the house since 2005. “I got approval from the then city engineer to conduct Sh6.5 million renovations which were later to be deducted from his rent,” he said. The chairman said he had sought audience with Governor Anyang' Nyong’o for an amicable solution to the matter. He urged Wanga to personally go and inspect the house. The county gave out notices to tenants who have accrued rent to vacate. Wanga said some of the houses are in deplorable conditions and have been earmarked for renovation. Wanga said the county is committed to repossessing all its houses for renovation. He also issued notice to city staff to vacate the houses by November 30. “The houses are earmarked for renovations ahead of the 2021 Africities Summit in Kisumu. Some of the houses will be used as offices and guest houses for delegates,” Wanga said. He confirmed that six notices of eviction have been issued to those with rent arrears. “We want to modernise these houses to benefit the city and residents at large."  Edited by P.O