Turkana and Marsabit counties will be hit by strong south-easterly winds in five days, according to the weather forecast released on Thursday The weatherman estimated the strength of the winds will be above 25 knots. Meanwhile, rainfall will continue in most parts of the country in the five-day period. Showers are expected in the northeastern counties of Marsabit, Garissa, Mandera, Wajir and Isiolo. “Rainfall is expected over few areas in northeast, western, central parts of the country,” according to the forecast. Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said showers and thunderstorms will be experienced in several parts of Western, Nyanza, Rift Valley and North Western, including Lake Turkana region. According to the climate outlook for October-November-December, short rains in several parts of the country will be depressed (below average) and poorly distributed. Aura said there will be isolated storms, even in areas of depressed rains. The storms may cause flash floods. “Water levels in the Rift Valley lakes are also likely to remain high and may cause flooding in the surrounding areas because the catchments feeding the lakes have continued receiving above normal rainfall since 2019,” she said. The showers will be in Nyeri, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Embu, Meru, Kiambu, Tharaka Nithi, Laikipia, Nyandarua and Nairobi. Showers accompanied by thunderstorms will be experienced in some parts of Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia, Bungoma, Kisumu, Kisii, Siaya, Homa Bay, Kericho, Nandi, Bomet, Nakuru, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Narok and Trans Nzoia. Aura said West Pokot and Samburu will receive showers and thunderstorms during the night and sunny intervals in the morning. There will be showers in Machakos, Makueini, Kitui, Taita Taveta and Kajiado during the night and afternoon while some parts of Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Lamu and Tana River will be partly cloudy with sunny intervals. The Met boss said the distribution of the rainfall will be poor in October-November. “In the month of December, sunny and dry conditions are expected to prevail over several places in the country as the cessation begins,” she said. -mwaniki fm