Agriculture CS Peter Munya has urged Meru residents to support the BBI report, saying the region stands to benefit if its proposals are implemented. The former Meru governor said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have great plans for the Meru people and mean well for the region. He told residents to avoid leaders who can't make decisions on whether to support or reject the report. "We have leaders who tell you they won't support BBI today and tomorrow they are supporting it. Those are lukewarm leaders you should never believe. BBI will create more jobs, expand the Executive and Meru will be a beneficiary of extension of two more constituencies," Munya said. He spoke when he opened two Miraa sacco offices in Laare and Mutuati in Igembe North on Friday. The CS had initially issued Sh122 million to cushion farmers against the effects of the closure of foreign miraa markets. Governor Kiraitu Murungi had declared he would not blindly rally the electorate to support BBI but changed tune after the report was officially launched last week. Kiraitu declared his full support for the Building Bridges Initiative report. Munya asked farmers to apply for loans to be repaid at a very affordable rate of only three per cent. He said there were politicians celebrating miraa farmers woes. The CS also laid a foundation stone for the construction of modern markets at Laare and Mutuati to improve crop hygiene. Munya said President Uhuru Kenyatta was engaging the Somalia government to reopen the closed miraa market in Mogadishu. He accused Kiraitu of instructing his lawyers to oppose the issuance of miraa cash for political expediency. Munya said his ministry has also set aside Sh12 million for the establishment of a miraa research station at Ngatho in Igembe North to create confidence in the stimulant. It will also improve the variety and enhance the production of high-quality crops. “Miraa is our identity. It is a big earner to this economy and has a presence in the world and we will do whatever possible to protect and seek markets. I was brought to the ministry when miraa was in shambles. Be cautious of miraa enemies. The President allocated a miraa revitalisation fund similar to coffee cherry advance. Join the sacco at will, nobody is being coerced,” Munya said. Nyambene Miraa Traders Association Kimathi Munjuri has been on the forefront in opposing the funds to be channeled to Mwenge Sacco saying it is affiliated to some politicians.  Edited by P.O