A death row convict who stabbed a taxi driver will serve 30 years in prison after winning his appeal. David Mutua was sentenced to death in 2013 for robbery with violence after a court found him guilty of stabbing the driver for Sh500 and stealing his wallet and two ATM cards. The offence occurred in Machakos county in 2011. Mutua appealed. Justice E. Maina ruled on October 28 that the death sentence should be reduced to 30 years. "I have considered the nature and circumstances of the offence, the fact that the accused was a first offender, he ruled." I find that 30 years' imprisonment will suffice." The complainant told court on the day of the attack at 11am he was waiting for customers at a taxi rank within Matuu Township when he was introduced to Mutua by another taxi driver. He agreed to carry him and Mutua boarded the taxi, saying he wanted to be driven home to pick his ATM card. The complainant agreed to ferry him for Sh300 and they drove towards Ivumbiini. When Mutua directed him to a compound with a deserted house, the complainant became suspicious. Mutua is said to have drawn a knife, the driver grabbed it, a struggle ensued. The complainant suffered head and shoulder injuries and his vehicle was damaged. Asked why Mutua was attacking him, he said he wanted his car. The complainant switched off the engine, gave him the car keys, his mobile phone, a wallet with Sh500 and two ATM cards. He fled for his life. The complainant testified that the car had a 'cut out' and he knew that the accused could not restart it. He said he got out of the car as Mutua was rummaging through the wallet. He testified that as he jumped out, Mutua stabbed him in the thigh, causing massive bleeding. He ran and was given a mobile phone to call his wife. He was taken to hospital by good Samaritan and later reported to the police. Mutua was cornered by members of the public and turned over to police. In his defence, Mutua conceded that he knew a driver who introduced him to the complainant. He said they agreed on a Sh300 fare. He said that along the way Mutua complained about the distance and wanted to be paid Sh600 but they agreed on Sh500. Mutua said when they reached his home, he gave the complainant a Sh500 note and demanded to be given Sh200 change. The complainant refused, he became furious and slapped him. He retaliated He said the complaint detained him in the vehicle, cut his arm with a knife. When he called neighbours to help, the complainant ran away. Mutua said that because his clothes were soaked in blood, he went home, changed and went to graze his cattle. He was apprehended by people who handed him over to police. (Edited by V. Graham)  