Kenya has set up a Covid-19 task force to develop a policy, guidelines and plans on how to roll out a vaccine once it is available. This comes as the country recorded 727 new cases from a sample size of 4,913. The virus caseload now stands at 78,512. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said 17 more patients had died from the virus, raising the death toll to 1,409. Days after the Oxford vaccine was confirmed to be 90 per cent efficacious, Mwangangi said that before a vaccine is rolled out in the country, various factors will be considered. “There are three key measures that we will be looking at; one is to ensure it is safe for use, two to ensure it actually does what it should do and three to ensure it is actually efficacious,” she said. Kenya is among countries that are participating in the clinical trials of the vaccine, with 400 participants already enrolled and 6,000 expected to have taken part by the end of the trial. Kemri Kilifi Wellcome Trust team, which is in charge of the trial, met with Health ministry officials on Tuesday to give an update on the progress. “We are excited; our teams at Kemri Kilifi are reporting a possible success of this vaccine. We do not have that number of efficacy yet here in Kenya, so the number you have seen in the media is a number from the trial that is happening in Brazil and sometimes you can have differences in terms of geographies when you are testing a vaccine,” Mwangangi said. “We are going to have discussions with AstraZeneca to see how we can ensure Kenya is first in line because only about eight countries are participating in this trial and Kenya is the second in Africa after South Africa, so there are discussions to see how Kenyans will benefit from taking part in this trial.” Mwangangi further announced that 806 patients had recovered from the disease, 701 from the home-based care programme and 105 discharged from hospitals. The total number of those who have recovered is 52,709. In terms of distribution, Nairobi recorded 306 new cases, the highest number among the counties. It was followed by Kiambu with 122, Kitui 38, Uasin Gishu 33, Kajiado 27, Machakos 25, Murang’a 22, Busia 21, Mombasa 19, Garissa 17 and Turkana 17. Kisumu recorded 14 new cases, Kilifi 13, Nyeri eight, Nakuru seven, Kirinyaga and Kwale six cases each, Baringo five, Embu, West Pokot and Siaya four cases each, Isiolo and Kisii three cases each, Makueni two, while Mandera had one case. As of Tuesday, 1,196 patients were hospitalised countrywide, while 7,139 were in home-based isolation and care. Fifty-one patients were in intensive care units, 29 of whom on ventilator support and 18 on supplemental oxygen. Another 106 patients were separately on supplementary oxygen. Of the number, 94 were in general wards, while 12 were in high dependency units.  Edited by F'Orieny