Mandera residents have been advised to promptly go for medical check-up whenever they notice symptoms associated with Covid-19. The call came from Governor Ali Roba, who noted that all Covid-19 fatalities in the county had pre-existing conditions like diabetes and hypertension. As of yesterday, six people had died of the contagious disease in Mandera. The number of identified positive cases since April was 92. Roba said 17 people have recovered and discharged from hospitals. However 42 patients are on home-based care and three in isolation facilities. “We are deeply concerned that the numbers are showing an upward trajectory on daily basis. Our advice to residents is: don't wait for the situation to worsen before seeking health services.” The governor said the most alarming thing is that these are community deaths in both Mandera East and Mandera South. "Although these community deaths are of persons who did not come to public health facilities, there is a high possibility that this might be attributed to Covid-19, based on the symptoms reported by their families,” he said. Until recently, the county government has been spending millions of shillings collecting samples and and flying them to Nairobi. The situation has changed after the acquisition of a testing laboratory. Roba disclosed that the county has sent PPEs to all sub-county hospitals and scaled up its Covid-19 response programme both in terms of supplies and personnel. He said there is no shame or stigma in seeking medical help if one feels and shows signs of the coronavirus. The most important this is to get to hospital, he said. “Covid- 19 is sparing no one. It can affect anyone. You have seen sports personalities, religious leaders, MPs, MCAs and everyone like you and me being isolated after having contracted the disease,” Roba said. Health executive Mohamed Eda said his department is committed to protecting  both patients and healthcare workers. He said they are consistent in making sure they have sufficient supplies of PPEs for the healthcare workers.