Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has commissioned the upgrade of the giant Kibuye open air market. Speaking yesterday during the ground breaking ceremony, Nyong’o said phase one of the complex project will cost Sh315 million. The market which is set to undergo a major facelift, will be one of the most beautiful ones in the East and Central Africa region. “Phase one which will have four ablution blocks, a boundary wall (Masonry and Steel Grating), roads, walkways, foul water drainage, offloading and customer front parking, is expected to be ready in the next six months‚” Nyong’o said. The governor was accompanied by Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, City manager Abala Wanga, county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro and a host of MCAs. He said other expected facilities will include shades and warehouse for the wholesale market and stormwater drainage. Other facilities will include an elevated water storage tank and reticulation, floodlights and street lighting 630 KVA transformer, and electricity connection. While commissioning the construction of a modern Nyamasaria Satellite Bus park at Sh99.8 million, Nyongo said that it will also have beautiful landscaping, as the said projects being started will change the face of Kisumu. “The new park will have vehicle parking bays, matatu sacco offices, passenger lounges, biodigestor within the toilets, waste management systems, modern restaurants, water hydrants, and disaster management systems‚” he said. Upon completion, PSVs plying Nairobi-Kisumu, Mombasa-Kisumu, Kisii-Kisumu, Migori to Kisumu and Homa Bay to Kisumu will not be allowed in the city’s CBD. Nyong’o further said the Jamuhuri gardens, which will be developed alongside others, such as the Oile Market Park and the Botanical garden at a total cost of Sh 111.7 million, will have modern recreational facilities. He dismissed reports that his administration was concentrating development projects in Kisumu city while ignoring the rural areas. “The project is a result of the county’s cordial working relationship with the national government and other development partners and that notion is not true since they have had robust development plans for other sub-counties as well,” he added. He said they are doing roads, ECDEs, hospitals, and water projects equally. “It is only that we must make Kisumu conducive for investors because a county with a dull, and poorly developed capital will never attract investors who are expected to provide jobs,” Nyong’o said. He said Kisumu must shine and be attractive to investors because it's only when this happens that their brothers from other parts of the county will come there to get jobs. He said that the many multi-billion projects doting Kisumu is a result of the trust and confidence they have in the county government under his leadership. Owili and Oraro lauded the projects saying they will improve socio-economic activities in the region.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris