A civil society group has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of being insensitive to the plight of the poor in his latest restriction orders to contain the coronavirus. CRECO, a consortium of 22 civil society outfits, in its assessment of the latest containment measures said that the president's orders to the police to strictly enforce the directives did not pay attention to the need for the police to be humane. Uhuru ordered on Wednesday that the curfew times be revised to start earlier at 10pm and ordered the police to enforce the curfew and mask wearing. But the lobby complains that the president did not highlight the status of the human rights situation in the country during the police enforcement of the past curfew. He also failed to provide an update on the socioeconomic impact of the disease on Kenyans and how his government was striving to address any challenge, it said. “We expected the President to give an account of the social and economic impact of the disease and access to information and participation by citizens in combating the pandemic,” it said. As the pandemic hit the country, many business entities got affected leading to massive job losses. Despite reinstating containment measures, the lobby said the government has not provided a clear roadmap on how those who lost their livelihoods will be assisted to implement preventive measures such as buying water, masks and soap. “The pandemic has ruined people’s livelihoods and there are citizens who cannot afford masks, soap, water and food hence their right to basic needs is violated. The President forgot completely about these people in our society- meaning a continued vicious cycle of resurgence of the pandemic,” they added. Further, the group faulted the head of state for failing to update the country on the progress made in investigating the much covered alleged misuse and plunder of billions dedicated to the fight against the virus. They said the move was deliberate and meant to sweep the matter under the carpet and protect the perpetrators of the alleged corruption. “The President did not update Kenyans on anti-corruption measures towards the public resources deployed to the departments and agencies mandated to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. We feel the issue of Covid-19 Millionaires has been swept under the carpet.” The lobbies now demand that the police be trained to be sensitive when implementing the law and that human rights be respected.