President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of congratulations and best wishes to President-elect Joseph Biden following his win in the recent United States of America elections. Uhuru termed the emphatic win in the hard fought polls as a demonstration of Americans 'confidence in the leadership 'credentials of the former Vice President. "Americans have spoken loudly and clearly through their votes by picking a highly experienced, colourfully decorated and long-serving leader to become their next Head of State," he said. "On behalf of the People and the Government of Kenya, I congratulate Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris for their emphatic win and wish them all the best as they prepare to lead the United States of America into a future of prosperity." The President said Biden is a friend of Kenya whose last visit to the country while serving as Vice President under President Barack Obama helped renew Kenya-USA ties. “His win therefore presents an even bigger and better platform for our two countries to collaborate more closely for the prosperity of the people of our two nations,” Uhuru said. Uhuru wished Biden good health, a smooth transition and pledged Kenya's continued solidarity with the United States of America going forward. He further applauded Harris for making history by becoming the first woman to occupy the second most important leadership position in American political history. He termed her as a 'trailblazer and role model' whose win will help inspire and embolden millions of young girls across the world to chase and achieve their dreams of greatness and success. On his part, ODM party leader Raila Odinga also congratulated Biden for the win. "Congratulations for the journey of faith that has resulted in this victory for the  and the world.," he said. "We look forward to joining hands to address global challenges like the coronavirus pandemic, slowed economies, democracy, and Climate Change. All the best!" Biden declared it was "time to heal" a deeply divided America in his first speech after prevailing on Saturday in a bitter election, even as President Donald Trump refused to concede and pressed ahead with legal fights against the outcome. Biden's victory in the battleground state of Pennsylvania put him over the threshold of 270 Electoral College votes he needed to clinch the presidency, ending four days of nail-biting suspense and sending his supporters into the streets of major cities in celebration. "The people of this nation have spoken. They have delivered us a clear victory, a convincing victory," Biden told honking and cheering supporters in a parking lot in his home town of Wilmington, Delaware. The Democrat pledged that as president he would seek to unify the country and "marshal the forces of decency" to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, rebuild economic prosperity, secure healthcare for American families and root out systemic racism. Biden's victory was driven by strong support from groups including women, African Americans, white voters with college degrees and city-dwellers. He beat Trump by more than four million votes in the nationwide popular vote count. Biden, who has spent half a century in public life as a U.S. senator and then vice president under Trump's predecessor Obama, will inherit a nation in turmoil over the pandemic and the related economic slowdown, as well as protests against racism and police brutality. Biden has said his first priority will be developing a plan to contain and recover from the pandemic, promising to improve access to testing and, unlike Trump, to heed the advice of leading public health officials and scientists. In addition to taming the health crisis, Biden faces a huge challenge remedying the economic hardship caused by COVID-19. Some 10 million Americans thrown out of work during coronavirus lockdowns remain idled, and federal relief programs have expired.