The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has said there are third parties benefiting from pornographic images of the 44 teenagers nabbed at Mountain View over the weekend. In an affidavit, corporal Julius Oguma said they needed more time to identify the culprits who will help them unravel the syndicate that might be benefiting from such material. “It is suspected that there are people who benefit from the pornographic images taken from such events, hence there is a need for proper investigations to identify the said people,” the affidavit reads. This was in the case where Millicent Kithinji, the host of the 44 teenagers, was arraigned alongside three others on allegations of child trafficking and exposing children to sexual abuse. Kithinji appeared before magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot where police asked for seven days to allow them conclude investigations into the possible child trafficking and pornography syndicate. Dressed in a grey hood, Kithinji had covered herself completely with a mask and no one was able to see the 41-year-old woman behind the alleged house party. She sat pensively without talking to her co-suspects until her matter was called and even then she still wore her hood. Oguma told Cheruiyot that the case was related to exploitation of children through prostitution and pornography. The children – 26 boys and 18 girls - were aged between 14 and 17 years and were all in primary and high school. According to Police, Kithinji was aware that the party was being held in her compound having been informed by her son. “The teenagers were involved in pornography and drugs in the presence of Kithinji,” the affidavit reads. It was also alleged that David Wambui and George Muthoni, who were also arraigned, are businessmen who supplied drugs and alcohol to the teenagers. Michael Morega, the fourth suspect, is said to have been present when the party was ongoing and he witnessed the pornography alongside Kithinji. “Police need more time to investigate their communication in order to establish the whole syndicate that takes part in such activities,” the court heard. Police told court that they needed to travel to Machakos and Kiambu to unravel the whole syndicate and how the kids were lured to the party. Police suspect that the organisers of the event lured teenagers through social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook, WhatApp and others. The state also needs more time to establish whether the event is related to several other incidents such as the one in Komarock and other parts of Nairobi where several children are reported missing. The court heard that the 44 children were handed over to the Department of Children Services and will be taken to court to seek further orders. Cheruiyot allowed the application by the state and a granted them seven days to detain the four suspects.