 A Jubilee Party official in Kitui has faulted the BBI proposal seeking to cure the winner-take-it-all, saying it will kill the ideals of democracy. The Building Bridges Initiative aims at ending post-election violence every election cycle by expanding the Executive and creating an office for poll losers. There will be an office for the leader of opposition reserved for the person who comes second in a presidential election. But Moses Banda, the Jubilee Party chairman for Kitui Central says democracy is about competition and having winners and losers in elections. “It does not matter whether we have a parliamentary, presidential or a hybrid system of government. The bottom line is that democratically, there must be winners and losers," Banda said. He was speaking in Kitui after addressing supporters of Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday. The supporters were meeting to plan the DP's visit to Kitui scheduled for November 5. Ruto has expressed reservations with the BBI report. He is scheduled to preside over a fundraiser for boda boda riders from Kitui and Mwingi towns. Banda said BBI does not serve the interest of Kenyans. “Originally, BBI had good intentions of healing political violence after elections every five years as well as asserting inclusivity. But what we are reading in the report are positions of deputy president, prime minister and two deputies, Cabinet ministers and an ombudsman all of whom are appointed by one very powerful individual,” Banda said. He questioned whether such an arrangement entails inclusivity that the initiative aimed at. He however asked Kenyans to read the report with a toothcomb and make the right decision. “We are not provoking anyone but keen at enriching Kenya’s democracy as the Constitution demands. Kenya is a multiparty democracy. Democracy is government for the people, by the people for the people,” he said. Banda who is chairing the committee organising Ruto’s visit said measures have been put in place to ensure everything will be smooth and peaceful. He said all formations and groups that support the hustler movement were invited to welcome Ruto to Kitui. He called on security agencies to assure locals of their safety.  Edited by P.O