Did you know that police officers must carry corpses in their duty vehicles? Lawmakers have asked the Interior Ministry to procure coroner's vehicles to help police carry bodies to mortuaries. The Administration and National Security committee of the National Assembly says special vehicles will reduce the health risks to officers transporting corpses in their regular vehicles. Committee chairperson Paul Koinange said it was regrettable police officers have been forced to use their  duty vehicles to collect bodies. This exposes them to serious health risks, made worse by the coronavirus pandemic. “Whenever members of the public call on police to collect a dead person, you will notice the police will always show up with their patrol vehicles. "These are the very ones they use on a day-to-day basis to carry suspects and even other officers." the Kiambaa MP said. “This is very risky because the dead person could be having Covid-19 or another infectious disease. That’s why it is very important we get the police coroner's vehicles specifically for carrying corpses,” the MP said. The committee  wants all 47 counties be provided with at least one coroner's vehicle at first. “The Interior ministry should with immediate effect get at least one coroner's vehicle per county as we endeavor to add more. We are risking the lives of the men and women in uniform,” the MP added. The comments followed a report by the committee that revealed police cells are breeding grounds for Covid-19. In a tour of some police stations, the committee discovered suspects, including those with clear Covid-19 symptoms, were held in the same poorly lit, congested and stuffy cell rooms. The report tabled in Parliament also said not single officer has been trained in the management of Covid-19. Lawmakers asked Police IG Hillary Mutyambai to ensure that officers are trained on handling suspects with the virus and its symptoms . It recommended police officers be categorised as frontline workers in the fight against the virus, hence, should be provided with adequate personal protective equipment. Kenya is yet to put into effect the National Coroner Service Act, which is supposed to streamline management of corpses at crime and accident scenes. (Edited by V. Graham)