Former Kilifi South MP Mustafa Idd who died on Wednesday will be remembered as an education enthusiast across the constituency he served between 2013 and 2017. He is suspected to have died of Covid-19. His family said he had an asthmatic attack. During his time as MP, Iddi was instrumental in quelling the bad blood that existed between the Chonyi and Kauma subtribes of the Mijikenda. The two groups had a long boundary row between Ngamani and Ng’ombeni. The dispute came about after the creation of the Chonyi division in the 1990s where some parts of Jaribuni division, mostly occupied by the Kauma, were hived off to Chonyi division. Iddi was from the minority Kauma subtribe. Among the key projects the MP initiated in his hay day include Bungu secondary, the Kilifi South constituency and NG-CDF offices, Mtomondoni dispensary and Mtomondoni Secondary School. Shimo la Tewa MCA Sammy Ndago said the MP would see a need in the community and work around to get a solution. “If you look at the population of Mtomondoni Primary, it is over 3,000 students and most of them needed a nearby school where they would transit to. Mustafa saw this problem and built the secondary school, which is now doing well. He also bought a bus for Mwarakaya and Msumarini secondary schools,” Ndago said. He was the second MP in Kilifi county after Kazungu Kambi to put up an office of the constituency. In most constituencies, the offices are on rented premises. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi eulogised Iddi as a dedicated leader in championing the interests of his Kilifi South constituents. “Honourable Mustafa exhibited the true traits of a servant-leader with untiring zeal for serving Kenyans. I offered him a chance to run as my deputy in 2013 but he said he was going for the parliamentary seat and he made it,” Kingi said. In 2016, Iddi invited Deputy President William Ruto to Vipingo for a youth empowerment programme where over Sh2 million was raised. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said Kilifi county and the Coast region had lost a resourceful person in their quest for a liberated region. “Mustafa was a member and adviser of the Vugu Vugu la Mageuzi Pwani. This is a group of upright-thinking leaders that is planning to bring the glory of the Coast region. He was very instrumental in our plans to change the political landscape of the Coast region,” Baya said. Baya said the MP used his journalism profession to champion for the rights of the coast region. He previously worked as a newscaster at NTV. Mustafa was born on May 11, 1975 at Majajani village in Kilifi North constituency. He established a home at Bomani in Kilifi South constituency. He is survived by two sons and two daughters. His wife passed on early last year. Edited by Henry Makori