A lobby group has sought court orders to stop the phased distribution of Huduma cards a week after the government launched the exercise. In a petition, Katiba Institute wants the court to stop the move by the state, arguing that there is no data protection impact assessment as per Section 31 of the Data Protection Act, 2019. Judge Jairus Ngaah declined to issue orders stopping the rollout but granted them leave to argue the case. "The substantive motion shall be mentioned on January 27, 2021, when a date for delivery of the judgment will be reserved or for any such other order or direction that this honourable may deem fit to issue,” Ngaah ruled. Section 31 of the Data Protection Act, 2019 calls for a data protection impact assessment where a processing operation is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of a data subject based on its nature, scope, context and purposes. Last week, the state announced a phased distribution of Huduma cards from December 1, 2020, adding that the card will be the primary source of data on every citizen and foreigner. But Katiba says that in November 2019, Parliament passed the Data Protection Bill and the ensuing law gave effect to the establishment of the Office of the Data Commissioner to regulate the processing of personal data and provide for the rights of data subjects and obligations of controllers and processors. “The Act was passed while the state had begun, but not concluded, processing the data collected under the NIIMS project,” court papers read. Katiba wants the order and findings of the court to make it clear that any action taken with regard to NIIMS following the judgment had to await proper regulatory framework and comply with the provisions of the Act. It fears that the decision is illegal and threatens the right to privacy under Article 31 of the Constitution. Katiba Institute director Christine Nkonge said that unless the court stops the process, their application would be nugatory because the rollout would be continued and concluded anyway. “I am aware of a September 2020 statement by CS Fred Matiang’i acknowledging that the data collected under NIIMS is sensitive and critical as a result of which the government had made an executive decision to task the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government with the printing and issuance of Huduma Cards,” Nkonge says.  Edited by F'Orieny