Chief Justice David Maraga in his last official address to the nation said he never fought President Uhuru Kenyatta during his four-year tenure. Maraga, who is set to retire in January next year, spoke during the launch of the State of the Judiciary and Administration Report at the Supreme Court, Nairobi. He is deemed to be in a clash with President Uhuru Kenyatta over different issues. But he emphasised that he had nothing personal against the head of state. In a direct message to Uhuru, who was conspicuously missing at the event, Maraga said they only had a difference of opinion. "I've given you respect as our head of state; why would I want to fight you?” Maraga said. He further distanced himself from any political affiliation, saying he supports no political side or party. “I'm apolitical and I hold no brief for any politician. The security and intelligence services can assure you of that and I'm sure they have assured you of that,” he told the President. However, he also took the opportunity to remind Uhuru to appoint the judges whose names were forwarded to him without any further delay so they can dispense justice to Kenyans. The CJ said that during his tenure, they have delivered justice despite myriad challenges—top of the list being frustrations and interference with the independence of the courts. “This failure to appoint the 41 judges is clear interference with the independence of the Judiciary, with the result that backlogs have continued to soar,” he said. He said the Judiciary would have performed a lot better were it not for lack of financial autonomy, coupled with disobedience of court orders. Maraga also cited the nullification of the 2017 presidential election by the Supermen Court, recalling that the President threatened "to revisit" and true to his word, the Judiciary budget was reduced in 2018 from Sh2.1 billion to a paltry Sh50 million. “It's a miracle the Judiciary has continued to deliver services to the people of Kenya, thanks to the sacrifices of the judicial officers and staff and the support we received from the World Bank and IDLO (the Internal Development Law Organisation)." Maraga, however, assured Kenyans that even as he exits, he leaves behind a very solid judicial system. He urged Parliament to commit reasonable resources to the judicature to boost its operations so justice can be served to all who seek it. “The parliamentarians have to commit reasonable resources to the Judiciary like 3.7 per cent of the national budget. Only these measures will truly inoculate the Judiciary against short-term political interests expected of the political branches of government,” he said. On the 2022 election, he told judges to be careful how they handle election petitions, warning that it may lead to post-elections violence. “The Judiciary plays a critical role in the political stability and economic prosperity of this country. If you falter in the discharge of your duties, especially determination of electoral disputes around 2022 general elections, what we experienced in 2007-08 would easily recur with worst intensity and implications,” he said. The Supreme Court president also noted the many remarkable achievements they have had in the four years he has helmed the arm of government. "When I took over office, the case clearance rate was at 42 per cent, which has increased over the years to 97 per cent. However, due to the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the rate fell by 10 per cent to 87 per cent as of June 2020,” he said. Maraga said despite the impressive effort to clear old cases, statistics show a steady increase in court workload. “In the year 2016-17, there were 499,341 pending case, which number rose to 533,187 in 2017-18 and further to 569,859 in 2018-19. The figure was 617,582 as at the end of June this year,” he said. Finally, Maraga emotionally bid farewell to Kenyans and thanked them for giving him their support. "I have no suitable words to thank you the Kenyan people for your unwavering support for me—that lady I met in Rome, that engineer I met at Heathrow Airport, that gentleman I met in Vienna, that prisoner I met at Kodiaga Prison and that student I met at Kenya High School who have given me words of encouragement,” he said. Maraga said their kind words gave him courage to soldier on in spite of the challenges he faced while leading the courts. "It was my singular honour and privilege to be of service to you as the Chief Justice. If in any way I annoyed you, please, understand that I'm only human and forgive me,” he said. And to brighten up the moment, he concluded, "Though I did not achieve what I planned to do, I retire a very happy man.”  Edited by F'Orieny