Police premises are congested, hardly ever fumigated and lack sanitiser, providing an environment conducive for the coronavirus, a report has shown. The report by the National Assembly’s National Security Committee shows that police officers lack personal protective gear such as masks, gloves and face shields to protect themselves from the virus. In addition, the supply of sanitiser and soap from the government is inadequate, with some officers saying they have not received any support at all. Some police stations were only fumigated once since the virus hit the country in March. The committee chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange found that achieving social distance among the officers and suspects in cells is nearly impossible. Most of the police offices and detention cells are congested, with officers and their seniors forced to share working space. “Senior officers, the rank of inspector and heading departments in stations shared offices. The situation at Muthaiga, Pangani, Shauri Moyo, Embakasi, Kamukunji, Runda, Parklands, Spring Valley and Muthaiga stations was grave,” reads the report. The committee filed the report after visiting 18 police stations – 17 in Nairobi and one in Kajiado – on a fact-finding mission to assess their preparedness for Covid-19. Other stations visited were Gigiri, Kasarani, Central, Parklands, Spring Valley, Muthangari, Kileleshwa, Industrial Area, Kilimani, Langata, Rongai and Karen. The report says that officers in most stations were not observing social distancing and "were too close" to each other thereby exposing themselves to the virus and "spreading it among themselves and members of the public". As of June 22, three police officers at the Kamukunji police station had tested positive for Covid-19 with the numbers expected to rise with intensified testing. Suspects, including those with clear Covid-19 symptoms, are all held in the same poorly lit, congested and stuffy rooms. “At Kamukunji, there were averagely 40 suspects or remandees held weekly and these were unable to raise bail or bond or had committed non-bailable offences. In Industrial Area police station, there were 32 remandees, 15 of whom were aliens who had stayed there for more than one year,” reads the report. Despite serving hundreds of people a day, not a single officer has been trained on the management of Covid-19. As such, the officers reacted differently when handling Covid 19 suspects. While some officers said they called emergency teams to evacuate those exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms, others referred them to the nearest health facilities while others detained them in the cells. “Kamukunji and Kasarani police stations, however, informed the committee that in case they come across Covid-19-exhibiting suspects, they would temporarily detain them in station cells pending the next course of action,” the report says. Muthaiga police station, for instance, does not have a Covid-19 holding facility. The station has 160 officers with only one vehicle. Pangani, with 312 officers, has only one thermogun for checking temperatures of all persons entering the premise. In addition, the station has inadequate office space with several officers including senior sharing offices. The situation is the same at Central, Kasarani, Gigiri and Runda stations. There are no Covid-19 holding facilities there. For Runda, officers had not received any personal protective gear from the government. Embakasi, Kileleshwa, Muthangari and Spring Valley Police Stations have only been fumigated once since Covid-19 was reported in the country whereas fumigation is supposed to be done twice or thrice a week. “The Inspector-General of Police should immediately take necessary action to ensure that all police officers are well-trained and are fully conversant with government regulations, guidelines and procedures on Covid-19 management for their own safety,” the committee recommended. They also want the Ministry of Health to declare that police officers are on the frontline management of Covid-19 and pay them special allowances. “The two Ministries (Interior and Health) should ensure an adequate supply of Covid-19 prevention working tools, kits, equipment and materials most notably face masks and sanitizers to police stations across the country,” the report reads.