Deputy President William Ruto finds himself in a tricky and uncomfortable position as he studies the BBI report and takes a position. However, his recent utterances suggest that the probability of opposing the BBI proposals is 100 per cent. His body language and statements while on a visit to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard suggest that he finds the BBI proposals at variance with his Hustler philosophy and State House ambitions. He essentially spells out terms and conditions that the BBI architects must respect if they expect his unlimited support. Elsewhere, Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga joined carefully selected legislators to proclaim that the ship had sailed. The body language of the duo in a news conference that was characterised by lack of state protocol suggested that they were ready to hit the ground running. It is clear that the duo will not take prisoners. Things are clearly elephant for Ruto as he mulls his binary options. He can either support the BBI and run with Jubilee successes and failures, or oppose the BBI proposals and position himself as an outsider. Ruto has been positioning himself as an outsider yet he is an insider. Majority of Kenyans find Jubilee's policies an utter failure. All key success indicators and parameters are pointing South. There is general resentment across the nation. Kenyans remember the Kibaki administration with nostalgia. This is the resentment that Ruto wants to convert to votes in 2022. However, he can only harvest these votes if he successfully positions himself as an outsider and completely dissociates himself from Uhuru and the bleeding Jubilee Party. Positioning himself as an outsider demands that he comes out in the open and either rejects the BBI proposals in toto or resigns his position as the Deputy President. Resigning as DP is, however, a tall order. He will immediately lose all privileges and benefits associated with his role, which include but are not limited to state protocol, security, logistics, power and influence. Moraa will no longer pay for his transport and accommodation during his countrywide tours. Supporting the BBI proposals will see him join the bandwagon late in the day. He will find himself in the passenger seat with his team of trusted lieutenants. The only option available to him is triangulation. The political risk analyst spoke to the Star.