Milimani MCA Seth Ochieng has said Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o’s second term bid is a done deal. Ochieng said that Nyong’o will be a political force to reckon with in the 2022 General Election. The MCA said Nyong'o had already secured the backing of Orange Democratic Movement party leader Raila Odinga who said the governor should be given a second term. Nyong’o received the blessings of his party leader on August 14 when Raila said he has faith in the county chief to transform Kisumu based on his experience and leadership. And on Monday, Ochieng said they fully support Nyong'o for a second term to enable him to complete his development agenda. “The governor's development track record in the past three years speaks volumes, he has initiated various projects across the country, ”Ochieng said The ward representative said Nyong’o was doing roads, ECDEs, hospitals and water projects equally. He cited the upgrading of the Kibuye market and parks. He said those seeking to replace the governor should show their development record. Nyong'o has also implemented the refurbished Sh63 million Kisumu Social Centre and the Sh350 million innovation and incubation centre at Rotary vocational training centre. Others are the Sh37 million Chichwa market which has accommodated close to 700 traders. It is a component of the Sh241 million non-motorised transport project, which targets to ensure pedestrians and cyclists have improved convenience, comfort, and safety. He said the cordial working relationship between Nyong’o’s administration and the national government has seen the implementation of various development projects. They include the Sh3 billion refurbished port, Sh350 million Uhuru Business Park, and the ongoing Sh3.8 billion Nakuru-Kisumu railway line rehabilitation. Other projects lined up for Kisumu include a special economic zone in the Muhoroni sub-county and blue economy and the 63km Mamboleo-Muhoroni road construction. The implementation of the Sh32 billion multipurpose Koru-Soin dam is also underway. Ochieng also cited the Sh1.4 billion Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium being constructed at Mamboleo Show Ground and the refurbishment of Jomo Kenyatta Sports Ground, now renamed Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports Complex. Ochieng said Nyong’o enjoys unwavering support and those eying his seat should prepare for a resounding defeat. Former Governor Jack Ranguma is among those eyeing the seat. In the past, he said he was fully in the race to recapture the governorship. Ranguma and his team are working on a strategy that will enable him to get a resounding victory. The former county chief will mainly bank on his development record. Others interested in the seat include former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura, Senator Fred Outa, businessman Hezron McObewa and former chief finance officer Cephas Kasera. Outa and McObewa have not publicly declared their interests but their close allies say they are already strategising. McObewa unsuccessfully ran for governor in 2017. He lost in the ODM party primaries and backed Ranguma at the general election. Obura, who is the EAC Chief Administrative Secretary, has hinted that he could join the fray. He will ride on his development record, especially in education, having built many schools during his five-year tenure as Kisumu Central MP. Obura has sponsored hundreds of students through Ken Obura Foundation, some of whom have joined universities. He has also been supporting the development of education infrastructure through fundraisers. Obura’s team has in the past been traversing the county to reach out to opinion leaders, youth, and the business community. They distributed food items and masks to residents to cushion them from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. At one point, he presided over a fundraiser for classrooms in two primary schools. A total of Sh1.8 million was raised. Kisumu has seven constituencies — Nyakach, Nyando, Muhoroni, Kisumu East, Kisumu Central, Kisumu West, and Seme.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris