The Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation has launched Komboka rice variety that has the potential to double the current yield in Mwea. Dr Eliud Kireger, KALRO director general, said the variety seeks to increase yields from 6.5 to 7.0 tonnes per hectare, which is significantly higher than yields of basmati rice at 2.5-3 tonnes per hectare. Speaking during a farmers’ field day in Mwea, Kirinyaga county, Kireger said the new variety was developed after years of collaborative research with the International Rice Research Institute. "Komboka has the attributes preferred by Kenyan consumers, because it is semi-aromatic, has long slender grains and soft cooking texture. The plant's height is 110-115cm, it does not lodge and matures in three and a half to four months [110 – 120 days]," he said. The variety requires less water, making it suitable for both irrigated and rain-fed lowland ecologies, Kireger said. He said this attribute allows for expansion of production in non-traditional rice growing areas, though it is most ideal for Mwea, Ahero, Taveta, Kilifi, Kwale, Bura, Hola, Bunyala, West Kano, Lower Kuja, Busia, Alupe and other rice growing areas in Kenya. In addition, this variety has the potential to be produced for the mass market thus reducing the country's reliance on imports. The current demand for rice per individual per year is at 20.6kgs. In 2019, the country produced 195,000 metric tonnes, which is projected to increase by 10 per cent to produce 520,000 metric tonnes by 2030. But Kireger said despite this, it is expected that Kenya's rice import dependency ratio will remain high at 88 per cent. “Kenya’s domestic rice sector has not satisfied the increasing demand for rice. This is exacerbated by the population growth of the middle class and urbanisation of people who are increasingly relying on rice for food," he said. "It is important to note that Kenya’s urban population is projected to reach 50 per cent of the total population by 2050, which means the demand for food will lead to a significant deficit in milled rice.” Kireger said they are inviting the private sector to get involved in the commercialisation of the variety because of its high productivity and profitability potential. Dr Rosemary Murori, a rice breeder at the International Rice Research Institute-IRRI, said the variety has been evaluated in different parts of the country including Western, Eastern and coastal areas. Murori said with good management, a farmer can harvest 40 bags of 100 kilogrammes per acres while basmati is at 20 to 25 bags of 100kgs. "This variety also has a good tolerance of diseases that are common in Kenya," she said. “Komboka does not get any discolouration of the grains and it is very clean. The leaves have stood so that no birds can attack it and eat the grains. It's also fast maturing – almost two weeks before other varieties that farmers are growing." She said though water is a challenge in the region, farmers are able to grow the new variety. "There has been very low uptake of the Komboka rice variety and that is why we are working with different partners and stakeholders so that they can be able to produce the seed and make it available to the farmers," she said. The development of Komboka and other rice varieties is in line with the National Rice Development Strategy (NRDS 2019- 2030), whose overall goal is to boost food security and income through sustainable production.