Of 287 cancer cases diagnosed between January and September 2020, cervical cancer killed the highest number of people at 3.48 per cent. This is according to a survey by the county Health and Sanitation department. It listed breast cancer as the third leading killer with nine per cent. It established that cervical cancer is also the most common cancer in the county with 26 per cent, followed by oesophagus cancer at 24 per cent, other cancers 21 per cent, breast cancer nine per cent and prostate cancer five per cent. The findings were made public by county reproductive health coordinator Alice Yaite at Port Victoria Hospital in Bunyala during celebrations to mark World Breast Cancer Day. The survey also indicated that females are highly affected by cancer at 67 per cent. People between the ages of 31 and 40 years were also the most affected. Chief Officer for Health and Sanitation Isaac Omeri, who represented Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, expressed concern that more than 50 per cent of funerals in the county were related to cancer. “Cancer has emerged as one of the biggest causes of death in our country. If we were to do the analysis, you will find that over 50 per cent cases of funerals that we attend are because of cancer." Dr Omeri was accompanied by his Public Health counterpart Jonathan Ino. He reiterated that Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s administration, in partnership with other agencies, has put in place measures to provide access to screening services. “Nutrition plays a big role in cancer management. Let us eat foods that will boost our immunity system,” he said. Ino emphasised the need for the residents to visit health facilities for checkups, adding that mortality will only be reversed if the preventive measures are put into practice. Director of Medical Services Janerose Ambuchi cautioned residents, especially women, against fearing to screen for cervical cancer, adding that with the right treatment and attitude, one can survive. Also present were cancer survivors and members of the county health management team.