The Friday’s shooting of a man in Malaba for allegedly not wearing a mask has taken a new twist after video footage emerged showing a uniformed police officer wrestle an unidentified person to the ground. This was moments before the sound of a gunshot was heard. The two people engaged in the confrontation are not identifiable, in the slightly blurred amateur video. It is not clear who fired the bullet. The video comes out at a time when 20-year-old man was shot dead that day in the same area. Ezekiel Odera was allegedly shot dead for not wearing a mask. Both incidents – the shooting of Odera and the scuffle between a police officer and a civilian – happened at a roadblock in Malaba along the Malaba-Bungoma highway on Friday evening. In the video, which the Star has obtained, the man in civilian attire is seen lying on the ground, with some youths surrounding them. Some were wailing, perhaps trying to intervene and save the person engaged in the confrontation with the officer. Another person wearing a white T-shirt is seen trying to help the uniformed officer. A police Land Cruiser can be seen parked nearby. By the time of filing this story, the Star had not independently established whether the man in the white T-shirt was a law enforcement agent or a civilian. The gunshot was fired when the man seen struggling with the officer was on the ground. After the shooting, people at the scene are seen scampering to safety. The shooting sparked violent protests in Malaba and business was disrupted for the better part of the day in the border town. A police officer is in police custody as investigations into the incident continue. Local leaders, including Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, Teso North MP Oku Kaunya and MCAs, have called for thorough investigations into the shooting. They want the person who pulled the trigger brought to book. On Sunday, Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua joined the list of leaders calling for the prosecution of the person involved in the shooting. “We cannot have people coming here to kill our children. I'm told the boy who has been killed used to help his mother very much. His father is unwell. How will these people be helped?” Mutua asked. She spoke when she visited Odera's home in Kajei-Enyuru village on Sunday. “This matter must be investigated. We will do a postmortem to get the results, and a family member has to be present during the exercise so that there is no manipulation. We will take this matter to Parliament. This family has to be compensated. For the person who did this, justice has to be done.” Odera's mother Margaret Okiru said on Saturday that the government should compensate her family. She said Odera was 'the economic pillar of her home'. "I'm very disappointed with the police. How do you kill somebody for not wearing a mask?" she asked. Okiru said she had never seen her son quarrel with anybody. A postmortem on the body of Odera is expected to be conducted Tuesday. The body is at the Kocholya Level 4 Hospital mortuary in Teso North subcounty. 