A Nairobi lawyer has written to the Law Society of Kenya seeking the removal of its president Nelson Havi on claims that he has brought the society into public ridicule. In a letter dated November 25 addressed to the LSK secretary, lawyer Charles Midenga seeks members’ approval to remove Havi alleging that he has abused his office and is guilty of misconduct. “Take notice that the above notice of motion has been presented to the secretary by the undersigned to be moved at the special general meeting of the society to be convened on December 5, 2020 following the resolutions to be passed for removal of Havi as LSK president”, the letter reads. Midenga claims Havi has his abused office, is guilty of gross misconduct and has contravened Article 10 and Chapter Six of the Constitution. “Specifically, the president’s cantankerous, bullish and belligerent demeanour has brought the society into public ridicule and disrepute,” Midenga says. He adds that as the president who presides over the deliberations of the council, he is expected to promote the objectives and functions of the society. To the contrary, he says, Havi has blatantly violated the provisions of the Act and the Constitution. The lawyer accuses Havi of belittling the powers of the council and that on October 19, 2020 he purported to remove the secretary from office despite a majority decision of the council to the contrary. “On November 10, the president without any justification further published a misleading and unprofessional public notice via his official Facebook page that Mercy Kalondu Wambua ceased being the secretary of LSK effective October 19, 2020. She is not authorised to transact or communicate in anyway on behalf of LSK,” Midenga says. He says the conduct of Havi has impeded effective service delivery at the secretariat with members prejudicially left guessing as to who is the bonafide secretary and CEO of LSK. Havi has also allegedly micromanaged the secretariat by contravening procurement policies by purporting to appoint an auditor without following the laid down procedures as stipulated in the LSK Act and the regulations. In reply, the LSK President said he welcomes the motion by Midenga and if members feel they don’t need him, then he will leave. “The motion is welcome because in a democratic process, a leader must be scrutinised by the members and if they want me to leave, I will,” he told the Star on phone. Havi said nine members have frustrated the audit of LSK accounts. Havi said it is 600 members of LSK who have called for a meeting on December 5 to sanction an in-depth audit and seek members to give a clear position whether the secretary will preside over the council without the president. The members will also recruit another secretary. He said the nine members do not want to go on with the recruitment. He said there are ways to remove the president from his position and that is only when he is insane, bankrupt or has failed to attend four consecutive meetings. “If the president or council is not able to perform work that is when he can be removed,” he said. "But if the members decide that should to leave I will," he said.