More than 170 cases of human trafficking have been listed in courts, a report has found. This was from the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions annual report. The report was handed over to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday at State House by DPP Noordin Haji. The report indicates that a total of 174 cases were registered. There were a total of 88 cases concluded with a conviction rate of 97.33 per cent. The number of cases concluded as well as conviction rate has improved from the average of 78 cases concluded and 92.86% conviction rate attained in the years 2017/2018 and 2018/2019. 109 cases were recorded as having been facilitated entry into or exit out of country. Out of this, seven are convictions on plea of guilty. A total of 47 are convictions after full trial while five cases were withdrawn. Eighteen cases were filed under trafficking of persons. One case was convicted and acquitted with four cases withdrawn. Nine cases were filed on child trafficking, There was one conviction and acquittal and two cases withdrawn. There were 13 acquisition of travel documents, fraud or misrepresentation There was one case filed for trafficking in persons for organised crime. One conviction on plea of guilty, three convictions after full trial. The rest were under 'other offences related to human trafficking'. In June, the US State Department put the Kenyan government on the spot for allegedly not doing enough to stop human trafficking. Washington said in a report that Kenya at times treats human trafficking victims as criminals instead of rehabilitating them. The Trafficking in Persons Report 20th edition shows that while Kenya has made significant efforts compared to the last two years, it does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. The report, which was  launched by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, places Kenya on Tier 2 of human trafficking, indicating a moderate prevalence of the vice. Only Namibia in Africa made it to Tier 1 ranking. Among the strides the country has made, according to the report,  are a significant increase in the number of victims identified, utilisation of victim assistance fund and launch of a cyber-crime centre to investigate child sexual exploitation and child sex trafficking cases. The others are enhancement of law enforcement coordination with other countries on trafficking cases, and improvement of efforts to regulate recruitment agencies and support and protection of migrant workers. However, there has been a decline in investigations, prosecutions, and convictions. Some victims were treated as criminals, according to the report. 