The National Counties Disability Association of Kenya has pledged its support for the Building Bridges Initiative report and its reforms. The lobby distanced itself from other groups of persons with disabilities that have rejected sections of the report. The association said in a statement on Monday that the United Disabled Persons of Kenya and some politicians had hijacked the BBI process for their selfish interests. "The masqueraders of disability representation have conveniently denied persons with disabilities the opportunity to read the BBI report for themselves. Instead, they have hijacked the process and are fronting their own selfish interests,” the statement reads. The association also wondered whether those purporting to represent the persons with disabilities have finished reading the 204-page document. Last week, Senator Isaac Mwaura termed the BBI report a mockery to persons living with disabilities and special interest groups. Mwaura, who represents PWDs at the Senate, said they were very disappointed with how the BBI team drafted the amendments to the Constitution. “We have lost representation in the Senate, National Assembly and county assemblies,” he said. The Nominated Senator said they were preparing a memorandum to be submitted to the BBI team for consideration. Nominated MP David Ole Sankok urged all persons with disabilities to reject the BBI report until their considerations are incorporated. "BBI has scrapped slots for the nomination of PWDs. We’ll mobilise all persons with disabilities to reject the report," he said. The association called out Senator Mwaura and Sankok for failing to represent persons with disabilities with their positions. “Mwaura should be selling the good agenda of Jubilee to PWDs. However, he has never represented PWDs in his capacity, yet 27 counties lack PWD representation, no budget allocation for PWDs, health care and matters like job placements have never been addressed,” reads the statement. The lobby urged persons with disabilities to snub anyone purporting to represent them in the BBI debate. “Let it be known to all and sundry that we persons with disabilities strongly support the BBI process and wants to be an integral part of the much-needed reforms in the country as stated in the BBi report which has been championed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party leader Raila Odinga,” the association said.