On Thursday, in his State of the Nation address, President Uhuru Kenyatta reiterated that his administration is on course to realise that his Big Four Agenda is fulfilled. Uhuru briefed Parliament on what his government has done and what’s is doing to ensure that his legacy plans are successful. The president said that the piloting program of the Universal Health Coverage (UHC), which is among the Big Four Agenda was successful. He also said that 407 doctors have been recruited nationwide between April and October 2020, and 1,008 nurses were recruited between March and October. But Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen is not convinced by the president’s remarks regarding UHC. On Friday, Murkomen said through the Twitter account that UHC is dead. The legislator said that hundreds of Kenyans are dying because of the current Covid-19 pandemic, most of whom are dying due to lack of oxygen. He said that “ICU beds are few and full. It’s a mess and the government has given up,” Murkomen said. The outspoken legislator added that the government has abandoned its people. “We are on our own. I know you will say I am a leader and I should do something, but they won’t listen, they want BBI.” While addressing the nation, the President said that 210 new isolation facilities were brought into operation between March and October, as well as,4,015 isolation beds put in place during the same time. Further, the president said that 27,000 new community health workers have been recruited, an increase in critical care facilities such as ICUs and HDUs across the country. On October 30, the president launched UHC biometric registration in Mombasa, which was to absorb a million indigents into the Universal Health Coverage program. Uhuru directed the Health and Labour ministries to immediately embark on the exercise of identifying and registering the indigents. Expressing confidence in Kenya's ability to succeed with UHC, Uhuru urged Parliament to fast-track the necessary legislation required to fully implement the program. "Don't delay this with unnecessary debates, we all know where we want to go. This is no time to show us your prowess in debates " Uhuru said.