A section of leaders in Nakuru have given their different views about the revival of criminal cases relating to the 2007/2008 Post Election Violence that left more than 1,300 people dead. The majority of those who shared their views opposed the decision by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. They claimed that the move would create animosity among communities living in Rift Valley and Nyanza, while others said that the move was long overdue. Njoro MP, Charity Kathambi warned Kinoti against taking the country back to 2007/2008 when the country was brought to its knees by ethnic hatred adding that this was the time to heal and ensure peace. “Kenyans lost a lot during the violence and re-opening the cases brings back bad memories and emotions that are likely to trigger violence especially in Rift Valley which was the epicenter,” said the legislator. Addressing the press at a Nakuru hotel, Kathambi said leaders and other government agencies should nature the culture of peace and forgiveness and forget politics instead of reminding citizens about the dark past. “That chapter was closed in 2012 when President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto folded their politicals parties and joined hand in a bid to ensure peace among the main antagonist communities,” she said. DCI boss said on Monday that his office will probe those who have been threatening 07-08 PEV victims. Kinoti had said that some of the victims had recorded statements to his office, that some communities claimed that they were being profiled and intimidated amid rising political temperatures in the country. Kathambi added that the handshake between President Kenyatta and Opposition Leader, Raila Odinga should be an extension of the peace that has been prevailing since 2013 and not an indirect incitement. Her sentiments were echoed by former Nakuru Mayor Benson Mwangi who was flanked by several leaders from Nakuru Town East and Nakuru Town West sub-counties. Mwangi said the issue of 2007 was solved adding that the timing was wrong seeing that the country was bracing for two elections in the near future. He advised that the investigation be postponed to 2023 after the next general elections. However, a community leader, Edward Onyancha commended Kinoti saying that healing could not be achieved if without justice. “It is okay for the DCI to reopen the cases and bring the culprits to book because Kenyans still want to know the financiers, organisers, and perpetrators of the crimes against humanity,” he said. Onyancha said a crime is never closed until it is discharged regardless of how long it takes to prosecute it. He at the same time asked President Kenyatta to ensure that hundreds of Integrated Internally Displaced Persons were compensated. He observed that the government only concentrated on people who fled their homes and lived in camps while completely ignoring those who moved in with relatives or rented houses.