Case backlog and Judiciary workload will continue to build up if budgetary allocations to the crucial arm of government is not increased. In an annual report dubbed ‘The State of the Judiciary and Administration of Justice,’ Chief Justice David Maraga said the Judiciary's funding has been decreasing every year since 2012-13. He said the development component was the most affected by the budgetary constraints. In the financial year 2018-19, the Judiciary was allocated just Sh50 million for development, he said. "The major result and impact of the under-funding is the souring of case backlog In the FY 2016/17, for instance, there were 499,341 pending cases. This figure has risen to 617,582 in 2019/20," he said. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta's failure to swear-in 41 judges appointed by the Judicial Service Commission was also contributing to the case backlog. Maraga said the situation was dire at the Court of Appeal and Environment and Land Court, the divisions with the highest backlog. “Unless, as a country (and Parliament in particular) takes decisive action to facilitate the financial autonomy of the Judiciary, there will be a crisis because case backlog and Judiciary workload will continue to build up, as well as other negative impacts related to financial and resource strain in the Judiciary,” Maraga said. He said the Judiciary has made significant advancements in the uptake of technology to enhance service delivery.  This has seen the number of courts with internet connection rise from 34 to 149 in the last five years. The Judiciary according to the report has also invested in ICT equipment ranging from laptops and desktop computers, iPads, and printers. However, the uncertainty in Judiciary funding especially for ICT projects remains a major challenge. The report indicates that the ICT budget hit has been particularly targeted for cuts and under-prioritisation. For instance, there was no allocation for ICT infrastructure in 2018-19, which meant that all ICT programmes had to be put on hold. In the following year, the Judiciary required a budget of Sh1.2 billion for ICT but only got Sh200 million. "The Judiciary has had to rely on development partners and strategic partnerships to enhance its ICT capacities. The e-filing solution, for instance, was only possible with funds and partnership from the International Development Law Organisation (IDLO)," the report said. The e-filing system was launched in July. It allows law firms, lawyers, prosecutors and litigants to file cases from the comfort of their offices or homes.  