The piece of tissue paper that slain human rights lawyer Willie Kimani wrote a message on to his wife was produced in court on Monday. Head of Investigations in the case Nicholas ole Sena produced the white piece of tissue before Justice Jessie Lessit. It was recovered by authorities a day after Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri went missing from Mavoko law courts. The paper, which is alleged to have been written by Kimani, was laminated with the courts permission for durability purposes. “Tafadhali pigia 079*** (Rebeka) mwambie aambie Rose Willie na Mwenda wameshikwa na wako Syokimau kwa Chief wako hatarini,” the note reads. That is said to be the last message Kimani wrote, asking anyone to call his wife to help him and his client after they were abducted alongside their driver. The note was wrapped around an electric socket and thrown through the window of their cell. It was picked by a boda boda rider who called the number but when no one picked his call, he threw away the tissue. It was later picked by authorities. Sena told the court that they plucked some papers from Kimani’s Resolution Insurance notebook that they used to examine his handwriting alongside the tissue paper. “On November 9, 2016, I prepared an exhibit memo form for a document examiner to ascertain the handwriting in note and papers that were taken from the resolution insurance notebook,” the court heard. The court was also told that police recovered three polythene bags from a local supermarket in Mlolongo at Leonard Mwangi’s house in his sitting room. Administration police officers Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Mwangi, and police informer Peter Ngugi alias Brown are accused of committing the murders. Sena said the paper bags were relevant to the investigation because the deceased persons were killed using polythene paper bags from the said supermarket. The court heard that when the bodies were discovered at the Ol Donyo Sabuk River, their heads were covered with the paper bags. Sena showed the court pictures of one of deceased, in which the paper bag is covering the entire head to the neck. Police believe the suspects killed the trio because the same paper bags found in Mwangi’s house were the same ones found when the bodies were retrieved. He also produced two Maasai shukas in court, one that was recovered from Mwangi’s house and another that was found inside Mwendwa’s taxi, which had been abandoned. One of the earlier witnesses had said that when they passed by the murder scene that evening, one of the people had a Maasai shuka. Sena further said they also recovered a statement at Leliman house relating to the late Mwenda’s traffic offence case. The case resumes on Thursday this week for cross examination. Edited by EKibii