National Super League (NSL) outfit Migori Youth head coach Robert Ojienda has started rebuilding his team after nearly his entire first 11 failed to show up for training. Speaking on Wednesday, Ojienda told the Star that most of the players are training with various Kenyan Premier League and National Super League teams. “The office is handling the transfers and since the transfer window has been extended, I can’t comment on who is joining which club,” Ojienda told the Star. The team is sponsored by Bansi Wholesalers Limited. The only first-team player who has reported for training is goalkeeper Gideon Ogweno. The Star learned that Robert Ouma has been training with NSL side Ushuru since August. However, Ojienda is not worried by the departures. “The departure of 90 per cent of our first 11 is an achievement on our side. This shows that we are doing something good and it gives an opportunity to develop more talents. This will give us room to give exposure to our academy players who did not get an opportunity last season,” noted the youthful tactician. “Last season our midfielder Antonio Abwao joined KCB while our top striker Clinton Okoth signed for KPL champions Gor Mahia (He has since joined Wazito)." "This gives our youngsters motivation that they can rise and play for any club in the Kenyan Premier League. This is a big plus for us. Our objective as Migori Youth remains identifying, nurturing and exposing young talents.” Ojienda revealed that the club has already recruited striker Victor Juma and winger Justine Nyagwara from Kisii based Football Kenya Division two side Sameta FC. Left-winger Bernard Ochieng has also signed for Migori Youth from Oremo Youth. “Rebuilding a team is not easy but by the time the league kicks off, I will have a competitive team. Currently, I have 17 new players out of the 26 in camp. We have been training for three weeks and I’m happy with the players at my disposal,” the coach added. Ojienda said the team will play a series of friendly matches in Homa Bay town this weekend.