An attempt by 40 Kenya Revenue Authority employees to stop their prosecution flopped after a judge ordered them to appear in court and plead to the charges. High Court judge Luka Kimaru noted that the state did nothing wrong in investigating the 40 suspects, saying that in the course of the discharge of their statutory duties, the KRA staff do not have immunity from being investigated. “Kenya Revenue Authority is a statutory body. It is a government agency. It performs a public function. In the discharge of its mandate, Kenya Revenue Authority employees are part of public service. They are liable to be held accountable for what they do, including scrutiny by investigative agencies,” Kimaru ruled. The 40 were arrested in a swoop on KRA offices. Investigators said they received credible intelligence the staffers were working in cahoots with taxpayers to deny the government revenue that is due to it from tax collection. The 40 had asked the court to discharge them unconditionally and refund them Sh200,000 each of them deposited with the state as bail. They also sought an order to permanently restrain the state from arresting or charging them. The 40 staffers were of the view that the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Director of Criminal Investigations overreached their mandate in conducting the investigations. Each of the 40 was ordered by the court on May 22, 2019 to deposit Sh200,000 as bail. Some of their private properties were seized, which they want released. The suspects were arrested separately and presented before court on various dates in May 2019. The prosecution sought orders to have them detained to enable DCI to conclude its investigations. The trial court allowed their detention for 14 days. On May 22, 2019 the court reviewed its order and released them on Sh200,000 bail and barred them from accessing KRA offices. The DPP opposed their application, saying the suspects had filed multiple applications in an attempt to mislead the court. The DPP said the applications were abuse of court process. The court was also told that the prayer for release of the bail money was premature because the 40 were yet to plead to the charges. Trial court had also issued a seizure warrant allowing the state to seize items from the 40 and the same are being retained as evidence. And contrary to their claims, the 40 were informed of the reasons for their arrest and given a chance to record their statements in relation to matter under investigations, court was told.