The M.P Shah Hospital has appointed Toseef Din as the Chief Executive Officer effective immediately. Until her appointment, she held senior positions at the hospital including the finance department as the head of finance and later as the Chief Operating Officer. The hospital’s board chair Manoj Shah said the appointment of Toseef as the CEO is a significant step towards building a world class healthcare facility. "The board believes Toseef’s history with the hospital, commitment to learning and innovation and unique mix of skills and leadership qualities position her for success in leading our hospital forward,” Shah said. The distinguished financial expert brings close to two decades of diverse experience in finance and healthcare management. She is credited with offering expertise in leading financial strategies to facilitate sustainability as well as growth plans and improving existing processes and systems to help the top healthcare facility deliver professional affordable care services. Toseef has also played a crucial role in achieving peak customer satisfaction through dedication of employees, quality and service. She holds an Honorary Doctorate in Humanities from the United Graduate College and Seminary International, a Masters with distinction in financial management from Heriot Watt University Edinburgh (MSc Financial Management). The Association of the Chartered Certified Accountants, UK (ACCA) fellow and member of Institute of Chartered public accountants in Kenya (ICPAK) also holds a Bachelor’s degree in applied accounting from Oxford Brookes University. Her appointment comes at a time the country and the whole world is being ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic, stretching health care facilities. Speaking after the appointment, Toseef said she was committed to boosting the hospital’s capacity to help meet rising demand for affordable healthcare through training and education of local resources, improving affordable healthcare plans and foster collaborations. ''I aim to strategically position the hospital to tackle mental health and promote well-being of the country’s population by creating a culture of preventive health check-ups to decrease the burden of disease and associated risk factors,’’ Toseef said.