Doctors have given the government 21 days to provide PPEs to healthcare workers - or they will call a nationwide strike. The doctors in the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union want the government to provide standard and adequate Personal Protective Equipment to all healthcare workers in public and private facilities. "We will be available for any engagement within those three weeks, failure to which we will have no choice but to rally our members for our nationwide strike,” KMPDU secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. “It is our lives first. It will not be business as usual. Doctors’ lives matter," he said. The union held a national Advisory Council meeting on Sunday after infections among healthcare workers continued to rise exponentially. More than 30 have already died of Covid-19. Four succumbed on Saturday alone. So far, 10 medics have died of Covid. They include Dr Doreen Lugaliki, an obstetrician gynaecologist who was the first doctor to succumb to the virus; Dr Ndambuki Mboloi, a pulmonologist; Dr Daniel Alushula, an orthopaedic surgeon; Dr Vladimir Schuckin, a bariatric surgeon; Dr Hudson Inyangala, a public health specialist, and Dr Emarah Ashraf, a plastic surgeon. Others include Dr Robert Ayisi, a paediatrician; Dr Hudson Alumera, a periodontal surgeon; Dr Faith Mbuba, a pharmacist, and Dr Jackline Njoroge, a physician. In their meeting, the doctors also resolved the government provides a comprehensive medical cover for all doctors and other healthcare works in public and private hospitals. “The loss of 30 healthcare workers of which 10 are senior specialist doctors is a great loss to the country in the war against Covid-19,” Mwachonda said. The doctors have termed it absurd that they have to fundraise for their colleagues who contract the virus and those who require drugs to manage their conditions. “We want dedicated healthcare facilities for healthcare workers in each of the 47 counties and at the national government level, fully equipped with all requirements such as oxygen and with adequate ICU space,”Mwachonda said.  The official claimed one of their members succumbed to the virus in Nakuru while awaiting ICU space in Nairobi. They want the government to provide them with air evacuation in case  a medic develops severe medical conditions while on duty in any part of the country. “We have doctors working day and night but when they fall sick the government can't cater for them. When soldiers get injured it is the government that airlifts them from the field and caters for all their recovery expenses,” KMPDU chairman Samwel Oroko said. Other demands are employment of an additional 2,000 doctors who are out of work. They want a review of terms of those on contract to permanent and pensionable terms, enhancement of the existing risk allowance, workman’s compensation for all healthcare workers and formation of a constitutional Health Service Commission. Meanwhile, clinical officers want all Personal Protective Equipment lying idle at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority stores released and distributed to healthcare workers across the country. Speaking to the press on Sunday, the clinicians said they want all healthcare workers who are pregnant, those above 55 years and those with preexisting medical conditions exempted from duty until the virus is contained. As of Sunday, the union had lost four members to the disease, including an intern, with more than 600 infected with the virus. "It is worth noting that almost all health workers who succumbed to Covid-19 belong to the vulnerable groups. These deaths would have been avoided had the government heeded to our advisories to excuse this category from active duty as in other countries like Ethiopia, Ghana and Rwanda," Kuco secretary general George George Gibore said. (Edited by V. Graham)