An outbreak of measles and vaccine-derived polio is likely due to the growing number of susceptible children who have not been immunised, the World Health Organisation and Unicef have warned. The two UN agencies said more than 60 planned polio vaccination campaigns in 28 countries, including Kenya, were suspended this year due to the Covid-19 lockdowns. About seven million children in Kenya are under-immunised against measles while about 2.6 million in 11 counties did not receive booster jabs against polio. Unicef and WHO said cases of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus – a form of the virus that can arise in areas where vaccination coverage is low – have increased nearly five-fold globally over 2019 levels, with evidence of international spread. “We cannot allow the fight against one deadly disease (Covid-19) to cause us to lose ground in the fight against other diseases,” Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said in a statement. Kenya last reported the vaccine-derived poliovirus in April 2018, when Kenya Medical Research Institute scientists found live polioviruses in sewage samples from Eastleigh estate in Nairobi. Based on risk analysis, Mombasa, Nairobi, Lamu, Tana River, Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit, Killifi, Turkana, Isiolo and Mandera remain vulnerable to the vaccine-derived polio. “This build-up of under-immunised children has previously contributed to outbreaks of polio. Most of these children come from poor families, urban informal settlements, and hard-to-reach parts of the country, particularly arid and semi-arid regions, where access to health services is limited,”  Dr Josephine Ojiambo, a community medicine and public health specialist, says. Dr Ojiambo added: “Missing the polio vaccine places children at high risk for more problems in the future. Vaccines are the best way to keep children protected and healthy.” WHO and Unicef say the failure to vaccinate the children now would lead to  resurgence of the disease, resulting in as many as 200,000 new cases annually around the world within 10 years. In October, a study by the Kemri-Wellcome Trust Research Programme estimated the chance of a measles outbreak in Kenya at 40 per cent. Kemri said at least seven million susceptible children did not receive booster doses for measles. A nationwide drive first due in February 2019 was postponed for lack of funds, then in 2020 by the Covid-19 pandemic. "The increased risk of a measles outbreak following the lifting of restrictions on contact can be overcome by conducting an SIA (supplementary immunisation activity) with 95 per cent coverage in under-fives," the Kemri study said. It is titled 'The importance of supplementary immunisation activities to prevent measles outbreaks during the Covid-19 pandemic in Kenya'. “Unlike with Covid, we have the tools and knowledge to stop diseases such as polio and measles. What we need are the resources and commitments to put these tools and knowledge into action. If we do that, children’s lives will be saved,” WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.