United States’ Ambassador Kyle McCarter has lauded the Kenyan media for its role in enhancing the democratic space in the country. In his thanksgiving message to Radio Africa Group, McCarter described the media as an integral platform for candid conversations among Kenyans on issues affecting them. “In every county, town and village I have visited, I hear of the importance of a free and independent media. And in my hundreds of conversations with your colleagues on radio, television, newspapers and digital media, I am grateful for the generosity and professionalism of Kenya’s great media traditions,” he said. McCarter also spoke of his wonderful experience in the country since he was posted to Kenya two years ago. “One of the greatest blessings I have had as US Ambassador to Kenya has been the opportunity to travel across this beautiful land and meet Kenyans from all walks of life. Victoria and I are grateful for their friendship and the hospitality they have shown us,” he said. McCarter made these remarks in a letter to Radio Africa Head of Content Paul Ilado to commemorate Thanksgiving, during which staff members were treated to a sumptuous meal of turkey. Commemorated every fourth Thursday of November, Thanksgiving is a US federal holiday that began in 1789, with a proclamation by President George Washington following a request by Congress. It was marked on and off until 1863 when President Abraham Lincoln proclaimed it. From 1942, it received a permanent observation date through an act of Congress that was signed into law. The highlight of the holiday is a Thanksgiving dinner that mainly consists of turkey, green beans, cranberry sauce, squash and mashed potatoes. Ilado thanked the ambassador for the kind gesture during this festive period. "We are very grateful to the ambassador and the American people for remembering us during this Thanksgiving, especially because it has been a difficult period for many. The friendship between Radio Africa Group and the US Embassy in Nairobi has continued over the years and we look forward to deepening it in the coming years," he said. He was also quick to pick positives from a challenging year in which the world has been ravaged by Covid-19. "We thank God for our lives and our jobs. We pray for those struggling with Covid-19 and Covid-related challenges. We are optimistic that the pandemic will be contained, businesses will thrive once again and those who have suffered will find relief," Ilado said. Similarly, McCarter expressed optimism that the future of Kenya and the US is bright as their friendship continues to blossom.