Former CS Mwangi Kiunjuri on Tuesday threatened to lead a 'No campaign' on the proposed BBI referendum, saying the interests of the Mt Kenya region are being watered down. Kiunjuri, the leader of The Service Party (TPS), said the adoption of some of the proposals made by the leaders from the pastoralists communities will take away what is good for Mt Kenya in the BBI. The leaders under the umbrella of the Pastoralist Parliament Group (PPG), led by Mandera Governor Ali Roba, made the proposals during a meeting with opposition leader Raila Odinga on Monday. It was during this meeting that Raila, for the first time, revealed the BBI report would be opened up for a final round of revisions to factor in reservations and objections raised by various groups to build consensus. “There should not be selective inclusion and skewed initiations. We have noted with concern that Mt Kenya region and some sections of Rift Valley region are not being invited and are largely being treated as complainants,” Kiunjuri said in a statement. “There are some irreducible minimums that must remain intact for the objectives of the BBI to be achieved.” He said sections of the Constitution should not be amended without a broad consensus to provide for equality of vote and representation. Kiunjuri cited sections relating to equity in resource allocation. The proposal in the BBI is that the law be amended to introduce a cap to ensure that the average amount of money allocated to a person in a county with the highest allocation does not exceed three times the average amount per person allocated to a county with the lowest allocation. The Mt Kenya region has been pushing for one man, one vote and that revenue sharing must be based on population size. On the other hand, pastoral communities have been advocating that land size be the basis for division of funds. Kiunjuri also said the party was pushing for what he described as guaranteed minimum returns for farmers. He said 10 per cent of the country’s budget should be allocated to agriculture to take care of farmers, livestock keepers and those in fish farming.