Kenya's Fatuma 'Iron Fist' Zarika is set to make a comeback in nearly 12 months since losing the World Boxing Council (WBC) super bantamweight title in a unanimous decision to homegirl Yamileth Mercado in Mexico. Zarika, whose record stands at 32 wins (17KOs), 13 loses and two draws and who had a training stint in Dubai during the Covid-19 pandemic period, will be using her eight-round bout against Patience Mastara from Zimbabwe at the 'Dar Fight Night' in Tanzania to announce her comeback to the global arena. Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) secretary Franklin 'Kuja' Imbenzi confirmed that Zarika is headed to Dar where she's scheduled to fight in the Jackson Group Sports-promoted fight-card on November 13. "The fight card is truly an international boxing affair that will feature four international boxing matches including two female bouts which will feature boxers from five different countries. Dar Fight Night will showcase the best of boxing with representation from  Argentina, Kenya, Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe and Tanzania," said Imbenzi. Zarika will be in the undercard of the main event featuring Tanzanian Zulfa ‘Macho’ Yusufu going up against Zimbabwean Alice Mbewe in a six-round flyweight contest. Tanzania’s Abdallah 'Dulla Mbale' Pazzy will face off against DR Congo’s Alex Kabangu in a 10-round super middleweight fight. Tanzanian Hassan Mwakinyo goes up against Argentina’s Jose Carlos Paz in a fight that sees two of the best super-welterweight boxers in the world go face to face in a 12-round fight. Jackson Group Director, Kelvin Twissa said: "Our experience in marketing combined with rights management allows us to execute world-class boxing events.” “With partnerships with broadcaster Azam TV, we are showcasing the talent across Africa and beyond. Our audience in Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Kenya, DRC and Argentina will experience the event live in HD,” Twissa added. “We continue to invite other partners to join us in transforming sports while getting value in promoting their business through boxing and other sports such as football."