A wife of a second-term MP has brought disgrace and disrepute to her husband and family after her affair with a billionaire political broker exploded. The polygamous MP known for controversy and his acerbic tongue is being scolded by elders following his inability to keep his home in order. Our snitch intimates one of the wives gave in to the advances after learning the sponsor brokered the funds her husband used in his election campaigns. She walks freely and openly into the expansive home of the sponsor to pick cash and indulge. Word has it the MP can’t call off the union as he can’t survive without the generosity of the political broker, given all the problems dogging him. Is embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko (pictured) feeling vindicated by the woes being caused by the filth that has suddenly found its way back to the city streets, markets and estates? Well, the county chief, in a series of social media posts, has ridiculed Nairobi Metropolitan Services director-general Mohamed Badi over the sorry state of affairs in the capital. Curiously, Sonko’s handlers have also been posting the photos of mountains of garbage on the streets. The county boss, who has been on a warpath with the NMs director, appears to be watching as the garbage threatens to trigger serious diseases. A former governor aspirant from Mt Kenya and who has been seeking to reclaim his seat in 2022 has suddenly changed his mind. The man has told his handlers that he will run for a parliamentary seat with hopes of being appointed into the Cabinet. He had earlier indicated he would try his luck again for the governor's seat. But the experienced politician is said to have told his campaign organisers that he changed his mind after he envisioned BBI constitutional amendments that would allow the President to appoint CSs from Parliament. The man is almost certain that he will land a Cabinet slot if he wins the parliamentary seat. An MP from Rift Valley is turning into her staff's tormentor in chief. It has emerged the MP who pontificates in public has not paid staff salaries for four months and expects them to show up at work and drive her around every day. Corridors understands the legislator has colluded with a fund’s manager to pay the lean staff peanuts in dribs and drabs, and anyone raising a fuss is summarily fired. Recently, the lawmaker caused a furore in the country after it emerged she ditched her humble husband and started moving with a young smooth operator. This liaison has made her devote resources and energies to one particular county area.