Some of the people giving their BBI views now have been rubbishing the process for the past two years, Nyeri Town MP Gunjiri Wambugu has said. He said on Wednesday some of those demanding inclusion of their views are known Building Bridges Initiative critics and did not believe the process would come this far but have now realised it is not stopping. He cited Deputy President William Ruto and his allies, whom he accused of pushing for a non-contested referendum after finding themselves on the losing end. Strangely, they now want their conditions met before they can support the report, the lawmaker said. "For the last two years, the DP and his allies have been rubbishing the BBI in every platform they got,” Wambugu said. The lawmaker doubted Ruto camp's calls for consensus, saying they are not genuine and are only meant to stall the process. Wambugu said he is glad that former Prime Minister Raila Odinga clarified that the BBI report will only be opened up for editing so there is language concurrence. "Clarifications can be done. But I personally think opening up the report to bring in new views is a mistake. We had two years when people were allowed to go and give their views,” he said, adding that it would be unfair to those who had given their opinions if the process is delayed by those hellbent on derailing it. "This is the challenge I want to lay down to the people who are making conditions. First, you had two years. If you did not give your views in those two years, then this was not important for you. “So if you have some proposed amendments that you think need to be covered, nothing stops you from introducing your constitutional amendment.” He said the BBI process was initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former PM and the two, like any other Kenyan, had reasons to do that. He cited their reasons to include stopping electoral violence; ensuring equality of vote (which is one man one vote one shilling) and to bring money to the grassroots. Wambugu said Kenyans have reached a point where the window for amendments must be closed. “We can't keep changing and amending and collecting views forever. I think this particular document is supposed to help affect the 2022 structure of how we get into government and ensure we don’t have electoral violence,” he said. The MP said taxpayers' money has been spent on the process, hence it is time to conclude it. He questioned why some people would imagine they are the most important and if not considered they can stop the process.