You want your child safe from your abusive partner? That'll be Sh50,000, says the children's officer. That was the experience of a parent in Kilifi who sought custody of her child whose life was in danger. A policeman attached to Kilifi police station working in cahoots with a children's officer demanded the bribe so she could get the child. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives planned and executed a sting operation on December 19, 2018, after it received a complaint at the Huduma Centre desk in Kilifi. "Investigations established that although police officer and children's officer demanded the bribe, it was only the children's officer who received the Sh2,000 trapped money since the police officer had travelled," the commission said in a report. EACC recommended prosecution of the two officers but DPP Noordin Haji asked the commission to carry out further investigations. In Kisumu county, Kisumu West chief demanded and obtained Sh7,700 bribe from an elderly woman. The commission said the bribe was to enable the chief to write for her a succession confirmation letter and sign a death certificate for her kin. The detectives arrested the chief and recovered Sh5,700 from him while Sh2,000 was recovered from Gombe Kokulo Secondary School where he had paid fees for his nephew. The DPP endorsed the prosecution of the officer. He approved the chief be charged with three counts of receiving bribery and abuse of office. At Dago Trading Centre within the county, the detectives busted Bar assistant chief and recovered Sh1,500 from him. EACC said the official had obtained the bribe from a Pwani University student to shortlist her as a census enumerator in 2019. Investigations are still ongoing after the DPP asked the commission to carry out a further probe to nail the officer. These are among 42 cases the EACC handled in the last three months of the last financial year. The report by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission reveals how bribery has become the norm in the country. The report sent to Parliament by the anti-graft agency says Kenyans have to part with a bribe to get services from government officers or get away with offences. National and county government officers are demanding bribes from all people with little or no regard for status. Chiefs, their assistants and the police officers are extorting money from students, old people and, even, the bereaved. In Isiolo, the report says, a tout working with Northern City Coaches bribed a female police officer with Sh2,000 to spare two ‘suspicious’ passengers. The officer who is attached to the Multi-Agency Security Operations flagged down the bus and was screening the passengers when she came across the duo who could neither speak in English nor Swahili. The DPP approved the prosecution of the conductor for giving a bribe. In Nairobi, an employee of the State Law Office asked for Sh2,500 to release a birth certificate to a distressed Kenyan. Again in Kisumu, two officers attached to Kisumu Railways police station asked for a Sh3,000 bribe from two Burundi nationals to release 11 pairs of shoes valued at Sh11,000 and to allow them to continue hawking. The DPP, however, returned the file to the commission for further investigations. In Keiyo South, Elgeyo Marakwet, a police officer at the DCI office put at risk the lives of learners when demanded a bribe of Sh30,000 to write a favourable school building inspection report. “On October 9, 2019, a trap operation was planned and executed. Investigations established that the police officer demanded and received a financial advantage. DPP Haji sided with the commission to charge the officer with two counts of receiving a bribe. 