Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga on Friday rallied women behind the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report. Wanga said that the interests of women have e been incorporated in the report. Wanga argued that the two-thirds gender rule which has been a thorny issue will be addressed should they approve the report in the referendum. The BBI report recommends that 47 women from counties will be elected as senators and ensuring that a governor and deputy are of the opposite gender. The report also wants the adoption of a political representation system to the two-thirds gender rule in parliament. “The two-thirds gender rule is no longer a contentious issue in the BBI report. I urge all women here support the BBI because their needs are included in the report,” Wanga said. Speaking when she started the BBI sensitisation program at Wachara secondary school in Kwabwai, Ndhiwa Constituency, Wanga told residents to ignore Major Retired John Seii statements that BBI report was doctored. Seii who is a member of the task-force team was quoted in the media saying that he was forced to sign the BBI final report by his colleagues. He claimed there are sections which were introduced in the report without his knowledge. The retired general gave example with the introduction of 70 new constituencies. But Wanga who was in the company of MCAs Richard Ogindo (Kwabwai), Nicholas Owaka ( Kanyamwa-Kosewe), Oscar Abote (South Kabuoch), and Sophie Koweje (nominated) dismissed the claims saying that Seii is being used by leaders who are opposed to the BBI report. “We know where Seii statements come from. You can’t contradict a report which you’ve been part and parcel of if somebody is not behind you,” she added. The Homa Bay Woman Rep. said they ratified the BBI document in Naivasha for a referendum after they realized that some people calling for its amendments do not come with clean hands. A section of Kenyans led by Deputy President William Ruto has threatened to oppose the report should it be subjected to the referendum without amendments. “The taskforce team went traverse country and collected views. But some politicians refused to give their proposals due to their personal interest. The train cannot a passenger who doesn’t want to get out of the house,” Wanga said. Wanga said they are organising to start distributing the document to residents in villages across Homa Bay. The MCAs said they support the report due to the introduction of ward development funds. "Wards offices will have funds to enable them fastrack development in order of residents priorities," Ogindo said