Harambee Starlets' striker Elizabeth Kioko Katungwa is smug with ease after playing a critical role in securing promotion for FC Dalheim in Sweden. The versatile forward has featured in nine matches for the Swedish third-tier outfit, and has been instrumental in propelling them to the second spot on the log, netting two goals in the process. By the time she was linking up with the squad, Dalhein, who finished fifth last season, were lying in a precarious eighth position. Speaking to the Star, Katungwa said she was elated with her contribution towards the team's current form, adding that they now had their eyes firmly fixed on battling it out all the way to the top tier. "I feel very excited that I made a contribution to this team when they needed me most and can only dream that we qualify for the country's top league in our first attempt from Division One," she said. Katungwa left for Stockholm Sweden via Doha-Qatar aboard Qatar Airways to seal a deal with the Swedish lower tier outfit in August after a stint with Kwale Starlets in the Kenya's Women Premier League. She was initially set to jet out in April but all her plans bumped into a hitch following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic which prompted authorities to impose travel restrictions including a ban on all international flights for four months till August 1. The 21-year-old Kwale High School alumnus attracted attention in Sweden  after scooping the 2018 Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) girls' most outstanding player award in the schools category after she guided her school to a maiden national secondary schools football title, the first ever for Coast Region. At Dalheim, Katungwa plays alongside compatriot Mary Kinuthia who has been plying trade for the side since 2017. Dalheim initiated talks with Katungwa in March 2019. She was at the peak of her junior career in 2018, steering her school team to the national title at Hill School in Eldoret, and in the same year netted the all important goal that secured Kwale Girls and Kenya a gold medal during the East Africa Secondary School games. Her splendid run saw her carve her path into the national team where she secured an automatic berth in the starting line-up.