The surge in the number of Covid-19 infections is a clear indication that the government made a wrong move, especially with the reopening of schools. This is because there are infection cases in some of learning institutions, putting children at the risk of losing their lives. When Education CS George Magoha and Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi tell us not to worry about the children in school, it portrays the level of negligence and ignorance exhibited by some leaders. Despite surge in infections and deaths, they are still insisting on letting our children stay in school. This is especially traumatising for parents whose kids are in boarding schools and they do not know how they are faring. Our politicians, on the other hand, are ignorant of the existence of Covid-19 and are running around campaigning for or against the BBI or selling their 2022 bids. This is really disappointing because the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health in combating the spread of the virus are not being adhered to. For example, the wearing of face masks and observing social distancing in political and social gatherings is something that many people have stopped doing. The government instructed that matatus reduce the number of passengers they ferry to ensure social distancing between passengers is observed. They were also supposed to provide passengers with hand sanitiser. This was only done for a few days after the directive was issued. Right now, they are carrying full capacity and without providing hand sanitiser. Trains are also carrying the normal number of passengers without social distancing. Why can’t the government allow the transport sector to resume carrying the normal number of passengers like it was before provided everyone wears a face mask and is provided with hand sanitiser? This will ensure that all players in the transport sector benefit and not just a few people. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Transport CS James Macharia should give a clear guideline on what should be done by the players in the sector to have a win-win situation and protect people from contracting Covid-19 as they use public transport means. Teresa Moraa, Nairobi county