Several key recommendations have been made to address the challenges health workers face in the fight against Covid-19. The Senate Standing Committee on Health says lack of comprehensive medical cover by the National Health Insurance Fund for all health workers must be addressed. According to the team, the national and county governments should address severe shortages of critical health staff to run ICUs and isolation facilities. “There is unemployment of thousands of health workers despite the critical and acute need during this pandemic period,” committee chair Michael Mbito said. The team wants the establishment of adequate compensation mechanisms for the motivation and welfare of health workers, including risk allowances. The recommendations are in response to the escalating deaths among health workers and the strike notices from unions arising from unresolved and longstanding grievances. The committee said health workers experience unique challenges owing to the high occupational risk of infection they face in the fight against the pandemic. “In order to ensure the successful implementation of devolved health services, the committee calls upon the national and county governments to cooperate and coordinate their efforts for the efficient and effective delivery of health services,” Mbito, who is the Trans Nzoia senator, said in a statement. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union had told the committee that most doctors do not have insurance cover and are not paid extraneous, risk and other allowances. The committee decried lack of priority testing of health workers for Covid-19 despite the high risk of infection they face. It also raised concerns over lack of provision of adequate and quality Personal Protective Equipment. The team decried lack of guaranteed access to treatment and care for health workers through specially designated isolation and ICU facilities. It said there is lack of adequate training and capacity building for health workers particularly in the counties. There is unfair and exploitative employment terms for health workers on contract, it noted. “There is also undue intimidation and harassment of health workers, especially those who have tested positive for Covid-19.” The committee held a series of meetings with national and county representatives of various health worker unions and professional associations between November 19 and 23. The representatives were from the Kenya Medical Association, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union, the Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya, the Kenya Pharmaceutical Association, the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the National Nurses Association of Kenya  and the Kenya Progressive Nurses Association. Also represented were the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, the Kenya Clinical Officers Association, the Kenya Health Professionals Association, the Kenya National Union of Medical Laboratory Officers, the Environmental Public Health Association of Kenya, and the National Union of Biomedical Engineers of Kenya.