The battle for the heart and soul of the Lion party will escalate next week when one faction holds a meeting to ratify party leadership changes. The National Delegates meeting led by Wafula Wamunyiyi's faction is expected to ratify the removal of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula as leader on November 21. Wetang'ula has cried foul. Who would benefit most from a weak Ford Kenya? ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. Wafula and secretary general Eseli Simiyu's faction has been crisscrossing the country rallying delegates for the Bomas meeting. The besieged Bungoma senator has declared  illegal, null and void the NDC convened by the Wafula camp, saying it has not been sanctioned by party organs. "Neither the party nor any of its organs instructed and or authorised Eseli Simiyu to issue the Nnotice on October 31, 2020, and November 1, 2020," Wetang'ula said. The Wamunyiyi team is adamant the NDC is on and plans are in top gear to ensure the meeting is a success. The Kanduyi lawmaker and his Tongaren counterpart Simiyu have  been moving across the counties rallying delegates for the crucial Bomas meeting that will define the future of the Lion Party. For instance, the Kanduyi MP met all Ford Kenya delegates from Nyamira and Kisii counties at Ogembo. “We have had a successful meeting with the delegates and we are upbeat that the meeting will go on successfully,” Wamunyinyi told the Star. The Wetang'ula wing has been reading a foreign hand  behind the Wamunyiyi-Eseli coup, blaming some powerful people out to destabilise the Lion party ahead of 2022. At one point, secretary general of the Geneva-based UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) Mukhisa Kituyi, who has presidential ambitions, was linked to the takeover bid But in a recent interview with the Star, Kenya’s highest-ranking diplomat in the UN system dismissed the claims. Eseli on Thursday admitted there is a long list of former Ford Kenya stalwarts who are trooping back to the party and some have even  chipped in to support the Bomas of Kenya meeting. “There are so many people interested in the party and we are getting contributions coming from very many quarters, all these are party stalwarts," he said. "There are people who had even left the party and some had previously financed the party and had given up but now they are coming back." He added, "Ford Kenya should have had elections long ago. The  term of office [of current leaders] expired in 2015 because every four years we should have an NDC. Anyone who says we are being sponsored has not read the Constitution. So far we have conducted grassroots elections.” The Ford Kenya SG also said plans for the Bomas meeting are at an advanced stage and they will put in place security measures to ensure no intruder can access the  meeting. “We are going round mobilising the delegates.We are also putting in place security and transport so delegates are transported safely to Nairobi and back,” Eseli said. “We are ensuring security is proper so that no one interferes with the meeting.” Wetang'ula was initially removed as party leader in May, but he moved to the High Court, which temporarily reinstated him. The registrar had said the Wetang'ula faction of the National Executive Council lacked a quorum as required under the party constitution to overturn Wetang'ula's removal by the Wamunyinyi team. The matter is yet to be concluded by the Registrar of Political Parties after both factions claimed leadership of the party. Analyst Daniel Orogo, convener of Kenya on the Move think tank, links the Ford Kenya wars to the ongoing positioning of parties to support or oppose BBI and ultimately take a stand in 2022. “Ford Kenya rebels are beginning to leverage the indecisiveness of Moses Wetang'ula. To them, Weta's inability to position the party for active national discourse warrants urgent and radical change," he said. Orogo, without directly linking ODM leader Raila Odinga to the Ford Kenya woes, said the former Prime Minister can only have a grip on the region where the party is weak. “For him to have a strong political bargain and hold Western Kenya firm, he has to finish Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi of ANC. "The assumption is that all Western Kenya votes must be brought in one basket. Loyals like Wamunyinyi and Eseli must be facilitated to use party organs and the party constitution to completely finish Wetang'ula's career," the analyst said. Orogo further said the predicament of Moses Wetang'ula and theFord Kenya Party are good news to both Raila and Deputy President William Ruto. “Both rely on the fragmented Western Kenya votes. As Ruto's camp was boosted by the defection of ANC political heavyweights like Barrack Muluka and Eliud Owalo, Raila will also benefit and gain traction from Wamunyinyi and Eseli,” he stated. But political and communications strategist Advice Mundalo blamed the wrangles in Ford Kenya on the party’s poor leadership. He said the wars are deeper than they appear on the surface with unknown quarters poised to benefit from the altercations. “This became evident during the unveiling of the BBI report when both Wetang'ula and Wamunyinyi were given an opportunity to address the 6,000 delegates. It begs the question, was it a deliberate attempt at legitimising both as party leaders?" he asked. He said both sides of Ford Kenya seem more poised for a win over the other and are not interested in consensus. He said Wetang'ula's faction is keen on using the courts where Wetang'ula is a smart lawyer. The Wamunyinyi-Eseli faction insists on the Political Parties Tribunal and internal party mechanisms such as the NEC and now the NDC. “Eseli and Wamunyinyi would obviously be lightweights in comparison to the seasoned Hon Wetang'ula. But in these circumstances, the two  cannot be dismissed as punching far above their weight," he said. He added, “If the powers that ensured a Wamunyinyi speech at the unveiling of the BBI are still the powers behind the planned NDC meeting  quashed by the courts through Wetang'ula, then the NDC will happen.” 