Teso North MP Oku Kaunya wants East African Community member states to reopen all borders for business. Kaunya said there is need to allow cross-border trade to flourish, despite rising cases of Covid-19. He said the surge in coronavirus cases should not be a reason to limit business at border points. Cross-border business can still run despite the spike in cases, the first-term MP said. The EAC governments only need to enforce health guidelines to limit virus spread, he added. Kaunya said it does not make sense to allow transborder movement in airports and airstrips while restricting that on land and water. “We won’t be genuine to say we have opened the airstrips in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and other EAC countries to allow airlines to come and go,” he said. “So it is pretentious to say that between Kenya and Uganda here in Malaba that we have closed the border. It is important to open the borders so we don’t make the communities here suffer.” Kaunya said border residents who rely on the EAC market have suffered since March when regional countries began closing borders as a result of Covid-19. Small-scale business dealers at border areas like Teso North have borne the brunt of border closures, he said. EAC countries have only wholly reopened air travel. Restrictions on free cross-border movement in water and land have yet to be lifted. “In terms of making the economy grow, especially here at the border, I would support the idea that we free the borders with East Africa,” the MP said. “Let us allow businesses to thrive in East Africa but at the same time ensure health protocols are followed.” He spoke six days after the East African Business Council asked EAC presidents to reopen borders to support presently restricted trade. The EABC said reopening international borders will protect struggling businesses from collapse. “We are asking the governments to lessen the restrictions on the movement of persons at all the border points of EAC states because they [people] are the ones facilitating the movement of goods,” EABC executive director Peter Mathuki said, when he visited Malaba One-Stop Border Post. “All the one-stop border posts should be functional, and they should be supported so that the facilities can be used to smoothen cross-border movement.” There are concerns from the business community that continued closure of borders will hurt trade across the region, particularly those that are heavily reliant on markets in other member countries. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday issued tough Covid-19 containment measures, which the majority of traders termed business-unfriendly. The announcement came as Kenya recorded 1,494 new cases, the highest figure since the virus was first confirmed in the country in March. Edited by Francis Orieny