President Uhuru Kenyatta's State of The Nation Address in Parliament on Thursday ended with a light moment as he handed over reports to the House speakers and said 'erokamano' which is thanks in Luo dialect. This left parliamentarians in laughter. The handover was done after Uhuru concluded his speech with emphasising the importance of the BBI report following his Handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. Uhuru said changes to the Constitution proposed through BBI are meant to secure the country's future. "Like Moses in the Bible who sat at the top of Mt Nebo and saw the future that the people of Israel were about to cross into the promised land, I too have seen our future," he said. "That journey has commenced with the release of the Building Bridges Initiative report. More importantly, let us engage in positive discourse (on BBI) with a view to effecting far-reaching changes." Uhuru handed over annual progress reports to the both the speaker of the National Assembly and the Senate as required by the Constitution. The reports include the report on all the measures taken and achieved in the realization of Kenya's national values, the Report on progress made in fulfilling the International obligation of the Republic and the report on the State of Security. These, the president presented after his State of the Nation Address in a joint sitting of the Senate and the National Assembly where he highlighted the achievements of his administration over the past year. The Address is in accordance with Article 132 of the Constitution, which mandates the President to report on measures taken and progress achieved in the realization of the National values set in the Article,  as well as the progress made in fulfilling International Obligations. From his speech, achieving his legacy making Big Four agenda, was a major concern throughout the year. "The philosophy of the Big Four is anchored in four intentions which we have pursued relentlessly this year, despite the pendency of Covid-19. The first one is liberating our urban poor from the ‘poverty of dignity’ caused by poor housing and inadequate services," Uhuru said.