President Uhuru Kenyatta has denounced Director of Criminal Investigations  George Kinoti's bid to open fresh investigations into the 2007-08 post-election violence. The President tore into Kinoti's move as reckless, with the potential of triggering fresh ethnic animosity in the country. Uhuru said the country has healed from the bloodbath that left more than 1,100 people dead and 650,000 forcefully uprooted from their homes in 2007-08. “You don't think before you talk, you don't think before you act. You must always think before you do something. Sisi hatutaki vita katika taifa letu la Kenya. Sisi wengine wetu tunajua maana ya amani (We do not want violence in our country. Some of us know the value of peace),” Uhuru said. On Tuesday, Kinoti was forced to come out and clarify that he was not reopening the cases that were investigated and closed. He said his office was just starting investigations into fresh threats to Kenyans. He declined to name where they came from. “The directorate had received complaints of fear and apprehension by members of the public who feel their lives and property are in imminent danger owing to threats,” he said. In what appeared to have been a pre-planned occasion, Kinoti on Monday hosted people he said were victims of PEV. They had flocked DCI headquarters to record statements. He said 72 murder cases, 44 land displacement cases and 118 of threats linked to the 2007-08 violence had been lodged. “Very soon you will see the outcome of this event. We will look for them. I know they are waiting for another poll violence to occur. Let them try again. We will follow the truth, prepare all the files and say this is the person who killed this person,” he said. As the President threw Kinoti under the bus for what has been described as a reckless move that has received condemnation from among Kenyans, questions have emerged on where the DCI could be taking instructions. Kinoti’s three years in office have been controversial, characterised by dramatic arrests, tough talk and infighting with DPP Noordin Haji. In March this year, Kinoti carted away CCTV footage from Harambee House Annex, the office of Deputy President William Ruto, where he was investigating the murder of police officer Kipyegon Kenei. Kinoti had promised to unravel and arrest the culprits who killed the police officer who was attached to the office of the DP. But nine months later, no arrest or no progress report has been made on the case. In August, DCI detectives arrested three senators- Christopher Langata (Bomet), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) - from their homes in Nairobi. The move triggered an uproar. The arrests happened on the eve of a Senate sitting to vote on the crucial third basis for counties' revenue-sharing. The arrest of the three, who were opposed to the formula, was linked to the Office of the President, which was trying to deny the House numbers. Days later, the state denied giving DCI instructions to arrest the senators, instead stating that it was just but a coincidence.  