Electing 47 women to the Senate and scrapping Nairobi as a county are among the proposals in the Building Bridges Initiative report that could be rescinded. A deal between MPs and President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga could see fundamental changes to the BBI report. While meeting Parliamentarians in Naivasha early this month, the two BBI principals are said to have agreed to have the changes reflected in the final report. Find out more about the proposals made in The Star on Monday. Before he collapsed, Matungu MP Justus Murunga was in a jovial mood having hosted guests at his rural home in Makunda village throughout Saturday. The 60-year-old lawmaker was on his way upstairs for dinner at around 7.30pm when he suddenly felt very weak. He was with his bodyguard and a domestic worker. As they walked up the stairs, Murunga told the two that he was experiencing pain and breathing difficulties. He collapsed a few minutes later. Read about Murunga’s final moments in your copy of The Star tomorrow. Doctors have given the government 21 days to ensure the plight of medics and other healthcare workers are resolved, failing which they will call a nationwide strike. The doctors under the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union want the government to provide standard and adequate Personal Protective Equipment to all Healthcare workers in all health facilities include private. The union held a national Advisory Council meeting on Sunday after infections among healthcare workers continued to rise exponentially, with more than 30 already having succumbed to the disease. The government has committed to support insolvent Kenya Power whose liabilities now exceed its current assets by Sh70.9 billion, with the Auditor General casting doubt on its financial soundness. The power utility firm has an asset base of Sh44.2 billion, for the year ended June 30, 2019, against a liability of Sh115.2 billion, a figure likely to have gone up, meaning the listed company is technically insolvent. In an audit of the company, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu notes Kenya Power has remained in a negative working capital position for the third consecutive year. MPs have summoned Ministry of Health officials to answer to queries from procurement of Sh6.4 billion Covid19 response kits wasting away at Kemsa warehouses. The National Assembly Public Investments Committee has called before it Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Principal Secretary Susan Mochache on Tuesday. The committee chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir is reviewing findings of a special audit which recommended the prosecution of ministry and Kemsa officials linked to the kits mess.