The Education ministry plans to stagger time lost during the seven months of school closure to fit in to next year in a bid to save the implementation of the new curriculum. Under its plans, the ministry plans to roll out the competency based curriculum in Grade 5 next year. However, the earlier plan to roll it out in January has already been thrown off balance due to the prolonged closure occasioned by Covid-19. Charles On’gondo, the new Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development director, on Monday said there was no intention whatsoever to push forward the implementation of the curriculum. Among those who reopened for in-person learning on October 12 include Grade 4 learners, the pioneer class of the competency based curriculum. Rollout to Grade 5 will mean the curriculum has remained with only one year before it is fully adopted across all classes at the primary school level. Publishers have, however, sounded a warning that the implementation might be derailed by the delay in the printing schedules of Grade 5 textbooks. The curriculum was set to move to Grade 5 in 2021 but due to time lost in the lockdown period, Grade 4 learners are currently taking the second term. Third term is set to be between January and March of 2021. If affected, the plan to transition the pioneer class of the new curriculum in 2023 could also be affected. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said they are awaiting the approval of contracts to print textbooks okayed for Grade 5. “The government approved the list of publishers who won the Grade 5 contracts but it is yet to award them thus they are yet to kick off the printing exercise,” Njagi told the Star on Monday. He said the publishers will need at least three months for printing and disturbing the textbooks and further delays threaten the process. In essence, he notes that for books to be in school by March, then printing will need to begin this month. In July, Education CS George Magoha said the government is keen on ensuring all learners recover time lost during the holidays. This means the school calendar and programmes timelines will be affected or pushed forward. With over 1.3 million learners in Grade 5, publishers are battling for the control of the more than 16 million books to be published for 14 subjects listed under the new curriculum. Edited by EKibii