Telkom has revamped its daily, monthly and unlimited home plan data bundles. In a statement released on Tuesday, the telecommunication company said that this revamp will give more value to pre-paid heavy data customers by improving their user experience as well as the amount of data they will get when they purchase the revised offers. For daily 5GB, it will last you for a day at a cost of Sh.250 and as for the monthly 10GB, it will last you for 30 days for an amount Sh.1,000 with resources of 12GB. Monthly 30GB will last 30 days as well at a cost of Sh.2,000 and monthly 50GB will also last you 30 days at a cost of Sh. 3,000. As for the unlimited package, on a daily basis you will 13.3GB Fair Usage Policy (FUP) for 30 days for the cost of Sh.4,000 and as for the unlimited Plus package, you will receive 16.6GB FUP on a daily basis at a cost of 5,500. Lastly, for the 100GB package, it will last you for 90 days at a cost of Sh.6,000. The Fair Usage Policy (FUP) that guides on speed limits applied to unlimited bundles has been reviewed to ensure connection speeds at peak times are not slowed down (throttled) when users are uploading and downloading large files. These revised FUP speed limits will in effect improve the overall data experience for those that subscribe to the unlimited bundles. “These bundle revisions were informed by customer feedback on the need to provide them with bundle options that will support their evolving consumption habits," Telkom’s Director, Marketing, Eric ACHOLA said. The use of Internet data continues to rise. This comes at a time when the national government and local health authorities continue to urge Kenyans to stay home, as much as possible, as a means of reducing the spread of Covid-19. As a result, more and more Kenyans are making the switch to conducting their affairs, virtually, from home: working from home, distance learning and even virtual socialisation. “Now more than ever, telcos need to play their part in keeping their customers connected. The revision of our data limits and the FUP for both our daily and Unlimited plans means our customers will be getting more value from us," Achola added.