From January next year, no taekwondo tactician will be allowed to coach in Kenya or elsewhere without International Level 1 coaching certificate from the International Taekwondo Federation. Kenya Taekwondo Federation secretary general George Wesonga said the requirement seeks to improve the standards of the sport that has, locally, been left at the mercy of quacks. "Taekwondo is not about kicking, running and punching. That's why we are pushing local coaches to undertake the technical courses we are providing to empower themselves," Wesonga said. Those eligible for the certificate must have undertaken and attained a National Level III certificate. Since Saturday, Wesonga has been taking 50 coaches from across the country on a technical course for Level I, II and III at the Kenyatta University Conference Centre. "We could have undertaken the course for over 100 coaches but the Covid-19 restrictions dictated that the number of those attending must not exceed 50. Another technical course will be undertaken on January 15 next year for those who missed out," he said. At end of the three-day course, each coach graduated with an International Olympic Committee Diploma Certificate in taekwondo. However, Wesonga warned that only coaches who are registered with the federation will be allowed to take the courses. "They must also belong to a club. This certificate will not only improve their coaching skills but also technical competency and sports administration," he said. Francis Mutuku, NOC-K's acting secretary general, expressed optimism that such courses will uplift the standards of taekwondo in Kenya. "This shows the potential of the sport to perform even better in continental and world competitions. With additional assistance to coaches and players, there is an increased chance of better performance," Mutuku said. NOC-K has been facilitating a series of technical courses for various disciplines in the country geared towards bettering performances through modern methods of coaching. Other disciplines to benefit from the courses in this quarter include hockey and tennis in addition to a technical course on development of a national sports system. The committee hopes to facilitate more courses in 2021 for other disciplines as part of a long-term plan to improve Team Kenya's performances in future international events, including the Commonwealth Youth Games, Africa Youth Games, 2022 Commonwealth Games and 2024 Paris Olympics.