NMS deputy director of Medical Services and two Mama Lucy Hospital social workers charged with child trafficking have been granted bond. Musa Mohammed Ramadhan, Fred Makallah and Selina Awuor were released on bond. On Monday, the prosecution had asked court to deny them bail terms, saying that being employees at the facility, they would likely interfere with witnesses if released. But Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku ruled that there was not enough evidence to have them remain on remand. “In my view, I find that the prosecution is speculating on claims that the accused persons will interfere with witnesses and documents," Mutuku ruled. While making the decision, the magistrate considered the charges against each accused person. Makallah, who was charged with five counts, was granted Sh1 million bail and an alternative Sh2 million bond. Ramadhan and Awuor were each granted Sh200,000 bail and an alternative Sh500,000 bond. The court restrained them from accessing Mama Lucy Hospital and interfering with witnesses or evidence. Ramadhan is accused of conspiring with Makallah and Awuor to traffic persons at the hospital between March 1 and November 16, 2020. Ramadhan was further charged with a second count that together with Awuor and knowing that Makallah planned to traffic children out of the hospital, he failed to use all reasonable cause to prevent the offence. Makallah was charged with a second count of receiving and transferring a male child aged six years for the purpose of abusing the vulnerability of the child between April 30 and May 13 at the hospital. He faced two other counts of receiving and transferring two female children aged two months during the same period at the facility. Makallah was allegedly exposed by BBC negotiating with an undercover journalist in a plot to sell a child who had been abandoned at the hospital. He and Awuor pleaded not guilty on Monday and were remanded pending the bond ruling. Ramadhan denied the charges on Wednesday. He had fallen sick and was admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital. The case will be mentioned on December 9. According to the prosecution, Ramadhan was the superintendent of the institution at the time of the offence and left it barely a month ago. The DPP added that investigations are still ongoing and so far the hospital has recorded 77 abandoned children but only 49 have been recovered. In an affidavit before court, the prosecution said it has reasons to believe that this is a well-organised criminal gang operating within the country and whose entire network has yet to be unravelled. Several children are believed to have been trafficked out of the facility, with a search ongoing. "The respondents are believed to have either conspired or acted negligently, hence enabling the commission of the offence,” the DPP said. The suspects were arrested on November 18, 2020. The police said they have crucial information and the potential to interfere with investigations if released. Prosecutor Everlyn Onuga added that Ramadhan did not properly hand over the documents needed by the investigating officer as they were in his custody.