Jubilee Party has suspended three Nairobi Nominated MCAs for three months after being found guilty of undermining the party’s position in the Nairobi County Budget Estimates for FY 2020-21. This is according to Jubilee Party National Disciplinary Committee Regulations 2017. The MCAs,  Ann Thumbi , Silvia Museiya, and Millicent Jagero  who had appeared  today  at Jubilee Headquarters before the Disciplinary Committee were  also found to be in breach of  Jubilee Party’s code of conduct The committee chaired by  Muchai Lumatete had summoned the MCAs after complaints were raised by County Assembly Majority Whip Paul Kados of going against the party’s position on various issues. At the center of the summon was the much-contested Nairobi City County Appropriation Bill, 2020. The three were also MCAs allied to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko who is facing an impeachment motion. “We have heard the complaints referred to this committee by the Chairman of the Party on November 23, 2020, and considered the facts as stated together with documents relied on in evidence by all parties and submissions made by Counsel appearing for the Charged members,” Lumatete said. Consequently, the three have been dewhipped from all committees they serve at the assembly for a period of six months. This is in accordance with the Jubilee Party Constitution Article 13:4 1(D)read together with Regulation 54 of the Jubilee Party National Disciplinary Committee Regulations 2017. This means that the three MCAs will not earn anything outside their monthly salaries. An MCA earns Sh120, 000 when the taxes are reduced. In each committee sitting, an MCA pockets Sh3900 while a chairperson gets Sh5500. MCAs in the assembly benefit heavily from sitting allowances earned in committees. A monthly salary without committee privileges is a big loss. MCA Museiya, a lawyer by profession is one of the vocal female MCAs in the assembly with her participation in debates noticeable. She was the chairperson of the Education Committee and also sat at the House Business Committee and Planning. MCA Thumbi who is a nurse by profession was the vice-chair of the health committee and also sat in Agriculture, Trade, and Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Her counterpart Jagero was an active member of the Public Accounts Committee and also sat in the ICT and Justice committees. Before the summon, MCA Thumbi said that she foresees dewhipping from committees as part of the “ punishment” from the party. “ For this, I am ready. I will face my accusers' mano o mano. I'm not shaken. I won't be intimidated. Alluta continua !! God, above all,” she said. Museiya had  said she knows her stand to Sonko was one of the reasons she  was summoned, having signed an affidavit to show her support “ I can clearly tell what this is about and I know it is about my stand against to support Sonko and being against the BBI,” she said. However, the Disciplinary Committee will deliver the reasons decisions made within 14 days in accordance with Regulation 5 of the Jubilee Party National Disciplinary Committee