The Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) has been awarded this year's Africa’s Leading Meetings and Conference Destination by the World Travel Awards (WTA) in the second year running. The fete was announced early this week during the inaugural Africa Winners day, an initiative that offers global Travel and Tourism leaders and influencers a series of packages to highlight their significant success. In a statement released on Thursday, KICC CEO Nana Gecaga expressed her gratitude to Kenya’s Tourism stakeholders and staff of KICC for the efforts and support they have accorded the industry to receive such prestigious accolades. “We are glad to get such great recognition two years in a row. The honours are once again an indication of great and unwavering efforts by the Kenyan Tourism Sector to position the country as a preferred destination for business events,” Gecaga said. The award will spearhead Kenya’s marketing campaigns positioning the destination as attractive for Meetings, Incentives Travel, Conferences and Exhibitions even as the destination embarks on tourism recovery plans following the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the third time Nairobi has been named Africa’s Leading Meetings and Conference Destination having taken the award in 2016, 2019 and now 2020. The city beat other top African destinations including Durban, Cape Town and Kigali to win Africa’s Leading Business Travel Destination. KICC had last year won the bid to host the 2020 Africa & Indian Ocean Gala ceremony scheduled for October 2020 but due to Covid 19, the event was postponed to next year. The decision to postpone the event was arrived at as a measure to put everyone’s health and safety first. The Centre still looks forward to hosting it in the coming year and preparations are underway to host a mega event. The event will not only be an award show but also a platform for the entire MICE industry and tourism sector to come together to showcase and kick start our major efforts and demonstrate that the country is once again open for business. "We envisage that by the time of hosting the event next year, the status of COVID 19 globally will have subsided and it would be safe to host a physical award ceremony," the CEO said. "We continue to pray for Kenya and her people at large and applaud the Kenyan government and Kenyans for their continued efforts to uphold all government directives on COVID 19 protocols and by ensuring our people and the country remain safe," Nana concluded. KICC, the parastatal mandated to market Kenya’s conference tourism globally has over the years worked greatly towards ensuring that Kenya retains its position as the most preferred destination for Business events in Africa.