ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has claimed that there were forces hell bent on having him take a "N0" position on the Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2020. Without giving names, Mudavadi said some powerful politicians wanted him to oppose the Bill after President Uhuru Kenyatta officially launched the signature collection drive alongside ODM leader Raila Odinga last week. He however said he saw no need of opposing the Bill since his demands had been adequately addressed in the final document. “There are people who are very mad at me because they wanted be to say No to the Bill. There was no reason for me to say no since the concerns I had raised at Bomas of Kenya had been addressed,” he explained. Speaking during the launch of the party's signature collection drive, Mudavadi regretted that there were political leaders who look for every excuse to get into a fight. “We should not be spoiling for a fight all the times. When you raise concerns and then they are addressed, do not look for other reasons to cause trouble,” he said. He added: “There are people who have been going round saying a referendum votes would not be sweet if there is no one opposing the process” Present during the function held at party headquarters in Nairobi were senators Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) and Petronilla Were (Nominated) and MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale) Sawa Tandaza (Matuga), Chris Aseka (Khwisero), Oku Kaunya (Teso North) and Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga County). Malala asked Deputy President William Ruto to come clear on whether he supports or opposes the he Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2020. “It is sad that some senior government officials have not come to declare their full support for the process,” he stated. He said ANC needs to know the position of the Deputy President since it need to know if the second in command will be incorporated in its plans to drum up support for the process. “The Deputy President is a scientist but he is taking too long too read and understand the document. Kenyans want to know which side he is on,” he stated. ANC will conduct its signature recruitment drive this week and then embark on civic education from Monday. “We will have a semi-autonomous secretariat which will oversee civic education across the country. We will be reaching out to our supporters to tell them why they should support BBI,” he explained. He appealed to the government to produce as many copies of the Bill as possible to be distributed to Kenyans. “Government printer should move with speed and produce enough copies for civic education,” he added. Aseka said the focus of the party would be to ensure people fully understand the contents of the Bill. Mudavadi added that the government will save money if the referendum is less contested. “The money that would have gone to tighten the security in a hotly contested referendum will be saved,” he explained. He added “That money can be directed towards the fight against Covid-19 pandemic” Sakwa said Kenyans should vote in good leaders even with the passing of BBI come 2022. “It will be very sad if we have very good laws but a very bad leadership,” he added. 