 Chief Justice David Maraga has terminated a Sh399 million contract for the construction of a High Court in Ol Kalou citing failure by the contractor to complete the project. “It would be irresponsible of us to just watch contractors play around with us and don’t take action,” Maraga said on Friday. He was speaking in Ol Kalou town where he launched the newly completed Ol Kalou magistrates court at the defunct county council offices. Prior to the launch, the CJ inspected the stalled High Court building. The World Bank-funded project was being undertaken by Nelliwa Builders & Civil Engineers LTD. It commenced on September 18, 2017, and was expected to be completed by March 18, 2019. The four-storey was to host a High Court, Land and Environment Court and Labour Relations Court as well as several magistrates courts. “I am very sad to say that in spite of the efforts we have made, that building has stalled. The reason for that is because the contractor, we have come to realise, is unable to complete the building,” Maraga said He said the termination of the contract was necessitated by the need to safeguard the funds for the project from being withdrawn by the World Bank. He regretted that because of the delay of the Ol Kalou High Court and other projects not completed in time elsewhere, the Judiciary had to plead with the Treasury to intervene to have the completion time for the World Bank-funded projects extended by a year. He said the project is now expected to be complete by July 2021. He said it was mandatory that the contract be terminated and awarded to another contractor if the new completion date is to be realised. He said the termination was a decision of the Judiciary and with similar moves effected in three other cases. “If we don’t do that, the funds we have gotten from the World Bank will go back,” Maraga said. He said they will get another contractor who has done well in projects awarded by the Judiciary to take over and complete the project.  "This will be in the interest of the people of Nyandarua."  Edited by P.O