Returning Harambee Stars Arnold Origi believes the team has the potential to edge Comoros and breath life back into their 2022 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying campaign. Stars host the highly-rated Pool 'G' leaders tonight at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani in their third qualifier which will not only mark Origi's return to the team after five years in the cold but also coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee's comeback after a decade out. The experienced shot-stopper, who recently parted ways with Finnish topflight side HIFK Fotboll, reckons that the pool is still open and wants Stars to take their chance. "It feels good to be back to the team after a long time. I did not return to pursue caps but to assist the team to create history by qualifying for back-to-back Afcon finals. The group is open to any of the four teams and we should not be ruled out yet. I am sure there will be massive focus on my performance if I will be selected but I am glad that playing under pressure makes me perform even better," said the former Mathare United and Tusker gloveman. His sentiments were echoed by Mamelodi Sundowns centre half Brian Mandela, who predicted a positive result for the team despite the absence of the red-hot Michael Olunga and fans in the 60, 000 seater facility. Mandela, who skippered the team during last month's 2-1 win over Zambia in a build-up match, lauded the player's fitness levels which were deemed as a major concern owing to the lengthy stoppage of football activities in various countries due to Covid-19. "There is no cause for alarm in as far as fitness levels and the chemistry between the players is concerned. We know each other and have played together either in the local league or in the national team for long and going by what I have seen for the time I have been at camp, I strongly believe we will get positive results," said Mandela. "Even though we will miss Olunga and our fans, we will give our best with the focus being the three points," said the former Posta Rangers defender. Meanwhile, Ghost admitted that Comoros will test the team's resolve to get their first win of the qualifiers but was upbeat of seeing them off. "We respect our opponents and we have to put our best feet forward and stop them from widening the gap at the top. The team doesn't look bad in terms of fitness despite most of the local players having limited training due to the restrictions which have been put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19," said Mulee. "I am glad there are no injuries in camp. However, we will miss Olunga whom we learnt of his unavailability a week ago and have been working to fill his void. We cannot cry over spilt milk. I will work with the available players."