Heavy rains will soak most of the country beginning Thursday, the Meteorological  department has said. Kenyans have been advised to be on the lookout for possible floods and landslides. Met director Stella Aura said the downpour will mostly be in the evening and at night every day. She said the rains will intensify on Friday and Saturday in northeastern parts of the country and spread to southeastern, coast, western and central highlands, including Nairobi. "It is likely to reduce in intensity on Monday, November 30, 2020," she said. Aura said the probability of rain coming as predicted is up to 66 per cent. "Residents in all areas are advised to be on the lookout for potential floods," she said. "People in landslide/mudslide prone areas, especially on the slopes of the Aberdare Range, Mt Kenya, western Kenya and other hilly areas should be watchful." The current downpour is a blessing for farmers as the short rain season is expected to end in early December across Kenya. The World Meteorological Organization says the rains have been unusually below-average because Kenya is going through a La Niña. The phenomenon, characterised by dry weather in Kenya, will continue through March, possibly until May next year. This, added to the impact of the desert locust invasion, may exacerbate food security challenges in the region, WMO said. The organisation asked Kenya and the rest of the Horn of Africa to prepare for a possible drought next year. United Nations humanitarian groups are already working with the WMO to identify areas most at risk of drought. “WMO experts and humanitarian colleagues will convene in November to undertake a thorough analysis of the season ahead,” the organisation said in a statement. This year’s La Niña is expected to be moderate to strong. The last time there was a strong event was in 2010-11, followed by a moderate event in 2011-12. In a report of the 2010-11 La Niña, the Kenya Red Cross said that by January 2011, the severity of the situation did not warrant an emergency classification. However, over the succeeding six months, the situation deteriorated rapidly, as the 2011 ‘long rains’ from March through May were depressed in Kenya. This was said to be 'the worst drought in 60 years' in East Africa. Between 2010 and 2012, the famine in Somalia killed about 260,000 people and led to an influx of about 400,000 new refugees into Kenya, according to the UN. The government declared the drought a national disaster on May 30, 2011. “Insufficient collective action by government and their development partners to focus on early action, mitigation, and building the long-term resilience of people living in drought-affected areas, over short-term symptomatic relief, has enabled this increasingly deteriorating situation to occur,” the Red Cross said in its report. The 2011 drought left about four million Kenyans in 18 counties surviving on food donations. According to a Save the Children/Oxfam report published in January 2012, the drought response was too little, too late, representing a systematic failure of the international humanitarian and development system. Edited by A.N