Uproar has greeted BBI's proposed mega expansion of Parliament and various groups say it will further burden the taxpayer. It will bloat the already bloated wage bill with highly paid lawmakers, they say. A section of political leaders, the clergy and members of the public protested that proposed 70 new constituencies and gender top-up slots could mean a 500-member Parliament. The Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 also proposes among others, the creation of the position of the prime minister and two deputies, the reintroduction of assistant ministers who will be picked from MPs. Currently, the National Assembly has 349 MPs and 67 Senators. The BBI referendum is seeking to increase the numbers. The Senate would have 94 members. The National Assembly will have 360 elected MPs, six nominated and a gender-top up which to be determined by the number of women elected to Parliament. The Constitution says no more than two-thirds of any public body should be members of one sex - the gender rule that male lawmakers have rejected time and again. With the proposed inflation of Parliament, Kenya will have one of the world's largest Parliaments relative to GDP and population. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki said expansion of Parliament is "in bad taste" and insensitive to widespread calls from Kenyans who want the numbers reduced. The ex-Senate deputy speaker said Kenyans should shoot down the BBI Bill set for referendum, otherwise, "We should brace for over-taxation." “Kenyans are already calling out to the leadership that we should reduce our appetite to create positions for politicians. These new positions come with huge budgetary implications that the taxpayer will shoulder,” he said. He added, “There are politicians and leaders who are supporting it because they have been told to. We have debts that are weighing us down. "If in fact this referendum is set to be funded using a loan. I want to appeal to Kenyans not to be swayed by politics but the voice of reason.” Former presidential candidate James Ole Kiyiapi said the bill should be rejected in totality, saying it is framed to benefit the political class at the expense of Kenyans. “Having a Parliament of 454 in country where millions of youth have no jobs, a national debt of over Sh7 trillion - whatever the political intention is, it's reckless,” he said. Church bishops last week presented a memorandum to President Uhuru Kenyatta, telling him that an expanded Parliament is not good for the country suffering from Covid-19. “We are concerned about the proposed expansion of Parliament which will give the country a top-heavy legislature,” the bishops told the President who ignored their prayers. Apart from the expanded Parliament, some regions have rejected the manner in which the 70 new constituencies have been distributed among the 47 counties. Former Lagdera MP Farah Maalim on Thursday described the BBI Bill as a fraud, saying some regions were shortchanged. “BBI is a fraud, joke and designed to demolish bridges instead of build them. How do you give one additional seat to almost one half of the landmass of the country and about 30 seats to one community?” he posted on Twitter. Maalim, who served as deputy speaker in the National Assembly between 2008 and 2013, said, “This [increase in seats] is not what we were made to believe up to the last minute." “This is dishonesty. We expected in the very least North Horr, Ijara and Wajir South to have a slot each. That’s less than five per cent of the total of 70. "Look at the unimaginable greed - and somebody talks of uniting Kenyans,” he said. Former Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow said the BBI is full of sweeteners meant to hoodwink the public to support the referendum. He dismissed the push to amend the 2010 Constitution and said it will not solve country’s problems. “BBI is more likely to undermine inclusivity, national unity and all other lofty terms used in the document,” he said. “What ails our nation is the poor leadership and lack of good governance, not the Constitution. At worst, it is the lack of its implementation that is the bane of our challenges, including lack of fidelity to it and the rule of law in general,” Kerrow said. (Edited  by V. Graham) 