The Anti-doping Agency of Kenya has warned sportspersons in the country that they are still watching out for anti-doping violators despite the negative impact of Covid-19 restrictions on its activities. Having conducted over 4,000 doping tests since inception in 2016, ADAK has been forced to scale down its activities due to the pandemic. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have had to scale down our testing to adhere to the regulations. Wada has also advised us on how to conduct these tests under the present circumstances. However, we are continuously monitoring the sportsmen and women around the country,” Martin Yauma, senior research and development officer, said. Yauma warned athletes in various disciplines to be wary of some of the things they consume during this period for they could fall on the prohibited list, putting them in trouble with anti-doping enforcers. “When you visit your doctor, ensure that you have a list of the prohibited substances to ensure that the doctor does not unknowingly prescribe a prohibited substance for you. ADAK has a booklet with the list of these substances that sportspersons can carry around in their pockets wherever they go,” he said. He also cautioned against the use of commonly used stimulants, such as miraa and bhang’, which may attract a doping ban or fine from ADAK or even WADA. Yauma was speaking during a webinar on Wednesday evening with hockey stakeholders to raise awareness on anti-doping rules and activities of ADAK. Speaking at the same meeting, Agnes Mandu,  ADAK’s director of education and research, advised sportspersons to stay away from food supplements. She said that some of the supplements may be contaminated with prohibited substances. “Food supplements manufactured in developed countries are reliable because their industry is regulated so that they are not contaminated. In Kenya, there is no regulation and that is why we tell our athletes that supplements are a no. While those manufactured abroad may be clean, someone in Kenya imitates that by adding a prohibited component,” Mandu said. Festus Kiplamai, an anti-doping educator at ADAK, advised sportspersons to stick to a natural diet to enhance their fitness and performance levels. The list of prohibited substances is to be updated in January 2021 where certain substances that are on WADA’s watchlist might be added to the list depending on the results of research on their effects. Two of these substances are caffeine (coffee) and nicotine ( cigarettes).