The Management of Katani Hospital in Mavoko, Machakos County has asked the government to allow it to use NHIF cards to treat patients. CEO Dr. Modesta Vesonder on Sunday said the hospital is providing services to hundreds of patients who are unable to pay in cash but hold NHIF cards. This comes after residents raised concerns seeking treatment at Katani Hospital in Mavoko have decried high costs of medication. The residents said though the private health facility is providing quality and efficient health care, they are finding it difficult to sort out the bills in cash since the facility is not accredited by the National Hospital Insurance Fund -NHIF. The hospital offers both inpatient and outpatient services Some of the patients who spoke to the Star said the facility was the only hospital in their neighborhood. “I am done with part one of Cancer treatment, I am starting the second part. Katani Hospital has the best services with doctors always attending to patients on one on one unlike several facilities,” Brian Tuva who is undergoing cancer treatment at the hospital for the last two months said. Tuva said the only challenge is paying for the services in cash. “It’s expensive for me but I talked to the hospital CEO who agreed that we pay in installments as I progress. I am getting the best treatment. I have an NHIF card but I can’t use it here," he said. Angela Abei who was referred to the hospital by a friend said, "I am recuperating well due to the good services here. My problem is that I came here thinking they offer NHIF services. I have requested the management to allow me to pay in installments". But the CEO said it was unfair for the hospital to turn away patients because they do not have cash yet they can be treated by their NHIF cards. Vesonder said efforts to get the accreditation hadn’t come through for the last two years despite following all due processes and procedures. The hospital that is located at Katani in Mavoko was officially opened by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in October 2018. “We are not yet accredited by NHIF. A lot of patients come here with hopes that we will accept the card. We have tried to obtain the accreditation since 2018, but up to this time we haven’t been able to,” Vesonder said. She added, “We have been to several offices. We are hoping that at some point soon, we will be able to care for the people who come here seeking care holding NHIF cards but we aren’t able to care for them this time". As a result, many patients are left with no option but to travel long distances seeking healthcare in NHIF accredited hospitals. She said despite the current economic challenges occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic, the hospital has not sent any patients away. Those who came in hoping to access their NHIF have been forced to enter into an agreement to pay in installments. “We are open to all kinds of patients. Our mission is to take care of the community, rendering good quality health care and making sure that patients are taken good care of,” she said. She said they also offer counseling services alongside restoring lives to patients from all over the country especially Nairobi, Machakos, Kajiado, and the Western region. “Our goal is to provide affordable and accessible care to the locals. We haven’t sent any patient away for lack of money. Patients come in and they get treated and they pay later. We don’t ask for any money up-front,” Vesonder said. Vesonder said though that had worked well for patients., it is a challenge to the hospital since some patients make commitments but disappear without honoring their promises.