MPs have launched probe into how one firm monopolised fertiliser imports at the National Cereals and Produce Board. Members of the National Assembly Agriculture committee want to know why Export Trading Company has been the sole supplier in the country since 2012. The firm was awarded a contract to supply 30,000 tonnes of DAP fertiliser at Sh4 billion and has since been the sole supplier after it was handpicked to import Sh4 billion DAP fertiliser. Last month, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi questioned the manner in which the multibillion-shilling tender was awarded to the firm through direct procurement after the tender committee controversially cancelled the initial tendering process. The tendering committee, through direct procurement, settled on Export Trading Company, which had been knocked out at the technical evaluation stage in the cancelled tendering process. On Wednesday, Osotsi told the committee that an influential individual in the government influenced the tendering and he called for an inquiry into the matter. The MP wants the House team to investigate and make public the directors of the Export Trading Company and any powerful cartels behind it. “The committee should institute an inquiry into how this one company managed to be the sole supplier of fertiliser to the ministry. The whole procurement seems to have favoured this one firm. There is evidence the firm is linked to a powerful individual in the country,” Osotsi said. “What is it that they are doing to make them get such special treatment? I plead with the committee to conduct an inquiry on this firm, especially their directors.” Tiren said his committee will get to the bottom of the matter and ascertain the circumstances that led to the award of Sh4 billion tender. “We need to get to the owners of this company and if there is anyone protecting them. We shall expose them,” Kater said. The lawmakers were speaking during a committee meeting with Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga who was responding to the question by Osotsi. Boga defended the move to directly procure the Sh4 billion tender, saying there was value for money. “Following the cancellation of the tender on grounds of being non-responsive, there was need to use the lawfully available method within the prevailing public procurement legal framework to avail fertiliser to avoid a crisis in fertiliser distribution,” Boga said. “Having considered all available options, the NCPB undertook direct procurement within the law to ensure timely supply of the much needed fertiliser by the farmers.” The tender was advertised by the NCPB on November 23, 2011. At the time of tender opening, 11 interested firms had returned their bids as required. They included MEA Ltd, Pabari Distributors, Yara Switzerland, Export Trading Co. Ltd, Holbud Ltd, Euroworld Commodities, Afri Ventures FZE, Helicon Corporations Inc., Stradilor Ltd, Saudi, Industrial Export and Farmers World Limpopo. After a preliminary evaluation, only Afri Ventures FZE, Pabari Distributors, Export Trading Co. Ltd and MEA Ltd were qualified to proceed to the technical evaluation where Afri Ventures FZE attained the requisite 70 marks and above to proceed to the financial evaluation. (Edited by V. Graham)