There was drama on Monday as police lobbed teargas canisters at MCAs allied to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko as they met at Riverside for a press briefing. The MCAs who were drawn from both ODM and Jubilee Party are opposed to the impeachment motion that was tabled before the assembly last week. They called on President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga to intervene in the ongoing wrangles between Sonko and the NMS. After the press conference, police stormed the private residence at Riverside where the MCAs had met and ordered them to leave. Tension escalated when the MCAs appeared to resist. At this point, Sonko  appeared at the scene and had a scuffle with the police, telling them not to disrupt the meeting. As the MCAs  tried to defend Sonko, the police who were armed with teargas canisters, guns and rungus, got on hold of Mathare North MCA Jared Okode and beat him. The police lobbed teargas canisters in attempt to disperse the MCAs and in the melee, temporarily detained Sonko, taking him outside. After a few minutes of chaos, the police ordered all MCAs to vacate the residence as Sonko was held in the police Land Cruiser. The police had parked  at least six Land Cruisers outside the residence. Sonko was later released and left the residence as MCAs escorted him. Sonko is under siege and last week said he feels that "the system" has stabbed him in the back as regards his impeachment due for determination this week. Efforts to kick him out started last Thursday when a notice of impeachment motion was tabled at the county assembly based on four charges including gross violation of the Constitution and abuse of office. His refusal to assent to the Sh37.5 billion Nairobi City County Appropriation Bill, 2020 that gives Sh27.3 billion to NMS is said to be among the main reasons for the bid to remove him from the helm of City Hall. He accuses "State House cartels" who want to control the city through the Nairobi Metropolitan Services of being being behind that budget. He maintains that the budget should have been initiated by his executive. “The governor is right in his assertion that 'deep state' cartels are the ones pushing for his ouster. These are the same people who want to siphon off money through NMS,” a senior City Hall officer who sought anonymity, said. This is the second time Sonko is facing impeachment after a court saved him last February. More follows...