The death of Matungu MP Justus Murunga exposed inadequate preparedness by Kakamega county to deal with Covid-19. Murunga died on November 14 at St Mary’s Mission Hospital in Mumias. He was denied admission to Matungu Subcounty Hospital, a level 4 facility, because of lack of oxygen. A check by the Star has revealed that most level 4 hospitals in the county lack oxygen in their wards. The hospitals have to buy oxygen from Kisumu and some cylinders in the facilities were empty. For instance, Iguhu hospital has only an oxygen concentrator and no cylinder. It serves as a level 4 hospital in Ikolomani. At Malava Level 4 Hospital, there is oxygen in the theatre but the wards have oxygen concentrators. At Butere hospital, there are two oxygen cylinders in the theatre and not in wards. At Matungu Subcounty Hospital, there is no oxygen cylinder or concentrator. A medic at the Mumias Level 4 Hospital, which serves as an isolation unit for patients with Covid-19, said the facility has nine oxygen concentrators and no oxygen cylinders. Contacted for comment on the matter, county Health executive Collins Matemba said there was oxygen in all level 4 hospitals in the county. However, he admitted that the hospitals can only serve two patients at a time because of Covid-19. The official could also not explain why MP Murunga was not admitted to a level 4 due to lack of oxygen. Matemba said at Kakamega County General Hospital there is a plant with a capacity to produce 300 litres of oxygen per minute. "The Sh31 million plant serves the entire general hospital where oxygen delivery is piped across all wards, with expanded capacity to serve all subcounty hospitals in refilling," he said. Medics in the county have complained that the health department is a time bomb waiting to explode, should there be a serious Covid-19 crisis because of lack of oxygen. "We only have oxygen cylinders in theatres of level 4 hospitals but there is none in wards," a doctor who sought to remain anonymous said. "We have oxygen concentrators in wards in those hospitals. In the event of serious oxygen demand, we cannot handle the situation because what is in theatres cannot be used in wards." The medic said that what the county government is saying is not what is on the ground. "There is a problem, and we only pray to God that more people will not fall sick because they will die," the doctor said. 