Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka led other leaders in Kajiado county to congratulate Governor Joseph ole Lenku on his enthronement as Maa kingpin. “Those Maa Council of Elders who picked Lenku as Maasai spokesperson amongst thousands of other leaders must have done due diligence on your governor,” Musyoka said at church service in Kitengela on Sunday. He told Lenku to “stand up to the occasion and prove your salt” by uniting the Maa nation and leading it in the right direction, even using supernatural skills to navigate the six Maa counties. The sentiments were shared by former Kajiado Senator Peter Mositet, former Nairobi county assembly speaker Alex Magelo and Wiper NEC member Peter ole Musei, among other leaders. Mositet thanked the the elders for selecting Lenku, saying his elevation is a big win for Kajiado. Musei, who invited the governor to the church event in Kitengela, said before President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga had shaken hands, Lenku already had made peace with rivals in the 2017 polls Others who congratulated  Lenku were MPs Patrick Makau, Ben Momanyi, politician David Parseina, who invited Musyoka to Kajiado, and former Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye. Lenku said his enthronement was a surprise to him, adding that what was a mere visit to good old friends was turned into a ceremony. “Little did I know I would be given such a position in society. I knew the council chairman as just a friend but when I reached his home in Gilgil, he had other elders from six Maa counties, and that was it,” Lenku said. But former Olkejuado county council chairman Tarayia ole Kores disparaged Lenku’s enthronement, saying leadership of such magnitude is not given but “earned”. Kores claimed Lenku bribed the elders for the enthronement, a claim they denied. Earlier at Redeemed Gospel Church, Parseina caused a stir when he said Nkedianye is "more popular" in Kajiado than Lenku. Musyoka reprimanded Parseina and forced him to apologise to Lenku after he complained to the former VP. (Edited by V. Graham)