Global players’ union Fifpro said it was concerned about a “lack of consultation” over the Asian Football Confederation’s decision to complete the eastern zone of its elite club competition in Qatar due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After the Asian Champions League (ACL) was suspended in March, the western zone matches were completed in Qatar and the AFC then decided to also move the remaining eastern zone matches to the Gulf nation to be played from November 18-December 13. Despite stringent biosecurity measures, a string of players contracted the novel coronavirus in Doha, with defending champions Al Hilal axed from the competition after they were only able to muster 11 players for their final group fixture. “Fifpro is disappointed and concerned by the lack of consultation of professional footballers in the scheduling of the AFC Champions League in Qatar and the planning of Covid-19 protocols,” Fifpro said in a statement. “These matters have implications for their mental and physical health as well as their participation in domestic leagues. Neither Fifpro nor our affiliated player associations in Australia, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea and Thailand ... were asked about the competition for the eastern AFC region prior to the announcement.” Fifpro said it had not received any information about the outbreak of the virus in the tournament’s bio-secure bubble. It added that several players due to compete in Qatar had expressed concerns to their unions about travelling during the pandemic and having to face a two-week quarantine period upon their return home. “The players, whose health, financial situation and careers are on the line, deserve to be part of these decisions,” the statement added. The AFC did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. The Sydney Morning Herald reported on Thursday that Australian sides Sydney FC, Melbourne Victory and Perth Glory would fulfil their obligations after the AFC said they faced a $215,250 fine and two-year ban if they pulled out. The AFC are desperate to complete the competition to fulfil broadcasting requirements. Iran’s Persepolis won the western zone and will face a team from the eastern zone in the final in Doha on December 19.