 Muslims in Garissa have joined global calls to boycott French products in protest against what they termed disparaging remarks by President Emmanuel Macron against their religion. Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims national organising secretary Abdullah Salat on Saturday criticised the French government for an attempt to control imams and close mosques. “The religious leaders and people of Garissa wish to register our strong disapproval and condemnation of the recent remarks by the President of France Emmanuel Macron disparaging and condemning Islam,” Salat said. He was speaking at Jamia Mosque in Garissa town. Salat urged all Muslims to boycott all French products until Macron "withdraws his offensive policies and apologises to the Muslim faithful." The escalating protests across the world followed the beheading of a history teacher in Paris after he showed a caricature of Prophet Mohamed to his students. Macron later remarked that the Muslim religion was in "crises." Muslim clerics slammed the remarks saying it was stigmatisation of the entire faith for a crime committed by an individual. Salat said Islam prohibits the abuse of all religions including Jesus whom Muslims believe was also a prophet. “Caricature depicting Jewish people in France would not be tolerated and certainly lands persons in court. It is not however the same for Muslims. That is blatant bias,” he said. Sheikh Osman Mohamed said Muslims across the world revere Prophet Mohamed and any attempt to malign his character will have serious consequences. “As Muslims, we will not allow anyone to mock or abusing our beloved prophet. We call on all Muslims to be steadfast and boycott products from France,” Osman said. On Saturday, President Macron said he understands the feelings of Muslims who are shocked by the displaying of cartoons of Prophet Muhammad but added that the “radical Islam” he is trying to fight is a threat to all people, especially Muslims. “I understand the sentiments being expressed and I respect them. But you must understand my role right now, it’s to do two things: to promote calm and also to protect these rights,” Macron said. “I will always defend in my country the freedom to speak, to write, to think, to draw.” Macron also hit out at what he described as “distortions” from political leaders, saying people were often led to believe that the caricatures were a creation of the French state. “I think that the reactions came as a result of lies and distortions of my words because people understood that I supported these cartoons,” he said.  Edited by P.O