 The Nairobi Metropolitan Services will dispose of 188 unclaimed bodies if they are not collected for burial by November 24. The bodies include 35 aborted foetuses, according to a public notice in the dailies. The NMS says the bodies have overstayed in the morgues and that it will dispose of them a week from November 17 if they are not collected. There are 166 unclaimed bodies at the City Mortuary, 13 at Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital mortuary and nine at Mbagathi Hospital morgue. “Interested members of the public are asked to identify and collect the unclaimed bodies, failure to which the Nairobi Metropolitan Services will seek authority for disposal,” according to the notice. Most of the bodies are of an unknown persons and the causes of death listed as road crashes, murder, lynching, abortion and suicide. At City Mortuary, 19 deaths were due to accidents, 17 sudden deaths, 11 drowning, eight lynching, six murder, seven natural deaths and three shooting. Eighty-five bodies were of children, with abortion leading as the cause of the deaths. Thirty-five aborted foetuses were found in Kasarani and Pangani and the Eastlands estates of Kayole, Embakasi and Kariobangi. Thirty abortions were reported in various police stations between April and October this year. Malaria claimed four people and pneumonia 34 infants. Others died of health complications such as chest pains. The 34 infants died within one to 30 days of their birth. As of June this year, 21 bodies had been retrieved from Nairobi River since the launch of the Nairobi River Restoration Project early last year. The tally included 16 infants. Komb Green Solution, an organisation involved in the clean-up of Nairobi River in the informal settlements, raised concern over the increased number of bodies of infants recovered from the river. “Society morals are degraded every time a human body is retrieved from the river,” Governor Mike Sonko said at the time and appealed to the police to arrest those responsible for dumping babies and procuring abortions. In July, the Nairobi Metropolitan Services issued a seven-day notice for the public to collect 159 unclaimed bodies at the City Mortuary and Mbagathi Hospital Funeral Home. A similar notice had been given in May for the collection of 185 unclaimed bodies at the City Mortuary, Mama Lucy and Mbagathi hospitals. Cap 242 of the Public Health Act says an unclaimed body should be removed from a mortuary within two weeks or else it is disposed of in a mass grave after public officers obtain the court's permission. The county is supposed to issue a 21-day notice and thereafter bury the bodies in a mass grave at Lang'ata cemetery.