Western Stima have confirmed the appointment of Paul Ogai and Duncan Omondi as the club's new head and assistant coaches respectively. Stima were rendered coach-less in August after Salim Babu decamped for Wazito to deputise Fred Ambani. Besides losing Babu to Wazito, the Kisumu based outfit parted ways with Hesbon Nyabinge, who served as the former's assistant. Nyabinge is currently one of the national U20 football team, Rising Stars, assistant coaches. Stima chairman Laban Jobita said he opted to bring Ogai on board due to his understanding of the team and their current financial crisis. Ogai left Stima in April last year, joined National Super League side Coast Stima three months later where he was until the season was cut short by the coronavirus pandemic. Jobita added that Ogai's ability to spot new talent and constitute a new team gave him an edge over the rest of the applicants. Stima, who were hit hard by the exit of shirt sponsor — Kenya Power — have so far lost 18 players in the ongoing player transfer window. "Ogai is our new head coach and will be assisted by Omondi. There were a handful of applicants but I chose Ogai since he knows the traditions of the club and understands the players well," said Jobita. "I needed a coach who will help us rebuild after losing 18 players and he is good in identifying talents. It was hard to let him go last year when he tendered his resignation letter and when he expressed interest last month, I didn't have a second thought." Despite the mass exodus of players and financial instability, Jobita, in the meantime, believes the team will defy odds and mount a serious title challenge. The former Gor Mahia player banks on the senior players who have pledged their allegiance to the club and the young ones who Ogai has recruited for at the title. "Just because we lost players and members of the technical bench it doesn't mean we will struggle in the league. We managed to retain senior players whom we will build a strong team around and challenge for the title. Stima will no longer be participants again," he added.