A section of the Maasai leaders in Narok County has declared support for the BBI report, saying the community will benefit a lot from it. Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta, nominated MCA Christine Lemein and former Narok town council chairman Kelena ole Nchoe vowed to mobilise the people in the county to append their signatures in support of constitutional change. They made the remarks at Narok North CDF offices after appeding their signatures in support of Building Bridges Initiative on Friday. While launching the BBI signatures drive in the county, Kenta called on residents to volunteer in large numbers to sign. He praised the document, saying it will help in resolving historical injustices that the community has suffered for a long time since Independence. “Our people stand with this initiative because among the clauses is the proper ownership of communal land. This will help in protecting the Maasai Mara Game Reserve and Maasai Mau forest that have been a bone of contention for a long time,” Kenta said. The ODM lawmaker said the creation of the offices of prime minister and deputy prime ministers position will give small communities like the Maasai  a chance of having representation in the Executive. “We will not oppose this document because there some people who have rejected it. We will embrace it and append our signatures on the document because it has numerous advantages,” he said. The legislator said the creation of additional constituencies in the country will bring services closer to the people as Narok county will have three more constituencies. Nchoe said the Maasai community supports BBI because they have read and realised the document will bring benefits to the land. He urged the pastoralist community to volunteer in large number to support the document so as to attain the required minimum number of signatures. “Despite our county being rich in agricultural and livestock production, the previous administrations have not given the county leadership positions as expected,” Nchoe said. Lemein told residents that the local county assembly will support the document because it empowers devolution by bringing more resources to the counties.