Some members of the Nairobi County Assembly now claim their lives are in danger after they declared their support to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok and Nominated MCA June Ndegwa on Tuesday, raised the issue on the floor of the assembly when they House resumed from a three-month recess. Ndegwa who rose on the floor under Standing Order 86 said that she was being traced and unknown people had approached her house to know of her whereabouts. She had raised the same issue last month, where she claimed on being tracked down, which made her report the matter to the DCI. “We have written to the office of the DCI, DPP and the Interior Ministry to investigate in the matter. Our security should be beefed up because this is not an issue to take lightly,” she said. Imwatok said that powerful state individuals were after his life for his stand against corruption and staunch support for NMS. “I have been forced to shift houses because my family is also being targeted. Unknown people approached my former caretaker asking for my whereabouts. It is not easy to sleep at night knowing that you and your family are being targeted,” he explained. “This is my life and even if I rest today I know I have done my part on proper oversight. The issue of security cannot be compromised. If Madam Speaker you cannot protect us we have no choice but to protect ourselves.” Imwatok recalled that when President Uhuru Kenyatta hosted all Nairobi MCAs at State House, he asked them to report to Speaker Beatrice Elachi any incidents that were life-threatening. He pleaded with the Speaker as the chair of the house to protect the members. However, this is not the first time that the ward rep has claimed his life is in danger. Three months ago, Imwatok recorded a statement at Central Police station under OB number 83/06/02/2020, claiming that there have been several attempts on his life by unknown people. This was during the time he had introduced and moved an impeachment motion against Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. Dandora Three MCA Charles Thuo said all members have a right to transact business without fear and intimidation. “I am a victim because my number has also been traced and I have reported to the DCI. If the issue of security of all 122 members is not addressed then the House needs to be adjourned,” he said. Speaker Elachi ruled that the Jubilee Party should sit and see how the matter is resolved to ensure members are safe. “The Jubilee Party will have to sit down and look at all these issues raised by its members. I know there are very many issues. They should sit with the party leader to deal with this matter and until then the interim current leadership remains,” she said. The speaker said she will write to the party concerning the issue for it to be resolved next week.