Local printing firms expect huge financial gains after the state completes the layout of the implementation of the Competency-Based Curriculum. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development — the agency responsible for school syllabus- is this month due to okay the printing of Grade 5 textbooks. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said they are awaiting the approval of the textbooks. “We are on course and at the end of this month, the government will release the books it deems fit for driving the curriculum in Grade 5... we will begin publishing soon afterwards," Njagi told the Star in a phone interview on Tuesday. The rollout of the 2-6-6-2 education system is now in Grade 4 and is set for implementation to Grade 5 next year. However, the shutdown of schools to stem the spread of the coronavirus jeopardised the rollout as planned in January. Already, the Education Ministry is working on the readjustment of the school calendar, an exercise that might affect key programmes in the sector. By September, when the lockdown on learning institutions will be up for review, schools will have lost 17 weeks. Last month, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said the government is keen on ensuring all learners recover time lost during the holidays. This means the school calendar and programmes timelines will be affected or pushed forward. With over 1.3 million learners in Grade 5, publishers are battling for the control of the more than 16 million books to be published for 14 subjects listed under the new curriculum. Njagi said the firms shortlisted as successful bidders will publish and deliver the books by September. “No change has been communicated to us indicating the change of plans… after approval, we begin printing immediately and the books should be in schools beginning September,” he said. Last year, seven publishers won the supply of Grade 4 books. They included the Kenya Literature Bureau and Jomo Kenyatta Foundation, both government entities. The rest were Longhorn Publishers, Mountain Top Publishers, Moran Publishers, One Planet Publishers and Oxford University Press. The government in 2018 adopted direct supply of textbooks to schools to get rid of cartels blamed for meddling with the price of textbooks in the distribution chain.  - mwaniki fm