 JM  Senate Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang’ata has revealed that more government officials who do not support the President’s vision and development agenda will be axed. Kang’ata said on Saturday the government is targeting Cabinet Secretaries and parastatal CEOs who have been siphoning government resources. The Murang’a senator also said their removal is expected in the next three works as the government enters into a new political dispensation. Kang’ata spoke at Wamahiga Primary School in Kigumo while distributing foodstuffs and supplies to hundreds of residents. Heads of state bodies who are facing audit issues or criminal cases are also likely to be removed, he said. Kang’ata said the government’s agenda cannot be achieved by officials who do not support it, making their removal necessary. “We are now going into a new political dispensation that seeks to deliver a new Kenya and that cannot be achieved if officials are undermining the essence of the handshake and the Jubilee spirit,” he said. The Chief Whip said, however, however the Jubilee Party is not targeting members affiliated to Deputy President William Ruto. A number of the DP’s allies already have been purged in Parliament. Kang’ata said the party so far has removed people seen to be undermining President Uhuru Kenyatta’s vision. He cited Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen who was removed as Senate Majority leader. Murkomen was in the forefront of criticising the government, accusing it of militarising Nairobi county despite his being the leader of government business in the House. “It goes without saying he had to be removed so a new leader who would inject new ideas could be brought in,” Kang’ata said. The party, he said, is just following its constitution that requires leaders to follow the rules. Kang’ata emphasised the President is not the dictator a section of Kenyans paint him to be and said the MPs who were disciplined had failed to attend a general meeting; attendees were spared. He also dismissed as untrue claims the administration has been undermining the work of independent government institutions. The new Chief Whip said there have been instances in which the Judiciary has ruled against the government but the judgments have always been respected. “The best example is the 2017 judgment that nullified the presidential election. Several acts of Parliament have also been overturned by the courts. Parliament on the other hand has a vibrant opposition and MPs freely express themselves,” he said. Kang’ata also said Aden Duale, Majority leader in the National Assembly, will only be saved if he is able to garner the support of the majority of Jubilee MPs. Jubilee had decided to spare him. Supporters say he has been successful in pushing the government’s position in Parliament. Kang’ata said, however, if the MPs who sign in support of his removal from the position exceed 50 per cent plus one, then he will lose the seat. MPs allegedly led by Kieni MP Kanini Kega are said to be collecting signatures to have the Garissa Town MP removed from his position despite the President’s decision to spare him. (Edited by V. Graham)  