Giraffe Manor, one of the most exclusive hotels in the upmarket Karen neighborhood,  has dismissed claims that it is discriminating Kenyans. The hotel in a statement to newsrooms on Tuesday, said it was disappointed to read accusations implying any form of discrimination at Giraffe Manor following a poster published by an independent agent communicating its reopening on June 1 after closure due to Covid-19. According to the hotel, the wording in the advertisement posted by the independent agent was misconstrued to indicate that it previously did not open its doors to Kenyans. "This is factually incorrect. Our mission since we bought Giraffe Manor eleven years ago has always been to provide an unparalleled and world class experience for all our clients regardless of colour, tribe, religion, sex or nationality. We are incredibly proud to represent the best of Kenyan hospitality," the statement read. The hotel came under sharp criticism by Kenyans online who alleged the hotel previously shunned locals, and was only now opening its doors to them since there were no foreign tourists flying into the country due to the coronavirus. The backlash came from Kenyans who recounted discriminatory experiences at the hotel due to policies which are seen to be disadvantageous to Africans. But the hotel said due to the popularity of the property, it has many requests to visit Giraffe Manor at different times but unfortunately due to its admission policy, they are only able to offer an all-inclusive package which includes a night at the manor inclusive of breakfast. "Like many luxury safari destinations, we do not offer breakfast as a stand-alone service and as an extremely intimate property we are unable to facilitate walk-ins at any time," the statement read. It further read, " We regret if this policy means disappointment for some but it is necessitated by the desire to ensure the absolute best and safest environment for the giraffes, our staff and guests". The hotel said it is saddened by any offense caused by the wording of the advert. "We have noted that it has been deleted from the agent's feed, we have also requested that they offer an apology to the public for this miscommunication," the statement read. The agency Ahnasa Destinations Ltd in its apology said the intention of the promotion was to inform the public that Giraffe Manor is open to those within Nairobi Metropolitan limits due to current restrictions. "This was unfortunately misconstrued to imply that Giraffe Manor was not previously open to Kenyans which is not correct," the agency said.