Cloud remains a primary business driver and their main value lies in supporting a fast-moving digital business transformation that would help businesses handling huge data. Security, cost, and flexibility are top priorities in the journey to the cloud. Cloud enables data sharing across the enterprise but can also expose data in the process leading to risk. Cloud deployment and management costs can be a concern, particularly the costs of workload expansion as demand fluctuates and grows. The market is demanding new and better digital products and services. These new converging needs require a new way of thinking about hybrid cloud. A hybrid cloud is mixed computing, storage, and services environment made up of on-premises infrastructure, private cloud services, and public cloud with orchestration among various platforms. A private cloud is a type of computing that delivers scalability and self-service but through a proprietary architecture and is dedicated to the needs and goals of a single organisation. For a public cloud, it offers both scalability and self-service but delivers the services to multiple organisations. The primary benefit of a hybrid cloud is agility. The core principle of a digital business is the need to adapt and change direction quickly. To gain agility it needs for a competitive advantage, your business needs, or want to combine private clouds, public clouds and on-premises resources. The hybrid approach allows applications and components to interoperate across boundaries, between cloud instances and even between architectures, for example, traditional versus modern digital. Hybrid cloud infrastructure is enabled by a Data Fabric that uses a software-defined approach to provide a common set of data services across any combination of IT resources. For flexibility for the future, a hybrid cloud approach lets you match your actual data management requirements to the public cloud or on-premises resources that are best able to handle them. When handling big data processes, you could run your big data analytics using highly scalable public cloud resources while using a private cloud to ensure data security and keep sensitive big data behind your firewall. This type of cloud helps you to separate critical workloads from less sensitive workloads. For the sensitive financial or customer information, you can store it on your private cloud and use the public cloud to run the rest of your business applications. It helps in the temporary processing of capacity needs by allocating public cloud resources for short term projects at a lower cost than if one used their own data center IT infrastructure. With that you will not over-invest in equipment you will only need temporarily. To capitalising on opportunities in the cloud landscape, your organisation must have a superior IT infrastructure that is secure yet open, resilient and aligned to your current needs yet able to scale as they change.