The government has heightened security surveillance following the rising cases of illegal bushmeat trade. Wildlife PS Fred Segor on Friday said they had confiscated 2,500 kilos of bushmeat and took 10 suspects to court. “Our teams on the ground are on top of the game,” Segor assured. Segor said reasons such as unemployment were being given as excuses by the hunters. On Wednesday, Segor toured Tsavo East National Park where he raised concerns over increased bushmeat trade in the last three months. “I warn the perpetrators of this vice that their days are numbered and it is a matter of time before they are brought to book,” he said. The PS said the government was committed to protecting all wildlife small, middle and giant animals to stabilize the Tsavo ecosystem. Segor urged communities bordering the parks to be careful not to start the fires in the conservation areas. On Thursday, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani allocated the Kenya Wildlife Service Sh1 billion to engage 5,500 community scouts. Segor said the scouts will help complement the work of KWS rangers. “The scouts will be engaged in surveillance, check human-wildlife conflict as well as in the cleaning of marine parks and beaches,” Segor said. The PS said scouting will help youth engage in productive jobs. In May, KWS warned that bushmeat poaching and associated crimes were common in Nakuru, Machakos, Kajiado, Nairobi, Makueni and Taita Taveta. “There is increased human-wildlife conflicts due to influx of people to the rural areas (hotspots Kajiado, Narok, Laikipia, Taita Taveta, Homa Bay and Samburu,” the report states. KWS said that human-wildlife conflict patrols and problem animal management units had been deployed. The service said it has jurisdiction for wildlife outside public designated protected areas, a role that comes with additional costs. Since the enactment of the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013, the Government, through the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, has released Sh1,201,350,000 for human-wildlife conflict between 2014 and 2018. The law requires Sh5 million be paid for human death, Sh3 million for injury with permanent disability and up to Sh2 million for other injuries depending on their extent. The law puts penalties of Sh20 million fine or imprisonment for life or to both for offences against endangered species. 