Nandi county has begun preparing four subcounty hospitals as isolation centres with a total of 300 beds for Covid-19 patients. Governor Stephen Sang said on Sunday the county has also finalised training 1,300 medical staff to handle Covid-19 cases. The national government has directed each county to have at least 300 beds. Sang said subcounty hospitals in Nandi Hills, Kabiyet, Kobujoi and Chesume will each have 75 beds, bringing the total to 300 well-equipped units. Two weeks ago President Uhuru Kenyatta hosted governors at State House to assess Covid-19 preparedness. It agreed each county should have at least 300 beds. “We have decided that instead of having the beds in one place, we will share them in all the subcounties, so they are also closer to the communities,” Sang said. He said the units will be well-equipped so they can handle other healthcare needs once the Covid-19 curve flattens. He said Kapsabet County Referral Hospital will not be used to handle Covid-19 so at it continues to serve patients with other medical needs. “If we make the county referral hospital a Covid-19 facility, then we will be denying residents with other challenges access to healthcare at the main facility,” Sang said. The county has 40 beds ready at Nandi Hills and Sang said the only patient at the facility and 26 contacts who had also been isolated have all been discharged to return home after testing negative. “We now have no active cases, but we are preparing our facilities considering that the virus continues to spread,” Sang said. He said residents were being sensitised on control measures such as hand washing, wearing masks and social distancing. Sang said medical staff had also been provided with adequate protection materials and equipment (PPEs) and the county had also developed a protocol prohibiting more than two medics from handling each Covid-19 patient. “This will ensure we do not expose our frontline staff to possible infection,” the county boss said. Meanwhile, 23 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 in Uasin Gishu county have tested negative and discharged. Most were being isolated at Kaplelach centre. Governor Jackson Mandago said the region had 50 people in isolation and treatment for Covid-19. He called the recovery rate impressive. “This shows that Covid-19 is not a death sentence and there is no need to stigmatise the patients or their contacts,” Mandago said. (Edited by V. Graham) 