On November 11, 1958 in Budadiri village on the ridges of Mt Elgon in Mbale, Uganda, Gladys Namataka was born the sixth child to Enock and Rebecca Zesaguli. Namataka attended Makuyu Primary, pursued her secondary education at Bubulo Girls’ and later joined Nabinsusa Girls’ before pursuing A-level studies at Mbale Secondary. It was at Nabinsusa that she christened herself Harriet, in keeping with a trend for adopting unique names. In 1973, Harriet joined the University of Nairobi for a bachelor’s degree in Education. She turned down an opportunity to study law in Tanzania and instead taught English and literature at State House Girls’, Kakamega School and Mukumu Boys’, where she remained until retirement in 2015. To the teaching fraternity, Harriet brought passion, vivaciousness and authenticity, qualities which saw her establish lasting relationships. One of her students said, “She was a master of her craft - a teacher who never gave up on any of us and hardly used negative words on laggards. “To her, there was no bad student, only slow learners who, given time, would improve. “She was a teacher of hope. We always looked forward to her lessons. When not in class on time, a delegation would be sent to the staff room to look for her." It was no wonder, therefore, that the late Elly Kefa Owinyi, of EK Owinyi & Co. Advocates, fell in love with Harriet and married her. They had five children - Derrick Lwatati (Rafiki Microfinance Bank), Ronnie Masanga (Mars Wrigley), the late Linah, Allan Mola (EK Owinyi & Co. Advocates) and Jill Namatsi (Nation Media Group). So much of a firebrand was Harriet that her children nicknamed her Hurricane Gladys. Her fighting power was clear even as she battled with health complications from April 2018. Harriet suffered high blood pressure and arthritis and was later diagnosed with acute kidney injuries, multiple organ dysfunction, sepsis and a heart condition. She was treated at Avenue, Nairobi South and Ruai Family hospitals, the latter at which she died on June 3, 2020. Harriet’s family thanks all who supported them throughout her illness and until the final rites were performed on June 8. These are: her daughters-in-law Lucy Muthoni, Jacky Kwonyike and Eva Odongo; the Zesaguli families in Uganda and the UK and the Otiende family in Kakamega; the Nairobi Lighthouse Church led by pastors Nelson Gichohi and Kevin Malu; Avenue, Nairobi South and Ruai Family hospitals. Also much appreciated are her doctors George Moturi and Victor Ng’ani. The tremendously thanks Rafiki Microfinance, Mars Wrigley and NMG; the Kakamega School Alumni Association led by William Ojonyo (Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association), the Mumias Boys’ Old Boys Association, USIU-Africa's Gemba class of 2014 and the Nairobi School Class of 1995; Siginon Group, members of the Law Society of Kenya led by President Nelson Havi, Justices Dorah Chepkwony and Wilfrida Osodo, Omugolfers Reloaded, Gang Deh and KYRC. Rest in peace, dear mama. Missing you always, remembering you forever.