The number of Kenyans in deep financial problems as a result of the Covid-19 restrictions has risen significantly, a new poll suggests. At least 41 per cent, up from 28 per cent in April, now see the pandemic as a financial rather than a health problem, according to a poll released by Infotrak on Sunday. The majority of Kenyans interviewed said the cost of food has gone up and they are unable to pay for utilities like electricity or service their debts. The poll, conducted and financed by Infotrac, showed that the number of Kenyans who view the disease as a health issue also doubled from eight per cent in April to 16 per cent. The disease was reported in Kenya on March 13 and in response, the government sealed several parts of the country, imposed a curfew, closed schools, hotels and bars and stopped all flights. At least 87 per cent of Kenyans say as a result, the price of food has gone up, while 75 per cent say they cannot service their debts. Infotrak said 67  per cent cannot adequately pay for utilities like water and electricity, while 68 per cent cannot afford charcoal, kerosene or gas. "The bottom line is with increasing unemployment, underemployment, threats to job security and salary cuts, most Kenyans have increasingly come to terms with the economic impact of the pandemic," Infotrak said. The pollster interviewed 1,200 people over the phone between May 28 and June 2. Most respondents came from the former Rift Valley and Eastern provinces. At least 65 per cent of them were married while 30 per cent were single. The pollster said 69 per cent of the respondents were rural people, 31 per cent urban while a quarter were aged 18-24 years. "The problem does not end with the inability to pay for basic necessities; the rent crisis facing most urban Kenyans is real with 63 per cent of Kenyans saying they are unable to pay their rent on time and 60 per cent saying they are unable to pay their rent in full," Infotrak said. The results suggested 54 per cent of employed Kenyans are facing financial challenges because their salaries were reduced while 47 per cent of all Kenyans are currently depending on some sort of food donation or the other from well-wishers. The poll says eight in every 10 Kenyans are stressed by the situation while half of all people feel helpless. "Over and above this, 36 per cent of Kenyans say they still have a hard time sleeping due to the pandemic," the pollster says. The poll also highlight's the media's critical role in combating the pandemic. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and the President, who make regular briefings through the mainstream media, remain the most trusted people to give information about the pandemic. Social media, family and friends are the least trustworthy sources of Covid-19 information, the poll suggests. The poll is the third in a series by Infotrak on the effects of the coronavirus. It suggests most Kenyans are yet to benefit from the reduction of VAT from 16 per cent to 14 per cent because the prices of commodities have not declined. More than eight in every 10 people in Nairobi, Central and Northeastern said goods and services are not cheaper, in fact, prices have gone up. Those in Eastern Kenya, 53 per cent, said the VAT reduction has made commodities cheaper. Edited by R.Wamochie