More than 500 youths drawn from six subcounties of Kitui are benefitting from an ongoing mango farming training exercise. County value chain specialist Dr Temi Mutia stated that over the last year, the county identified various agricultural value chains and are currently working on adding value to mangoes. “We are now working on mango value addition in Mwingi Central and West, Kitui West, Central, Rural and South,” Temi said. However, the officer said extension officers are few, thus they cannot reach all farmers across the county, so the office decided to recruit youths and train them to offer aid to farmers. “We have reached over 500 youths we are currently training on how to prune mangoes, graft, early detection of pests among other factors,” Mutia said. However, as the country battles Covid-19, the specialist said clusters have been formed and distributed to farmers across every subcounty but with a restricted number of youths being trained. “We have restricted each cluster to 10 trainees in a bid to observe set measures by the Ministry of Health to combat the spread of the disease." Mutia spoke at Mumbuni in Mwingi West where the training was ongoing and more than 15 youths had benefitted in Migwani ward. Mwingi West Crops officer Patrick Musau said farmers have had a challenge of managing their farms, hence the idea to train service providers. “Within Mwingi West, we have four clusters which are comprised of youths whom we will offer skills to enable them to reciprocate the same to the farmers,” Musau said. Musau said they teach the youths how to manage the tree from the nursery to the market. “The youths are also expected to visit farmers and also advise them on how to better their yields,” Musau said. Rose David, a student at Eldoret University pursuing Diploma in Project Management, lauded the exercise spearheaded by the county government. David called upon farmers to give them an opportunity to practice their skills and help them get larger produce. Another youth Shadrack Kitheka pleaded with mango farmers to offer them the jobs to exercise their acquired skills and also earn a living from it. Edited by R.Wamochie