 Raul Jimenez set the record for the most goals by a Wolves player in a Premier League season after netting against West Ham to help strengthen his side’s hopes of qualifying for the Champions League. The Mexico forward planted a header beyond Lukasz Fabianski after a superb cross by substitute Adama Traore for his 14th league goal of 2019-20. Traore was also involved in the second goal, substitute Pedro Neto volleying home Matt Doherty’s cross as Wolves, who started the day in seventh, moved above Sheffield United and level on points with fifth-placed Manchester United. West Ham remain in trouble near the bottom after a poor performance, their first shot on target not arriving until the 49th minute when 19-year-old defender Jeremy Ngakia tested Rui Patricio from distance. It is hard to believe that Wolves’ marathon season started 331 days ago with a Europa League qualifier against Crusaders on July 25. This was their 49th game of the campaign yet the enforced break appears to have done Nuno Espirito Santo’s side a power of good as they marked their return to action with a thoroughly professional performance. Not for the first time, Traore played a critical role in his side’s victory despite starting on the substitutes bench. In a game of few chances, Wolves took control when the Spaniard produced a sublime cross for Jimenez to send a powerful header into the net. They doubled the lead through another substitute, Portuguese winger Neto delivering a sumptuous finish after Traore set up Doherty to deliver a fine cross. Wolves are now unbeaten in their past six league games and now have nine top-flight clean sheets, including five in the past six games. Nearly a year after it began, they are ending the season strongly and with a top-four finish very much within their sight, with Wolves just two points behind fourth-placed Chelsea, who they visit on the final day of the league season on 26 July. It is now one win in 10 league games for West Ham, who have taken just five points from the last 30 on offer.