Kisumu County, considered a hotbed of unexploited sporting talent, have a reason to smile following the start of construction works on a Sh350m sports complex at the Kisumu ASK ground in Mamboleo. Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed officiated the ground breaking ceremony for the 30, 000 capacity stadium on Wednesday. The stadium will feature facilities for football, rugby, tennis, hockey among other disciplines. Amina said the construction of the facility forms part of the government’s expansive plans to promote sports across the country. The facility will be named Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in honour of the country’s first president, the late Jomo Kenyatta. Amina noted that the construction of the facility is expected to take six months. “It’s a directive from President Uhuru Kenyatta that the works should commence immediately and have the facility ready for use in the next six months,” said Amina, adding that the project will be funded by the Sports Fund while treasury is also expected to offer some financial support. “The government is keen to have sports facilities in various counties upgraded for use by sportsmen and women,” Amina added. She CS expressed concern that despite the region being endowed with huge sporting potential, lack of facilities continues to hamper nurturing of such talents. “Kisumu is an example that other counties should emulate to ensure that sports facilities are constructed across the country,” she said. Amina further lauded the teams harnessing talents in Kisumu including Kenyan Premier League (KPL) team Kisumu All Stars, Lakeside Basketball Team, Kisumu RFC and the Taekwondo Under 16 team. The show ground currently hosts Agricultural Society of Kenya exhibitions and Kisumu RFC. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o noted: “After seven days what happens to this beautiful land when the ASK Show is completed? We can’t continue underutilising such an important resource in the county,” said Nyong’o. He at the same time announced that his administration intends to upgrade the historic Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Nyong’o noted that plans were underway to start work meant to improve the status of the stadium to ensure the return of Kenyan Premier League matches once the coronavirus pandemic has been contained. “I pledge to improve the sporting facilities within the county including that in Muhoroni,” he promised.