A little boys' fight in Wiga village, Suba South, turned ugly and led to the eviction of a family of 18 from their land. Consolata Nyambigo's three-year-old grandson fought with a neighbours son last Monday. None of the boys was injured, she says. But on Wednesday her grandson's father, Elias, was accosted by the other boy's father. The man accused Elias's son of being a troublemaker. The two men quarrelled and started fighting but were separated by neighbours. “After we were separated, the assailant told me that my family and I will be forced out of our land,” Elias said. At 11pm that night, the assailant and a few rowdy people went to the Nyambigos' homestead but were repelled by Consolata’s sons. The assailants regrouped and came back with more people at 1am on Thursday and overpowered Consolata’s sons, who retreated. “I told my sons not to fight with them because they were many. We left home and ran in different directions,” Consolata, a 68-year-old widow, said. The mob set their homestead on fire; six houses were torched. Eighteen members of the family have been left in the cold and have had to spend five nights with well-wishers. “They were shouting that they must evict us from the piece of land yet the land is rightfully mine. My husband, the late Martin Nyambigo, acquired the land legally many years ago,” Consolata said. She said her family lost property worth more than Sh1.5million. Apart from the houses, they lost Sh18,000 cash, five head of cattle, a motorbike, mattresses, clothing, blankets, chairs, beds, solar panels and television sets, among others. “My family has been forced to seek asylum with relatives and in friends' homes because our lives are in danger. I appeal to the government to give me justice,” Consolata said. The family has reported the matter to Magunga police station. Elias said he can identify five people in the mob. They include the neighbour who fought with him earlier. “Ever since this incident, they keep threatening to evict us. We are not safe,” Elias said. Homa Bay county police commander Esther Seroney said they have arrested five suspects in connection with the incident. “We arrested them but they have been released on police cash bail. We will charge them in court with arson when our investigations are complete,” she said. Edited by Frank Otieno