Most Covid-19 patients in cities and towns are unlikely to be allowed to recover at home because of the strict measures the Ministry of Health has proposed. Home care patients must live in their own, well-ventilated rooms until they test negative and must not share utensils, toilet or interact with other people except the appointed caregiver. Such patients cannot live in a house with anyone above 65 years, young children, pregnant women, or anyone who is already sick with other conditions. These are some of the stringent measures the ministry has proposed as it prepares to let asymptomatic patients recover at home instead of using up resources in hospitals. “A lot of people who are in isolation facilities will be released to be taken care of at home, provided it is in accordance with new WHO protocols that we are still looking at and trying to customise and domesticate to our situation,” Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said. The measures are expected to lock out majority of Kenyans living in cities like Nairobi, who share small apartments with other members of their families, and have only one bathroom in the house. The ministry said the caregiver must wear a mask, heavy duty gloves and protective clothing such as plastic aprons when cleaning surfaces in the house or when cleaning the patient's utensils. "In case of informal settlements where households share small spaces, the community will identify an institution that meets the recommendations suitable for providing care," the ministry says in its recommendations. For those who cannot isolate at home, the government has identified 50 health facilities that will serve as Covid-19 hospitals. The hospitals have 3,407 isolation beds and will have 193 intensive care unit beds. They were identified by the National Coordination Centre for Isolation and Quarantine Centres. This ad hoc body comprises the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council, Kenya Health Professionals Oversight Authority and other regulatory agencies under the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health expects the number of patients to rise with Kenya reaching Covid-19 peak in August or September. "KMPDC is continuing to identify more facilities that can be used as isolation centres throughout the country," KMPDC boss Daniel Yumbya said. Isolation centres are for patients already confirmed to be infected. Currently, more than 800 Covid-19 patients are admitted in at least 35 hospitals across the country, the majority of them in Nairobi and in Mombasa.