The owners of the four donkey slaughterhouses  have received a reprieve after the High Court quashed a notice by the government banning the slaughter of donkeys. Judge Richard Mwongo said the legal notice by Agriculture CS Peter Munya is unconstitutional and violates the rights of the owners of the abattoirs. Following the ruling, the owners of Star Brilliant (Naivasha), Goldox Kenya (Mogotio), Silzha (Turkana) and Fuhai (Machakos) can continue with their operations until a suit challenging the notice is determined. In February, Munya directed the management of the four slaughterhouses to stop operations following concern that the number of the animals was on the decline. Following the directive, the management of the Naivasha based facility moved to the High Court seeking a judicial review of the legal notice. They wanted orders barring the CS and the Attorney General from effecting the legal notice. Under a certificate of urgency, Star Brilliant noted that they had already received a notice from the state to stop their operations despite investing millions of shilling into their operations. Through advocate Wairegi Kiarie, the owners of the facility said they dealt with the slaughter and export of donkey meat. Due to the notice their export license was cancelled. Wairegi told the court that due to the legal notice, the government meat inspector no longer visited the facility while the products could not be sold locally as per their licence. The advocate told the court the CS and the AG had failed to respond to the application despite being served by the applicant. “The respondents despite been served by the applicant have not responded and this application should be treated as unopposed,” he said. In his ruling, the judge noted that the AG and the Cabinet Secretary had failed to file a response to the application challenging the legal notice. “The legal notice violates the rights of the applicant under Article 47 of the Constitution and the applicant is granted stay to operate in light of the failure by the respondent file his response,” he said. While banning the operations of the slaughterhouses, Munya noted that the number of donkeys in the country was on decline while theft of the animals across the country had shot up. “The theft and rampant slaughtering of donkeys has led to massive unemployment in areas where donkeys are the mainstay of residents,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori