Kisumu county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro has set up an 11-member ad hoc committee to investigate Industrialisation executive Nerry Achar who had been impeached. Nyalenda A MCA Jecktone Ogendo had questioned why the assembly was preparing to have Achar appear before its committee to defend budgetary allocations in his department for 2020-21. Ogendo said the assembly should not pass the budget for the docket as long as Achar remains in charge. He said Achar had been impeached as Finance department boss and it was wrong for Governor Anyang' Nyong’o to transfer him to the industrialisation docket. “Achar was impeached for incompetence, corruption and lack of knowledge and skills to hold a CEC docket,” Ogendo told the assembly during a statement session. Achar had moved to an industrial court immediately after his impeachment but his case was thrown out. Governor Nyong’o retained Achar based on an appeal he allegedly filed against the court decision. During the sitting, MCAs urged the assembly leadership to furnish them with the appeal order, if in case one exists.  This is after Market Milimani MCA Seth Kanga told the assembly not to discuss a matter which is before court. Majority leader Kenneth Onyango noted that the matter was sub judice and ought not to be discussed. “If there is need to privilege evidence, then let me be given time and I will bring the documents to the house,” he said. The majority of the MCAs held that Achar was impeached legally and was to be sent home and not transferred to another docket. They expressed concern that some of the assembly's decisions were not being respected and implemented by the county executive. Kabonyo Kanyagwal MCA Oiko Opete noted that if Achar appealed, then the documents to that effect must be tabled in the house as evidence. If not, the executive stands impeached and should not head any other docket. Speaker Oraro ordered the ad hoc committee to present a report on July 2 with a duty to ascertain whether Achar appealed the ruling and whether it was proper to transfer him after the impeachment. Kolwa East MCA Steve Owiti tabled the impeachment motion against Achar on July 30 last year and a select committee of 16 members was formed to investigate the allegations against him. Owiti accused Achar of gross misconduct and violation of the law in discharging his duties. He said the executive failed to implement the County Finance Act by not collecting requisite revenue, leading to budgetary deficits in terms of locally generated revenue. Owiti said Achar failed to comply with the Public Finance Act by refusing to regularly report to the assembly on the implementation of the budget. That led to failure to implement many development projects and pending bills, the MCA said. The MCAs found Achar culpable, hence unfit to hold any public office within the county. The committee recommended his dismissal with immediate effect. They also recommended that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission take up the matter. But Achar on August 5 obtained a court order barring debate on the impeachment motion. The directive elapsed after three days. On August 8, the MCAs escalated the row by barring Achar from conducting any business with the assembly. 