The High Court has ordered Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology to raise a professor's salary whose whose pay was cut. Joseph Mungai,  a professor of organic chemistry, sued the university on claims that he was discriminated against through reduced salary after he moved to another institution and later returned. Justice Monica Mbaru ruled that it would amount to degrading treatment to reduce the basic salary and house allowance of Mungai. She said he was entitled to a basic salary of Sh348,056, house allowance of Sh69,033 and commuter allowance of Sh13,000. "To this should be factored all the annual increments of four per cent per annum and any CBA salary increases, if any, to bring him to the salary he would have earned had he not been released on the tour of duty,” the judge ruled. In his application, Mungai said he was first employed by JKUAT in December 1989 and was confirmed as assistant lecturer in 1992. He rose through the ranks to his current position of professor. In February 2009, Mungai was appointed the principal JKUAT Nairobi Westlands campus, a position he held until December 2012 when he was appointed principal, Kirinyaga University College on a five-year contract. He applied for and JKUAT granted him leave of absence without pay to enable him take up the appointment at Kirinyaga University. His stint at Kirinyaga University was, however, short lived.  He resigned on May 2, 2013 and by a letter dated May 3, 2013, applied to JKUAT for resumption of duty as professor of chemistry. The application was accepted and he resumed duty with a gross pay of  Sh255,133. He was aggrieved by the remuneration he was offered as his previous salary was Sh584,000 at JKUAT and Sh603,000 salary as Kirinyaga principal. Mungai said that due to his reduced salary, he had defaulted repaying loans. “The claimant averred that his right to fair labour practices was infringed and if the prayers he seeks are not granted he will be driven out of job and would be declared bankrupt.  That this would lead him to miss many job opportunities in spite of his qualifications,” the professor argued in court papers. Mungai believed he was discriminated against by the institution and its council from 2009 when he was denied allowances paid to senior management totaling Sh1,782,000. Article 27 of the Constitution, he said, guarantees him enjoyment of the right to equality which includes the right not to be subjected to any arbitrary and capricious exercises of power by the institution. He said his appeals for adjustment of salary were rejected by the respondents. He sought a court’s declaration that the institution’s action of reducing his salary amounted to discrimination and constructive dismissal which is unlawful. The university denied reducing Mungai’s salary. It submitted that the cause of action arose in December 2012 when Mungai’s tenure ended and was therefore statutorily barred pursuant to Section 90 of the Employment Act as the claim ought to have been filed within 12 months from the date of the cause of action. JKUAT added that Mungai’s letter of offer dated February 12, 2009 did not confer him management support and extraneous allowances.  Edited by Henry Makori