The newly gazetted Crops General Regulation, 2020 will streamline and turn around the dwindling fortunes of the sugarcane farmers and the industry. Sugarcane farmers have said the regulations, which among others introduce contractual farming, will promote market of the cane and build confidence among growers who had abandoned the crop. Kenya National Alliance of Sugarcane Farmers Organisation (KNASFO) chairman Saulo Busolo termed the gazettement a breakthrough for the farmers and the industry. “Lack of regulations in the sector has disadvantaged farmers as unscrupulous people take advantage of the disorganisation to create instability for their selfish gains,” Busolo said during a farmers meeting at a Kisumu hotel. Munya published the regulations in the Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 84, issued as a special issue on May 27. The chairman noted that for decades, the growers have incurred huge losses as a result of the previous zoning method. Busolo said the new regulations will cure the previous vices that were out on farmers by managers of public mills who presided over corruption and inefficiencies. These, he added, led to accumulation of huge arrears for farmers, suppliers and transporters of the commodity. “Zoning made farmers to have no recourse and this has led public millers to accumulate a debt of over Sh1.7 billion,” he said. “For the first time, a farmer will now have an opportunity to engage any miller, out grower institution or any other person for farming, harvesting, transporting and supply of the sugarcane.” Busolo supported free market policy, saying most of the industry problems caused by zoning have impoverished hundreds of farmers in Western Kenya sugar belt. “We acknowledge that the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga has yielded fruit as farmers’ contributions were factored in the final report,” the former chair of Kenya Sugar Board said. They also pointed out that consideration of a strong farmer apex body in the draft will strengthen their contribution towards addressing challenges that have been afflicting the sector over the years. Speaking at the event, Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association Secretary-General Richard Ogendo supported the government’s initiative to revive state-owned mills through leasing. He, however, proposed that the trustees should be formed within respective mills to take care of community interests. Ogendo noted that importation of sugar continues to hurt the industry as illegal and cheap sugar continues to find its way in the country. “We believe the Ministry of Trade under which Comesa falls must be engaged in finding a solution by invoking the relevant Comesa clauses on sugar surges,” he said. The farmers backed the establishment of the sugarcane pricing committee that will now regulate costing. The new regulations provides for appointment of a stakeholders’ committee to determine parameters of cane pricing. Farmers had raised concerns about the current weighing of cane controlled by millers at weighbridges, saying the initiative has an avenue for their losses and diminishing their net return. Edited by R.Wamochie