Machakos ABC Archbishop Timothy Ndambuki has urged for caution in the reopening of places of worship. Speaking in Vyula area, Mwala subcounty during the funeral service of elder Samuel Kasuve Nzau, Ndambuki recommended a cautious monitoring of the Covid-19 situation by health experts before such a step is taken. The cleric, who also doubles as Lower Eastern Region National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) chair, warned that any hasty decision may sound the death knell in the war on Covid-19 and lead to unimaginable number of fatalities. Ndambuki said 40 denominations in the region under the umbrella of NCCK have all rallied behind the call to delay the reopening of places of worship. “If we keep on calling for the opening of places of worship, we might soon find ourselves confronted with a human catastrophe of unimaginable proportions. If we rush to allow the faithful back to the churches and mosques, we may end up losing hundreds of lives and history will judge us harshly,” he said. Last month, Ndambuki pointed out that Covid-19 cases in the country are increasing by the day and it was not a good idea to reopen places of worship. He urged religious leaders to assist the government in its efforts to bring down infection levels until such a time when it would be safe enough to allow the public back to places of worship. “Religious leaders should not be pushing the government to hasten the process of allowing congregants to flock into places of worship when current figures show we are yet to contain the Covid-19 pandemic," Ndambuki said. "Even in the olden days, places of worship like synagogues were usually closed to the people during pandemics. What we should be doing now is assisting the government to contain this pandemic by adhering to the laid down health regulations.” On June 6, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe unveiled a 15-member team that would oversee the reopening of places of worship. One of the mandates of the committee, chaired by Archbishop Anthony Muheria of the Nyeri Catholic Diocese, is to develop protocols to be observed when churches and mosques are reopened. Members of the council include Rev (Canon) Rosemary Mbogo, Pastor Samuel Makori, Al Hajj Hassan ole Naado, Sheikh Sukyan Hassan Omar, Sheikh Abdulatif Abdulkarim, Rev (Fr) Joseph Mutie, Bishop David Oginde, Rev Connie Kivuti, Sujata Kotamraju, Rt Rv Samuel Thiong’o Mwangi and Sheikh Ali Saidi Samoiah. Others are Kepha Ombacho, Francis Kuria and Paul Famba, who will serve as joint secretaries. According to the terms of operations, the mandate of the team is expected to lapse on December 31, 2020, but may be extended at the discretion of President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Edited by A.N