The fire that razed part of Gikomba market Thursday morning had been planned three weeks ago to evict some traders, Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan has said. “This was not an accident. There were several people claiming on social media that they were going to burn this place. So this is something that had been in the works for a while,” the MP said. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said that several people in the market appeared to have known of the arson in advance. “There is no way that such a thing of this magnitude can happen without certain people knowing. We in government believe that these fires are started by people who want to displace these traders and put up their projects,” Kibicho said. Kibicho urged anyone with information on the culprits to report to the regional commissioner’s office. “We have established an information desk at the regional commissioner’s office. Anyone with information on these fires should volunteer it so that we can end this perennial problem once and for all,” he said. The PS also warned those behind the fires that the Gikomba market will not be privatised per their desires. “We want to warn those dreaming of converting this land into private use. Gikomba market will remain public land even after the traders are relocated to the new market complex,” Kibicho said. People whose residential houses were razed in the fire will also be assisted to find shelter and rebuild their lives. “We are going into a meeting right now with the deputy commissioner and other officials to see how we can assist these residents get back on their feet,” Kibicho said. This is the second time this year that traders in the market have lost their livelihoods to arson. In February, property of unknown value went up in flames in a dawn fire, following on from another one in April 2019. The April fire razed down approximately 2,000 stalls despite firefighters from the National Youth Service and the county government responding immediately. In 2018, traders bore the brunt of three arson incidents in November and October while in 2017 fire broke out in October and September. In all cases, the fires usually occur at night or early in the morning. In 2018, incensed by the incessant fires, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered for thorough investigations and arrest of the culprits. However, the latest incident is an indictment of the ineffectiveness of these investigations. Some of the traders brushed off Kibicho’s promise and instead asked that a fire station be established at the market to immediately curb any fire incidents. (edited by o. owino)