Operations at the new Inland Container Depot in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, have been halted after the Health ministry ran out of Covid-19 testing kits for truck drivers. More than 200 drivers who had arrived to collect their cargo were left stranded with residents raising concerns about more infections in the town. Many truck drivers have tested positive and are considered carriers. The testing centre has been relocated to the outskirts of the town but there are still not enough kits and drivers loiter in markets and the town. The Naivasha county government and residents are concerned the depot could become a regional epicenter for the disease, as happened at the Busia border point. A public health official at the Mai Mahiu facility said they had run out of reagents due to the high number of drivers to be tested. Health officials had requested more testing equipment and reagents but their demands have not been met, he said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “We have been forced to suspend testing of the drivers due to lack of reagents and we shall resume once we get them,” the officer told the Star. Driver Ali Najib said that he had been stranded at the trading centre for three days waiting to be tested. Najib was supposed to collect farm machinery from the ICD and ferry it to Rwanda. He accused the government of deliberately punishing truckers. “We drove all the way from Mombasa after being directed to come and have a test here only to learn that there are no testing kits,” he said. Local leader Daniel Kariuki expressed concern over the high number of drivers camping at the trading center. “We thought that the ICD would be a blessing but we are now concerned by the number of loitering drivers who have been identified as carriers of  Covid-19 disease,” he said, in a general reference to drivers. Speaking earlier, Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mbogo Mathioya said the government was keen to reduce the number of drivers spending their nights around the ICD. “The number of drivers tested every day at Mai Mahiu has been doubled to 60 to address the high turnout of persons collecting cargo from the ICD,” Mathioya said. The administrator expressed concern over the high number of local and foreign drivers who were travelling from Mombasa without clearance documents. “Many of these drivers at the Mai Mahiu ICD have travelled from Mombasa where there is another testing laboratory, leading to a crisis,” he said. “We realised the mobile laboratory was creating anxiety among residents and we have moved in out of town where it’s convenient for the drivers,” Mathioya said. (Edited by V. Graham) 