Forty one people who interacted with the Covid 19 patient in Bondo have been put under quarantine at Siaya KMTC for 14 days. One person tested Covid-19 positive in Bondo on June 24 and 13 people out of 26 others who came into contact with him contracted the virus. They have been isolated at Bondo Subcounty Hospital. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga said they got hold of the 13 after "an elaborate contact tracing". Rasanga regretted that the local transmission cases were the first, having interacted with a patient from outside the county. The governor said his administration in collaboration with the national government is making immediate follow-up that has so far led to an additional tracing of 15 contacts. "The 15 are already in our hold and are being monitored at the Siaya KMTC quarantine centre. The process of contact tracing is still ongoing," Rasanga said. He appealed to Siaya residents, especially in Bondo subcounty, who may have been exposed to avail themselves for testing should they notice any symptoms associated with Covid-19. The governor said isolation centres in the county are well equipped to handle the cases and any further infections in the near future. "We are also expanding our care system by exploring such options as, utilising our holding areas in the county's major hospitals and considering home-based care for asymptomatic cases in line with national government and World Health Organization guidelines," Rasanga said. Rasanga further instructed his administration officials, particularly in the Health department, to accelerate awareness campaigns and distribution of information and materials to support the process. He added that there are 22 isolation beds in Bondo and Siaya referral hospitals and 300-bed capacity isolation units in Siaya, Bondo and Ambira Health facilities will be added, the works of which are due for completion and occupation in the next 26 days. Rasanga said the 11 Covid-19 positive cases previously identified in Siaya county have had 100 per cent success rate and were treated and discharged. The governor appealed to the national government to enforce strict measures to curb movements between counties that have new cases resulting from travels further spreading the virus.