Tokyo 2020 will be a ‘simplified’ Olympics, according to the chief executive of the organising committee. The Games, scheduled to start in July, were postponed for a year in March because of fears over the Covid-19 pandemic. Tokyo 2020 chief executive Toshiro Muto added that the Olympics will ‘not be done with grand splendour’. Organisers said that they are working on more than 200 ideas to simplify and reduce costs for the rescheduled Games. Muto, speaking at a news conference, also revealed that the organisers had not ruled out reducing the number of fans, although the competition schedule remained unchanged for now. Meanwhile, Yoshiro Mori, the president of Tokyo 2020, refused to discuss the possibility of cancelling the Games altogether. “It’s not right to discuss speculation based on a hypothetical scenario and therefore our direction is to not consider at all about cancellation,” he added. In April, Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said it may be “difficult” to stage the Games if the country does not successfully contain the virus. Meanwhile, athletes will discuss and decide on how best to support the core Olympic values “in a dignified way”, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has said, as calls to change rules restricting protests at Games grow louder. Several major sports have moved to allow protests following George Floyd’s death in U.S. police custody on May 25, including world soccer’s ruling body Fifa and the National Football League (NFL). Rule 50 of the Olympic Charter, however, bans any form political protest during the Games. “No kind of demonstration or political, religious or racial propaganda is permitted in any Olympic sites, venues or other areas,” the rule states. IOC President Thomas Bach said consultations between athletes’ groups around the world were under way. “The IOC Executive Board supports the initiative of the IOC athletes’ commission to explore different ways for athletes to express support for the principles enshrined in the Olympic charter in a dignified way,” Bach told a virtual news conference. After reading a resolution of the IOC Executive board condemning racism, Bach was repeatedly asked whether athletes at next year’s Tokyo Games could go down on one knee, as many have done in recent weeks, to show their support for the Floyd protests. “I will not preempt in any way these consultations with many athletes representatives,” Bach said. “It would not be fair if now I make a statement giving directions or instructions. The framework has been set and now let the athlete commission and athletes discuss among themselves and come up with relevant proposals.” Athletes who breach Rule 50 are subject to discipline on a case-by-case basis and the IOC issued guidelines in January clarifying that banned protests include taking a knee and other gestures.