It is 6.30pm, 30 minutes to curfew time in Nairobi. While most Kenyans who troop to the city have left for their homes, pockets of them are still roaming the streets. On my way to an interview with a city security guard, I see groups of two or three street urchins, camouflaging in the shadows city skyscrapers. I later learn some of these urchins are potential thieves, who would not think twice before breaking into business premises if nobody is in sight. Many businesses shut down and sent staff to work from home or closed shop completely as they wait for the coronavirus pandemic to end. Since the curfew and work-from-home directives were imposed, there have been increased cases of insecurity. Criminals are taking advantage of reduced commercial activities to break into people's homes and businesses. Many countries have imposed lockdowns and curfews, leaving only essential service providers to be outside during the restricted hours. The private security industry is playing its role in ensuring the safety of their clients' valuable assets. Guards are providing on-site public safety, manning malls, schools, banks, hospitals and residential homes. The guards, often uncelebrated for their work, are playing a major role, being on the front line in the fight against Covid-19, through enforcing handwashing and temperature tests. Because of their positioning, they have been initiating emergency response plans and advancing reports to higher authorities. They are providing a much-needed strong security presence and communicating the virus recommendations to ignorant members of the public. MUST BE ALERT One such guard is Ogutu, from SGA Security, who is assigned to CJs Restaurant on Koinange Street. Like many companies, private security firms have downsized, leaving guards with more work to do. “Challenges start right when you exchange the shifts in the evening. Sometimes, 7pm will get you on the way and police begin to question you as some doubt your documents,” Ogutu said. With increased fare, many guards find it challenging to get to their workplaces. Many have to cycle or walk as fares skyrocket. Ogutu, who has been a guard for 17 years, oversees other guards working in the CBD for his company’s clients. When he reports in the evening, he has to make sure the transitioning occurs smoothly and daytime guards hand over when everything is intact. “I first go round to make sure everyone is ready to hand over and that has to be in writing,” he says. “Throughout the night, I have to move around as regularly as possible to make sure nothing goes wrong, so that if there are any concerns from the clients, I have the whole picture in mind.” In the middle of the interview, we are interrupted by some security guards chasing a thief who had broken into an M-Pesa shop. “Such are the things we experience here. You must be alert as you chase them as some are armed with crude weapons and other more lethal weapons, like pistols,” Ogutu says. “Even some parking boys and mothers with kids come around in the evening to solicit for food and end up disturbing guests in restaurants, and controlling them is a challenge.” RAINED ON The guards have to endure ever-changing weather. They are at times rained on as they guard business premises of their clients. Nairobi being a capital city, many premises house properties worth millions of shillings, and with some owners and many employees working from home, the guards have been tasked with securing the premises. “It’s now like second month and we don’t have any major incident. It means we are up to the task,” Ogutu says. He has the entire CBD under his watch, from Wakulima Market to OTC area, River Road, Kirinyaga Road, Kijabe Street, premises bordering Uhuru Highway and Haile Selassie Avenue. Despite increased workload, some security companies end up delaying salaries for their employees as their clients struggle to make profits. In the entire 45 minutes of the interview, no police officers pass Koinange Street and adjacent roads, with most security work being left to the private security guards, literally. At 7.10pm, I head to see Ogutu’s colleague, Tom Ouma, who is stationed in Ruai. On my way, private security cars branch into feeder roads, dropping guards for night shifts, or dropping dogs, as others do routine patrols along Thika Superhighway. Ouma and his colleague Benjamin Mwania man the main gates into a gated residential estate, which hosts high government officials, managers and politicians in Ruai off Thika Superhighway. “Apart from invaders, burglars and thieves, the pandemic is also put in control. So we have two phases here, where coronavirus is being taken care of and general security is also being taken care of. The people inside should feel that they are safe,” Ouma says. SAVING LIVES As we go on with the interview, Mwania is busy opening the gate for latecomers, checking if every vehicle has a special security pass before opening for them. Those coming on foot have to produce their national IDs and wash hands at a designated point before proceeding. “The big men are in their houses but the security people are taking care of their jobs and their lives also because if I can take control of somebody infected not to come into your premises, in other words, I have taken care of you also,” Ouma says. “It is a plus for us that the government noted that this is one of the essential services. There are people who are not working now. There are professors who are not working, but I’m on duty.” Our pauses are filled with noises of chirping crickets, croaking of frogs and other nocturnal noises of insects mating or simply enjoying the freedom to hop around freely after man has retreated to sleep. Both Ogutu and Ouma agree that controlling people is never a walk in the park. Some vehicle owners will demand gates to be opened with speed, while others will simply ignore directives to be checked temperature and sanitised. Early last month in Michigan, US, a security guard was shot dead by a couple after telling them their daughter needed to leave a store chain because she wasn’t wearing a face mask to protect against transmission of the coronavirus. “Sometimes you just have to apologise to guests who feel wronged even if you are innocent. You have to take all the blame and ask for forgiveness so the clients remain satisfied,” Ouma says. Whether trained or untrained, guards and watchmen remain critical at this time in informal settlements, roadside car parking areas and homes. Despite these sacrifices and their strong contributions in ensuring the safety of homes, businesses and helping control the spread of the coronavirus, the guards remain uncelebrated in the society, the unsung heroes of the pandemic. Edited by T Jalio