A House team has decried the overreliance on Non-Governmental Organisations to respond to flood emergencies in the country. The Administration and National Security Committee of the National Assembly said this amounts to government abdicating its primary responsibility, which is to protect human lives. Chairman Paul Koinange said that a national coordination board should be put in place to handle disaster preparedness. The Kiambaa MP made the call on Thursday in a statement requested by MPs on what government is doing towards mitigating effects of disasters. "The committee notes with a lot of concerns that disaster preparedness is highly wanting. There is over-reliance on non-state actors like Red Cross, other NGOs and private sector,” Koinange said. “This is a very sorry affair.  We have recommended that disaster preparedness and response be taken seriously and measures put in place to avert damages,” he said. The lawmaker said the board would serve as a convergence point for the national government, counties, private sector, and other non-state actors. “The current disaster management committee needs to wake up,” the lawmaker said in the request. MPs led by John Mbadi (Suba South, Minority leader) have been agitating for a better approach to dealing with the locusts, floods, and Covid-19 pandemic. Their concern is that the government has neglected flood victims by putting all focus on Covid-19. Koinange’s committee observed the meteorological department has been issuing warning and alerts to all relevant government ministries hence they have no excuse for failing to prepare. The MPs said it was regrettable that the unpreparedness on the part of the government has cost dozens of lives whenever disaster strikes. About 250 persons died during floods experienced last month following heavy rainfall in various parts of the country. The committee has thus sought to be appraised on whether the government issued alerts on heavy rains leading to flooding and the specific actions it took to ensure safety.