@MANUELODENY Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo has appealed to parents to look after their children, especially during this Covid-19 crisis. Citing the 4,000 schoolgirls said to have got pregnant in Machakos county since the outbreak of the virus, Odhiambo appealed to parents and guardians to be on the lookout. Similar sentiments were shared by Suna East deputy county commissioner Kimani Maina and his Rongo counterpart Joseph Satia. They said the grim picture painted by the Machakos situation is just a tip of the iceberg, warning that gender-based, domestic and sexual violence has been on the rise across the country and children, especially girls, have borne the brunt of the goings-on. The trio spoke as they distributed sanitary towels and launched a Covid-19 sensitisation drive at Kakrao market in Suna East. “We have seen violence instigated by the heightened tension within households over sources of income during this economic downturn,” Odhiambo said. She termed it sad, the spike in domestic problems, saying that "the best way to end gender-based violence in all its forms is for people to speak up and take action.” “We need victims and society to come together and end gender violence by reporting and supporting each other,” the lawmaker said. She urged parents to stop burdening teachers with their responsibilities. “We are staring at huge dropout rates when schools reopen and other side effects like an increase in sexually transmitted infections among young girls, this is sad," she said. Kimani and Satia said the police in the area have been swamped with increased cases of teen marriages and pregnancies. "The law was never suspended following the effects of Covid-19. We've been apprehending suspects, but the figures are scary,” Kimani said. For Satia, most parents are to blame for their children's predicaments. The administrator said a huge number of children are used by their parents to do business on the streets of major towns across the country. "We will do arrests of children... and have their parents answer before courts on neglect,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny