Former Senate Majority leader and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen (pictured) has stirred debate over his grasp of opposition politics. Since his removal from the helm of the Senate leadership, he has assumed the role of a key opposition honcho in debates. His participation during Tuesday's motion against the impeachment of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru stirred social media with many hailing his opposition role. Some government insiders were heard saying "tano tena" for Murkomen and his group, meaning confining them to the opposition benches until  2027. A senior board member at a parastatal in the energy sector is being investigated for integrity issues. The audit committee member who is no stranger to the arm of the law, is said to have been claiming fees for sittings whilst working in a neighbouring country for a pharmaceutical company. The State corporation known to have a strong whistle-blowing policy will no doubt be looking into the matter. It is likely the audit committee member will simply not be reelected when his tenure ends in the coming 12 months. Just what is the story behind a decision by an MP who dumped Deputy President William Ruto for Opposition chief Raila Odinga? While the truth is still trickling out, the move that sparked fireworks could ignite social embers. It is now emerging that the MP could be on a ferocious revenge mission after some falling out in social capital. The decision to shift camps could have been informed by claims the lawmaker could have also opted to serve the 'sensitive' social pillars with a taste of their own medicine. Watch this space. A county executive member in Nyanza who is an avid socialiser on WhatsApp and Facebook is rumoured to be demanding 10 per cent from contractors before facilitating any payment. The CEC for Finance who also has an active file with an investigating agency has angered contractors who wonder whether he has been sent by his boss or is another avenue of corruption altogether. They want to petition the governor to find out just who wants the 10 per cent.  