The national and county governments have agreed on a phased reopening of the economy and easing of the coronavirus restrictions. The little-by-little approach will ensure Covid-19 spread is maintained through stringent enforcement of face mask-wearing and social distancing. A statement signed by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Fred Matiang’i and Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the two will meet on June 17 to review the guidelines for a piecemeal return to normalcy. Counties agreed to conform to containment measures, guidelines and protocols issued to stop the spread of the coronavirus. “We are mindful of our common duty to facilitate the enjoyment of economic, social and political rights in Kenya; while at the same time safeguarding Kenyans from the disease, those suffering from other ailments, the elderly, senior citizens and other vulnerable members of our society,” the statement reads. The resolutions were arrived at during the third extraordinary session of the national and county governments co-coordinating summit on the coronavirus pandemic held at State House, Nairobi. The summit resolved that a new academic calendar will be rolled out after consultations in the education sector on reopening of schools. It was also agreed that the CoG will be consulted on the reopening of the places of worship. The national government pledged to continue supplying testing kits and personal protective equipment for health workers across the county. “To enable counties located along the boundary and those playing host to refugees respond to the threat posed by cross-border infections, the national government will support these devolved units with additional resources to fortify their response to the disease,” the summit resolved. The summit noted that there jointly needs to be 30,500 isolation bed facilities across the country to manage a possible surge of Covid-19 patients. “To that end, each county government shall establish isolation facilities with at least 300 beds, and the same shall be ready and open for use within 30 days from the date hereof,” the statement reads. Counties greed that they will on a case-to-case basis assess the probity of utilising home-based care and other community based-care for securing isolation and treatment per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health. The county governments also committed to facilitating 100 per cent contact-tracing of every confirmed case of Covid-19. This will be achieved by providing continuous logistical and operational support to the rapid response and contact tracing teams in the subcounties. Counties pledged to enhance enforcement of infection prevention and control measures including temperature screening, wearing of masks in public places, handwashing and sanitation facilities and adherence to both physical and social distancing in all public places and events. Enhanced awareness campaigns among all residents in the counties were also agreed upon. “Our nation shall have to contend with Covid-19 until such time that a vaccine is developed,” the statement reads. Covid-19 patients have been reported in 35 of the 47 counties, with a surge in the rate of community-based infection. (edited by o. owino)