The court will rule on Monday whether Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina will be charged over ethnic incitement. This is according to chief magistrate Martha Mutuku, who failed to deliver the ruling that was scheduled for Tuesday. In the case, Kina declined to take a plea saying the charge sheet was defective.  The senator is accused of using words intended to incite discrimination against non-Maasai communities on February 19 on Citizen TV’s JKL show. The alleged utterances were "...that Maasai issues will be articulated by Maasais not Manje...who can to get an audience in Mt Kenya". The National Cohesion and Integration Commission later condemned the senator's remarks. "The matter has come to our attention and we strongly condemn such utterances that may hinder cohesion in the country. We urge Kenyans to maintain peace and continue engaging in the BBI process even as we look into the matter," NCIC said. Officials from the commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations took him to the Kilimani police station on February 25 before he was released. NCIC chairperson Samuel Kobia said Kina's comments had threatened the cohesion fabric in Narok and its environs. "These invective and diatribe utterances have caused animosity and triggered tension among the different communities living in the county," he said. The NCIC boss said peace had been destabilised due to "the senator's reckless utterances". He reiterated that the BBI is not a tool for demonstrating political supremacy. According to Kobia, the issues raised ought to be addressed candidly and resolved amicably without dividing and inciting Kenyans. He warned that any leader, regardless of their political affiliation or status, will be held accountable for their actions and utterances. Kobia said while the Constitution guarantees the freedom of expression, it does not extend to incitement to violence, hate speech or advocacy of hatred. "The commission continues to work with law enforcement agencies to ensure calmness and peaceful, cohesive society," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie