A section of Luhya leaders on Saturday attacked the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga saying it is time for their community member to become President. They spoke at the funeral of the late Sophia Monyo, the mother of Chris Omulele, the Luanda MP. Embattled Ford Kenya leader and the Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula was in the company of Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Woman Rep) and Charles Gimose (Hamisi). Those who supported the handshake were Samwel Atandi and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi. Wetang’ula urged the church to condemn the situation in which he claimed politicians were being tortured, blackmailed and crippled politically. “I urge our clergy who are here and countrywide, don’t allow this country to go back to a single party system where many lost lives through torture,” Wetang’ula said. “Leadership comes from God and if you are armed with a panga and a rungu, then you are not a leader,” he added. “This time we must be in State House. We are tired of supporting other people. Musalia Mudavadi and I have made our minds that we must lead our people to the top seat.” He claimed that political enemies had taken advantage of the Luhyas and humiliated them. He said, “Luhya people are independent, so people should stop lecturing us on whom to support and who not to support every election year. We have been doing so freely and willingly without all this non-sense going round,” Wetang’ula said. Chris Wamalwa and Alfred Agoi said Luhyas  have supported other communities for the past 55 years and it’s time for the community to be supported for the top seat. “People are laughing at  us. [Wycliffe] Oparanya and Eugene (Wamalwa) formed their team, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi another team. How do we win this top seat? We must work together and walk towards the same direction as Luhya people or wait to fail again,” Khaniri said. His sentiments were echoed by Milemba. “It’s time we reorganise ourselves as Mulembe people and make a firm  stand for our people. We can’t solve our problems in a neighbour’s house. We must put our house in order,” he said. Wetang’ula said It’s unfortunate that when Luhyas call for unity, it is interpreted as tribal, but when other communities call for unity it’s okay. “All politics are local and they have a base of origin,” he said.