Twelve journalists from various media houses were among 68 individuals recognised for their distinguished and outstanding service to the nation. The 12 were on Monday honoured for helping steer the country through the Covid-19 pandemic. President Uhuru Kenyatta conferred them the Presidential Order of Service, Uzalendo Awards during Madaraka Day celebrations at Statehouse, Nairobi. “To recognise and honour those Kenyans who have exhibited exemplary service, sacrifice, patriotism, heroism and high sense of civic duty in helping steer Kenya through the current pandemic; and on behalf of an eternally grateful nation, I have on this 1 st Day of June, 2020 issued an Executive Order establishing a new National Award and State Commendation – the presidential order of service–Uzalendo award,” President Kenyatta said. The names of the inaugural recipients of the national honour have since been published in a Special Issue of the Kenya Gazette. Chemutai Goin (Royal Media Services), Robin Njogu (Royal Media Services), Wachira Waruru (Royal Media Services), Vincent Ateya (Royal Media Services), Purity Museo (KBC), Dr Mercy Korir (KTN), Nelson Aruya (Royal Media Services) Jeff Kuria (Inooro TV), Enock Sikolia (Royal media Services), Asha Mwilu (ex-Royal Media Services), Nasibo Kabale (Nation Media) and Tabitha Rotich (Royal Media Media) are the journalists honoured. Healthcare workers, philanthropists and humanitarians were also honoured for their dedication in curbing the spread of coronavirus. Among those in the list of healthcare workers is acting Health director general for Dr Patrick Amoth, who was recently elected as the vice president of the World Health Organization executive board. Uhuru said the health workers have dedicated their lives on the frontline in the war waged against the coronavirus. Major-General Ayub Matiri, the commanding officer of the National Command Centre for Covid-19 and humanitarians Phillip Ogolla and Dr Muthoni Kariuki were also recognised. Jane Karuku, the chairperson of the emergency fund, was also honoured. He lauded the researchers and innovators, including the team of university students that designed and built a customised ventilator. “The country is also indebted to the thousands of Kenyans who provided meals for our men and women in uniform manning checkpoints, and our artists who raised awareness of the virus through their music and artwork,” he said. He also thanked and commended those who have selflessly and generously supported the coronavirus response emergency fund and Kenyans who have donated foodstuffs, clothes, sanitary items and other support items to the Fund. Kenyatta said Kenyans are emboldened by the fact that united in the struggle, they defeated a giant nation. “And as we fight the coronavirus pandemic today, our victory over the colonisers should remind us that….this too shall pass”. Edited by EKibii