People who die from Covid-19 and whose cultural practices do not allow night burials should be kept for another 12 hours so they are interred during the day, Acting director general of Health Patrick Amoth said. Amoth said the ministry will send an alert to the counties to remind them of the protocol by WHO so that those who die of the diseases can have a dignified burial. He said once a body is prepared and put in double body bags, it is relatively safe. For Covid-19, unlike other infections, there is very little likelihood that if the body is treated well, one stands little chance of getting infected, he said. “As long as the body is taken care of by public health officers, the body is safe. Therefore what we need to put in place is to be cognisance of our cultural practices,” he said. Amoth said the World Health Organization developed guidelines on how to take care of Covid-19 deceased persons. The country took the guidelines and customised them to fit into the Kenyan communities’ cultural practices, he said. Amoth called on members of the public to report to his office if health workers do not adhere to the provided guidelines. Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege called on the ministry to help the people so that they can stop the stigmatisation of recovered Covid-19 patients. Sabina who is also the chairperson of the Health Committee in Parliament requested the CS to have a special communication to the medical facilities so that when a person tests positive of Covid-19 and passes on, the protocols on burial are put clear and observed. “We have had several families getting traumatised and so the protocols need to be clear so that Kenyans cannot have the stigma,” she said. She said the communications should be sent to the health officials and members of the public to avoid harassment of persons and their dead. This, she said, will enable respect to be given to people and especially their cultures and religions. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said 137 people tested positive for the coronavirus from  3,167 samples. Kagwe released the daily briefs on Covid-19 at the Kenyatta National Hospital Othaya Annex in Nyeri County on Sunday. “The overall disease burden in the country now stands at 3,594 from 115,336 samples tested so far,” Kagwe said. Nyeri still remains with nine persons infected with the disease. (edited by o. owino)