The government is negotiating resumption of the second phase of the Digital Literacy Project where new computer labs that take into account social distancing of learners will be factored in. The government is planning to reopen schools in September after they were closed in March following the confirmation of Kenya’s first virus case. Moi University vice chancellor Professor Isaac Kosgey has said the focus now is setting up computer laboratories or digital resource centres. The labs will be remodelled because of the Covid-19 situation. Moi University is one of the institutions contracted to produce the laptops for the primary schools. Kosgey says they are already for negotiations to see how the second phase will be implemented owing to the challenges caused by the Covid-19 crisis. “The computer labs will now be modeled to ensure social distancing and other safety measures for the learners,” Kosgey said at Rivatex in Eldoret on Monday. The laptops for the digital project are being produced at Rivatex, which is fully owned by the university. Rivatex CEO Thomas Kipkurgat said they are ready to proceed with the manufacturing of the laptops. Kosgey said most of the primary schools received the laptops in the first phase and that the gadgets which were of high quality were still in use. He said the Covid-19 pandemic was a wake-up call to complete the digital literacy project to easily help to facilitate digital learning, in case of situations like the one cause by the coronavirus leading to the closure of all schools. At the same time, Moi University and the University of Eldoret have separately putting in place measures for reopening, with compliance with directives against Covid-19 among students and staff. The two universities have a total of more than 70,000 students and 20,000 staff. Kosgey said they have established a committee that is working on the protocols required to be ready for possible reopening once the government allows them to resume learning. The Moi University senate will meet on Friday to discuss a preliminary report on reopening protocols. Kosgey said once the requirements are approved, they will be distributed to students and staff ahead of reopening. “I will receive a report on the preparations this week and then hand over to the Senate on Friday so they can go through and approve the kind measures proposed for implementation,” Kosgey said. He said that at the heart of all preparations will be the safety of students from the Covid-19 pandemic. The University of Eldoret VC, Professor Teresia Akenga, said they were working on similar preparations. Edited by R.Wamochie