The brother of the African American man whose death in police custody has sparked global protests, has urged the US Congress to pass reforms on police brutality and "stop the pain". Philonise Floyd told a House hearing that his brother George could not become "another name on a list". "Be the leaders that this country, this world, needs," Mr Floyd said. George Floyd died in Minneapolis in May as a white police officer held a knee on his neck for nearly nine minutes. The final moments were filmed on phones. Four police officers involved have been sacked and charged over his death. Separately, President Donald Trump has signalled his administration's plans to tackle the issues of protests and police brutality are reaching "final edits" and they could be made public in the "coming days". What was said in the House? Lawmakers in the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee have been listening to testimony from civil rights activists and law enforcement officials, a day after the funeral service of George Floyd, 46, in Houston. The committee plans to send a bill to the floor of the Democratic-led House by 4 July on combating police violence and racial injustice. It comes amid a nationwide - and in many cases international - debate on police practices and accountability, and more generally on racial inequity. "I'm here to ask you to make it stop. Stop the pain," an emotional Philonise Floyd, 42, told lawmakers. "George called for help and he was ignored. Please listen to the call I'm making to you now, to the calls of our family and the calls ringing on the streets of all the world. "The people marching in the streets are telling you enough is enough." In tears, Mr Floyd later added: "His kids had to watch that video. It just hurt... you don't do that to a human being... His life mattered. All our lives matter. Black lives matter. I just wish I could get him back. Those officers, they get to live." Democratic committee chairman Jerrold Nadler said: "We must remember that [George Floyd] is not just a cause, a name to be chanted in the streets. He was a man. He had a family... we mourn his loss." The Democratic-proposed bill would make so-called police chokeholds illegal, enforce anti-racism training, bar sacked officers from switching to another force and make it easier to prosecute abuse. Republican committee representative Matt Gaetz said that although elements needed to be "fine-tuned", "you will be able to count on Republican co-operation as we hone these ideas and hopefully pass them and get them to the president's desk".