Some Principal Secretaries are an unhappy lot. Apparently they are expected to have mastered the basics of the mother tongue of one of their colleagues. The Public Service Commission policy discourages civil servants from promoting tribalism. However, this seems not to be applicable to the PS in question. Corridors has been told that during the Covid-19 pandemic the government has been forced to host most meetings via Zoom. The PS has set the Zoom password in his mother tongue and some PSs have had to hire translators to access the online meetings platform. The long password apparently means “Tuko Pamaja”. Maybe Public Service Commission chairman Stephen Kirogo (pictured) needs to take note. The saying that you don’t know what you've got till you lose it aptly captures the situation for some Cabinet Secretaries. It emerges that an aggressive CS is experiencing withdrawal for missing out on lucrative deals, perks and trinkets. The CS was overheard bragging of bringing all kinds of expertise and changes to the ministry. The nonexistent reforms appear not to fly as his tenure was marked by constant infighting and duels of egos with the PS . To buttress the claims, the CS now has taken to the newspapers to hog all credit and blow the trumpet on zero achievements. The sense of entitlement is simply amazing! A company said to be owned by the CEO of a commercial bank in the country is on the radar of sleuths after it emerged that it could perhaps be the biggest money launderer in Kenya’s corporate scene. Some people alleged to be members of a self-help group were in court charged with malicious damage to a 25-acre parcel of land within Nairobi.  It is at the centre of a dispute with another party claiming ownership of the land. It has now emerged that the company linked to the CEO and his wife is no ordinary investment as many have thought. A firm contracted to tarmac a key link Road within Clay City in Nairobi could find itself in trouble. The firm is said to have moved away from the site a few days after putting down the tarmac without doing drainage works as required. This means that the road's lifespan could be jeopardised largely because of running water. Some residents claim that three buildings which have encroached into the road reserve could have been spared at the expense of proper road works. Did the owners of the buildings irregularly influence the construction so that no drainage could be put up? It is only a matter of time before the matter is exposed.