Uasin Gishu county is facing a crisis in identifying isolation centres for Covid-19 patients due to resistance from communities who fear contagion. The county has identified 33 cases, mostly due to truck drivers, and numbers are expected to rise. Governor Jackson Mandago had directed additional isolation units be located in each subcounty, but health officials were turned down by angry communities. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said preparations in most countries were substandard. He called an emergency meeting with all governors on Wednesday. They are expected to commit to providing facilities with at least 300 isolation beds. Uasin Gishu MCAs have protested the county was not involving residents in decisions on the pandemic that has caused stigmatisation of patients, families and contacts. Last week the county assembly was in an uproar over its readiness, or lack thereof, to address the increasing number of cases. MCA Joseph Tallam of Soy questioned the rationale of taking Covid-19 patients to health centres in rural areas, which were not listed, without involving communities. “We are also concerned with the decision to have testing centres for truck drivers in highly populated areas like Huruma, posing a risk of higher infections to residents,” Peter Chomba, the MCA for Huruma, said. Chomba said the county Covid-19 response committee should have established testing centres in open areas where populations are far away. County officials were closeted in a series of meetings as the number of confirmed cases soared to more than 33 and more than 400 contacts were being traced. The Kamalel Isolation Unit for confirmed patients was filled beyond its 25-bed capacity as the quarantine centre for contacts at the Medical Training College in Eldoret was also filled to capacity. Mandago chaired meetings on setting up new facilities. He was joined by CEO of Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa. The upsurge in cases has been blamed on truck drivers from local villages forced to park their lorries in town. They were afraid to proceed to the Malaba border, where entry to Uganda has been blocked following protests by truckers over delays and alleged mistreatment in Uganda. “We now have a crisis over the increasing numbers of patients and contacts. This has resulted from the high number of truck drivers who stopped in the town following the crisis at the Malaba border,” county Health executive Everlyn Rotich said. Hundreds of truck drivers have been parking along the Eldoret-Webuye highway where government officials have been unable control their movements. Mandago has asked truck drivers with homes in the North Rift to stay away from their homes to protect their families from the virus. He said they should care about the welfare of their families whether or not they have been tested for Covid-19. The county chief said most drivers operate from the high-risk counties of Mombasa and Nairobi and most cases so far reported result from contact with drivers. “The drivers are our fathers, brothers, sisters and friends. We have not rejected them, but we are pleading with them not to go home, so they protect their families, especially aged parents who are very vulnerable,” Mandago said. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said drivers will have to produce Covid-19 clearance certificates before being allowed to park their trucks at Maili Nne parking yard in Eldoret. (Edited by V. Graham) 