Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has criticised Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, saying the unionist is a failure working to confuse the Luhya community. Speaking during a radio interview on Monday, Wetang’ula said Atwoli has no authority to choose a spokesperson for the Luhya people. “Atwoli is a failure, he has failed to cushion Kenyan workers whose salary is deducted to enrich him, majority workers, especially in flower farms and industries, are suffering. What has he done to help them? Let him stick to his mandate and leave politics to politicians,” the Ford-Kenya party leader said. Atwoli last month hosted a meeting of more than 40 Luhya leaders including governors, senators and MPs at his home in Kajiado county where Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa were allegedly anointed as the Luhya spokespersons. Days later, Ford-Kenya secretary general Eseli Simiyu and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi staged a party coup in which Wetang'ula was dethroned as party leader. His position was given to Wamunyinyi on an interim basis. The matter is yet to be decided by the Registrar of Political Parties. Both Eseli and Wamunyinyi attended the event at Atwoli's home. The trade unionist is being accused of hatching the plot to have Wetang'ula removed as Ford-Kenya leader. During the radio interview, Wetang'ula asked the Central Organisation of Trade Unions boss to stick to his job and stop pretending to be speaking on behalf of the Luhya community. The senator said that it was a sham exercise for Atwoli to purport to appoint Eugene and Oparanya as Luhya spokespersons. “Atwoli has no authority to choose any politician as the Mulembe people's spokesperson. He is a failure himself. Let him stop chest thumping because nobody appointed him as our patron,” Wetang’ula said. He said Atwoli only invited a few leaders to his Kajiado home and that the event lacked genuineness towards solving the elusive Luhya unity. “I and my ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi were never invited by Atwoli. This means he had a hidden agenda and self-interest towards leaders he could easily manipulate. We are not part of the dubious meetings,” the senator said. He said the Luhya unity will only be realised once all leaders from the Mulembe nation come together and speak in one voice unlike now when there is a pull and push amongst them. Wetang’ula said he was keen on running for the presidency in 2022, saying his march remains unstoppable. He urged Kenyans of goodwill to support his candidature. He denied having endorsed Deputy President William Ruto, saying they are all presidential hopefuls and there is no way he could support his rival. “You have seen me crisscrossing the country from Mombasa to Turkana, Kuria to Embu and Garissa to Busia, why should I be wasting resources and energy if I'm supporting Ruto? That is propaganda being peddled by people with ill intentions,” Wetangula said.  Edited by P.O