In another lifetime, John Amutabi Nzenze could have been a farmer or a construction worker. But alongside Daudi Kabaka, Juma Toto and Fadhili Williams, he planted the seeds of Kenyan music and laid the foundations for the industry. One of the pioneers of the twist genre, the octogenarian died on Saturday at the Mukumu Mission Hospital, Kakamega county, after a long illness. He was 80. Younger Kenyans may be forgiven for not being familiar with Nzenze’s name. However, for those who grew up in the 60s and 70s, his name reminds them of evenings spent on the dancefloors of Nairobi’s downtown clubs gyrating to hits, such as 'Twist ni Nzuri', 'Angelike', 'Amina' and 'Juliana'. Sospeter, a retired teacher, confesses that until today he is always tempted to break into a dance whenever he hears a twist song. “His music is just irresistible. Every time it reminds me of my youth when I used to have a huge afro and wear bell-bottoms. We would be dancing to twist all night away,” he says. Carlos Oyioma is grateful to Nzenze for the impact his love tunes had on many relationships during that period. “We will remember you for giving our parents hit songs. Some of them would never have met to become our parents had it not been for the disco matangas where your hit songs played as they danced to twist,” Oyioma says. Born in a musical family, Nzenze’s appetite for music was kindled at the young age of 12 during which he was able to play the guitar. His father – himself a musician – influenced the young Nzenze into following his footsteps. A waiter’s job at the New Stanley Hotel, Nairobi in 1963 would then thrust him into the music industry. Here, he met another future legend of twist, Daudi Kabaka, with who he immediately struck a rapport. “I and Kabaka ended up in the same room in the servant quarters. Since I could play the guitar a bit, we started testing out different songs and recording them,” Nzenze said in a past interview. The thrill of dancing twist notwithstanding, Nzenze’s songs were the epitome of infotainment. In 'Kuoa ni Kuzuri', he extols young men on the benefits of marriage and warns against taking it lightly. “Siku hizi ni nzuri sana ukiwa na bibi… ukiwa na bibi ndugu yangu utaheshimiwa (These days it is important to have a wife …if you have a wife, you will be respected),” the crooner sings on his hit track. These lyrics are a testament that his music will remain evergreen and relevant regardless of time. “From an African perspective, when a wise man dies, his tongue lives on. John Nzenze has exited the stage but his music lives on,” Ruth Agesa, Kenya Music Festival executive secretary said. Apart from soothing many hearts with his love ballads, Nzenze was also part of musicians who established the Music Copyright Society of Kenya. He will be interred this week at his home in Hamisi, Vihiga county. (edited by o. owino)