The family of slain Ramadhan Chitswa, aka Mapenzi, on Monday welcomed assurances by the Independent Police Oversight Authority that justice will be served. Chitswa’s stepbrother Rama Hassan said his widow and three remaining children are still reeling from the brutal killing of their husband and father. “The wife Mwanahalima Mwachili is out of hospital now and is recuperating at home. All she wants, which is what we all want, is justice for my brother and their three children,” Hassan said on the phone. On Friday, IPOA Coast regional officer Rashid Wekesa said the authority is actively investigating the May 29 killing. Police allegedly raided Chistwa’s home in Kibundani. They said Chitswa, who they claimed was a Shabaab militant on their radar, refused to surrender and instead threw a grenade at them. They said they fired at him and he used his children as human shield, a claim disputed by the family. “We got complaints about it and we sent officers on the ground. We are continuing with investigations. We promise to fast-track the probe and prosecute those found culpable,” Wekesa said. He spoke at the launch of the State of Human Rights during Covid-19 report on Friday at the Uhuru na Kazi building. The report puts police officers on the spot for the murder of Chitswa and his three children and 10 others between March 13 and May 31. “We are saddened by the most recent case where a six-year-old boy, a four-year-old girl and an eight-month-old foetus unfortunately became victims of a security incident,” Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said. Khalid called on regional coordinator John Elungata and his security team to intervene and ensure justice is done, particularly for the innocent caught up in crossfires between security personnel and suspected thugs. On Monday, an emotional Hassan maintained that his brother was innocent and had no problem with anyone. “We leave it to God who will surely get justice for us,” he said. Elungata received the Haki Africa report, done in collaboration with other human rights organisations, including Human Development Agenda, Sisters for Justice, Uhaki na Usawa Organization and Institute for Land Governance and Human Rights. The report documented 291 cases of human rights violations, including 14 extrajudicial killings, five killings directly related to Covid-19, four killings by the mob and two by criminal gangs. Elungata, however, said the government is not in the business of killing its own people. “I don’t think there is any officer of government who comes out with intention of harming the people they are supposed to be serving.” He, however, added that terrorists rarely care about their family members when cornered, deflecting the blame for the killing of Chitswa’s three children who rights groups maintain were innocent and did not deserve to be killed. “When security officers go after a case, our intention is normally to pursue the criminal element that we have been notified about. “When it comes to Shabaab, a terrorist rarely has the love of that child with him. He will want to use that child as a shield most times,” Elungata said. He said this is because terrorists usually have already made up their minds to inflict as much damage as possible on the government, people and the psychology of the nation. The coordinator said they have, however, received reports of atrocities committed by police officers in the name of enforcing the curfew and they are already looking into them. He called on rights groups to look into the killings of the elderly people, especially in Kilifi. “It is an area that has not been looked into. I don’t know whether the elderly are superfluous to requirements or not. Because, whenever we have the killing of older people we don’t hear as much noise as when we hear about GBV or any other kind of atrocities,” he said. He said many elderly people have been killed by youths. Edited by R.Wamochie