Some Kenyans being evacuated back into the country have failed to quarantine themselves as required by the health authorities. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Tuesday said some of them are also not obtaining Covid-19 tests before they leave. Last week on Friday, 27 Kenyans stuck in Ethiopia for three months were returned home. Hundreds more are expected back home from Sudan and India this week. "Some passengers on these flights are not adhering to the protocols set by the ministry," Kagwe said during the daily briefing at Afya House. He said those returning must obtain Covid-19 free certificates prior to departure. "Before departure, it is mandatory to complete a declaration form indicating where they would wish to be quarantined, whether in a government or private facility," Kagwe said. He also announced that Kenya had recorded 155 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 4,952. The new cases were from 4,171 samples that were tested in 24 hours. He said Kenya's cumulative tests now stand at 146,537. The youngest of the new cases is a one-year-old, while the oldest is 77. The CS said 102 patients were discharged, raising the recoveries to 1,782. Another three more patients died. Total fatalities are 128. On Monday, Kagwe said he is frustrated at times for repeating the same messages in regards to the coronavirus. Speaking on Citizen TV, Kagwe said when some Kenyans try to beat the system it gets frustrating. "My mother is in Nairobi since this coronavirus started and she tells me I am the reason she is stuck here. When you see people who are trying to beat the system by flouting the government directives it can get frustrating," Kagwe said. Kagwe said people take directives for granted adding that when there is a lockdown, frustrations pile up. "You start asking yourself, what are these people going to eat... there lies the frustration... as a human being you do sometimes lose your cool and it happens sometimes," he added. He noted that he is very empathetic with the situation in the country but added that this job does not allow him to mourn. "It is difficult addressing the number of deaths and numbers of those infected but my job does not allow me go into mourning and stop doing what I have to do," he said. "The disease pattern is exactly as we expected. Kenyans should be apologising because of their complete indiscipline, had we been a disciplined society, the mandatory quarantine we went into would not have happened." Kagwe said Kenya has not yet hit the peak of infection rates. "As we head towards the end of July, there shall be higher figures as people will travel more increasing numbers. Post 6th July, we will determine what to do in terms of the cessation of movement," he said. (edited by o. owino)