Former Boston Marathon champion Sharon Cherop has urged budding runners to not only take the sport as a career but also invest their earnings wisely. She said it is sad to see athletes who have run at major championships and road races suffer during this current coronavirus pandemic, just because they squandered their earnings. Cherop was in attendance when Athletics Kenya, in partnership with the Ministry of Sports, distributed food rations and cash stipends to upcoming runners at Kapcherop Secondary School, Elgeyo Marakwet County over the weekend. The reigning Lagos Marathon winner, also explained how important it is to combine sports and investments. “As a young runner, you need education as this will help you fight poverty. Without proper planning, you cannot succeed even if you have money,” she observed. With 50 athletes, Kapcherop served as a World Under-20 training camp but has since been closed as per the government directives against social gatherings. The world event earlier scheduled for July 7-12 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani has been postponed, though the organisers are yet to release new dates. AK Youth Development Committee chairman, Barnaba Korir said their intention is to see the continuity of the young athletes despite the challenges they are facing following the cancellation of the U-20 event. “The funds we are distributing could have been used to sustain the athletes during the April camps. Since it was not possible to host the athletes during the holiday camps, the federation in conjunction with government opted  to support each athlete with some foodstuffs and a small token of cash to keep them going during this difficult time,” said Korir. He said that each athlete across the 19 camps is receiving a food package worthy Sh 3,000 and a similar amount in cash. AK North Rift  public relations officer, Boniface Tiren, said the athletes have suffered following the closure of camps and schools at the same time. “They have had it rough but such initiatives are good for both the officials and runners who guide and run respectively,” said Tiren. At Chewoyet National School, West Pokot County camp, head coach Edward Moti, said they have been struggling to raise resources to support the young runners but the rations will now play an important part in contributing to their wellness while training, although individually at home. “This is God sent. It will help them train stress free,” said Moti.