Kenya should consider having a department at the Health Ministry to track the effectiveness of legal and policy provisions in place over time. Eddy Orinda, a legal epidemiologist on Tuesday said this should be done through policy surveillance in order to achieve concerted efforts in properly addressing challenges continuously posed by infectious diseases. “Particularly because it is labour-intensive, policies are not often integrated into existing public health surveillance platforms,” Orinda said. Citing the social distancing as one of the most critical approaches in curbing the spread of Coronavirus, the expert said there must be policy interventions in housing laws that complement public health law efforts in ensuring that first and foremost the framework of housing ensures social distancing. “It is not realistic to enforce the same under the circumstances of Kibera for instance unless the anatomy of housing laws intersect with public health law and by extension the International Health Regulations 2005,” he said. According to an analysis made by the World Health Organisation, more than 80 per cent of the public health emergencies in the WHO African Region between 2016 and 2018 were due to infectious diseases. As a member state to the WHO and in extension as a party to the International Health Regulations (2005), Kenya is bound by the requirements under the IHR (2005). Through IHR (2005), countries have agreed to build their capacities to detect, assess and report public health events. The WHO plays the coordinating role in IHR (2005) and, together with its partners, helps countries to build capacities. “The fact that Africa has recorded more outbreaks than any region in the world (with these outbreaks being those that could be prevented or controlled through proven public health interventions) is the reason African countries should embrace legal epidemiology in the first place.” Orinda noted that failure to consider legal epidemiological approach may not only continue to diminish most state’s capacity (both resource and technical) but also expose it to greater debt obligations and negative foreign policy implications. In a bid to promote international surveillance as well as cooperation between the WHO and Kenya, Kenya enacted the Public Health Act (PHA), the primary legislation applicable to matters of public health crises. The PHA authorizes public health authorities, particularly the Health Minister, to take various actions pursuant to the IHR (2005) during public health crises, including declaring an infectious disease a “notifiable infectious disease” or a “formidable epidemic, endemic or infectious disease,” and taking the necessary prevention and suppression measures to fight the disease. Specific powers accorded to health authorities for the purpose of prevention and suppression of an infectious disease include search, seizure, and detention powers; the power to designate any place as a quarantine area, including ships and aircraft; and the power to restrict or ban immigration into the country “Despite numerous examples of the critical influence that law and policy have on public health outcomes, only systematic evaluations can show which laws facilitate, challenge, or harm health,” he said.