Parents from Homabay have gone to court to seek a re-evaluation of the school education broadcasts by the government. In a petition filed at the Kisii Law Courts, the parents term the broadcasts as discriminatory and that they are not reaching many learners, especially those from the country's poor ranks. "We hold the view that this mode of teaching is skewed to the benefit of the rich and not the poor, many of them still unable to access electricity," the parents submitted in their petition filed on Friday at the Kisii High Court. The petitioners held the view that several regions in the country are not connected to the national electricity grid to avail the broadcast to a wider audience. Others argue that they still have low or lack of network to help learners access the broadcasts. The petition was signed and filed by Michael Otieno, Evance Gor, Mary Akach, Irine Ojwang, Robert Oluoch, Walter Opiyo, Millicent Adhiambo and Evans Odhiambo. Cabinet Secretary for Education, Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development and the Attorney General are cited as respondents. The case was filed under certificate of urgency before Justice Anthony Ndungu. In the affidavits, the plaintiff wants the broadcasts stopped till the case is heard and determined. Ndung'u ordered that copies of the petition to be served to all parties ahead of the hearing in the coming seven days. . “I order that the petition be served to all the respondents. Any party that does not appear in court as notified then an order will be made and proceedings taken as the court may deem as just and expedient,” Ndung'u said. The petitioners told the court to order a suspension of the education broadcasts by the education ministry or their agents until the matter is heard and determined. The parents further want schools to remain shut until the Covid-19 pandemic eases off. "Pending the inter-party hearings and determination of the application, the Education Cabinet Secretary, the Ministry of Education and Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development should be issued with a temporary order of prohibition from opening schools until all schools are pandemic compliant," the plaintiff said in a statement. The matter was urgent and wants it heard as soon as possible, said the plaintiff. The petitioners said parents were not involved in the deal yet they have a role to play. “Unless this application is urgently heard and determined, the applicants and the children of the Republic of Kenya will suffer a great loss, " the petitioners said.