Tourism sector players in Lamu county have called for a one-year tax holiday following the adverse effects of Covid-19. Most hotels remain closed, having relieved their staff of duty as the coronavirus crisis took its toll on the sector. The county has suffered a double tragedy, having barely recovered from the devastations caused by al Shabaab attacks between 2014 and 2015. The attacks nearly brought the sector to its knees as several Western nations issued travel advisories to their citizens. Hence, speaking in Lamu on Wednesday, tourism sector players led by Lamu Tourism Caucus representative Abdalla Fadhil said the Covid-19 pandemic has left the sector at the bottom of the county’s performance charts, hence the need for tax exemptions to revive it. A tax holiday is a government incentive programme that offers a full or partial tax waiver to businesses. It is also used by governments in developing countries to help stimulate foreign investment. The proposal from the stakeholders comes ahead of the presentation of the 2020-21 national budget on Thursday by the Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. The investors urged the CS to declare a year-long tax holiday to enable them to recover and chart a more feasible way forward. Fadhil said it would be prudent for the government to allocate more funding towards the sector to enable full recovery and cushion them from any further effects of the virus. “Many of our hotels, tour and travel companies have since closed up shop. It’s impossible to think of full recovery unless tax holidays are included in whichever plan anyone might have. It’s our belief that the CS, having been a witness to what is happening, will consider our plight,” Fadhil said. They also suggested the establishment of a kitty for investors in the sector so they can take loans to revive their businesses. Further, they appealed for the provision of anti-Covid-19 gear and materials in their places of business. Lamu Tourism Association immediate former deputy chairperson Ghalib Alwy said the regulations imposed to fight the pandemic have immensely drained the sector. They also urged the CS to consider reducing the cost of water and electricity in the budget. “If we were to reopen, many of us won’t be able to run our hotels again. The pandemic caught us flat-footed and we really need all the support we can get to be able to rise up again,” Alwy said. Edited by F'Orieny