Constitutional experts have poured cold water on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s “constitutional moment” remark on Madaraka Day. Lawyers Abdikadir Mohammed, Bobby Mkangi and Ekuro Aukot said the constitutional moment the President talked about on Monday would be for the political elite and not for ordinary Kenyans. Aukot, who was ex-officio member of the 2010 Committee of Experts on Constitutional Review, said a constitutional moment is a time when there is crisis which can be resolved by changing the governance structure. “South Sudanese, following their independence, were faced with a constitutional moment. Liberia, after 14 years of war needed to write a new constitution. Those are constitutional moments,” he explained. He said Kenya does not have the pressure to have a new constitution but needs investments in areas that will address health, education and infrastructure among other sectors. “Addressing the challenges Kenyans are facing does not need a constitutional moment but a constitutional amendment. Constitutional moment comes when there is a crisis,” he added. Abdikadir said Kenyans, at the moment, want proposals that will address their immediate challenges. “While people may not have problems with amending the Constitution, their immediate concern is their welfare,” he said. He added that Kenyans have been questioning the commitment of the political class in the implementation of the law. “Kenyans have been asking why does the political class want to amend the Constitution yet the one we have is not being implemented to the fullest.” Mkangi, who was a member of the 2010 Committee of Experts on Constitutional Review, said Kenyans in general are at the moment concerned with issues other than the review of the Constitution. “If the President does not prioritise issues affecting Kenyans, people will not see the proposed amendment of the law as a constitutional moment. People out there want to be engaged on issues that are away from the political class,” he said. Kenyans, according to him, want to be told how their livelihoods will be improved and not how the Executive will be expanded. The President on Monday gave the clearest indication yet that a referendum will be held to amend the Constitution. “We formulated and adopted a new Constitution, altogether replacing the independence constitution. Ten years later, I am already discerning a constitutional moment. Not a moment to replace the 2010 Constitution but one to improve on it,” he told the 57th Madaraka Day celebrations at State House. Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga have been pushing for constitutional changes through a referendum by the end of this year. “The constitutional moment I discern is one that will bring an end to the senseless cycles of violence we have experienced in every election since 1992,” he said. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua does not believe Kenya needs to amend the 2010 Constitution. “I’m yet to be convinced that the Constitution of Kenya 2010 needs any rectification. That is not to say that it is wrong for anybody to propose amendments to the Constitution,” Karua, a Constitutional Affairs minister in the Kibaki administration, said.  - mwaniki fm