Former AFC Leopards striker Anthony ‘Ofek’ Okumu has urged club management and fans to be patient with coach Anthony Kimani as he seeks to realise his long term dream with the struggling giants. The former Kenya international, who played for the team in 1998 and was part of the Harambee Stars side that knocked Algeria out of the World Cup qualifiers in 1997, said that Kimani has proven equal to the task and with financial support, he will be able to bring back glory days at the den. He observed that K’Ogalo’s recent dominance is as a result of patience and well structured management and wants this same trick at the Leopards’ camp. “Kimani has been at the helm of the club for a very short period and without a doubt he has proved he is ready for the challenge. In most cases, coaches are not given enough time to shape a team according to their philosophy especially if results are not immediate and this is worrying,” added Okumu, who was part of the Mumias Sugar FC that won the Moi Golden Cup and also played for the Ministry of Works in Kakamega. He is now the Ward Administrator of Mayakalu ward in Lurambi sub-county in the giant and populous Kakamega county. He added: “How many coaches and players have been at Ingwe in the last couple of years? The turnover of coaches and players is abnormally high that a newly appointed coach at the den will always have to start from scratch. Kimani needs time and players need to become used to a certain philosophy. Ingwe fans are always impatient but they must remember that results do not come overnight. Results only come through patience, hardwork and dedication.” “James Siang’a started Gor Mahia’s resurgence with a young team which has seen them become unbeatable in the last four seasons because the players gelled well. However, Leopards have seen a huge turn-over of players in the last few years and this is a trend that needs to stop,” said Okumu. At the same time, Okumu wants the team to prioritise quality additions to the squad and challenged the players to play with passion when donning the Ingwe jersey. Leopards are the second most successful club in Kenya behind Gor Mahia. The team has won 12 Kenya Premier League titles as opposed to Gor’s 18. “During our days, we were earning peanuts but fought with our hearts out on the field, something the current generation of players lack. AFC is one of the oldest clubs and players must show hunger and desire to produce results. It is not about numbers, the team need super players who can deliver consistently,” he said. Meanwhile, Okumu said the team needs a well-developed structure so that young players can easily transition to the senior team. “Players need to be scouted from schools into the junior sides that will act as a feeder to the senior team. The team also needs to find sponsors for stability purposes.”