 The Nyandarua county government will not pay for road projects that have not been completed and done according to contract specifications. Transport, Energy and Public Works executive Ndung’u Wangenye said on Thursday that if he pays for unfinished work, then he would have violated the law and would be jailed. “You find somebody wants to be paid for work not completed. The moment you pay such a contractor, they will never come back to complete the work. That is worse than not paying at all,” he said Wangenye was responding to questions asked by the Star following a motion of county importance sponsored by county assembly committee on transport chairman Mbogo Mburu on Wednesday. Mburu expressed concerns over non-implementation of the Nyandarua roads construction programme for 2019-20. He said money meant for the projects might be taken back to the Treasury, yet some contractors have not been paid. He said the non-payment had been occasioned by cases of missing files and failure to facilitate proper documentation by the roads department. Mburu urged the  department to provide information concerning the delay of Bill of Quantities and Local Service Orders. But Wangenye said, “The issue is not implementation because we have implemented over 80 per cent of the projects for the year in question, but it is about payment. I will not be in a hurry to pay, unless someone has completed his work." "It does not matter if the money goes back to the Treasury, we shall do a supplementary and pay them. If I pay for work not done, I will be taken to the EACC.” Wangenye said he was not aware of any missing files or documents. He said the assembly should point out specific cases, if any. He also denied that Bills of Quantity and Local Service Orders are delayed. Wangenye said some contractors have done only 60 per cent of the work and are demanding payment, while others have violated contract terms. “There is one project that indicates 10 culverts should be installed. But the contractor installed only seven and now wants to be paid. I told another contractor to install six-inch culverts, but he installed four-inch culverts that are of low quality,” he said In Mirangine, Wangenye said, a contractor was supposed to do heavy grading for a road and install proper drainage. But he did lighting grading and directed water to people’s farms. He said the contractor declined to redo the work as requested but went ahead to demand payment. Besides, he said, other stakeholders are also involved before payments are made. Once his department issues a completion certificate, the Governor’s Service Delivery Unit goes to the ground to verify the facts. The Finance department then audits the project before releasing the funds. In the assembly, Majority leader Edinald King’ori was put to task as he tried, in vain, to water down the motion, saying it was improper since it had not originated from his office. Recruitment Speaker Wahome Ndegwa called for the recruitment of qualified graduates in the county to help in construction of roads, saying that understaffing remains a huge challenge. “The department is said to be understaffed thus the delay in the implementation of projects, yet we have young qualified engineers in the county who can be recruited even on contract basis,” Ndegwa said. Other legislators who expressed disappointment in the roads department were Wanjohi MCA Isaac Kung’u and his Charagita counterpart Wairimu Njane. Kung’u argued that escalation of the problem is not in development of Bill of Quantities but the delay of issuance of Local Purchase Order (LPOs), thus contractors know they can get away with non-completion. “The LPOs are given out at the end of the year thus contractors know they don’t have to finish the road works in time,” he said Njane expressed disappointment over failure of implementation of road projects yet money was allocated. “We allocated money for the roads last year and even added some roads for MTF but still they have not been done. A road like Waiyofo in my ward is really bad and I keep telling people that there is money in the budget,” she said.  Edited by A.N