Hundreds of long-distance drivers stranded in Mai Mahiu for over a week have been allowed to leave and be tested elsewhere for Covid-19. Only once tested will they be able to deliver their cargo to neighbouring countries. The decison was a reprieve for residents as the over 400 drivers had camped in the trading centre after testing kits ran out. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui had sought the President’s help to clear the backlog at the Inland Container Depot. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said the stranded drivers had been allowed to collect their cargo. Mathioya said that the continued stay of the drivers in the town posed a major risk to area residents. “Of the positive cases reported in Naivasha, all of them have come from the drivers in Mai Mahiu and their continued stay put the lives of area residents in great danger,” he said. The commissioner said that drivers would forthwith have to get certificates from their point of origin to address the backlog at the ICD. “The issue of testing kits has been a major challenge for this testing centre and drivers seeking to collect cargo from the ICD will have to get certificates from their point of origin,” he said. Nakuru Health executive Kariuki Gichuki said the drivers posed a major threat to the fight against the spread of the disease. “Nearly all the positive cases in Nakuru have originated from Mai Mahui and this is worrying considering the drivers are freely mingling with area residents,” he said. Gichuki said that the county had done its part in allocating staff to the mobile testing laboratory. It is the responsibility of the national government to provide the testing kits, he said. The CEC identified motorcycle operators and commercial sex workers as the weakest links in the spread of the disease around the busy town. “The ICD is a major blessing for this county in terms of business opportunity and revenue but it could turn out to be a curse if the issue of the stranded drivers is not resolved urgently,” he said. 