Was there a plan to delay Deputy President William Ruto from arriving at State House in time for Madaraka Day celebrations? A mole in the know has told Corridors that the organisers of the event on Sunday wanted the DP to arrive right on time, proceed straight to the pavilion and wait to receive President Uhuru Kenyatta. Beating them at their own game, Ruto arrived at State House almost an hour and 30 minutes early and proceeded straight for a meeting with the head of state. It is said that while Uhuru and Ruto were meeting, their wives - Margaret Kenyatta and Rachel Ruto - were also meeting in another room. A county secretary in the coastal region must be a genius to have graduated with a master's degree before earning a bachelor's degree. The man who boasts that he saved his boss from graft charges used the confounding papers to get his job. They show that the man got a master's degree in 2009, but his bachelor's degree certificate from a foreign university is dated August 2013. Those keen on ending such irregularities are hoping that Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission boss Twalib Mbarak will take charge. A government agency appears to be sending shivers down the spines of many battle-hardened officers. The independent office, which has recently been a beehive of activity with disgruntled, sobbing and short-changed individuals seeking comfort, is without blemish, however. Some quarters point fingers and say the office has covertly been doing a hatchet job for invincible persons. Some politicians were overheard lamenting that once the illegal activities have been staged, the agency turns around and advances the cause of powerful individuals. More evidence democracy is on trial in Kenya? Only time will tell as the country gears up for the 2022 polls. As politicians and their ilk frolic, mingle, hobnob and hang out, questions have been asked why they get away with it when the common mwananchi bears the brunt of police brutality for no apparent reason. Corridors has since adduced that the efforts by the church and Muslim leaders to push for the opening of churches and mosques with specific protocols have been rebuffed for political reasons. It is said a crafty faction within the Jubilee Party will take the opportunity to undo the damage inflicted on them during the Covid-19 period. The clergy and their flocks are now asking if the extension of the curfew and laxity in the opening up the economy could have anything to do with settling political scores.