Carpenters in Dagoretti South constituency have resumed work and are facing a greater risk of contracting Covid-19 because of the unsafe environment they work from. They are among the workers whose jobs require them to work closely together hence get in physical contact with many, including customers. Social distance is barely observed as they argue that they were forced to squeeze in due to the expansion of the Ngong Road Phase 3 that is still under construction. Some have pushed their businesses on walkways for display leaving very minimal space for pedestrians to use. Both rough and furnish carpenters require a lot of physical work and standing almost the whole day. They say wearing a mask is reducing their intake of oxygen that is resulting them to struggle to breathe and are worried the intake of carbon dioxide might affect their health. “They feel light-headed and faint.” Many of these workers receive a low wage and do not have paid sick leave. But nothing will stop them from reporting to work. The industrial labour and carpentry is the major source of income in the constituency and has employed many skilled people. They are paid daily or weekly depending on their piecework. The field is largely dominated by men, with a few women slowly being introduced to tasks such as painting and sanding wood. Their businesses, however. have experienced a decline despite them reporting to work daily, hoping for a better income. “Customers are afraid to make orders because they assume that they could have Covid-19. A whole day can go by having not receiving even one customer. Life has become hard,” Tony Muchui told the Star. Before Covid-19, Muchui used to receive at least 10 customers. Now, he would only get three or fewer, he said. “We normally get our timber (Mahogany) from Congo and our suppliers have hiked their prices due to the low supply since the closure of boarders by President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. He cited another challenge of customers not paying deposit for furniture as an assurance and negotiating for a bargain. SAFETY The carpenters said they have witnessed a few hit-and-run accidents in the last two weeks and have asked the Kenya Urban Roads Authority to put road bumps. “Motorists have turned the road to a high-speed highway. Last week, one of my customers was hit by a car and died instantly. There is also no space for our customers to park their cars,” John Kimathi said. The Ministry of Health on Friday reported 38 more cases in Kibra 25, Kamukunji 4, Dagoretti North (five), Westlands (two), and Lang'ata and Embakasi East one each. Edited by R.Wamochie