Following the completion of renovation works which upgraded the Gusii Stadium to a 10,000 sitter, stakeholders now want the county government to install other essential facilities . Shabana legends led by Peter Kamau aka Kas Kas, have asked the Gusii County to consider having a tartan track, electronic scoreboard, fibre goal posts, a media centre, a gym, Football Kenya Federation offices and floodlights to facilitate playing of games at night. Kamau was speaking in company of Joel Mayaka, Rashid Omar, Salim Mabrouk, John Anasi and David Omayio when they paid their last respect to former Shabana winger Charles Nyagaka, who was buried on Tuesday. But despite their quest for more facilities, they hailed the county government for a job well done. “As Shabana legends who played at this facility, we are impressed with improvements made so far. This will go a long way in helping Shabana and the county in raising revenue especially when hosting other disciplines,” said Kamau. He added that they are keen to see Shabana return to the Kenyan Premier League but challenged the management to run the club professionally by putting structures in place. “Shabana should be run by a management board with marketing, technical, diaspora and finance departments. That is the only way this club can rise from the ashes,” Kamau noted. He added that the club should focus on local players. “Shabana currently has players from outside the country but with the current financial status, the club should focus on local players only,” Kamau noted, adding that they will be at hand to inspire, motivate and mentor players from next season. He also asked Shabana management to increase gate charges during their home matches. “The club has no sponsor. It is disheartening that they charge Sh100 instead of Sh200 for terraces and Sh200 for VIP, who should be paying Sh1, 000 and terraces Sh200,” he suggested. Shabana vice chairman, Nyandoro Kambi welcomed the legends ideas saying their contribution will help the club achieve KPL status. “I agree with him (Kamau) and the legends on having local players in the team. We shall strengthen our scouting from schools in the region as we seek to make Shabana great again. The club has faced a lot of challenges especially when it comes to finances but we shall overcome,” said Kambi.