Kwale assembly speaker Sammy Ruwa is blocking the approval of Sh160 million budget to buy food for vulnerable families, Governor Salim Mvurya has said. Mvurya said Ruwa and some MCAs are plotting to undermine his government through the assembly. “The speaker is conspiring with some few individuals not to pass the supplementary budget so that locals can sleep hungry to humiliate my government,” he said. Mvurya said Friday that his noble efforts to help the electorate have been politicised by people who want to gain political mileage. The Kwale leader also accused Ruwa of rallying behind MCAs to cause division and disunity in the county. “The same person who doesn’t want to approve the money is seen with other cartels distributing food, making it worse dividing people on the basis of religion,” he said. Mvurya said the speaker was at one time heard telling some clerics that the government food belonged to a certain faith. The county boss said it is no time to engage in early 2022 politics when citizens are in dire need of help from the people whom they chose to serve them. He said he has no personal interests in the money but to assist the locals who daily reach out to him through social media and his office asking for food. Mvurya said the assembly is lecturing him on things that he had already prioritised. “We recently launched a Covid-19 unit, equipped it with necessary medical supplies and we addressed the water shortage and still we are working hard to sustain other sectors what else do they want?” he asked. The 2019-2020 financial year ends this month and if the supplementary budget is not passed, residents will have to starve for long, the governor said. Ruwa denied all the allegations. He said he is just a referee who has to play a neutral part in the county assembly. “My work is not to support certain bills to be passed but I am there to listen to what MCAs who represent the people from the ground say,” he said. The speaker said the governor can donate food even without the supplementary budget like any other well-wishers using his funds. Ruwa advised the governor to find a suitable solution to his problems with the county representative but blaming him is uncalled for. (edited by o. owino)