Kenya on Saturday recorded 278 more Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 5,811 cases, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said. This is out of the 4,074 samples tested in the last 24 hours. All except two are Kenyans. For the genders, 181 are males and 97 females. As of the ages, the youngest is a one year old infant, while the oldest is 84 years old. The country has also witnessed 31 recoveries, bringing the total to 1936 recoveries in the country. The ministry has thanked health workers for their devotion to take care of Kenyans. However, the country  has lost four more people, bringing the number of deaths in the country to 141. Nairobi is leading with 171 cases, followed by Mombasa with 37, Nakuru 17, Kiambu 12, Busia 10, Uasin Gishu nine, Kajiado four, Migori three, Kericho, Machakos, Trans Nzoia and Nandi with two cases each, Siaya, Taita Taveta, Kwale,  Kisumu, Makueni, Meru and Vihiga have one case each. In Nairobi, the cases are distributed as follows; Westlands 34, Langata 28, Dagoretti North 17, Makadara 16, Kibra 11, Embakasi East 10, Kasarani nine, Embakasi South eight, Kamukunji eight, Starehe six, Embakasi West and Dagoretti South with five cases each, Embakasi Central and Roysambu four cases each, Mathare three, Ruaraka two and Embakasi North one case. In Mombasa, the cases are in; Mvita 14, Nyali six, Kisauni, Jomvu and Likoni with five cases each while Changamwe has two cases. In Nakuru cases are from; Nakuru East with eight cases, Naivasha with six, Nakuru North two cases and Nakuru West has one case. In Kiambu, the 12 cases are in; Kiambu Town with five cases, Kikuyu three, Kiambaa two, Thika town and Githuguri with one case each. In Busia, the 10 cases are in; Teso North seven, Teso South two and Matayos with one case. Uasin Gishu, the nine cases are from: Ainabkoi three, Kapseret and Kesses two cases each, Moiben and Turbo with one case each. In Kajiado, the four cases are in; Kajiado North three, Kajiado East one case. Migori has three cases in Awendo, Suna East and Kuria West, one case each.