Fears of handshake politics taking centre stage during impeachment proceedings against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has put the Senate under sharp focus. On the one hand are the people of Kirinyaga who are piling pressure on the Senate to keep politics out of the process. On the other hand is a clique of politicians pushing to save the embattled governor on grounds she is innocent of the charges. Waiguru's sympathisers have been rallying President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s handshake to save her. Last week, Kirinyaga MCAs impeached Waiguru on grounds of violation of the Constitution, abuse of office and gross misconduct. The MCAs claimed that the governor had failed to improve roads, blocked the modernisation of Wanguru Stadium, and sabotaged senior national government officers. The governor is among key voices in Mt Kenya in support of the Uhuru-Raila-led Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), hence her removal or stay would impact on the referendum wave. Kirinyaga residents and leaders have petitioned the Senate demanding that a select committee not prosecute the allegations levelled against the governor. They instead want the matter be heard in plenary, arguing that it is the only way to guarantee fairness “unlike a select committee where the members can be compromised.” It is understood that while Raila’s camp in the Senate is pushing to save the former Devolution Cabinet Secretary, State House is undecided “as the matter will portray the President who has publicly declared a total war on corruption badly.” Raila has denied claims he is crafting a strategy to save Waiguru, further indicating they held no meeting as media reports showed on Sunday. The ODM leader denied claims he has instructed ODM senators to save the governor from impeachment. The Sunday Nation reported that Raila, Waiguru and other Mt Kenya leaders met at a Nairobi club to brainstorm on how to lobby senators to save Waiguru. “I am deeply concerned about the false story that I held a meeting with the recently impeached Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru in a bid to save her career.” “No such meeting with Ms. Waiguru or the other governors, James Nyoro of Kiambu and Mutahi Kahiga of Nyeri took place as reported in the Sunday Nation,” Raila said in a statement. Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici on Sunday insisted that for the people of Kirinyaga to get justice, the plenary is the viable option. She noted that the accusations that have been levelled against the county boss are too serious to be left to a committee. The firebrand legislator noted that a precedent was set in the impeachment of former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu in January. “The Senate should listen to the people of Kirinyaga who are demanding fairness and they have said for the justice to be served, the matter should be heard in the plenary. The Senate cannot apply double standards,” she told the Star on phone. “The people of Kirinyaga want to follow the proceedings and the decision that shall be made finally. At least there will be that satisfaction and the whole world will watch it,” she added. Ngirici asked the former Prime Minister to keep off the affairs of Kirinyaga, saying the issue at hand has nothing to do with the Building Bridges Initiative report. She said it was “a shame that Raila is coordinating how to save Waiguru instead of standing with the people of Kirinyaga who are demanding accountability”. “We will deal with BBI politics when the time comes. In any case, one of the mandates of BBI was to recommend how to deal with corruption. “How will Raila then even convince Kenyans on his commitment to the war against corruption when indeed he is the one holding night meetings to scheme on how to defeat justice for the people of Kirinyaga?” she asked. Former Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen noted that if the government wants to save Waiguru regardless of the facts, then she will be saved. In a tweet on Sunday, Murkomen said even if they debate the issue in the Senate, there is little they can do should there be a decision to save Waiguru. "If the government and Capitol Hill dry cleaners combine forces then Senate will do nothing. A few of us will make some noise, quote the Constitution and our DC will rule us out of order and declare her Mweupe kama pamba (white as cotton)," he said. Senate Majority Whip and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata has also come under scathing attack from leaders from Kirianyaga who have accused him of planning to abet an injustice. He, however, said whether the matter will be before a committee or plenary, the Senate will be objective. “I want to assure the people of Kirinyaga that fairness and objectivity shall be the guiding principles when the Senate will be looking into the matter. The Senate shall deal with the matter in a free and fair manner,” he told the Star on the phone. Tomorrow, Kang’ata is expected to table proposed names of senators to sit in the select committee. The senators will either endorse the committee route or reject the names in favour of the plenary. Waiguru is also accused of gross misconduct by seeking over Sh10.6 million payments for nonexistent travels and procuring a Sh5 million official vehicle using funds meant for Contractors Retention Account. MCAs argued that this amounted to misappropriating of public funds despite the same having been done by her predecessor Joseph Ndathi. The ward reps also blamed Waiguru for failing to make the crucial annual State of the County’s address, thus undermining the County Assembly’s authority among other allegations. (edited by o. owino)