Only a few MPs will be allowed into the main chamber on Thursday next week when Treasury CS Ukur Yatani unveils the 2020-21 budget. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said this was part of safety measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, his Minority counterpart John Mbadi, Chief Whip Emmanuel Wangwe and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed are among the MPs to be granted access to the chamber. The others are members of the Budget and Appropriations Committee (chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah), chairmen of departmental committees as well as select committees. “The rest will follow proceedings from designated areas within the precincts of Parliament,” Muturi directed. According to the Covid-19 guidelines he issued in April, only 53 MPs are allowed access to the main chamber. The Speaker also advised members and staff aged 58 years and above or those with existing medical conditions to work from home. While in the chamber, members will stick to designated seats. They will also be required to wear masks at all times. Hand sanitiser shall be provided at designated areas within Parliament Buildings. Muturi on Tuesday confirmed that he had received communication from Yatani on his intention to unveil next financial year's budget. “I have received a letter from the Treasury Cabinet Secretary requesting to make public announcement on the budget highlights and revenue raising measures for the national government for the financial year 2020-21 in the House on Thursday, June 11, 2020. I have acceded to the request,” Muturi said. The House also agreed to alter its calendar, allowing MPs to sit only two days – Tuesday and Thursday - a week this month. “Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 28(4), this House resolves to further alter its calendar (Regular Sessions) for the Fourth Session (2020), as amended on Tuesday, April 14, 2020, and resolves to-(a)suspend its sittings of Wednesdays (morning and afternoon) during the month of June, 2020 and the sitting of July 1, 2020,” Duale said. On Tuesdays, the House will sit in the morning and afternoon. The House will also sit on Thursday afternoons, according to the changes. On April 14,  the House altered its calendar to allow only Tuesday sittings in line with Covid-19 recommendations by the Ministry of Health. Edited by A.N