Impeached Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru will know by the end of the day whether her case will be heard by the Senate selected committee or the entire House. Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka on Tuesday said senators will determine the way to go this afternoon. Speaking to KTN, he said Waiguru's case can either be handled by a selected committee of 11 members or by the plenary, the same way former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu's was heard. The Speaker said that the two options are well stipulated in Standing Order No 75, and the case can go either way. "The difference is that if it goes the committee way, the matter will be investigated within 10 days," Lusaka said. He added that the committee will probe the allegations against the governor within 10 days and also allow her to appear before it to defend herself. "If they find out that the allegations are substantiated, they will report back to the House and the House will make the determination pending on the recommendations from the committee." Lusaka said that if the committee will find that the allegations raised against the governor are not substantiated, the matter will be terminated. If the committee decides to handle Waiguru's case like that of Waititu, the whole House will listen to both parties before the vote is taken. "After that, a vote is taken by a delegation of 25 members. If the decision is that they are impeaching the governor, the governor ceases to be the governor." Lusaka also said that if the case is lost before the delegation, the matter will be revisited after three months. He added that the names of the 11 members to sit in the committee will be tabled this afternoon. "I have been reading some names in the media. What I know is that in our last Business Committee no names were provide... at 2.30pm, the names will be tabled in the House." Waiguru was impeached by the 23 MCAs against the whole 33 members for abuse of office. She accused of taking Sh10.6 million for nonexistent travels and spening Sh5 million on an official vehicle with funds intended for the Contractors' Retention Account among other accusations.