Governor Jackson Mandago on Father’s Day told men in Uasin Gishu to stop “messing up” with schoolgirls following reports of increased pregnancies and defilement in most parts of the county. Mandago also urged parents to exercise greater control now that schools have been closed since March due to Covid-19. “We will not allow anyone to use the current Covid-19 situation to mess up with young girls who are supposed to be in school. Those men found messing up with schoolchildren will not be spared,” Mandago said. Uasin Gishu has also recorded an upsurge in teen pregnancies, gender-based violence and defilement during the period. Nick Omito from the Center for Human Rights and Mediation says they have recorded more than 20 cases of GBV mostly against children. “Many cases are going unreported and no action is taken against perpetrators because of the notion that courts are not in operation,” Omito said. He said even chiefs and other government officials were abetting such crimes. Mandago and Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa said they would work with the Children’s Department to ensure those who abuse children will be punished. “No such case should be handled in another way. Perpetrators have to be made to face the law in courts. The courts are in operation according to directive of the chief justice and there should be no excuse,” he said. Mandago said parents should guide and counsel children who are now in their hands as schools are closed. “We have been asked to stay at home because of the pandemic and this is the time to know your children and guide them,” Mandago said. Chairman of the Parents Association Nicholas Maiyo says they are following up on reports on the high numbers schoolgirls that have been impregnated. “The numbers given are so alarming, but we are working with the necessary authorities to find out the truth. If there is such a problem then we must also come up with interventions,” Maiyo said. He said the prolonged school closure was posing a challenge to many parents but they cannot afford to abdicate their responsibilities and allow their children’s lives to be messed up. “We know it’s a challenge but no parent should abandon their children at this crucial time. Parental responsibility is a must if you have children,” Maiyo said. (Edited by V. Graham) 