It was a big win for Ugenya MP David Ochieng on Tuesday, after speaker Justin Muturi ruled that the minority side erred in discharging him from the Health Committee. Muturi in a communication to the House, said that MPs from small parties who are not in parliamentary parties and independent MPs are entitled to membership to committees. The Ugenya lawmaker was dewhipped last month by Nasa despite not being affiliated to either the majority or minority side in the August House. The lawmaker protested the move and sought the Speaker’s direction on the move, saying his Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG) was not a Nasa affiliate as was perceived. On Tuesday, Muturi termed the minority decision as erroneous and misleading. He also termed as a misapplication of Standing Orders claims by the minority side that Nasa donated its slot to Ochieng’. Muturi said that no parliamentary party can purport to discharge someone who is not their member from any committee of the House. “Since the Member for Ugenya Constituency, the Hon. David Ochieng, MP neither belongs to any parliamentary party nor has his Movement for Democracy and Growth Party entered into a coalition with any of the parliamentary parties, the notice given by the Minority Party Whip to discharge the Member from the Departmental Committee on Health was erroneous ab initio and therefore invalid,” Muturi ruled. The speaker also directed the Procedure and House Rules Committee to initiate process of amending the Standing orders to provide for allocation of committee slots to members of small parties and Independent MPs. “The Committee may also propose the manner of ordinary re-allocations of the slots in Committees, corporately reserved for independent members and parties other than parliamentary parties, among the Independent Members and those belonging to the small parties that do not constitutes parliamentary parties; and, “In the meantime, I will not admit any requests to discharge any member who is an independent member or belongs to a party other than a parliamentary party from a committee until such time as the criteria has been developed or the Standing Orders accordingly amended to entrench fairness and justice.”