President Donald Trump tweeted that the United States reaching 100,000 deaths from the coronavirus was “a very sad milestone". President Trump has been criticised for downplaying Covid-19 by comparing it to a seasonal flu. The rise in the number of deaths and infections has also been attributed to the supposed slow response by the US government in combatting the outbreak and rolling out testing and early detection of the virus. The shortage of test kits, masks and ventilators in the United States aside, President Trump seemed to declare himself a wartime president terming the coronavirus pandemic a war. With just over 2.2 million confirmed Covid-19 cases as of June 18, the death toll in the US is expected to rise according to health officials who say hospitals and nursing homes are greatly overwhelmed. However, the US is forging ahead in efforts to open the now frozen economy in all 50 states to enable over 39 million citizens resume their daily routines to earn a living and support their families. Flattening the curve at the expense of the economy is one factor that the world is unanimously struggling with. Some employers have sent their workers home, while the ucky ones have had to make due with pay cuts. In Kenya, the tourism and hospitality industry has been greatly affected with the grounded Kenya Airways continuously suffering losses to the tune of billions. Recreational facilities and hotels have largely closed down. It is indeed a trying time and a return to work formula is needed. But are we really prepared to deal with what awaits us? On May 21. we saw a sharp rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases in Kenya with the Ministry of Health announcing 80 confirmed cases, most of which were recorded in Nairobi. However, it is the 123 and 147 positive cases recorded on  May 27 and 28 respectively that sent shock waves in the country, compelling Kenyans to brace themselves for tougher times in the subsequent days. Contrary to the US, the government of Kenya through the Public Health Emergency Operations Centre has been able to keep the rate of infections low by enhancing contact tracing and mandatory quarantine and establishing voluntary testing units within the neighbourhoods to arrest and manage undetected infections. In a special address on June 6, President Uhuru Kenyatta disappointed many who were eagerly looking forward to a return to normalcy. He noted that reopening the economy at this time would pose more threat to the nation. He appreciated that he understood the need to reopen the economy for the sake of our immediate future, and thus reviewed some of the strict measures to curb the spread of the virus such as cessation of movement in some regions and adjusted curfew hours. He however insisted on taking personal responsibility to avoid spikes in infections,  saying health experts had warned of an uncontainable rate of positive cases since not all designated health centres are fully equipped to take in more patients. Reopening the economy and returning to normalcy is a highly welcome move. Businesses need to reopen, Kenyans need to earn and sustain themselves, and our children need to go back to school. But what does it take to keep the risks at bay? It all boils down to the individual. We all agree that it has been a long nerve wracking journey after the first reported Covid-19 case in Kenya compelling us to typically change our lifestyles. As uncomfortable as this may be, millions of Kenyans have steadily adapted to this new normal amidst attempts by others to cheat the system and ‘treat Covid-19 normally’. As we wait  to return to normalcy, we should be ready to take responsibility for our actions.  Are we ready to practise distancing in our social gatherings? Will we continue focusing on good health behaviours and see an end to unwarranted handshakes and hugs? Are we ready to make a special provision for hand sanitiser? Most importantly, are we ready to be safe than sorry? The writer is a communications strategist based in Nairobi jeanneongiyo@gmail.com