The High Court in Machakos has declined to jail members of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board for not following court orders. Justice George Odunga said the members were not in contempt of court and therefore cannot be committed to the six months jail term sought by a petitioner, Wambui Maithya. “The application did not contend that (Fred) Siyoi undertook any powers which could only be undertaken by him as a confirmed CEO and not in acting status,” said Odunga. “If he reverted to his position as the acting CEO of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board and undertook the duties which he was empowered to undertake as such, he cannot be found in contempt of the court. Similarly, the rest of the the board members.” Maithya sought to have the board members jailed for failing to follow court orders issued on September 26, 2019, where the judge found that the process of recruitment of the registrar/CEO of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board failed to meet the constitutional threshold. Justice Odunga quashed an advert placed on the paper Jan 25, 2019, announcing the vacant position and any consequent appointments to that position, which had been given to Dr Fred Siyoi. Despite the orders, the members Dr Jackson Kioko, Dr Rogers Atebe, Dr Mary Kisingu, Dr Beatrice Amugune, Dr Alred Birichi and Dr Abdi Juma have to date retained Dr Siyoi as the registrar and CEO of the board. Maithya exempted two of the members, Edith Wakori and Kisa Juma, from the contempt since they were not involved in the meeting that decided to disobey the orders. In his petition, he claimed that Siyoi appeared before the senate committee in the CEO capacity. He said that he also proceeded to issue letters inviting stakeholders to a meeting for launching human resources guidelines signed by him as the registrar/CEO of the board. Maithya also noted that even though the members drafted a letter dismissing him, they fashioned it in a creative way without referencing to the earlier court judgement so as to pass as an unlawful notice of termination. Siyoi then went to another court to contesting the dismissal notice and was given temporary orders allowing him to continue being in office. “Court orders are not meant for cosmetic purposes. They are serious decisions that are meant to be and ought to be complied with strictly,” said Odunga in his ruling. “The petitioner, however, seems, mistakenly to hold the position that this court further directed that the board members commence the process of recruitment of the registrar/CEO of the Pharmacy and Poisons Board afresh in compliance with the law.” Odunga said there was no such order and for good reason that the court does not direct public bodies to exercise powers conferred upon them unless the said bodies are by law under an obligation to do so. “The impugned decision is quashed the next course of action is left to the authority concerned,” he said. After the ruling quashing the advert and the subsequent appointment of the CEO, status quo was reverted and Siyoi reverted to his position in the acting capacity. He affirmed that whether or not his acting was unlawful is another matter altogether since that issue was not determined by the court.