The impeachment of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru by 23 MCAs out of the possible 33 was a show of might in legislative decision-making, which is rare to come by in any county in Nyanza. Though it has its fair share of serious political implications and ramifications in the offing, such attempt remains a political pipe dream in Nyanza due to entrenched sense of fanaticism in politics. Several attempts of impeachment against governors in Mt Kenya region, which is President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard, also point to how liberal politics can be against the principle of tightly guided democracy. With former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu impeached and his fate sealed at the Senate in January, it became clear that anything is possible in any county in Central. However,Waiguru's removal has brought a mixed bag of interests linked to 2022 succession politics, Building Bridges Initiative referendum push, vis-vis the ongoing political sanitisation within the Jubilee Party led by President Kenyatta.The so called sanitisation-cum-purge of chaff from wheat has seen allies of Deputy President William Ruto bear the consequences. Waiguru is favoured after she became the face of the region during BBI rallies pitting her against known political heavy weights such as her rival Martha Karua, Peter Kenneth, Kabando wa Kabando and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, among others. Others such as Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho have not taken it lying low. He has been accused together with Kirinyaga Woman Rep Purity Ngirici as those out to clip Waiguru’s political wings in the realignment. Clearly, from the word go, Waiguru is still enjoying the favour of the system as described by DP Ruto and those allegedly fighting her must always look over their shoulders all the time or else the deep state — which no one owns except the president — can find themselves in deep bottomless pit. In fact, those behind Waiguru ouster plan ought to have read signs a long ago and paid attention to Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju, who publicly cautioned MCAs to shelve their impeachment plan completely and focus elsewhere. As a student of real politics, I invite Kenyans to watch the space with keen attention. Waiguru's detractors will be shocked and some will be nursing injuries inflicted by their “ill-advised intentions”. It was reported that the DCI and area security summoned the husband to Ngirici over his plan to orchestrate, mobilise and finance a demonstration against Waiguru. For the impeachment of governors in Nyanza, all political pundits agree unanimously that it will remain unheard of and is a kin to dethroning the powers that be. This is despite the grave and contemptuous misuse of public resources and outright self-enrichment making overnight millionaires. On devolution, the electorates of the four counties are orphaned and are on their own with no one to turn to during sharing and disbursement of their taxes. However, studies have also shown that they are divided along dominant party lines, clanism and handouts which have been perfected by politicians seeking political positions. It is not so much into the business of what one stands for, policies or manifestos but how oiled are the hands of the candidate, the party ticket, loyalty, fidelity and faithfulness to the supreme party as well. A recent media interview for four majority leaders of Siaya, Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay county assemblies revealed that any imagination of the same is a pipe dream that no one would dare engage in. They said all is well since the second leg of devolution since 2013, but could not say clearly what has changed in terms of service delivery and development. It is estimated the four counties have received more than Sh65 billion combined for development since 2013, with nothing so much to show for it Success stories for public interests are minimal, while cartels have become ten-fold rich. On the other hand, wananchi cannot receive basic services and Covid-19 has  exposed the soft underbelly of seven-year old-counties. Agricultural extension services, food security and value addition, construction and maintenance of roads among key devolved functions remain a mirage as residents wallow in abject poverty. Anyone, but more so those in political leadership, who dare ask hard questions on use of devolved funds are earmarked, blacklisted and lined up for relegation from mainstream politics. All are quiet and tight lipped, including MCAs BBI and 2022 matters most to the handshake duo more than anything else and that's Waiguru's main impeachment antidote at the Senate. The amounts Waiguru is being accused of embezzling  is by Kenyan corruption standards just a pocket change. No political leader worth his salt can dare question massive rip off of billions of shillings lost in Nyanza county governments and get away with it. Not now, unless you're not interested in protecting your future political safety net. 