At least 15 schoolgirls in Lamu county have fallen pregnant since schools were closed after the outbreak of the coronavirus in March. Statistics by Lamu branch of the World Vision show that at least eight of the victims are from Hindi division in Lamu West. The girls are aged 14 to 17. A report by the Director of Public Prosecutions' office in Lamu says Hindi division remains a defilement hotspot. Most of the cases have been reported in the rural areas of Mokowe, Mkondoni, Bora Imani, Malamande and adjacent areas. At least another five cases have been reported in Mpeketoni, while three have been reported in Witu in Lamu West. Speaking in Lamu on Monday, World Vision Kenya branch education and child protection project officer Schollar Mghoi blamed the problem on negligence and poor parenting. “A lot of times when our kids are in school, we leave the entire burden to the teachers but now that they are at home, most parents are not really paying attention or following up on what their children are up to, hence leaving the girls at the mercy of sex predators,” Mghoi said. She expressed concern that some parents are allowing or pushing their schoolgirls into sexual relationships with men in return for money or other material favours. "What kind of parent does that? But, unfortunately, here, it's happening. It's a worrying scenario that needs to stop,” Mghoi said. Lilian Kofa, the Hindi Ward Kenya Primary Schools Head Teachers Association chairperson, said the situation is partly due to failure by parents to take their children through sex education. “Most of these girls are young, innocent and vulnerable. They have no idea about the consequences that follow a sexual act. That is how we have ended up with so many pregnant girls in such a short while. Parents need to have this talk with their children to enable them to make wise decisions,” Kofa said. According to the Lamu and Tana River coordinator for Ecumenical Centre for Justice and Peace, Julius Kimotho, parents in the region had given their children too much freedom. “We have had cases where a young girl disappears from home for several days then reappears without any explanation and the parents aren’t bothered to interrogate her and find out where she has been, and with whom. It’s wrong and misleading. It’s okay to give supervised freedom,” Kimotho said. Lamu county education director Joshua Kaaga urged parents to keep a close eye on their children whenever they are out of school, especially during this Covid-19 crisis. He, however, sought to assure them that his office was trying to engage with necessary stakeholders to ensure schoolgirls are safe from sex predators. For Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia, parents are to blame for being negligent and failing to talk to their children about early pregnancy. “The law protects the rights of the child but then, are parents doing their bit in ensuring their girls know the consequences of engaging in sex while young?” he posed.  Edited by F'Orieny