Despite having a shirt sponsor in Mozzartbet, Mathare United players have been barely surviving since football and all other sporting activities were suspended due to coronavirus. Multiple players from the club confirmed that they had gone for three months without pay, resorting  to menial jobs to fend for themselves and their dependants. A midfielder at the club who sought anonymity said his employer’s efforts to have the government bail them out has not bore any fruits. He revealed that his bosom-buddy and reliable midfielder for both club and national U23 team had been thrown out of his apartment, thanks to the piled rent dues. “Life has been difficult for us . We have not been paid for three months. The management keeps on telling us to be patient as they had requested for money from the government to assist us but nothing is forthcoming,” said the player. “I have turned to odd jobs just to put food on the table. My friend, who has also donned the national team colours albeit in the junior team, has been ejected from his house,” he narrated, adding that they had not paid allowances from the start of the year. “We have never received allowances this year despite our good performance in January and February. Even with these financial challenges, I try to keep fit at home and I hope that the dust will settle soon,” he added. Similarly, another player at the club said he was forced to return to his parents house, owing to the mounting rent arrears. He thanked his family for offering him a shoulder to lean on during these difficult times. “Returning to my parents’ house was a tough decision to make although I did not have a choice. Going for three months without pay at this time is not a joke and to make the matters worse, I am a part time student and I don’t have an alternative source of income,” he lamented. However, the clu’s chief executive officer, Jecton Obure, in a rebuttal, accused the players of dishonesty. The administrator said the playing unit had received their full salaries until February and had further paid half of March and April salaries. He admitted that the club had not paid May salaries and allowances in the last two seasons.