The bodies of two infants have been retrieved from Nairobi River in Korogocho. Members of Komb Green Solutions found the bodies as they cleaned the river on Monday. This brought to 21 the number of bodies retrieved from the river in the informal settlement since the launch of the Nairobi River Restoration Project early last year. The tally stands at 16 infants and five adults. Komb Green leader Fredrick Okinda said the first body was in a paper bag. "One of us noticed a paper bag floating and when he opened it, he found the remains of an infant. Minutes later, we found the body of a baby girl dumped in the same area," Okinda said. Komb Green Solutions is made up of 70 young people based in Korogocho. It was founded two years ago with the authority of Governor Mike Sonko to clean that section of Nairobi River. The youth have been cleaning up public spaces in and around Korogocho for the past two years. During Komb Green's launch, Sonko raised concern over the increased number of bodies - mainly infants - recovered from the river. “Society morals are degraded every time a human body is retrieved from the river,” the governor said and appealed to the police to arrest those responsible for dumping babies and procuring abortions. In September last year, Sonko called for a 24-hour surveillance of the river to stop the dumping of bodies. "The rate at which people are being killed and dumped in the river is alarming. It is important that we give special surveillance to this river," he said. Residents were also asked to be on the lookout and report the culprits to the authorities. Children's rights organisations have appealed to girls to contact them for counselling before deciding to abort their babies. Beatrice Muema, a counsellor with Kangemi Childline Organisation, says most teenage girls choose the abortion route after they have been defiled and abandoned. Muema says defilement cases are rampant in Nairobi and Kiambu counties. "When we dig deeper we establish that the girl was either defiled by a grown-up, a person she assumed was in a steady relationship with her or by a relative. A long-lasting solution must be found," she said. She urged sexually abused girls not to dump aborted babies in the river.  - mwaniki fm