Kenya on Wednesday recorded 105 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total number to 3,094, Health CAS Rashid Aman, has said. This is out of the 2,273 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the recoveries have risen to 1,048 with 175 discharges. A total of 102,696 tests have been conducted to date. The youngest new Covid-19 case is two years  while the oldest is 77 years. Ninety six of the new cases are Kenyans and nine are foreigners. Nairobi has 43 cases, Busia 18, Mombasa 11, Turkana 7, Migori 6 Kwale and Kiambu , 5 cases each, Kilifi, Machakos and Taita Taveta, 3 each, Kisumu 2, Uasin Gishu, Siaya, Kajiado and Garissa, 1 case each. By sub-counties, the cases in Nairobi are distributed in, Ruaraka (14), Langata (5), Dagoretti North and Kamukunji (4) cases each, Embakasi East and Kibra, 3 cases each, Starehe and Westalands, (2) cases each, Makadara, Mathare and Embakasi South (1) case each. All the 18 Busia cases are of truck drivers at Malaba boarder point. In Mombasa, the cases are from; Kisauni (5), Likoni (4), and Mvita (2). In Turkana, all the seven cases are of truck drivers at Nadapal point of entry. The cases in Migori are from Kuria West (4), Nyatike and Suna East one case each. Kiambu has cases in Ruiru (2), Kiambu town, Juja and Lari (1) case each. In Kilifi, all the three cases are from Rabai while the three cases from Machakos are all from Athi River. Taita Taveta's cases are of truck drivers at Taveta. In Kisumu, the two cases are of truck drivers in Kisumu Central, while in Uasin Gishu the one case is also a truck driver in Turbo. Siaya's case is from Rarieda while the one in Garissa is from Daadab. Kajiado has one case from Kajiado East. The CAS launched government's Home Based Isolation and Care Guidelines for patients with coronavirus. He announced that at least 78 per cent of the infected persons in the country can be managed at home through proper observance of the provided guidelines. These are patients who are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.