 At least 70 camels that were stolen from members of the Degodia community in Wajir have been returned to their owners as peace efforts with border residents from Marsabit county start bearing fruits. Governors Mohamud Ali (Marsabit) and Mohamed Abdi (Wajir) and regional police chiefs and administrators from the two counties on Saturday help day-long meetings to restore peace between the Borana and the Degodia communities. Clan clashes between the two communities last week led to the killing of 13 people. The communities are fighting over pasture and water. Some members of the Degodia community who live in Turbi, Walda, Sololo, Makutano, Garba and Busuke at the border with Marsabit have fled for fear of their lives following the clashes. The situation worsened after camels belonging to members of the Degodia community were allegedly stolen by militias believed to be from the Borana side. The IDPs from the Degodia community who were residing in Marsabit and other areas near the border of the two counties sought refuge at Basir in Eldas constituency. The Saturday meeting was attended by MPs and Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana. His Eastern counterpart Isaiah Nakoru was involved in an accident in Meru county after a helicopter in which he was travelling to the venue in Marsabit crash-landed. Four top security officials were injured. Nakoru was in critical condition. All the officers were airlifted to Nairobi for specialised treatment.  Governor Abdi thanked the leadership of Marsabit and the elders for burning the midnight oil to make sure that the livestock is returned to their owners saying "cattle rustling was an old and despicable practice that has no place in modern society". He said it was unfortunate that such kind of acts come back every time noting that the end result is always engaging in resolving conflicts instead of focusing on development. “Part of our resources and time are consumed by such unnecessary matters diverting us from regional development. We are appealing to our people from both sides to calm down and desist from acts of lawlessness. Lets us co-exist peacefully like brothers and sister as has been the case over the years,” Abdi said. Mohamud condemned the unfortunate skirmishes, called for peace and urged residents to safeguard the harmony that has existed for many years between Marsabit and Wajir communities. He however blamed the police for doing little to arrest the criminals whom he said were well known. “These dark forces who continuously plan and finance to destabilise peaceful co-existence between our people are known and must be exposed. This time round, we will coordinate with the security personnel to make sure that they are brought to book,” Mohamud said. Eldas MP Aden Keynan said they had resolved to work together to ensure that no more blood is shed. "I would like to take this opportunity to strongly condemn the senseless killings, destruction and looting of property that has been going on along the Marsabit and Wajir border. As leaders, we will not allow these ragtag individuals whose sole aim is to pit communities against each other,” Keynan said. He added, "We are asking security agencies to act with speed and bring the perpetrators of this violence to book. Killing or hurting of a neighbour is primitive and has never helped anyone.” Edited by P.O