A FEMALE LAWMAKER was embarrassed on Monday after President Uhuru Kenyatta ‘dodged’ her as she stretched out her hand to greet him. The vocal legislator was in the company of her colleagues at KICC after the Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting. As the President was walking out of the venue, the MP suddenly walked away from her colleagues to greet her party leader. She extended an arm to greet the President only for Uhuru to avoid her and walk straight out of the building. The President was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto. Feeling embarrassed, the MP went back to her colleagues, who were equally shocked by the turn of events. They all followed the President out of the building. A MULTIMILLION-SHILLING DAM project in a coastal county seems to be a tightly guarded secret that even its tender files have disappeared from the folios. The project was awarded to a contractor allegedly under dubious circumstances by a water agency in the region. This is amid reports senior officials at the agency and the parent ministry had their hands greased even as legitimate bidders waited for a report of the tendering process. Corridors is apprised that some bidders have been writing to the water agency for a status update in vain. The agency CEO has been pitching camp at the ministry trying to figure how things will work out. A SPEAKER OF a county assembly that was recently rocked by chaos could soon be in trouble. Corridors understand that the assembly boss is staring at the MCAs’ wrath for 'avoiding' the ward representatives. Some insiders whispered that the speaker has been dodging some MCAs who have been pushing for approval of a motion to impeach a county CEC. The CEC, the insiders disclosed, has been on the MCAs' radar after he reneged on a promise to oil their palm after they approved a supplementary budget. The mini-budget was passed in April, but the CEC, who is in charge of finance, has failed to keep his word. RESIDENTS OF A county in Nyanza are up in arms after a company belonging to a police boss was awarded a Sh20 million tender for construction of classrooms in a girls’ secondary school. The officer, according to those in the know, was irregularly awarded the contract, thus knocking out a qualified bidder. The residents have appealed to the EACC and the DCI to intervene. They claim all mega national government tenders in the area are given to big fish in the region. Recently, a resident was forced to pull down a post on social media lamenting the issue. This was after he received a threatening phone call from the officer to remove the post.