The Nairobi government faces an uncertain future over its budget after the National Treasury allocated Sh15.9 billion of its 2020-21 equitable share to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. In total, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, while reading the Budget statement last week, assigned Sh26.4 billion to the NMS. The decision has, however, not resonated with the county assembly, with some MCAs disregarding it as an illegal undertaking. In view of the statement, Finance, Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman Robert Mbatia on Tuesday said they are awaiting interpretation by experts on how the assembly will do its budget appropriation. "If the NMS should get Sh9.7 billion from own-source revenue and the entire Sh15.9 billion national transfer, then even funding the remaining functions and the county assembly at Sh2.2 billion will be very difficult," Mbatia said. "Things are bleak because going by the collection of this financial year 2019-20 own-source revenue, we will hardly hit Sh8.5 billion. The coming financial year will be tighter because of the coronavirus pandemic, the own-source revenue will have a dip." Budget committee vice chairman Patrick Karani said Yatani could have been misled, adding that money cannot be released without the County Appropriation Act. Explaining the procedure, he said all money is placed in the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF), which is then divided according to different allocations by the Division of Revenue Bill. "The only way you can withdraw that money in the CRF is through a legal tool called the Division of Revenue Bill to reveal how much the national and county governments will get," Karani said. According to Article 218 of the Constitution, the Division of Revenue Bill shall divide revenue raised by the national government among the national and county  governments. The County Allocation of Revenue Bill will then direct how much money will go to specific counties. From here, money goes to the specific County Revenue Funds. The County Allocation of Revenue Bill shall divide among the counties the revenue allocated to the county governments. "Once the money is in the CRF, only the Central Bank of Kenya can permit to withdraw money through the County Appropriation Act, which is normally signed by the governor after being passed by the assembly. The Controller of Budget cannot release or move money without all these processes and the County Appropriate Act," Karani explained. "How will the NMS and the county get money if at all it has not undergone all the above process?" Karani dismissed the Yatani allocation as an illegality that can be easily challenged in court. For Embakasi MCA Michael Ogada, the county's revenue collection for 2019-20 will hardly hit Sh8 billion, yet the NMS is supposed to get Sh9 billion from Nairobi's own-source revenue. "This year we have not collected close to Sh8 billion, yet from Yatani’s speech, it appears we have been directed to give the NMS Sh9 billion from own-source revenue, how will we do that? How will we be able to pay ourselves? How will the county government be run?" he asked. Ogada said the confusion needs to be addressed before the assembly passes its Finance Bill, 2020. "At the moment, the county assembly is working towards its finance bill but on the assumption that the money that has been allocated to the NMS will be less our revenue from the equitable share we are to receive from the national government." MCA Emily Oduor said the Budget committee is not sure whether to include the estimates that should go to the NMS. "As a committee, those are the things we are struggling with at the moment. It is also confusing because we don’t have an official communication other than what CS Yatani made on the National Budget last week," she said.  Edited by F'Orieny