National government staffers in Kiambu will start working from a Sh45 million county headquarters after many years operating from dingy rented offices. The Kiambu County Commissioner’s Complex at Makadara grounds in Kiambu Township was opened last Friday after two years under construction. County commissioner Wilson Wanyanga said the officers have been wasting time traversing the town for meetings at the Administration Chapel in Indian Bazaar which has enough meeting room. “I always had a vision of having all officers working under one roof and now after opening this office today, we are actually going to deliver as there will be no time wasted walking long distances in search of a service that can be accessed next door,” Wanyanga said. The accommodated departments include Youth, Meteorological, State Department of Gender, Procurement and Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (CIPU. Wanyanga on Wednesday reminded the civil servants that they must work as a team and ensure they contribute towards payment of amenities like power and water bills. He said the office has one kitchen and ample area for a restaurant. He reckoned that members of the public will also have an easy time as they will be served from almost a one-stop-shop environment unlike before where they had to walk long distances in search of services. Most of the officers occupied their offices over the weekend while others are in the process of procuring furniture and other necessary equipment. County Youth director Jacinta Migwi thanked Wanyanga for allocating her department space in the new complex. “I am delighted that I was considered to work and serve youth who form a big percentage of Kiambu’s population from the doorsteps of the county administrator,” she said at her new office. Meteorological services director Magdalene Gateri was also thankful for being offered office space at the complex. “I cannot bring in that old furniture in this complex as it will be a disgrace to the allocation,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie