The National Assembly is likely to be the stage of a scramble for committee positions next week by Kieleweke MPs with the exit of their Tangatanga counterparts. The Kieleweke wing of Jubilee Party is battling to control House committees regarded as prestigious as Deputy President William Ruto's allies face the axe. The Kieleweke members, who have sided with Uhuru against Ruto's allies, want to be rewarded with positions of chairperson and vice chairperson of House committees. The committees include Budget and Appropriations, Transport and Infrastructure, Justice and Legal Affairs, Delegated Legislation, Agriculture, Energy and Finance. Others will be seeking membership slots. Some committees are regarded as powerful as they enable members to redirect national development projects to their constituencies to buttress their grassroots popularity and support. With two years to the 2022 General Election, such an opportunity would come in handy for those seeking reelection. At least 16 Ruto allies in committee leadership positions were on Wednesday issued with seven-day notices by Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) to show cause why they should not be discharged. They have until next Thursday after which communication will be sent to Speaker Justin Muturi confirming their discharge as Uhuru moves to control the 349-member chamber. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale (Garissa Township), Jubilee joint parliamentary group secretary Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Deputy Minority Whip Maoka Maore and Wangwe are working on the reconstitution of committees. However, Kieleweke MPs are separately said to be pushing to be allocated slots considered powerful as a reward for supporting Uhuru against Ruto's Tangatanga faction. Those who previously missed out on House leadership positions are said to be leading the scramble. The Star has established that members of the Kieleweke faction have been lobbying since last Tuesday's State House Parliamentary Group meeting. However, on Friday, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, the Kieleweke patron, denied that he was leading his team in lobbying to lead the affected committees. “Committee slots will be availed based on how effectively those who will get them can deliver and how much value they can add to the party leader's agenda,” he said. There are fears that intense behind-the-scenes lobbying could trigger a split in the camp given the tough balancing act to ensure small parties supporting Jubilee also get the spoils. TRIBUNAL ONLY RECOURSE Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny, another key light of the Kieleweke camp, admitted that his camp expects to fill slots held by Ruto allies. “If you are de-whipping those who undermine the President, then it is obvious that the people who have been supporting the President will get those positions," he told the Star. Kutuny said, however, Kieleweke MPs will not get the positions as a reward but because they are the “right people for the job.” “It is an issue of having the right people for the positions. We actually want those committees swept clean and any attempt to retain any one would be resisted,” he said. Kieleweke wants one of its own appointed as chairperson of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, currently chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, a key Ruto ally. They also want to lead the Justice and Legal Affairs panel chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, another key Ruto acolyte facing the sack. The committee's vice chairperson, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, is set to lose the position over her support for Ruto, leaving the slot up for grabs. Other committees they seek to control include Delegated Legislation under Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei and Transport and Infrastructure, whose vice chairperson is Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. If they get their way, the team will also take over the second-in-command slots in the National Security, Sports, Lands, Energy, Cohesion, Broadcasting, Trade, Agriculture, Labour and Constitution panels. The fate of the 16 Ruto allies occupying committee leadership positions set to be discharged appears sealed, with more sitting as members set to be discharged. Although the Standing Orders require that MPs facing recall from committees be given an opportunity to be heard, the issuance of show cause letters is seen to have been a mere formality. The speaker has no authority to overturn a decision made by a political party to recall any of its members from serving in committees. On Thursday, Speaker Muturi ruled he has no powers to adjudicate on the matter. “Once they [party leaders] have dealt with you and sorted you out, when they notify me, the House in its wisdom provided that the Speaker has only three days to communicate that you have been discharged from a committee, just that,” he said during a House session. Muturi was responding to a point of order by West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi, who sought his position on whether Nasa breached any law by issuing him with a show cause letter without specifics of the allegations. Muturi said he does not have powers to prefect political parties and asked disgruntled MPs to follow the law and petition the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal.