Last year's KCSE exam candidates who qualified for university places but wish to transfer to other institutions have been given two months to do so. The Kenya University and Colleges Central Placement Service says the students will have the chance to review the place and course to pursue under the government sponsored programme. The transfer started on June 15 and is expected to end on August 15. It will be open for both private and public universities. Out of 689,007 students who sat the 2019 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education test, some 125,463 students attained grade C plus and above and are thus, eligible for placement to university under the government-sponsored programme. Applications for inter-university transfer are usually done through the KUCCPS transfer portal. KUCCPS boss John Muraguri on Wednesday told the Star that the candidates could, however, seek transfer beyond the time set depending on individual cases. “In some cases, there are very genuine cases that come after the transfer period and we consider,” Muraguri said. In the transfer process, students have a chance to make a course transfer within the same university admitted or to another university. The students will only be considered to migrate to courses they meet laid qualifications and that still have capacity. This year, private and public universities announced a cumulative 145,000 capacity. Among those that filled almost all their slots were Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University and Moi University. Mount Kenya University was allocated 4,400 students outweighing traditional giants like Egerton. Among the universities that could not fill half their advertised slots are Turkana, Garissa, Rongo, Taita-Taveta, Eldoret and Kabianga. Others are South Eastern, Machakos, Karatina, Scot Christian, Laikipia, Embu, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Pwani. In this year's placement exercise, 56 programmes had 2,905 places distributed in 20 universities that did not take any student. The undesirable programmes are in science, theology, environment, development and agriculture. Egerton, Masinde Muliro and Maasai Mara universities have the highest number of degree programmes that won't take any student for 2020-21 academic year. Eight are offered at Egerton, six at Maasai Mara and five at the University of Embu.  Edited by R.Wamochie