  POLITICIANS CAN BE very desperate at times, especially when salivating for high profile jobs. For instance, a seasoned legislator from North-Eastern is so opportunistic like the proverbial hungry hyena. Sources told Corridors that the man created names of North-Eastern MPs and faked their signatures then took them to a senior government office lobbying for Aden Duale's (pictured) job as Majority leader in the National Assembly. After due diligence, the lawmaker was disowned alongside his list. The officials have branded the MP a conman who cannot be trusted with such a huge responsibility. Jubilee Secretary-general Raphael Tuju has said only President Uhuru Kenyatta will decide Duale's fate. *** IS THERE POLITICAL interference that could see the investigations into the distribution of toxic food in Kikuyu constituency stopped completely? A source who is aware of the manoeuvres has whispered to Corridors that a certain politician and three power brokers are so determined to suppress investigations as they fear it will embarrass the real forces behind the ungodly act that almost put lives of thousands of Kenyans at risk. Ordinarily, the government would be swift in investigating and arresting criminals that threaten national security and safety of Kenyans but this case is reported to have been orchestrated from some powerful office and with high stake politics involved. Not much is expected from the investigations.  *** THE SINS OF yesterday appear to have caught of with a leader of one of the arms of government. Corridors understand that the cabal is holding him hostage unless he panders to their whimsical demands and toes the line. The man who is now said to be a regular at State House and common visitor at a residence of a trade unionist to plead and beg for his survival. His previous misdemeanors and greedy exploits are being invoked to beat him to submission with many political observers saying he has derelicted his cardinal duties and become a spectacular lapdog. History will not be kind to him when it looks at his checkered stint at the revered position.  *** THEY SAY WHEN it rains, it pours. The brain behind this old phrase may have had a certain renowned governor in mind. Corridors has learned that the county chief is having his political fortunes diminishing day by day. Friends within his cycle describe his current state like that of a chicken rained on. On several occasions, the governor has pulled all strings available to try to catch the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta but in vain. It is understood that his money taps too have run dry dealing a major blow to some of his social activities.  