 Sugarcane farmers in Msambweni constituency are protesting poor pay for their produce by the Kwale International Sugar Company in Ramisi. The farmers have threatened to quit sugarcane farming if the KISCOL management continues underpaying them. They said they expected a salary of not less than Sh700,000 but KISCOL disbursed Sh50,000 cheques. Led by Khadija Mavune, they accused the company of recklessly altering the sugarcane prices without their knowledge. “They are not transparent. This month, they will tell you that one tonne of sugar is Sh4,000 then suddenly reduce it to Sh3,000,” Mavune said. The farmers demanded to know the criteria used to carry out the evaluation for payment. They spoke on Tuesday in Msambweni. Mavune said the company is making payment contrary to terms and agreement made between them. They are now asking the Kenya Union of Sugarcane Plantation and Allied workers  to intervene. “We want the government and respective authority to move in and assist in stabilising the prices because we are suffering,” she said. They also want KISCOL to be investigated on how it pays its employees. The cane farmers threatened to strike, saying they have been incurring losses. The farmers are also opposing the move by the company to slice away some money to cater for fertiliser and seedlings bought to strengthen mass production of cane in their firms. Erick Lugan said the deduction of the funds translates to underpayment. He said once the company made the payment, the accounts read negative signs, “insinuating that whatever they were paid was like a favour done for them”. “Imagine from Sh500,000 to Sh50,000 and someone says you’ve no balances meaning what you received was like some sort of kindness because you were to get nothing,” he said. Logan said local farmers are supposed to be paid handsomely for motivation. KISCOL community relation manager Mathias Mutua, however, denied the allegations. He said the company pays its workers as per the rules and regulations set by the National Sugarcane Board.  Edited by R.Wamochie