American Joshua Carter has joined Kisumu Lakeside ahead of this year’s Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Premier League action. According to team manager, George Onassis, the former Katherine College star in San Diego joined Lakeside from Barcelona, Spain. He said after university, Carter moved to Barcelona where he signed for Club Basquét Sitges, playing as a small forward With Carter in the team and the recruitment they have made, the tactician feels they have their eyes set on reaching the play-off semi-finals. The self supporting side have made regional signings in a quest to build a tough team that will shake the best at the top. “Last season, we made the play-off quarter-finals and we want to improve on that. Our target is to finish in the top five and aim for the semi finals,” he said. Lakeside have recruited young talent from Kakamega, Bungoma, Migori and Homa Bay counties and will parade them when action resumes. “This time, we will not be relying only on the exploits of players from Kisumu. We have cast our net wide and have got some good talents from across the region,” noted Onassis. He said arrangements will be made for the new players to be in town three days before the league action to enable them gel with the rest of the squad. “We as the team management will ensure they arrive early enough so that they can have some sessions together with the rest and build a team chemistry,” he added. The team has welcomed back the experienced John Wijaas who turned up for the former champions Kenya Ports Authority last year. New signings are—Allan Kibera (Maseno University), Edmond Ocholla (KPA), Hillary Otieno (Nebulas), Marko Odhiambo (KU Pirates). Others are Timon Oiro (Agoro Sare), Jeremy Opiyo (Zetech), Eric Gundo (JKUAT), Jayden Simiyu (KDF Morans) and Aaron Oyier (TUK). Captain Willis Ochieng, who suffered a back injury during last year’s play off quarter finals against eventual winners Ulinzi Warriors will be used sparingly until he fully recovers. “We are looking for a back up for Ochieng since he has not fully recovered from the injury. He will only be used after the first leg,” he revealed. He added: “We have a younger disciplined team composed of mostly players fresh from high school. The team is much better and will improve with time.” He said the players are training at home and coach Paddy Agoro, who is also club president, will have a big squad to choose from. “We have always operated on a small squad but this time, there are many players which is good for competition, training and rotation,” Onassis said.   