Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi is likely to be disciplined after she failed to communicate changes in the county assembly to the Jubilee leadership. Secretary general Raphael Tuju has hinted that the speaker might face the  disciplinary committee following her failure to effect the changes. “We have seen many [of such cases] and normally when it gets to problems, they say 'we didn’t know, I didn’t get SMS, I didn’t get what…'” Tuju said. Last week, the speaker failed to make the changes as communicated by the SG despite admitting receiving the letter. Tuju wrote to Elachi on May 28, informing her of the replacement of Majority leader Charles Thuo (Dandora 3) and Majority Chief Whip June Ndegwa (nominated) with Abdi Guyo (Matopeni) and Paul Kados (Mihango) respectively. The changes also affected deputy Majority leader Millicent Mugadi (Ziwani) and deputy Majority Whip MCA Hassan Abdikadir (California). Last week, Elachi confirmed she had received SG's letter but failed to communicate the changes, saying she was still reviewing the letter. She maintained the leadership status quo would remain until the issue was reviewed the with the party leader. “Jubilee party has to sit with the party leader to deal with this matter. Before that, this house remains with the same leadership and I will write to Jubilee and we shall deal with the matter next week,” she ruled. Tuju termed the remarks 'new', saying the party leader normally communicates any changes to the house leadership through the secretary general. “That is a new one. Normally communication comes from the secretary general. The party leader rarely writes to anybody,” Tuju said. He reiterated that even in his capacity as the President, Uhuru does not personally write to government agencies. He does so through head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. In an earlier letter to Elachi (on April 16), the SG had stated that the party had made changes to its leadership at the assembly, replacing the interim officials who were installed last November. The party reinstated Guyo, who had been ousted last year in wrangles that rocked the county assembly. His deputy is Dandora I MCA Peter Wanyoike. Guyo and Kados have protested Elachi’s inaction. “The speaker is a member of Jubilee and we elected her to the position. We shall follow up this matter with the party leader and the party secretariat and we are sure that within the week, the matter will be solved,” Guyo said.  - mwaniki fm