The office of the Jubilee coalition joint secretary is going to be a powerful office with powers to superintend government agenda in Parliament, the Star can reveal. Multiple sources within Jubilee and the government indicate that the holder of the office would wield immense authority as the coalition focal point in both houses. The role was hived off from the office of the leader of the Majority to create seamless coordination after Jubilee signed a coalition pact with Kanu in May. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s party is also set to enter a coalition deal with Jubilee but has already signed a cooperation agreement. Chama cha Mashinani leader Isaac Rutto has also signed a cooperation agreement with Jubilee, while ODM leader Raila odinga is expected to ink a pact in a few weeks. Sources told the Star that President Uhuru Kenyatta breathed life to the office to offer liaison coordination in leading coalition troops in Parliament. Eldas MP Aden Keynan was on Monday elevated to be the Jubilee coalition joint secretary in Parliament, in what raised his political profile drastically. He has also been a commissioner at the Parliamentary Service Commission for 15 years. Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya was appointed the new Majority leader, taking over from Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. With this massive portfolio, Keynan will be the de facto spokesperson of MPs allied to the Jubilee coalition in Parliament. “He will literally be the leader of the coalition in Parliament to drive the President’s agenda in both houses,” said a Jubilee insider who sought anonymity. The elevated role puts Keynan at a prestigious position to be in the President’s inner-circle as he will now be required to shuttle between State House and Parliament. “The joint secretary of the coalition will have the President’s ear anytime. He will hold meetings with the President or his team to agree on agenda to be taken to Parliament and push for its execution,” he added. Keynan, a fourth-term MP, will now have the powers to convene a parliamentary group meeting of the Jubilee coalition members and take minutes of the same. According sources aware of the roles of the new office, Keynan will be President Kenyatta’s blue-eyed boy in Parliament in pushing the coalition agenda. Keynan will now atomically sit in the Jubilee’s National Executive Committee, a crucial decision-making organ of the party, which will play a key role in Uhuru’s succession politics. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju will now concentrate on party matters as Keynan steers the coalition agenda given that other parties in the coalition have their own secretary generals. The secretary to the joint coalition is provided for under the Jubilee constitution with powers to take control of troops in both houses. Since 2013, the position has remained vacant because of the immediate former Majority leader Duale’s towering dominance in Parliament and his hitherto high place in government. Given his high-ranking stature in the Jubilee matrix, Duale was the ruling party’s political authority in the bicameral Parliament and the leader of government business. Duale, whose clout was chopped on Monday, was Jubilee’s first-choice Majority leader in Parliament, ranking higher than his Senate counterpart. This means that the Senate Majority leader, not provided for in the Constitution, plays second-fiddle roles in the ruling coalition’s political agenda in Parliament. Kimunya will execute the Jubilee coalition agenda as delivered to him through the joint secretary. On Tuesday, political analyst Felix Odhiambo opined that Duale’s portfolio was split and given to both Kimunya and Keynan. “I believe the thinking was that there needed to be a focal office that provides liaison for both houses, State House and coalition partners,” he said. Odhiambo said Kimunya’s major assignment would be to table government business in the assembly, while Keynan will provide the political synergy required to execute that agenda, including lobbying partners. Edited by R.Wamochie