ODM leader Raila Odinga is Covid-19-free. He disclosed his status on Monday, moments after receiving his results from the Kenya Medical Research Institute. Meantime, State House is expected to issue a statement on the results of mass testing; some staff are said to be infected and some admitted to hospital. The details were not immediately known. The former prime minister, who tested negative, was presented with his results by Prof Matilu Mwau of the Kemri Testing Centre. Raila urged Kenyans to get tested and continue to adhere to the government guidelines, which include wearing face masks, social distancing and frequent hand washing and sanitising. The ODM leader was tested on Sunday at the Kemri facility at Mbagathi Hospital. While taking his test, he said a Covid-19-free certificate is becoming an important document as the world continues to fight the pandemic. Meanwhile, four State House staff have tested positive for the coronavirus, spokesperson Kanze Dena said Monday. Dena said President Uhuru Kenyatta and the first family were free from the virus. She said Monday the infected officers were admitted to the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital in Kiambu county. The four were discovered during mass testing conducted at State House on Thursday last week. "As part of proactive measures being implemented to contain the spread of Covid-19, State House staff are regularly tested for the disease. The tests are conducted on all staff including His Excellency the President and members of his family," she said. Dena said the families and close contacts of the affected officers were being attended to accordingly. Despite the government directives for Kenyans to practise social distancing and minimise contact, the President has hosted several events, including the Madaraka Day celebrations. More than 80 per cent of Kenya's Covid-19 patients have been asymptomatic at the time they tested positive for the virus. Kenya on Sunday recorded 137 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total confirmed cases to 3,594. The new cases emerged from 3,167 samples that were tested in 24 hours, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a press briefing. He said Kenya's number of tests done stands at t 115,336. Kagwe said three more patients have succumbed to the disease bringing the number of deaths to 103. (Edited by V. Graham)