One of the drugs registered as an essential medicine in Kenya has been found to prevent the deaths of a third of all ventilated Covid-19 patients. Researchers said dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory medicine, is the first drug in the world to be shown to improve survival against Covid-19 infection. The results came from a study in the United Kingdom where 2,104 Covid-19 patients were given dexamethasone for 10 days and were compared with 4,321 patients who received the usual care alone. It did not help patients who were mildly sick, but reduced the deaths of all ventilated patients by a third. Chief investigator Prof Peter Horby said in a statement, "This is the only drug so far that has been shown to reduce mortality - and it reduces it significantly. It's a major breakthrough." The study was conducted under the Recovery Trial, the world's largest investigation of six medicines for possible treatment of Covid-19. The BBC reported that if dexamethasone had been used to treat patients in the UK from the start of the coronavirus pandemic up to 5,000 lives could have been saved. More than 41,000 people in the country have died from coronavirus since March. Dexamethasone is currently used in Kenya to treat conditions such as arthritis, blood, hormone or immune system disorders, allergic reactions, certain skin and eye conditions. It works on the immune system to help reduce itching, swelling, and inflammation. It has been on Kenya's essential medicines list for many years and also goes by the brand names Decadron, Dexasone and Diodex or Hexadrol. The UK researchers said for patients on ventilators, it cut the risk of death from 40 per cent to 28 per cent. For patients needing oxygen, it cut the risk of death from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. "Because it is cheap, it could also be of huge benefit in poorer countries struggling with high numbers of Covid-19 patients," the researchers said. The drug is given intravenously in intensive care, and in tablet form for less seriously ill patients. About 19 out of 20 patients with coronavirus recover without being admitted to hospital. Of those who are admitted to hospital, most also recover, but some may need oxygen or mechanical ventilation. These are the high-risk patients whom dexamethasone appears to help by stopping some damage that can happen when the body's immune system goes into overdrive as it tries to fight off the infection. The body's over-reaction is called a cytokine storm and it can be deadly. Lead researcher Prof Martin Landray said, "There is a clear, clear benefit. The treatment is up to 10 days of dexamethasone and it costs about £5 (Sh673) per patient. So essentially it costs £35 (Sh4,711) to save a life. This is a drug that is globally available." Prof Landray said, when appropriate, hospital patients should now be given the drug without delay, but people should not go out and buy it to take at home. Dexamethasone was originally produced by Merck & Company since 1950s but now several manufacturers offer the drug under various brand names and formulations.  Edited by P.O