 More than 100 defilement cases have been recorded in the last three months in the North Rift region. The numbers indicate a rise in gender-based and domestic violence during the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 20 teen pregnancies have been recorded in Uasin Gishu county alone. Human rights activists have raised concern over the increase in violence against children, saying most cases were not reported. “It’s unfortunate that chiefs and other administrators were in most cases colluding with suspects and parents to have such serious crimes sorted out of courts illegally,” Centre Against Torture director Kimutai Kurui Kimutai  said. He accused administrators of derailing the course of justice by protecting or helping perpetrators of defilement to evade the court process. “Defilement and rape are some of the serious crimes that cannot be negotiated out of court. Perpetrators of such crimes have to face the full force of the law,” he said. Kimutai said with schools closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, children were at home where many of them were becoming exposed to abuse such as defilement by suspects including people known to them. He said it was illegal and immoral for administrators to protect sex offenders by acting as mediators. “Incidents of defilement and rape have been on the rise in counties like Uasin Gishu with at least one or two cases being reported in each of the six sub counties every week.” Other counties including Trans Nzoia, West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet also recorded increased cases of abuse against children. In the latest case, a bar attendant is being held at Eldoret Central police station for defiling a Form 2  student after booking her in a self-contained lodging for one week in Uasin Gishu. The suspect was arrested by a team of police detectives at Kerita trading centre along the Eldoret-Nakuru highway. The arrested followed a tip-off from parents of the 17-year-old who had reported her missing. Kesses assistant police commander Ceilia Kemboi said the minor was reported missing at Cheptiret police station a week ago. “We are holding the suspect and he will face charges in court,” she said. In another case, a victim claimed an assistant chief prevailed upon her to drop the matter and have it settled out of court in exchange for money after negotiating with the perpetrator. The minor’s mother narrated how the administrator secured the release of the suspect from the police custody. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said chiefs who abet such crimes will also be sacked and charged in court for aiding crime. In a related incident, a boda boda rider in Kesses was arrested for helping a Form 1 student procure an abortion after allegedly defiling and impregnating her.  Edited by R.Wamochie