Besieged Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala attributes his differences with ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi to the endorsement of two key Western leaders as Luhya spokesmen. Malala backed Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to speak on behalf of the Mulembe nation. The senator spoke at the weekend days after the party's special national governing council expelled him. The lawmaker said the expulsion had nothing to do with his purported failure to toe the party line but everything to do with his role in Luhya community leadership. “We met in Kajiado - 34 MPs, five governors, three senators and CS Wamalwa. I was given the opportunity to read the resolution. "Little did I know that my reading of the resolution will be the start of my problems. The resolution is not my own, but what the meeting agreed,” he said. Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula skipped the meeting hosted by Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) secretary general Francis Atwoli at his Ildamat home. The May 29 meeting also resolved to support the BBI agenda spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga. Malala hinted at ditching ANC and defend his seat on another political party if the expulsion decision holds. The youthful lawmaker said he does not fear going back to the people to defend his seat. “I will leave and ask you (the electorate) to come with me to the party I will choose. I don’t fear elections - my people have faith in me,” Malala said at the weekend. The senator has been working closely with the Raila-led ODM. During last year's Kibra by-election in which ANC fielded a candidate, he supported the ODM choice. The former Kakamega MCA urged Musalia to reconsider his expulsion. “I am asking my party leader, with a lot of dignity, not to kill me. I am like his child. If he insists on killing me then on the burial day he will be the one crying." According to him, his political path is clear - he will not be distracted by those ‘envious’ of his political achievement. “When you set to go on a journey, do not stop to respond and kick every barking dog on your way. On the ANC and my expulsion, I will maintain silence. I will not respond to barking dogs.”  - mwaniki fm