In the last couple of weeks, we have seen many changes being made in the Jubilee administration and, specifically, in Parliament. It started with changes to the Senate, where the leadership was changed and the same is being done to various House committees. Last week, the President called for a Jubilee Party Parliamentary Group meeting where the purge and changes were extended to the National Assembly leadership, and committees. These changes were made for the good of the country not that the President has favourites—he is focused on his transformation agenda as he has continuously stated. Additionally, the President made changes to the Executive Order Number 1, which was negatively publicised as an attack on Deputy President William Ruto. The order was clearly amended to show where the Nairobi Metropolitan Services is aligned for budgeting as well as coordination purposes. Those looking at it in any other way just want to play politics for no apparent reason. Chief Justice David Maraga also behaved like a visitor to Kenya, criticising the order yet it was not any different from others in the past. As Attorney General Paul Kihara explained, the order does not allocate functions or interfere with the structure of the Judiciary in any way. It is the President’s prerogative to make changes in government that will ensure that he delivers on his mandate. But going to what all these changes mean, one must look at it in the context of the President’s second term, which is now halfway through. The president has two years left in his administration and he has stated numerous times that mwananchi expects the government to deliver on the pledges made on the Jubilee manifesto and during his inauguration. The NMS is a critical component in the President’s intention to deliver better services for Kenyans and especially in the capital. If you have gone around Nairobi lately, you will notice a lot of changes including non-motorised transport pavements, repaired roads as well as garbage cleared. As the President has stated on numerous occasions, those that do not support or are unwilling to execute his vision should resign allowing him to work with those that will deliver. And for those in doubt, the President and his administration are delivering on the mandate bestowed by Kenyans. If you look at the last seven years you will see many firsts in the country. In places like Garissa in the North, you will find electricity for the first time in the history of our nation. And this is the same with many other parts of the country that were not connected to the national grid. Kenya’s tarmacked road network has grown up to threefold since Uhuru became President. Places like West Pokot that had not seen tarmac now have roads that are an envy of many countries in Africa. Kenya is now one of the best countries in Africa to do business according to a ranking by the World Bank and it’s improving every year. Things like Huduma services have improved access to government services, making life easier for all Kenyans. The President’s Big Four agenda was what you would call the final act of his second term. Unfortunately, a lot has been disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, that has not stopped the government from continuing to work on this. Last Friday, the government received another 80 units for the affordable housing project. In addition, manufacturing is picking up as more medical materials are manufactured locally. And this is the reason that the President is aligning his government to meet these aspirations.