An epileptic woman from Kavuoni village, three kilometres from Mwingi town, is nursing burn wounds. Vethi Kithumbi, 50, has been living with the condition since birth and has encountered major risks as she lives alone in her deserted home. Two weeks ago, as she was cooking supper in her house, she had epileptic fit and fell on the three-stoned stove where a pot of cowpeas was boiling. She was badly burnt on her left side from her hand all the way to her thigh. However, no one has taken her to hospital. Mwingi Level 4 Hospital is three kilometres from her home. Kithumbi said she can hardly get sleep due to the pain. Kithumbi has never been married and her parents are dead. The only thing she knows of her one son who disappeared after completing primary school 17 years ago is that he lives and works in Thika. “I do not have a phone to communicate with my son but I hear he lives in Thika,” she said. She still hopes her son will one day show up and build a house next to hers so he can take care of her. She has relatives who live near her house but she said they hardly check on her. When the Star visited her house on Wednesday evening, she had eaten in the morning and no one showed up again until we left around 7pm. Efforts to speak to relatives were unsuccessful as immediate family members locked themselves in the house when they saw journalists. Kithumbi pleaded with well-wishers to take her to hospital as she is suffering silently in her house. A neighbour, who sought anonymity, said her family members are aware of the incident but have done very little. The neighbour had called journalists after the health of the woman started deteriorating. Assistant chief Alfred Mutua had not been informed about the incident until the Star visited Kithumbi’s home. He ordered the family to take her to the hospital immediately, “lest he takes legal action for neglect”. “This act is inhuman. How can one have such burns and be abandoned in the house alone?” He asked. Edited by R.Wamochie