President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked the Nairobi Metropolitan Services to make Nairobi the model of post-coronavirus recovery. The national hygiene programme called Kazi Mtaani would play a central role, President Kenyatta said on Tuesday. He spoke as the NMS marked 100 days in office. The President said the Kazi Mtaani initiative had ensured the cleanliness of the county. "This is encouraging but much work remains. What NMS has demonstrated during this period is that the task is achievable; that the aspirations of the people of Nairobi can and will become a reality," he said. He said the government must reach all the informal settlements across the city through the programme. "I am particularly gratified by the street families who have been working on the Grogon Road area. Today, those young people can afford to live away from the streets and give their children hope of a better tomorrow," he said. He asked the NMS to pay attention to the systemic challenges that face the city in the medium and long term. "Nairobi cannot truly take her place among the great cities of the world without staying true to consistently implement our national and county development plans." The President said focus must now shift to the Urban Development Programme that will accelerate an integrated development model for an inclusive and modern city. The President commended NMS on their first 100 days delivery. On Sunday, NMS marked 100  days since the office was established on March 18. Major-General Mohammed Badi was appointed to lead NMS as director general. "I wish to commend Major-General Badi, the management and the entire NMS team for what they have achieved  so far and for demonstrating  that, indeed, public service can be delivered  with commitment and dedication around the clock," President Kenyatta said. He was pleased with the progress made in implementation of Nairobi Urban Mobility Plan, effecting non-motorised transport, reviewing development approvals process, improvement of solid waste management, streamlining of urban renewal projects as well as reviewing and improving the governance and transparency models deployed in service delivery. “The evidence of this progress can already be seen. Our neighbourhoods are beginning to look cleaner, hundreds of young people, especially those in poor and vulnerable communities in the city, are earning a living,” he said. He said thousands of households in the city now have access to water closer to their homes. Affordable housing projects are ready to break ground and pedestrian and cyclists’ corridors are beginning to take shape. "This is encouraging but much work remains.  What NMS has demonstrated during this period is that the task is achievable - that the aspirations of the people of Nairobi can and will become a reality,” the President said. "Encouraged by the success over the last 100 days in distributing over 13 million litres of water per day to thousands of households in the informal settlements, NMS must make every effort to have a city where water is safe,accessible, affordable and regular for all Nairobi’s residents.  An investment programme to radically increase our city wide sewer network should also be a priority. " Badi has been receiving updates on achievements in the implementation with a rallying call to his officers to exceeded the expectations of Nairobians. He has already dismantled development plans approval committees, sending out a strong statement of intent in an area which has been accused of being the den of corruption in Nairobi county. The team in April began the process of weeding out nonregistered water vendors. The process is still ongoing. Inspection by Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company is being undertaken. The firm’s board of directors has also been reconstituted with the previous board sent home in its entirety. NMS is also involved in the sinking 93 boreholes, with 51 boreholes already drilled mostly in informal settlements. This is in addition to the ongoing fabrication and setting up of 35 elevated tanks, completed 20,903 meters of extension piping as well as daily distribution of 200,000 litres of water to slums using water bowsers. The team was expected to come up with strategies of equitable water distribution as well as dismantle cartels in management and distribution of water by registering and monitoring water vendors. Badi’s team was also tasked with ensuring effective garbage collection and disposal, something that was to be done in partnership with the NYS with all grounded trucks repaired to increase capacity. Already, NMS has been collecting an average of 175 truckloads of garbage daily, against the target of 2,000, with over 70 per cent waste backlog cleared. The target is to dispose an average of over 3,000 tons daily at Dandora dumpsite. Delivery to the dumpsite has shot from 1,000 tons to average of 2,500 tons a day. Illegal dumpsites have been closed with the legal ones gazetted while there are plans to relocate the Dandora dumpsite. Edited by Henry Makori