It has not been a walk in the park for LSK president Nelson Havi after his tweet on Sirisia MP John Waluke and Grace Wakhungu. Waluke and his co-accused were fined over Sh700 million or face seven years in prison after they were found guilty of fraud of over Sh313 million maize scandal. After the ruling by magistrate Elizabeth Juma on Thursday, Havi took to social media claiming that the ruling was 'criminal'. "John Waluke and Grace Wakhungu contracted with NCPB. NCBP breached the contract. Arbitrator ordered payment. Award was enforced by High Court," Havi said. He added "NCPB lost before High Court and Court of Appeal and paid the decree. How can that be a crime? Do not celebrate fraudulent convictions." Havi went on to say that they will take action on the magistrate. "...we have had a Judge removed from office for similar misbehavior. We know what to do and will do it with military precision," he said. His tweet attracted mixed reactions from Kenyans who faulted him for taking sides with the corrupt. "Fighting corruption in Kenya is like dealing with bedbugs.. Face with tears of joy Just a bunch of new monkeys but the forest is still the same," @mwangic60 said. @ougomandela said "So why did you delete these same sentences last night? You falter and fumble and call that brave... Astonished face." "It's unfortunate most lawyer's are facilitating the vice. We need law that will hold lawyer's accountable for being conduits of corruption. They should be guilt for handling proceeds of crime," @ckmuthii said. @adosh85 said "The kawaida Kenyan who does not dine with the high and mighty, feels justice was served." During the ruling on Thursday, Lawyers of the accused pleaded leniency saying that Waluke was old. "He can be a better person today. If you side with us, then you will understand that he needs leniency. Please your honor," Cliff Ombeta said. Ombeta said they are not demanding but requesting. "We are begging that you give us the most lenient sentence. It is provided for in the laws. Look at his age, he is not a young man," he said. "He has come to court religiously and respects the court. He knows his duty. Is that the kind of person we would want locked for ever? This is a good man." Ombeta said Waluke has worked in the civil servant because he was effective and had no bad record.