Mombasa legislators have been pushed to fight Covid-19 in their constituencies following an unprecedented rise in the number of infections. From giving food donations, masks, hand sanitiser, fumigation, conducting sensitisation and youth employment, the MPs are united as each employs different approaches to cushion the vulnerable. Abdulswamad Nassir is the only MP who has forfeited his full salary to the County Emergency Household Relief programme after Mvita recorded the highest number of positive cases and fatalities due to high risk areas including Old Town. Nassir is behind the successful National Assembly motion to quash the quarantine charges imposed by the government. “Many have lost their jobs and are unable to meet their basic needs. That is why I dedicated my full salary to go to the most vulnerable in my constituency,” he said. It was not an easy ride though. Weeks ago while encouraging residents to go for mass testing in Old Town, Nassir and Governor Hassan Joho found themselves on the receiving end after residents resisted attempts to ‘coerce’ them into participating. As at June 11, Mvita had recorded 27 deaths and 360 infections, which was almost half of county figures as at that time (935). Kisauni had five deaths while the other constituencies had two. Nassir also gave a Sh12 million year-long National Hospital Insurance Fund cover to 2,000 vulnerable families. “Most families cannot pay medical bills. The cover will take care of about 8,000 to 10,000 people in Mvita," he said. The MP’s office has also introduced online revision and distribution of revision material to candidates through www.mombasayetu.com. Sanitising booths were also erected within Mvita’s entry points. On the other hand, Mohammed Ali has distributed food to about 6,000 families in his Nyali constituency which had 116 cases as at June 11. Ali, who distributed the food in the evenings to avoid crowds said he, however, cannot feed the people forever. He asked the government to remove the restrictions and allow people to go back to work. The MP also distributed over 20,000 face masks and bottles of sanitiser. “While we were doing this, we also engaged the people on civic education about the pandemic and how to save money by maintaining high hygienic standards,” Ali said. His initiative to cover his constituents' quarantine charges before the government made it free in public facilities was, however, the most unique. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib, apart from distributing food that would last a month to each of 7,750 families in his constituency, went a notch higher and contracted several youth to make over 10,000 face masks. The constituency has reported 95 positive cases, the lowest so far. The over 50 youth contracted were each paid for their services and some 10 of them were lucky to be given the sewing machines they used. “I thought they would be better off having the machines than anyone else. This is because the youth had actually graduated from the Skills Mitaani initiative with certificates in tailoring,” Twalib said. He also distributed water tanks and sanitiser and soap mostly to the slums. Likoni’s Mishi Mboko has been distributing PPEs and foodstuff, targeting over 3,000 families. “We are also sensitising people on the pandemic,” she said, adding that they have partnered with Base Titanium in making and distributing face masks. In Kisauni, Ali Mbogo distributed Sh5.2 million worth of food to about 5,000 families. He also considered special groups which were hardest-hit including persons with disability, water vendors, fishmongers, laid-off hotel staff, boda boda riders, those who do laundry for a living, garbage collectors and palm wine sellers. Ustadhs and pastors also benefited from the food programme. Hodi Hodi village of Shanzu, which is almost exclusively inhabited by PWDs, was the biggest beneficiary of the programme. “These people had not even seen a face mask live. They only saw them on TV,” Mbogo said. Kidongo Beach Management Unit in Majaoni got fish storage units to help them in the fish pond businesses. The constituency is trailing after Mvita with 147 cases as at June 11. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi worked with Kenya Medical Training Centre to sensitise people on Covid-19 and the importance of social distancing and hygiene. This was done in Hodi, Kembo, Bekombo, Chaani, Magongo and Kwa Hola areas of Changamwe. The MP also distributed water tanks for hand washing in all these areas while at the same time issuing sanitiser and soap to residents. “We distributed 5,000 masks per ward to all the five wards in Changamwe,” Mwinyi said. To help adhere to the Covid-19 regulations, Mwinyi distributed sanitisers to all salons and barber shops. He also distributed food to churches, villages and to elderly people. Some 6,870 vulnerable families in the constituency received food aid. Changamwe had by June 11 recorded 99 Covid-19 cases. The food was also distributed to workers at Akamba Handicraft, Magongo Market, taxi drivers and other groups.  Edited by R.Wamochie