The Judiciary on Monday set up more outdoor courts to cater for all divisions at the High Court. Tents were pitched at the Milimani Law Courts parking area to serve as makeshift courts. The ground was marked to enforce the one-metre social distancing rule. In other areas within the court corridors, benches were marked ‘do not sit here'. There were two sanitation booths, but they were not operational. At the entrance, the temperature was taken and people were advised to sign a register indicating their name, ID number, work station and their phone number. This was done for easy contact tracing if the need arises. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi said since the courts will be operating outside, those with cases will be handled on a one-on-one basis. Andayi said during that process, court clerks and judicial officers would inform them when their cases would be heard or mentioned. “Like today, I have called out names of those people whose cases have been listed for hearing. Those whose dates had lapsed will be given new dates,” Andayi said. However, the majority of the cases were still being conducted virtually. In a statement on Saturday, the Judiciary promised to scale-up court operations as it adheres to the Ministry of Health Covid-19 protocols. The Judiciary said to promote social distancing, the number of people physically accessing the courts will be limited at any given time. In regards to allocating hearing dates, priority will be given to cases whose hearings were affected by the scaling down of court operations from March 16. For civil cases, courts have contact details of all parties and their advocates. Parties have been advised to wait to be contacted by the court. For criminal cases, accused persons will be summoned to court through the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the police. The Judiciary, with help from the Ministry of Health, has been fumigating court premises countrywide ahead of the reopening, three months since court activities were scaled down in line with the Covid-19 containment measures. Edited by A.N  