 Kisumu residents have asked authorities to resolve the impasse with health workers to end the suffering of patients. Doctors and other health workers in the county have been on strike for a week now, much to the suffering of patients, some of whom have been prematurely discharged from hospitals. Many public facilities remain deserted with the health workers demanding promotions and Covid-19 risk allowances before resuming work. There were mixed reactions from residents, with some claiming there was something fishy behind the healthcare workers' strike. Others asked the county to honour the agreement reached with the medics. The more than 3,000 health workers, including doctors, are demanding prompt payment of salaries, implementation of promotions and payment of Covid-19 hazard allowances. “The cat and mouse game between the county government and health workers is really hurting residents. It should stop,” Malacki Juma said. Jane Anyango said they would not want to experience what they saw late last year when the health workers' strike lasted three months. “Let the county pay the health workers. We are tired with the day-in-and-out strike. We understand the money for the promotions was approved by the assembly, can we be told what is happening?” Anyango asked. At the Kisumu County Hospital, James Orinde stood stranded with his Universal Health Coverage card. “I haven't been feeling well for the last three days. Herbal and traditional medicine haven't worked so I decided to come here and see if I might get treatment since we were told the hospitals are functioning. But there is nothing," Orinde said. Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative (TEAM) director George Collins said Governor Anyang Nyong'o is not honest and sincere with the issues of the health workers. Owuor said the governor should tell the residents the truth instead of issuing threats to health workers. “Health is not a privilege, its an entitlement and just like you would want to take care of your health, the people are in need of the same services,” Collins said. Nyong’o last week directed that the names of the striking workers be deleted from the county’s payroll if they fail to report back to work by Friday, June 12. The Governor's Press Unit director Aloice Ager on Sunday said the county was concerned with ensuring the hospitals remain open and operational. Ager said the striking workers' names will be removed from the payroll as was directed by the governor. Kevin Osuri, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists' Union chairman for Nyanza, branch told the Star that he does not know whether they have been fired. But Maurice Opetu, the Kenya National Union of Nurses' branch secretary for Kisumu, said the governor cannot sack anybody because the county government is in contempt of court. He said the strike is legal. Opetu said the county government had not reached out to them and was instead trying to get injunctions to halt the work boycott. “This is because they didn't demonstrate any clear roadmap of implementing the promotions as ordered previously,” Opetu said. He asked Nyong'o to meet the health workers' demands and bring to book his county officers who misappropriated some Sh250 million and another Sh38 million which were approved for implementing the medics' promotions. “He should sack those responsible officers instead of taking any offence on health workers who have been sacrificing to serve Kisumu residents under deplorable conditions of work, including the risks of contracting coronavirus,” Opetu said. While most hospitals remain deserted, the Covid-19 isolation centre at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital was staffed and fully operational, the county said. At the start of the strike last week, Opetu advised health workers to stay home and be safe as they wait for the county to implement their demands in full. He said the county had allocated Sh250 million in the current budget and Sh38 million in the supplementary budget for promotions, but the money has not been paid out. “Nobody is taking responsibility to explain why the funds haven’t been spent,” Opetu said. He said the county mistreats health workers and is insincere in addressing grievances. Everyone will stay away, he said, until they see more money in their bank accounts. “They take money from the county coffers and it ends up in their pockets instead of giving it to the health workers during this Covid-19 pandemic,” the unionist said.  Edited by P.O