WHILE THE GOVERNMENT remains mum as political elite violate Covid-19 containment protocols issued by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, Western diplomats are said to be keenly monitoring the situation after it emerged that the government is applying double standards when dealing with politicians and the common man. A source who is aware of cables that have been activated has told Corridors that the concern has been sparked by the weekend meeting of politicians from Luhya nation at the home of Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli (pictured) which was captured in videos that went viral. The politicians were making merry, totally unbothered with the health protocols. A COUNTY ADMINISTRATION police boss in one of the regions in Nyanza is a marked man over allegations that he has been sitting on recommendations by sub county bosses on disciplinary action against juniors who have been absconding duty. Some of the juniors, all from his community, have continued to enjoy themselves in their villages at the expense of providing security services, which is their sole mandate. Rumour is rife that the juniors who live like kings, courtesy of the protection, could be parting with some cash to continue getting favours from the big boss. Their colleagues are demanding action by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. RESIDENTS OF BUSIA are up in arms against security officers over increased smuggling activities along the common border. Locals told Corridors that smugglers are having a field day resulting from delays in clearing cargo at the border because of the measures put in place to stop the spread of Covid-19. They said, after raising alarm, a crackdown was launched and a substantial amount of illegal goods destined for the country netted, but no details were given. They are now wondering if the officials are colluding with the smugglers because officers did not make public the nature of goods confiscated or state whether they made any arrests. A BIG MAN in the water industry is the talk of the town as word spreads that he has had to marry a woman nurturing his wild oats. The man is said to have been compelled to take in the lady as leaving her would have had far-reaching ramifications, especially should the matter get to his wife. Those poking their noses in his affair say the man had at one time given the gracious lady his official vehicle, from which the lady claimed mileage allowance purporting it to be her official car.