Six MPs from Busia want the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to intensify roadblock checks and bar truckers without Covid-19 clearance from the county. The lawmakers Oku Kaunya (Teso North), John Bunyasi (Nambale), Joseph Oyula (Butula), Geoffrey Odanga (Matayos), Wilberforce Mudenyo (Funyula) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalang’i) said Thursday traffic police must ensure truck drivers without Covid-19 clearance do not gain access to Busia. Some 285 people had by Thursday tested positive for coronavirus in Busia. Only three were not truck drivers. The MPs, who spoke at Parliament Buildings in Nairobi, also petitioned the Health Ministry to speed testing to limit cargo trucks’ congestion in Busia and Malaba towns. The congestion, they said, has exposed locals to the respiratory disease. “We have since given the Ministry of Health an ultimatum to ensure that all those truck drivers are tested and their certificates released so that they can decongest our county,” Wanjala said. He added, “We don't understand how some truck drivers manage to pass through all the police roadblocks and get to Busia and still test positive for Covid-19.” He said Mutyambai should urgently restore order at roadblocks to ensure truck drivers are thoroughly checked and their status confirmed before proceeding to Busia and Malaba border posts. Bunyasi said the presence of truck drivers in Busia posed a health danger to residents of the border county. “We are issuing an ultimatum to the Health Ministry to expedite the process of decongesting the trucks as the congestion is owed to delay in releasing their clearance certificates after tests,” the MP said. He said unless urgent interventions are instituted to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the county, Busia may end up being locked down due to fast transmission of the virus. Kaunya said leaders in Busia will not relent in their quest to ease traffic congestion at the border which has lasted for more than a month. “We call upon the Ministry of Health to immediately institute a plan to clear up the truckers, an ultimatum that should be met,” the ANC lawmaker said. He said they will continue addressing concerns of Busia electorate until the health safety of residents is guaranteed. “Mass testing of people around Malaba, Amagoro, Kocholia and Koteko should be conducted soonest since the truckers have much interacted along those areas,” Kaunya said. Odanga said all agencies involved in the fight against Covid-19 should work closely to curb the continued spread of the virus which by Thursday had claimed over 400,000 lives globally. The MPs spoke one week after Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Busia county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri banned truckers without Covid-19 clearance from driving to Busia. (edited by o. owino)