Eighteen-year-old youngster Jacob Krop is one happy runner after he paced for Rhonex Kipruto to break the world 10km record last year in Valencia, Spain. The Form 4 student at Chewoyet Secondary School in West Pokot County said it was his first time to pace at any race but decided to finish to gauge his speed and get his time in the distance since he specialises in 5,000m. His ‘boss’ Kipruto broke the world record in 26:24 as Krop placed fourth in 27:26. Bernard Kimeli (27:12) and Switzerland’s long distance running star Julien Wanders (27:13) completed the podium. The reigning Africa Youth 5,000m silver medallist said it was one of the happiest moments in his youthful career. “Setting the pace for a world record is no doubt the highlight of my career. I never imagined I can deliver results of such magnitude while still in school,” said Krop at his Chewoyet School. The 18-year-old is one of the probables for the now postponed World Under-20 Championships earlier scheduled for Nairobi’s Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The event was initially planned for July 7-12 but World Athletics are expected to give new dates soon. Krop is, however, worried that his dream may fail to materialiase due to age factor. “Age is also catching up with me and I just hope I will be within the age-bracket when the event is  held,” he noted. He said after schools and camps were ordered closed due to the coronavirus pandemic, he just opted for light training to keep fit. “I am also busy on the farm planting trees and assisting with other chores because we have few options with no activity now going on,” he noted. Krop, who hails from Lelan area in West Pokot, said featuring at the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar, alongside elite athletes last year was another good feeling and one of his best best experience as a junior. “It was my first time to compete with senior athletes and the experience was awesome. Finishing fourth awakened me to the fact that I am not where I should be in terms of training and need to work harder. This time, I know better,” said Krop. He said he had targeted podium finish in Doha but was torn between training and books. Krop described the pandemic as a double tragedy for him considering he has had to forego two international events. “I was hoping to run at the postponed Africa Cross Country Championships and the World U-20 before the pandemic struck,” he revealed. While most athletes aspire to join uniformed forces after school, Krop has another idea of securing the scholarship to become a teacher. “I want to do education and be a teacher but that will not stop me from running,” assured Krop. Apart from dominating on track, he also won the inaugural Endebes 10km title in 2018 but failed to defend it the following year as he settled for second place.