Embattled Churo-Amaya MCA Ameja Zelemoi has ceased to be Baringo assembly deputy speaker after the Kabarnet High Court dismissed his petition on Friday. Zelemoi conceded defeat and surrendered the position to newly-appointed deputy speaker Jacob Cheboiwo. “His petition lacked valid justifications to merit his reinstatement,” judge Edward Mureithi said as he upheld the appointment of Cheboiwo. “The court has delivered its ruling and I respect that. I wish the incumbent all the best and I promise to give him all the necessary support,” Zelemoi said. He, however, said nothing will block him now from critiquing the county leadership at large. “I am grateful for the great opportunity given to me to serve in the assembly as deputy speaker. I am ready to embrace teamwork to make Baringo a better place,” Zelemoi said. On March 17, 36 out 45 MCAs voted to remove Zelemoi over allegations of gross-misconduct and abuse of office. He rushed to court to block the move terming it politically instigated. Among the accusations levelled against him is misusing the assembly vehicle he was assigned to, to ferry cabbages for sale in Nakuru. In connection with that, he was also linked to planning and recommending the punishment of the driver of the said vehicle. He was also victimised for colluding with his colleagues from Pokot community to fight Silale MCA Nelson Lotela in his office last year. However, Tiaty leaders led by MP William Kamket were not happy with the decision to impeach their own. Kamket said he views the impeachment as a political battle to scuttle Kanu ahead of 2022. “People must learn politics is always dynamic, today you sit on the majority seat and next time you either land in minority or the opposition but peace and cohesiveness must always prevail,” he said. He was backed by the assembly minority leader Sam Lokales, Daniel Tiwit, Maria Losile (Loyamorok), Solomon Makal (Kolowa) and Sherdrack Mailuk (Tangulbei). The motion tabled by leader of majority Lawi Kipchumba (Jubilee) was submitted and passed the same day at the county assembly on Wednesday. “To me already all the above indiscipline cases are enough to withdraw Zelemoi because they are not expected from any honourable leader, we voted for him and now we are using the same criteria to remove him,” Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop said.