Treasury CS Ukur Yatani is expected to unveil a raft of taxes on Thursday at Parliament Buildings to fund the Sh2.7 trillion Budget. Kenyans are waiting to know whether Yatani will re-introduce tax measures which would drive up the cost of basic commodities or slash some taxes. But today's budget reading is going to be done differently due to the coronavirus pandemic that has hit the globe. So far, Kenya has more than 3,000 infections, 89 deaths and more than 400 recoveries. This has made the government come up with measures to slow the spread of the disease, which include social distancing, washing of hands among others. With these directives in place, the Treasury CS will not read the budget to all the 349 Members of Parliament as has been the norm. FEWER MPs Yatani will stand and outline his Budget to a paltry 53 MPs. According to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by Speaker Justin Muturi in April, only 53 MPs will be allowed access to the main chambers with the rest kept in designated places. The speaker also advised members and staff aged 58 years and above or those with existing medical conditions to work from home. While inside the chambers, members will stick to the seats marked for them. They will not be allowed to roam or shift places in a bid to maintain social distancing. Notwithstanding, the MPs will also be required to wear masks at all times with hand sanitiser provided in designated areas within Parliament Buildings. Majority Leader Aden Duale, his minority counterpart John Mbadi, Chief Whip Emanuel Wangwe and Minority Whip Junet Mohammed are some of the MPs who will be granted access to the main chambers. Also to be allowed in the chambers include members of the Budget and Appropriations committee chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah, chairmen of departmental committees as well as select committees. NO CROWDS During the reading of the Budget, there is usually a large crowd outside the parliament precincts which follows the proceedings. The crowd would jostle for space outside hoping to catch a glimpse of proceedings and the President inspecting a guard of honour. This will not be the case this year. The National Assembly Speaker is also expected to prepare ground for the Treasury boss, who by the description of parliamentary rules is a stranger, to address the House. Like other State functions, it will have minimal attendance with the highlight of Yatani’s speech expected to be how the country is preparing to handle the Covid-19 pandemic and its aftermath. From the National Treasury, only four people will go to Parliament Buildings, including the Treasury CS. This will also be the first time the national Budget will be lower than the previous year. “We have reduced VAT, income tax and in the process we have forgone Sh172 billion, these are funds that would have ordinarily be used in the budget,” Yatani told Citizen TV on Wednesday night.