ODM leader Raila Odinga has bashed Kenyans defying the government’s directives on Covid-19, saying they were doing great disservice to the country. The opposition chief pointed out that the majority of Kenyans had complied with the measures and that only a few were flouting them. The Nasa leader noted that frequent gatherings at meetings and funerals remained a great impediment to the containment of the fast-spreading respiratory virus. “I wish to urge the few Kenyans who are refusing to listen to the advice by the government, by desisting from overcrowding, washing hands with soap and sanitiser and going to crowded funeral services. They are doing a great disservice to this country,” Raila said in a recorded video message. He spoke days after Kenyans expressed outrage at politicians defying social distancing rules as they held meetings with large crowds. The latest incident is the gathering of scores of politicians from Western Kenya at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli’s Kajiado home on Friday. Pictures circulating online showed the politicians who included Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, governors and lawmakers from the region standing close together. Some were shoulder-to-shoulder during the press briefing and without face masks as required by the Ministry of Health’s directives. Ordinary Kenyans found flouting the rules as was witnessed on Friday are either taken to mandatory 14 days quarantine or are arrested and charged. But in his Madaraka Day message, Raila said Kenyans should stop being reckless and take personal responsibility if the respiratory disease is to be defeated. He added it was time to make uncomfortable personal sacrifices for the sake of the country and Kenyans. “You are not doing it for somebody else, you are doing it for yourself and by so doing you will be protecting your family and other fellow citizens,” Raila stated. “I salute our citizens who have taken personal responsibility in the battle against the pandemic in addition to following government guidelines on how to defeat Coronavirus.” Edited by Henry Makori