Garissa township residents have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of betrayal following the unceremonious removal of area MP Aden Duale as the Majority leader in the National Assembly. Duale was on Monday replaced with Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya at a Jubilee Party Parliamentary Group meeting that was chaired by Uhuru. Uhuru is the Jubilee Party leader. Duale's removal was effected following a petition signed by 126 MPs who said they no longer had confidence in the leadership of the Garissa Township lawmaker. But residents of Duale's constituency said the removal was an act of betrayal of the highest order and that the President will regret the decision. Hassan Aden, alias Gumo, who is a staunch supporter of Duale said their MP had served the Jubilee Party and the people of Garissa with all his heart and did not deserve to be removed. Duale has been the Majority leader since April 2013. "If there is anyone who was loyal and remains loyal to both the Jubilee Party and President Uhuru Kenyatta from the Northeastern region, that person is Duale. He has sacrificed a lot for the party and the government. I expected the President to spare him because of that," Hassan said. "We have accepted the President's decision and we have moved on. But I want to tell those celebrating his (Duale's) ouster to go slow because the future is bright and he will go far politically.” Duale last month survived a Jubilee purge of perceived rebels in the National Assembly during which Majority Whip Benard Washiali was replaced with Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe. His supporters then took to the streets of Garissa town to celebrate. But they were nowhere on Monday after Duale was removed from his parliamentary position. Fatuma Hussein, another supporter of Duale, said, "It is a bitter pill to swallow. But Kenyan politics being what it is, we accept. "I am still shocked by the news. I now agree with those who say politics is a dirty game. I even empathize more with Deputy President William Ruto for helping Jubilee win the Presidency twice, only for allies to be kicked out of plum government positions." Those being kicked out are perceived loyalists of DP William Ruto. Fatuma said Uhuru should have replaced Duale with someone from the region. Former Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow described Duale's removal as cruel and an ingratitude, saying, "It's a painful loss for the Muslim and Somali community." Duale was among the highest-ranking members of the Somali community in government. "Duale's removal wasn't unexpected but was cowardly. He deserved better," Kerrow wrote on Twitter. Mohamed Mohamud said Duale enjoyed huge support in Northeastern and that his next political move will shape the politics of the region. "Duale is not a pushover. He enjoyed huge support from the leaders and people of Northeastern. His next move will determine where the people of Northeastern will shift to politically," Mohamud said.  Edited by P.O