Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to address anomalies in the Deed of Transfer of functions of Nairobi County. The High Court last week declared the Deed executed between the national government and Nairobi City County Government irregular. Employment and Labour Relations Justice Hellen Wasilwa ruled that the deal signed on February 25, 2020, at State House, was not approved by the County Assembly, therefore, making it unlawful. The Deed of Transfer saw the Nairobi County Government hand over control of county health, transport, planning and development as well as public works and utilities to the national government. Through his spokesman Ben Mulwa, Sonko said that the court vindicated him on the illegalities committed by individuals from the national government, who allegedly took advantage of the agreement. Governor Sonko has maintained that President Uhuru Kenyatta was categorical that the March 17 handover was the beginning of a partnership and collaboration between his administration and the NMS for the smooth implementation of the Deed of Transfer gazetted on February 25. “The governor remains committed to implementing the deed of transfer but wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to embark on a process to address the issues raised by the courts to make the terms clear between the county and national governments,” he said on Sunday. In her ruling, Judge Wasilwa said the Nairobi Metropolitan Service was established in contravention of the law as there was no instrument of its establishment presented to the court at the time of filing the petition, which was April 6, 2020, by activist Okiya Omtata. Early this month, through an Executive Order, President Uhuru Kenyatta placed NMS under the Executive Office of the President. However, the court gave the government 90 days to rectify the illegality failure to which any party will be at liberty to move the court for appropriate action. This means that within this period, NMS should be established by law and the instrument of its verification made. The governor’s spokesman noted that Sonko was determined to have everyone involved in the implementation process and ensure everything is placed within the law before the 90 days lapse. The court further declared the transfer of 6,052 county employees and secondment of CEOs to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) as illegal since the governor was not consulted. As a result, the Nairobi County government Workers Union wants the NMS and the Public Service Commission to comply with the courts and release the staff. The union secretary general Boniface Waweru said the process was unlawful as cited by the courts and that the Nairobi Public Service Board is the only body mandated by law to handle county employees including hiring, transfer, promotion and even dismissing workers. "We want the NMS to comply with the orders and release our workers from Public Service Commission. NMS itself has been declared illegal we want back our employees," he said. The union applauded the governor and urged him to continue fighting for the rights of workers as the transfer was dead on arrival. In an affidavit filed in court, Governor Sonko had argued that he had never authorised any action for secondment of county staff to the NMS because the same would be illegal and unconstitutional.