The Director of Public Prosecutions intends to press further charges against former Sports CS Rashid Echesa pending a report by the Firearm Licensing Bureau chairman. Senior prosecution counsel Kennedy Panyako on Wednesday urged Justice Ngenye Macharia to suspend an order by a lower court that ordered the release of Echesa’s two firearms and his Range Rover. The DPP said the firearms and vehicle were recovered as a result of a search conducted on Echesa’s premises and are directly connected to the offences he has been charged with over the Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal. According to the documents, the firearms were taken to the FLB chairman for verification and a report has not been received because of the inconveniences caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “We intend to initiate further charges in lieu of the two firearms depending on the report the chairman will submit and the charges shall be rendered futile if the said firearms are released to Echesa,” an affidavit by the DPP read. On June 2, magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot ordered the state to release Echesa’s pistols make P-Barret and Ceska CZ, one Ceska magazine and two pistol hoisters and his Range Rover. But the DPP has since moved to the High Court seeking a suspension of those orders on grounds that the vehicle belonging to the former minister is detained as an exhibit in a criminal case. Echesa was arrested on February 13 and subsequently charged on February 18 with conspiracy to defraud changes among other offences. At the time of his arrest, Echesa had in his possession the Range Rover. The state’s investigations established that it was the same vehicle he used during the execution of the offences he is charged with. The vehicle is detained as exhibit. But Echesa has since challenged the application by the DPP seeking to have the orders by Cheruiyot suspended. He says the charges he is facing in the criminal court have no connection with the car. He says the state is relying on speculations claiming there is no evidence linking the firearms to any illegal activities and the investigations have yielded nothing since it commenced in February. “No sufficient evidence has been placed before the court to warrant the court to alter or reverse the orders. If I was arrested in an Uber or Taxify or tuk tuk, could they have detained the Uber? The answer is negative,” he said. He asked the court to dismiss the application by the DPP and for the High Court to find that there was no incorrectness, illegality or irregularity of the orders issued by the subordinate court on June 2. “There is no nexus between the guns lawfully issued to me by the government and the Range Rover visa vis the criminal charges preferred against me.” He says the vehicle has never been used to commit any offences as alleged by the state. He also says he is duly authorised to carry the said firearms by the state as shown by the Firearm Certificate. Edited by R.Wamochie