Kisii Governor James Ongwae has announced plans to install a tartan track at Gusii Stadium. The stadium currently has a marram track which Ongwae said will be replaced with a tartan to boost athletics development in the region. A VIP stand with two extensions which have a capacity of 1, 800 are nearing completion alongside 12 other spectator stands. “The stadium will have a sitting capacity of 10, 000 once the spectator stands are completed. We are doing this facility to international standards. This facility will rival Nyayo National Stadium,” said Governor Ongwae. Extra spectator toilets have also been constructed and extra flood lights are also being installed. The stadium was scheduled to host yesterday’s Madaraka Day celebrations but the fete was held at State House in Nairobi due to the coronavirus pandemic. Ongwae thanked the national government for partnering with the county in improving the facility. Sports stakeholders in Kisii welcomed the refurbishment at the stadium, saying it can now host national events and boost sports in the region. Athletics Kenya (AK) Nyanza South chairman, Peter Angwenyi, hailed the move to have a tartan track at the stadium, saying it was long overdue. “Once we have a tartan track, we can bid to host national events including trials,” said Angwenyi, who is a former Athletics Kenya (AK) public relations officer. Several teams including National Super League side, Shabana, relegated KRU Championship side Kisii RFC and  FKF Division One team Gusii Starlets use the facility as their home ground. Promoted NSL side Silibwet FC and National Division One team Gusii FC will also use the stadium for their home matches next season. The stadium was first rehabilitated in 2018 to host the Kenya Inter-County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca) games. Last year, the facility successfully hosted the Kenya Communication Sports Organization (Kecoso) games. Elsewhere, Kakamega Senator Hon. Cleophas Malala wants his county goverment to allocate more funds to sports programme to help nurture talent in all the 60 wards in the region. Recently, a number of Kakamega MCAs’ raised an issue with the over Sh35million sponsorship awarded to the Kenya Premier League side, Kakamega Homeboyz. Their argument was that only one team can’t benefit from the county government at the expense of many other upcoming sides. Malala stated that he was not opposed to Homeboyz sponsorship but wants the team’s leadership to brand the team with the Kakamega County logo and be used as the region’s ambassadors. “All I want is for the allocation to be increased because here in Kakamega we have many teams besides Homeboyz that are playing in other divisions and equally need support,” Malala stated. The legislator said he is aware that Homeboyz receive Sh15 million annually and the money caters for players’ salaries.