Some leaders from Trans Nzoia and Western counties have pledged to work together for development and peaceful coexistence of the residents. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Sospeter Ojamoong (Busia), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) and the chairman of Kenya Food Strategic Reserve Noah Wekesa said the region has been a laughing stock for having leaders who lack vision. The leaders met Tachoni and Batura councils of elders in Bungoma on Sunday and pledged to support the appointment of Kakamega Governor Oparanya and CS Wamalwa as spokespersons of the Western region. Addressing the press at Lugusi Secondary School in Webuye East constituency  after a closed door meeting with the leaders, Tachoni council of elders chairman Se Wekesa said it was time the community spoke in one voice. This comes in the wake of new political realignments in the region after the alleged coup in Ford Kenya party leadership. Wekesa said the community was in full support of Wamalwa and Oparanya as the community's spokespersons. "We want to thank our leaders, residents and religious leaders for having faith in the two whom we believe have what it takes to foster development in our area and ensure one of us gets to State House," he said. Wekesa said many leaders had been used before by outsiders during election time to divide the community for their own selfish interests. "We need to address and chart the way forward as a community and do away with leaders who want to auction our community for selfish gains," he said. "We as elders and religious leaders from this area fully support BBI and the handshake between Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga plus the efforts being done by the two to unite all communities in the country," he said. "We know that BBI supports the Mabanga accord so that peace prevails here in Bungoma after leaders and communities sat together and decided to bury their political differences," he added. "We had our governors and MPs from this region who met recently at Cotu boss's Francis Atwolis home in Kajiado and we support whatever they proposed of Oparanya and Eugene being the region spokesperson," he said. He said that the two should ensure the region is not left behind in terms of development. "We have also said that Oparanya as the Council of Governors chair and CS Wamalwa have what it takes to lead our community by virtue of their positions and development records," he said. "Our region is well endowed with good climate and of late all our people who have been affected by floods and landslides. We want them helped by the state," he said. " We also urge all commuintues living in our region to coexist peacefully and work well with our neighbours." Edited by Henry Makori