At least 3,048 people have called the Ministry of Health hotline seeking answers on Covid-19. Majority of the callers (63 per cent) are men, mostly from Nairobi, Mombasa, Kajiado and Kiambu counties, the ministry says in a three-month report. An operator at the call centre told the Star that most callers in the early days were stressed out fathers expected by their families to have all the answers. They sought to know when the disease would end, its symptoms and if it would kill more people. "So speaking to someone really helped calm them down. Some of the men were literally crying on the phone out of fear," the operator said. At least 211 calls were transferred to the National Aids and STIs Control Programme and 26 to the Kenya Red Cross Society for further help. The ministry said 45 of the callers were possibly sick because they reported Covid-19 symptoms. "The main symptoms reported by callers were difficulty in breathing, cough, headache and fever," the ministry's March 13-June 15 status report states. By June 15, at least 118,701 Kenyans had been tested for the virus with 3,727 found positive. At least 1,286 recovered and 104 died. The ministry says the Safaricom-supported 719 hotline and SMS system is manned by 50 trained agents, who are not necessarily medics. They also try to offer psychosocial support to worried callers. The ministry has also provided the *719# interactive system, which was accessed 178,000 times. However, the ministry says the most successful means of disseminating information remains the television, radio and print media. The calls have gradually reduced as the government also plans to open up the economy. On Wednesday, the Council of Governors said counties have already developed protocols on progressive reopening of the economy, places of worship and inter-county movement. CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya also urged the national government to set up adequate testing centres in the border counties to expedite the process. Long queues of trucks have been experienced throughout the week at border counties leading to an increased number of cases. He urged counties to innovate ways of combating coronavirus, especially using technology for efficiency and accountability. “Nandi county has repurposed their call centre for Covid-19 response with a portal (*380*29#) to share information and for contact tracing,” he said. The governors lauded the state for employing 3,220 healthcare workers out of the 5,550 recruited in the first phase which has enhanced human resource capacity in handling the virus. Oparanya, however, expressed concerns on financial challenges counties are facing as they drown in pending bills. “Counties have cleared Sh37.9 billion pending bills with the Sh257 billion (81 per cent) of the total equitable share disbursed to counties. Sh59 billion is yet to be disbursed with only two weeks left to end of 2019-20." The Kakamega governor said county governments have set up 453 ICU beds in 187 hospitals to deal with coronavirus. Counties have 180 active quarantine facilities, he said. Edited by R.Wamochie