The national government has distributed more than 1,700 bags of food to flood victims in Nyando, Kisumu county. Nyando deputy county commissioner Julius Kavita said 223 bags of rice, 523 bags of beans and 1,000 bags of maize were provided to affected households. He presided over the distribution in Awasi town on Monday. “The government is committed to ensuring that all affected families are supported. This is part of the efforts in place to help the public,” Kavita said. The administrator said about 200 households are targeted for the distribution of the relief food. They are in Ombaka, Kobonyo, Ogenya, Disi, and Kobonyo, which were worst hit by floods. Kavita said the government will add more relief food depending on the situation and number of affected families. “We are monitoring the conditions of the families and we will respond based on the situation on the ground,” he said. The officer urged people living in flood-prone areas to move to safe ground to avoid loss of property and lives in future. Kavita said the government plans to build dykes along River Nyando to prevent perennial flooding. He urged residents to strictly adhere to the Health ministry directives to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “We must take precautionary measures of maintaining basic hand hygiene, safe food practices and avoid close contact by maintaining social distance,” he added. Residents have been asking the government to expedite the building of dykes. “We are tired of floods which the government can prevent. We will not depend on relief food forever," Mary Apiyo said. She appealed to the government to ensure a permanent solution to flooding. Recently, National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority board chairman Erick Okeyo said the building of Koru-Soin dam on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties is on course. He said the government has set aside Sh25 billion for construction of the dam, which is expected to end flooding in Nyando. Okeyo said they have identified 2,500 acres on the border of Kisumu and Kericho. He said owners of 206 parcels of land in Kisumu and 110 parcels in Kericho will be compensated. The project, which was designed in the 1950s, stalled due to political interference and reluctance of the community to offer land for construction. Okeyo said the authority has asked the National Land Commission to evaluate the 316 parcels and come up with proper rates for compensation. Construction will begin in August. Edited by Frank Obonyo