A German national charged with several counts of defilement and child pornography will spend 12 more days in custody pending investigations. The court decision on Friday comes despite the prosecution seeking to detain Thomas Scheller for 60 days, a period the presiding magistrate referred to as too long. On May 26, Scheller was charged before principal magistrate Nzibe Muthoni with the said offences in addition to being unlawfully in Kenya and child trafficking. It is alleged that between March and April at Nyalenda in Kisumu Central, he defiled a 13-year-old child. He was also charged with two counts of showing a pornographic video to the young boys. “On diverse dates between the months of March and April at Nyalenda in Kisumu, he unlawfully and intentionally exposed a child aged 13 years to an indecent audiovisual,” the charge sheet read. It is alleged that he intentionally and unlawfully recruited, transported and harboured a 13-year-old child for purposes of exploitation by means of fraud. He was charged with three counts of defiling three minors, the youngest being 10, by sodomising them. He was also charged alternatively with committing an indecent act with a minor Sheller denied all the seven counts before magistrate Nzibe and claimed that he was being framed for the offences. It was his argument that he wanted to help the child and the mother agreed but anything else is a lie. However, the state said the accused is a child molester and should not be released on bail because he is a foreigner without a valid permit to allow him to be in Kenya. The prosecution argued he has no permanent residence and thus is a flight risk. “There are three victims of tender age and we are apprehensive if released before the minors testify, he will influence them,” the court heard. Seeking his detention, the police sought the said days to travel to Kisumu to trace the parents of a minor rescued from a Ngara lodging on Thursday. The minor is alleged to have been residing with the German national at the lodging after being trafficked from Kisumu. Scheller was arrested on May 5 after the police had trailed him for months, documents read. It is alleged he escaped police in Kwale and fled to Kisumu where he committed the offences before he was arrested in Nairobi. Police said he was arrested outside the German Embassy in the company of one of the victims. The matter will be mentioned on July 1.