More than 20,000 residents of Karuri and Ruaka cosmopolitan areas in Kiambu will soon start receiving clean water into their homes every day. Governor James Nyoro on Wednesday launched the 11.6km Tigoni-Karuri Water Pipeline project in Kiambaa subcounty that will supply one million cubic litres daily. “The water has been collected from a reservoir in Tigoni, Limuru through groundwater flow and will improve water supply in Karuri by 25 per cent. My aim is to improve water supply in Kiambu by up to 80 per cent from the current 56,”  Nyoro said. Many taps have been dry in the county, forcing residents to source water in rivers and from vendors. Nyoro blamed the low connection to poor management of community water projects in the county. He has sought for merges of some of them. “We are not rushing to merge the community water projects but are beseeching them to agree to merge so that we can have at least two water and sewerage companies in the county,” he said. Former Governor Ferdinand Waititu in 2018 merged all eight water companies in the county through legislation from the assembly.  The move sparked outrage and a court process. The High Court barred the county government from implementing the Kiambu Water and Sanitation (amendment) Act, 2018, which okayed dissolution of the utility companies. Nyoro said that the current water deficit is manageable. The government has factored millions of shillings in the current supplementary budget towards availing water to locals. He, however, warned residents against using piped water for irrigation because it would worsen the already bad situation. “The least we can allow is farmers with greenhouses to use water hydroponically and also those with fish ponds but not any other form of irrigation to ensure food security,” he warned. On the fight against the coronavirus, he said that water connection would be harnessed in densely populated areas. “Water is very crucial in the fight against Covid-19 because we have to wash not only our hands but also our bodies as well as wash our clothes often,” he said. Nyoro revealed that the county had received Sh185 million from the Ministry of Health towards the fight against Covid-19. “We are deliberating on what to prioritise including buying personal protective equipment (PPE), WHO recommended masks for the elderly and improvement of health facilities,' he said. He said that the county is well-prepared to fight Covid-19. It has already met the 300-bed capacity as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta last Saturday.  (edited by o. owino)