Maersk Shipping Line and China Ocean Shipping Company, the top and the third-largest global shipping companies respectively, have signed a sharing agreement to increase their network in the Eastern Africa region. In the new joint service dubbed “Mashariki”, the two giant shipping companies will ensure a dedicated service for both port of Mombasa in Kenya and Tanzania’s Port of Dar Es Salaam. The deal was signed on May 21. This is a boost to the Port of Mombasa as it will be directly connected to Port of Shangai in China. This will provide to customers, who are served via the port of Mombasa, great access to one of the key markets in China. In addition, the export customers will experience a great enhancement with cargo from Mombasa to Asia moving on average two weeks faster. From Mombasa, Maersk offers end-to-end transport solutions to many of company’s customers based in Kenya, Uganda and South Sudan for both dry and refrigerated cargo. On Friday, MV Cosco Yinkou became the first ship to arrive in Kenya under the Maersk-Cosco agreement. According to Kenya Ports Authority acting Managing Director Rashid Salim, the new caller, MV Cosco Yinkou, recorded the best performance of 362 crane moves per shift. This was the best performance since the beginning of 2020 at the port of Mombasa. KPA crane operator George Ominde, was the one in charge. The container carrier docked on Friday morning at berth number 21 and was expected to complete discharge and loading operations on Saturday afternoon. The vessel worked with three Ship-to-Shore gantry cranes registering a total of 914 moves during the shift leaving a balance of 978 moves, both in and out. “The vessel sailed away later on Saturday, recording a fast turnaround time. This is quite remarkable considering that the shipping industry is also grappling with the covid-19 pandemic,” said Salim. Salim congratulated the staff for their dedication and teamwork which he attributed to the splendid ship performance. He described it as a job well done by the operators especially now with the Covid-19 pandemic not-withstanding. He noted that keeping in line with the measures against the Corona virus, discharge of the Port operations has continued with reduced staff as some worked from home.