Prisons authorities have said Covid-19 is not spreading at the facilities and that they have trust in the entry protocols put in place. No new inmates have been admitted to the penitentiaries since the lockdown announced in March without going through rigorous virus testing, they say. The management says positive cases reported in the facilities are of inmates brought by the police after being processed by the courts. There was a scare recently after 31 inmates at the Nairobi Area Remand tested positive for the virus. Correctional Services Principal Secretary Zeinab Hussein in an interview assured Kenyans that there was no outbreak of Covid-19 in prisons. “We are testing and quarantining new inmates before they are introduced into the general prison population. New inmates are not allowed to mingle with other prisoners,” she said. “There is no contact between those in the prison wards. They also eat separately; with our staff working under a strict shift system to prevent contact between one group and another.” The PS told the Star that all prisoners have been provided with masks manufactured within the prisons enterprise as well as from donors and stakeholders. On admission, prisoners are kept in small groups where they are tested and subjected to mandatory quarantine for 14 days, and another seven days for further observation. All suspects charged with serious crimes in courts within Nairobi metropolis are held at Nairobi Area Remand for testing before they join the general prison population. At least 51 prison have established quarantine centres for holding any suspect cases. Inmates who test positive are isolated and treated as a contingency measure to identify such cases before they infect the general prison population. The PS restated that all prisons will remain locked to members of the public, including visits to staff quarters. Social gatherings at staff quarters have also been stopped, including birthday parties among other family events. Those who are transferred from one facility to another are taken through the same protocols before admission. Visitors and staff are screened at the entrances and any suspected cases isolated in holding areas at the prisons’ gates. Prisons head of medical services Kisivuli Azenga said this is since Covid-19 can only come from outside – general public, relatives, staff, and those who access the inmates. “Even essential visits are under strict controls. Those who have access – warders and staff - are also screened from time to time,” Dr Kisivuli said. “We have also established facilities for hand washing and disinfection of vehicles bringing in supplies,” he added. The medic said they were confident the measures for social distancing and cough etiquette had borne results. “We have also embarked on a massive training of staff on Covid-19 matters even as we strive to manage asymptomatic cases inside the prison so that we don’t overwhelm the public health facilities,” Dr Kisivuli added. Edited by Henry Makori