Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia will next week appear before MPs over the controversial SGR order days after an impeachment plot against him flopped. On Thursday, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi directed that Transport committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing have a preliminary engagement with the CS and other stakeholders on the directive on SGR cargo. The government’s directive that all cargo from the port of Mombasa be hauled through SGR was part of the reasons Nyali MP Mohammed Ali cited for his impeachment motion against the CS. It flopped after the Speaker ruled on Tuesday that Ali’s motion lacked supportive evidence. On Thursday, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir sought statement on the compulsory transportation of cargo through the Standard Gauge Railway. “On June 2, 2020 I requested for a statement regarding the Government’s decision to make mandatory the transit of containers via VGR from Mombasa to Naivasha Inland Container Depot (NICD) for clearance. The response indicated that there was a directive from EAC heads of States Summit that all transit containers be railed from Mombasa to NICD to curb Covid- 19,” the Mvita Mp said. “However, information available indicates that Uganda is opposed to the mandatory use of SGR and maintains that it should be optional.” Abdulswamad further demanded that Transport committee undertakes a comprehensive inquiry into the matter with a view of reversing the cargo transportation order pending further consultation. Muturi directed that the Pkosing led team invite the CS for a round table discussion to come up with an enforceable resolution and not just receive statements. “I want to suggest to the chairperson and committee that you just don’t go to get a statement from the Cabinet Secretary. Invite the CS, the Mvita MP and any other interested member so that whatever the resolutions will be, they are enforceable,” Muturi said. The Mvita MP challenged the fares tabulated by the industry players stating the cost of transporting cargo through SGR as compared to that of road is significantly at variance. “Contrary to the Cabinet Secretary’s assertion that the NICD  is ready for use; a report prepared by technical officers from Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan dated 22nd may 2020 paint a different picture.”