Former Majority Leader Aden Duale has been sacked, but not because he is incompetence. He is the latest to bite the dust in the changes linked to the 2022 succession politics. The turmoil in Jubilee is to be expected when the country is nearing transition from one President to another. New Majority Leader Amos Kimunya is an experienced operator and has served as a Cabinet Minister in the Kibaki administration (2002-2012), but unfortunately I think he does not have the aura of Duale. Will Kimunya rally MPs to pass legislation? I doubt. In fact it was clear during his press conference after the changes that the people we expected to be standing by his sides were all gone. They followed Duale. This is a telltale sign that Kimunya has to first develop rapport with MPs. He now needs to be warm and welcoming  failure which means bills and motions will be defeated. While Duale has been a people person with good leadership skills, I must point out that at some point, in the wake of handshake -his attention became divided. So in way a party boss Uhuru Kenyatta made the right the decision to relive him of his duties because that is the position that requires total loyalty and commitment. As to whether Deputy President William Ruto has abandoned his lieutenants to face the wrath of Kenyatta, it is not true. In the current arrangement, he has no option but to respect the decisions of the President. If it was a coalition, it would have been a different case altogether, but here we are dealing with two people who were elected on one ticket. This notion of a Ruto ally or Uhuru ally does not hold since all these MPs were elected on a Jubilee ticket. It is a virtue of leadership not to undermine the President. The DP is aware of that and that is why he still commands respect among Kenyans. Day by day, he is receiving sympathy courtesy of some of the actions of Kenyatta’s handlers. Disgruntled Jubilee members should not form a new party. They should take their grievances to Jubilee headquarters. There is no need for another centre of power. After all they pay monthly fees to Jubilee. The political analyst spoke to the Star.