In the past few months, President Uhuru Kenyatta has demonstrated rare political will and spine to lead the fight against corruption. The Oxford English Dictionary defines political will as “the firm intention or commitment of a government to carry through a policy, especially one that may not be immediately successful or popular:. However, sceptics and cynics still abound. There are those who argue Kenyatta has not done enough to demonstrate "political will" in the fight against corruption. Some critics sneer that no big fish has been convicted ever since the recent onslaught against the scourge began, an outcome whose realisation falls  arm of government. It is important to note he has no control of the judiciary. Those who subscribe to this school of reasoning are also quick to add that some of the corruption cases being raised now happened as Kenyatta watched. Others point out that Kenyatta's spirited war against corruption is informed by the fact that he is now serving his last term and has very little, if at all, to lose politically hence his new found resolve to root out corruption. But more recently, "political will" has been redefined as the "determination of an individual political actor to do and say things that produce a desired outcome". The variance in this definition is that it does not seek to aggregate the incapacity of political and administrative instruments to achieve an outcome, thereby exonerating Kenyatta from the view that the courts are yet to pronounce themselves on a number of corruption cases that have been brought presented in court. The variance of this new definition is that it excludes such factors as insufficiency of material resources, institutional or related impediments and opposition from vested interests that may prevent the desired outcome from occurring. It is in this context that proposed amendment of anti-corruption related laws should be seen. Those under investigation must be made to stay out of office, and should only be allowed back when cleared of any wrongdoing and not as being proposed in the amendments. The Presiding Convener of the Civil Society Reference Group spoke to the Star. 