Five suspected gangsters have been arrested after they were allegedly caught on CCTV breaking into vehicles at the Gateway Mall along Mombasa Road in Machakos county. They were arrested between May 30 and June 6 after the mall’s management intensified security by installing new CCTV and replacing the security firm manning the property. Two men and a woman were arraigned at Mavoko law courts on Monday after they were arrested on June 6 at the mall and beaten by residents before they were rescued by police. They spent the weekend at Mlolongo police station. They were identified as Stephen Odhiambo, Frederick Otieno and Perry Kinyati. Arrested earlier were Vickie Ondundo, Rawlings Obuya and Charles Nzomo, police said. The mall’s property and security managers said criminals no longer have a field day terrorising patrons as had been the norm. Gateway Mall property manager Cyrus Mwai said the suspects were part of a criminal syndicate that was terrorising the public not only along Mombasa Road but also the entire country. “We have arrested several gangsters caught red-handed breaking into vehicles at the mall. This was made possible by intensified surveillance,” he said. Mwai said the gang used metal bars and master keys to open the vehicles. They monitored movements of the vehicles’ owners at the mall before breaking in. Police also said the gangsters trail customers from banks as far as Kitengela and Athi River to the mall where they break into the cars and steal their money and valuables, including laptops and cameras. CCTV footages seen by the Star showed two men trailing shoppers before robbing their vehicles. The mall's management addressed the press at the mall on Tuesday. The Star was shown CCTV footage of break-ins in broad daylight. Mwai blamed the judicial process that he termed a stumbling block in the war against crime, citing low cash bail as a problem. “Our security system is intact, suspects arrested in the two latest incidents were all arraigned at Mavoko Law Courts and released on cash bail. Though they have manoeuvered their way out through the court, we won’t relent in ensuring Gaetway Mall is safe,” he said. He said the mall was covered by CCTV cameras everywhere, both inside and outside. The mall with five floors hosts has four banks - Family, Equity, KCB and I&M - alongside tens of businesses including Naivas Supermarket. The management said it was liaising with both police officers and officials from the Machakos county on security. (Edited by V. Graham) 