Former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has formally launched The Service Party of Kenya. Speaking during the launch in Nairobi, Kiunjuri promised that his new part will be a revolution in governance. Kiunjuri said TSP will be a grassroots party that will not only be the voice of the normal mwananchi but will also approach politics in the country differently. "We have listened carefully to Kenyans and made the commitment to bring forth a platform that as our name suggests, will be unequivocal about service delivery to our people," he said. The former CS said as the TSP leadership, they were committed to building politics by getting voices heard when and where it matters. "TSP believed that Kenya will change dramatically over the next decade. We have the opportunity to pull together and ensure that those changes are fair, inclusive, sustainable and will positively impact our shared destiny," he said. The Service Party was given a certificate of registration after meeting all the requirements on Tuesday. The unveiling of the new party signals a comeback into politics by the immediate former Agriculture CS, who was dropped from the Cabinet in January by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kiunjuri was kicked out of Uhuru’s administration in the continued purge targeting Deputy President William Ruto's allies. He is a close associate of the DP. TSP is the latest entrant in Central Kenya as leaders position themselves for the 2022 elections. With no end in sight to the growing squabbles in Jubilee, Kiunjuri is seeking to control the Central region with the new party. TSP was registered by a group of youths under the chairmanship of Kariuki Munyoroku. It was issued with an interim certificate in January and is positioning itself to be a beneficiary of the imminent collapse of Jubilee. Other parties that have since been registered by Mt Kenya leaders include the Civic Renewal Party (CRP) and Transformation National Alliance Party (TNAP). However, the latter's registration is reported to have stalled. CRP is associated with Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, while TNAP is linked to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Besides Jubilee, parties with roots in Central Kenya include Narc-Kenya, Safina, Democratic Party, PNU and GNU.