Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura has called upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to confirm Justice Mumbi Ngugi's appointment as an appellate judge. Mwaura said Justice Ngugi's career development is being forestalled by the current standoff between Chief Justice David Maraga and President Kenyatta over the appointment of the 41 judges. "We call upon Chief Justice David Maraga and President Kenyatta to confirm Justice Ngugi's appointment. Her landmark rulings such as that all children should have their father's name in their birth certificates is very important to many persons with albinism whose fathers usually take off," Mwaura said. Ngugi is one of the 41 judges who have been recommended for appointment, specifically as a Court of Appeal judge. The list of the judges is the latest bone of contention between the two arms of government. President Kenyatta has expressed concerns over the integrity of the some of the judges. Mwaura spoke during the International Albinism Awareness Day at the Albinism Society of Kenya offices in Nairobi West on Saturday. He noted that much needs to be done to improve the representation of persons with albinism in all sectors of the society. "We can say without the fear of doubt or contradiction that all this is tokenism. Much still needs to be done to increase our representation in the society," he said. Speaking at the same event, Lydia Mbaria, a board member of ASK, decried the increasing stigmatisation of persons with albinism during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. "It is very unfortunate that we have to suffer because of the way we are. Some of us have been called corona and accused of spreading the virus. We have had distress calls from people thrown from matatus and from their houses," Mbaria said. Mbaria added that many persons with albinism have locked themselves indoors for fear of being attacked. "One lady was actually spat on and accused of spreading corona. Please, give us a chance, support us even as we try to accept our condition," she said. The association has lined up several activities countrywide and in Africa once the pandemic subsides. One of these is next year's Albinism Festival that will comprise pageantries, creative and performance arts. Edited by Henry Makori