Forward Odion Ighalo has extended his loan deal at Manchester United until January 2021. Ighalo, 30, joined United in January from Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua, initially until may 31. There is no option for the Premier League club to buy the Nigeria international. “It’s been a dream for him and hopefully he can finish what he started and win a trophy with us,” said United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. “Shanghai Shenua have been great towards us, allowing him to play for his dream club.” Ighalo has scored four times in eight appearances for the Old Trafford side, including a goal in the 5-0 Europa League win over LASK on 12 March, which was United’s last competitive match before the season was suspended because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Premier League season is set to resume on 17 June. United are fifth in the table, three points behind fourth-placed Chelsea with nine games to play. Solskjaer’s side are also in the quarter-finals of the FA Cup and have that five-goal lead going into the second leg of their Europa League last-16 tie against LASK. Meanwhile, Liverpool will not ease up in their nine remaining Premier League games even after they secure the wins they need to seal a first top-flight crown in 30 years, manager Juergen Klopp said. The club have a 25-point lead over second-placed Manchester City as the Premier League prepares to resume this month following the COVID-19 disruption. Liverpool can also secure the title with a win against Everton in their first match back if City lose to Arsenal when the league restarts on June 17. “It’s nice to think about it but we are not champions yet and we know that,” Klopp told the BBC. “We know we’re close but close is not there. There are 27 points left for us and we will try everything to take them all. “We don’t want to stop winning after two games ...” The league was suspended on March 13 due to the pandemic, with teams returning to training in small groups before voting last week to return to contact training. “I have missed it so much it’s unbelievable,” Klopp added. “I know it’s not the most important thing in life but it is my passion. I hope the people are looking forward to it because we are.” 