Deputy President William Ruto gave the clearest signal that his faction of the Jubilee Party was charting its own path. After a meeting with MPs who were recently dewhipped by the party, Ruto posted a new slogan - 'Sote Pamoja' (All of us together) - indicating that he had dumped 'Tuko Pamoja' (We are together). The MPs retweeted a tweet by the DP quoting it with the same slogan in the clearest indication yet that they were done with the Jubilee Party. This comes just days after the party signed cooperation agreements with Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper Party and Issac Rutto's Chama cha Mashinani. 'Tuko Pamoja' has been the Jubilee slogan which President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto used to rally Kenyans behind the Jubilee Party in the last election. They used the slogan to symbolise the unity they were seeking to achieve especially after the 2007 election violence. Over the last couple of months, Uhuru's camps has led a coup against Ruto's side with the latest being the removal of allies of the DP from Parliamentary leadership positions. The purge has seen Ruto's people also dewhipped from various committee and it is expected more of his allies in government will be axed in an upcoming reorganisation. The DP on Thursday hosted the MPs who were recently kicked out of Parliamentary leadership and committees for lunch at his Karen residence. Ruto described the MPs as hardworking asking them to complete the journey by focusing on development. "I implored them to continue focusing on Jubilee's people-centered transformational agenda now and in the future. SOTE PAMOJA," Ruto said. Among those who attended the meeting were Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi). Others were MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South),  Cecily Mbarire (Nominated), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Kimani Ichungwah (Kikuyu), , William Cheptumo (Baringo North), Robert Pukose (Endebess), Joyce Korir (Bomet Woman Rep) and Cornelly Serem (Aldai). Also present was Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa of ODM and Victor Munyaka (Machakos) of Wiper. The two are among scores of opposition MPs who have  is an ODM MP but has pledged allegiance to Ruto.