Kenya has marked 100 days since the first coronavirus case was reported in the country on March 13, 2020. Briefing the nation on the situation in the country, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Sunday said the government has made progress in handling the virus from escalating since the first case. The CS said the government will procure more testing kits in the coming weeks. Kagwe said the journey has never been smooth since 123 people have succumbed to the virus. The country reported 260 new cases of the virus in the last 24 hours, the highest in a day since the virus was reported. The new cases were drawn from 3,651 samples tested. This brings the number of cases in the country to 4,738. At the same time, the CS said 21 people have been discharged from various hospitals in the country, adding the number of recoveries to 1,607. Out of the new cases, 254 are Kenyans while 6 are foreigners. The ages of the new cases reported range from seven month old infant and the oldest is 90 years. Also, 176 are men and 84 are females from the new cases. Nairobi had 157 cases, Mombasa 42, Kwale 15, Kiambu 14, machakos 9, Kajiado 9, Migori 3 and Nakuru 3. Also, Busia reported three cases, Homabay three, Kilifi two, and Kisii, Kisumu, Kakamega and Laikipia single cases each. The country has tested 140,012 samples since the outbreak was reported. The CS urged Kenyans to follow the containment measures, adding that the virus is here to stay. "It is evident that Covid-19 will be with us longer and it will stretch our healthcare system, it is now our personal responsibility to ensure we observe the containment measures to fight the disease," Kagwe said. Yesterday, a new poll suggested that the number of Kenyans in deep financial problems as a result of the Covid-19 lockdowns has risen significantly. At least 41 per cent, up from 28 per cent in April, now see the pandemic as a financial rather than health problem, according to the poll released by Infotrak on Sunday. The majority of Kenyans interviewed said they the cost of food has gone up and they are unable to pay for utilities like electricity or service their debts. The poll, conducted and financed by Infotrack, showed that the number of Kenyans who view the disease as a health issue also doubled from eight per cent in April to 16 per cent. The disease was reported in Kenya on March 13 and in response, the government locked down several parts of the country, imposed a curfew, closed schools, hotels and bars and stopped all flights. At least 87 per cent of Kenyans say as a result, the price of food has gone up, while 75 per cent say they cannot service their debts. Infotrak said 67  per cent now cannot adequately pay for utilities like water and electricity, while 68 per cent cannot afford charcoal, or kerosine or gas.