Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has directed the Vice Chancellors and Principals of Universities to come up with reopening plans for their institutions. In the plan, the universities have been asked to develop prevention protocols to stem the spread of coronavirus as the government plans to reopen learning institutions in September. The directive comes as relief to over 100,000 students who sat the 2019 KCSE exam and qualified for university. Admission is set for September. In the directive, the CS wants learning institutions used as quarantine centres to liaise with the Health ministry and prepare for transfer of patients to other identified facilities. "Once the patients are transferred, you must ensure the facilities used during treatment are properly fumigated for safe use in line with the guidelines from the Ministry of Health.” he said The statement by Magoha further calls on universities to plan on helping students who might need assistance to get back to their institution. “Universities should, therefore, make sure that students and staff who might not be able to get back are facilitated to continue with teaching and learning remotely,” the statement reads. The minimum requirements upon reopening have been outlined as clean running water and soap for hand washing or hand sanitiser. The institutions will also be required to sanitise often-touched objects such as door knobs, light switches and stair railings with disinfectant. Lecture halls and common spaces will be need to ensure adequate space for social distancing where universities may put signs to require staff, students and limited interactive programmes. Other requirements are mandatory use of masks or face shields for learners, lecturers and non-teaching staff. “Universities will ensure all learners and staff have masks. The universities may provide these at a subsidised rate to students and staff.” the statement reads. Lastly, universities must have thermal guns for monitoring the temperatures of all persons entering the intuitions and specific public spaces on campus. Edited by R.Wamochie