Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on Monday vowed to crush 'bloodthirsty' gang members in Nyandarua county. Matiang'i, who led a delegation of top security chiefs in the county, said a time has come for the government to put to an end a spate of killings targeting women and children. "We are on a working mission here in Nyandarua. We are paying close attention to the increasing cases of cattle rustling and grisly murders happening in the recent days," he said. "I have come with the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and we are going to move around, have a serious meeting that will bring a permanent solution to this problem," he added. Matiangi said after a series meetings, his docket will issue a comprehensive report and issue directives on how the challenges will be dealt with. Matiangi's delegation comes amid an increase in the brutal killings that have sent  shivers down the spines of residents. The murders follow a similar pattern whereby perpetrators sneak into the houses of their victims past midnight. Residents say the assailants who execute the heinous acts rarely steal anything. In most cases, the victims are hacked to death. The murderous gang usually digs holes to access the houses where their victims are sleeping. The killings have been escalating since last year, with the latest being the murder of a mother and her seven-year-old daughter after they were gang raped. According to police reports, at least 20 people have been killed in the county in the last few months in various villages. Women and young girls have been the targets of the killings. The incidences have raised security concerns within the county as residents say they might be gangs for hire. “The unending murders are becoming a real concern to us, it appears the killings are done by a bloodthirsty gang for hire. Their mode of attack is similar where they  hit the heads of their victims to ensure they do not survive,” a resident told reporters. Police boss Isaac Ruto said preliminary investigations indicate the killings are property related; well planned and executed by those close to the victims. Ruto said some cases are already in court while others have been referred to the homicide department. Local politicians, led by Woman rep Faith Gitau, Michael Muchira (Ol Joro Orok) and Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa) last month petitioned Mutyambai and Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti to intervene. “What is appalling is that in all these instances, no culprits have ever been arrested and successfully prosecuted. The residents are therefore living in fear of more attacks as the perpetrator(s) are roaming around freely,” the legislators wrote in a letter to the police.