Governors in Nyanza and Western have urged the national government to help them permanently end flooding that ravages the region during heavy rains. They called for construction of dams and dykes and completion of water projects. The governors said on Saturday the perennial flooding causes economic instability, poverty and claims lives. Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu), Okoth Obado (Migori) and Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) urged the state to help find a lasting solution. They said thousands of residents in Nyanza and Western live in panic during rainy seasons because they know floods will displace them and destroy crops and property. The governors spoke in Kendu Bay, Karachuonyo, during the distribution of national government-donated foodstuffs to displaced families by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. He distributed maize, beans and cooking oil. Wamalwansaid rains will continue in June due to climate change and government aid will continue. Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okume was also present. Oparanya said rains destroy roads essential to economic development, getting supplies to residents and getting crops to market. He sympathised with residents in Nyando (Kisumu), Budalangi (Busia), Wang’chieng (Homa Bay) and Nyatike (Migori) during flooding. “It’s bad for our people to still face problems they had in the 19th Century. The catastrophe has impeded growth,” he said. Oparanya, chairman of the Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB), said they have made proposals to the State through the Devolution ministry on how to end the flooding problem. He said more than 4,000 Kakamega families have been affected by floods. “As the LREB leadership, we have met CS Wamalwa and agreed on ways to end the perennial flooding. We hope it will end if the collaborative proposals are implemented,” he said. Awiti and Ojaamong said more than 25,036 people and 8,000 flood-displaced families are still living in camps. Awiti said dykes and should be constructed on the main rivers to control floods and prevent destruction when rivers burst their banks. “You cannot participate in national building without a shelter. People live from hand to mouth due to frequent destruction of crops and property,” Ojaamong said. Nyong’o and Obado appealed to the national government to complete projects. Nyong’o singled out the Koru-Soin multipurpose dam in his county to control floods in River Nyando. “Nyanza and Western counties are ready to work closely with the national government to achieve our development agendas,” Nyong’o said. CS Wamalwa said the government would assist all flood victims with food and other supplies until normalcy returns. He said floods also affected people in Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and Coastal counties. (Edited by V. Graham)  