A surge in gender-based violence, early marriages and early pregnancies are among the challenges facing children in Mombasa. Other problems are neglect, drug abuse and child labour. The worsening situation has largely been blamed on the Covid-19 crisis. More children are in need of help as their rights are violated. Mombasa county Children's Department has recorded 50 cases of gender-based violence and the high number has been linked to the stay-at-home directives as some cases have been perpetrated by relatives and close friends. Children's county coordinator Philip Nzenge cited Kisauni as the hotspot of early pregnancies in the county. He spoke on Monday during an event to mark the Day of the African Child at Uhuru na Kazi building in Mombasa. "In Kisauni alone, there are more than 15 cases. We have received reports and we are following them up with chiefs and village elders," he said. Nzenge also mentioned child neglect in Changamwe where many children are reported to be loitering, a situation that puts them at risk of contracting the virus and spreading it to other areas. "When you go to Changamwe, you will find that parents have left their children to loiter around as if there is no coronavirus. Child neglect is very high in Changamwe," he said. Nzenge said Likoni has many cases of child drug abuse. In Mvita, the number of street children is on the rise. He said the county government has rescued 52 children from the area and secured them at an orphanage. "We have taught them acrobatics and even acting," he said. Nzenge warned parents against resorting to child labour to get income. Many parents have been blamed for such practices. Many parents, especially during Ramadhan, were using their children as a means of getting finances," he said. Another challenge facing the African child in the county is a lack of gadgets and internet access to follow up on education matters. Rukiyya Omar, a child who attended the event, urged the government to equip learners with gadgets to enable them to keep abreast with online-based learning. "Smartphones help us to connect to the world and learn, especially during this pandemic," she said. Omar urged the government to ensure lessons are provided on the radio, which does not require the internet. She said radio can be used even by those without electricity, hence will reach a large audience and benefit many.  Edited by F'Orieny