There was jubilation at Shalom Community Hospital in Athi River on Tuesday after the government allowed it to resume operations. Staff and patients celebrated when Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council CEO Daniel Yumbya ordered Machakos county government security personnel out of the premises. The council conditionally gave the hospital the nod to resume normal operations. “The hospital resumes services as provided for under Cap 253 of the Laws of Kenya. The security teams currently deployed at Athi River Shalom Community Hospital vacate with immediate effect,” Yumbya said during a media briefing after meeting the Dr Fredrick Onyango-led management. The CEO and other council members inspected the hospital before issuing the directive. Shalom was sealed off last Friday by both the council and Machakos county government after four people died of Covid-19 at the facility. “Reference is made to the order by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council, county government of Machakos and director general of Health, Ministry of Health on Friday, 26 June, and our subsequent press release of Saturday, June 27, in regards to limiting access to Athi River Shalom Community Hospital,” Yumbya said. The council considered status reports submitted on June 29 by the county government, the medical officer in charge and the council's inspection team. It ordered the hospital’s medical director to fumigate and disinfect the entire facility. “The hospital management to ensure availability of adequate PPEs. Patients and staff whose results are yet to be received are advised to wait for further directives which shall be issued by midday tomorrow, July 1.” Yumbya asked the Machakos county director of health to ensure that all health workers who tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to proceed for home-based quarantine or continue with normal duties. He ordered that all health workers who tested positive of Covid-19 to be quarantined in an identified ward in the facility under the Ministry of Health isolation guidelines. “The county government of Machakos should ensure psychological support is provided to staff and patients. The Machakos CEC for Health to ensure that all patients who tested positive for Covid-19 and are due for discharge are allowed to proceed for 14 days home quarantine,” Yumbya said. Onyango said the hospital was committed to providing quality and efficient health care. “We have always made efforts to work with the Machakos county government to ensure proper medical care,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori