Residents of Kiambu have been encouraged to visit hospitals without fear as measures have been put in place to protect them from contracting to Covid-19 disease. Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi said individuals suffering from other ailments should not stay at home for fear of the coronavirus as health facilities have been improved and stocked with adequation medicines. Ngugi praised Governor James Nyoro for moving with speed to improve health facilities at a time when the country is grappling with the spread of the virus. "I have been in office for about one month and I have toured different places and health facilities have been catered for so well for you,"  she said. "There is no reason for one to stay at home with any kind of sickness. Visit our facilities with full confidence. We also have a hospital where all cases of Covid-19 will be referred to.” She spoke at Lari Kirenga MCA office at Ha Gatarama in Lari constituency where she donated food to 265 residents from the ward. She was accompanied by MCA Joseph Karichu, Nyoro’s economic advisor Njoki Wamitugo and subcounty administrator Dominic Kariuki.  Also present were chiefs from the ward and their assistants. Karichu said Nyoro’s administration has placed residents at the forefront of stopping the spread of the coronavirus. He urged residents to also pray for themselves, their leaders and the government even as they comply with directives meant to contain the virus. "Setting aside one hospital to cater for coronavirus [patients] is a clear indicator that no one will interfere with the patients in all our facilities. People's lives and health matters are normally discussed by our governor every morning and evening,” Karichu said. On donations, Ngugi said the government cannot fully feed all the needy in society. She, therefore, urged residents to help one another and ensure their neighbours do not go to bed hungry. The deputy county boss also noted that the subcounty was known for horticulture growing, hence urged farmers to intensify their work to help the county achieve food security and sustenance.