Wiyeta Girls' players have been assigned scouting duties during this period where students are at home due to the coronavirus pandemic. With sports activities and movement restricted as part of COVID-19 containment measures, the school's coaching staff delegated this duty to the players and coach Edgar Manyara is happy to report that he already has five names. "Some of the players are acting as scouts, informing us about girls in their home area who play football for admission at our school," said Manyara. "We are keen on getting girls from primary schools than those in secondary. The talents coming direct from primary schools fit into our playing style with ease and they also come to know of the discipline we need in the team and as a school." The tactician averred that they rarely admit talented players already in other secondary schools, but when they do, they go for those in Form One and Two only. For this category of potential newbies for the Trans Nzoia County outfit, there is a lot of background checks. "However, our main reasons of not signing players from other secondary schools are indiscipline and age. The KSSSA (Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association) transfer procedure is another factor," added the mathematics and biology teacher who has now dedicated his time to his farm where he grows carrots, vegetables, beans, potatoes as well as eucalyptus trees. Meanwhile, Wiyeta, who qualified for the Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom season three national finals from Rift Valley, have turned to personal training at home. Manyara said they don't have a designed training regime but have encouraged players to do their own exercises from home. "Most of them have balls at home so we ask them to train juggling and dribbling in addition to fitness training. Going for morning and evening runs is however mandatory," he continued, adding: "We regularly talk to the girls mostly through their parents and so far we have had two concerns emerging." "There was one indiscipline case whom we counselled (both student and parents) and she's back on track. The other concern has been from players from needy backgrounds whom we (technical bench) sent them some cash for shopping." In the same breath, Manyara has urged the sports fraternity and the larger public to stay safe by observing the containment measures set by the government to curb coronavirus and where you can make a positive impact on at least one person who is needy during this unprecedented period.