Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe have appointed an Inter-faith Council that will oversee the reopening of places of worship. Nyeri Catholic Archbishop Anthony Muheria has been appointed as the chairperson of the council that will develop stringent protocols for the phased re-opening of places of worship. The CS on Friday said the appointment has been made following the directives from President Uhuru Kenyatta issued during the eighth State Address on the Coronavirus Pandemic delivered on June 6. The council has 16 members including Rt. (Rev.) Bishop John Obala, Rt. (Rev.) Bishop Joseph Obanyi, Moderator Julius Mwamba Rev. (Can.) Chris Kamau Kinyanjui Rev. (Can.) Rosemary Mbogo Pastor, Samuel Makori and Al Hajj Hassan Ole Naado. Others are Sheikh Sukyan Hassan Omar, Sheikh Abdulatif Abdulkarim, Rev. (Fr.) Joseph Mutie, Bishop David Oginde, Rev. Connie Kivuti, Sujata Kotamraju, Rt. Rev. Samuel Thiong’o Mwangi and Sheikh Ali Saidi Samojah. The council will be joined by the three secretaries who are Kepha Ombacho, Francis Kagema and Paul Famba. The council will also develop protocols for the celebration of weddings and other religious ceremonies in the places of worship in ways compliant with physical and social distancing guidelines. It will also develop protocols for religious funerals and gravesides/crematoria last rites and send-off as well as developing a programme for Public Sensitisation and Capacity Building of all religious leaders and clergy on the protocols. Also, the team will develop a prioritised implementation matrix, clearly stating the dates for re-opening and the numbers-capping applicable and will conduct any other matter ancillary to or in furtherance of any of the foregoing terms of reference. The Council shall be answerable to the president through the National and County Governments Coordinating Summit. The CS said the council secretariat shall be located at the Ministry of Interior and Co-ordination of National Government. Matiang’i said that the country and the world will have to contend with Covid-19 until such a time that a vaccine is developed. All places of worship were closed in March following the outbreak of coronavirus.