Is an MP from Kisii allied to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) planning to visit Opposition chief Raila Odinga for 'sanitisation' at his Capitol Hill office? The ardent supporter of the DP has whispered to confidants he doesn't want to be left out in the dash to Raila. The man feels he already has enough to deal with and cannot 'walk alone'. Raila has been receiving Ruto's allies in the last few days but the number is expected to spike as they join the handshake brigade. The Kisii MP has pledged to be among colleagues pledging loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila as the 2022 landscape shifts. Initially, the Kisii Ruto honcho had vowed to stick with the DP for better or for worse. It's said the man has realised his  popularity is dwindling and even his colleagues are shunning him. *** If you have been wondering where a popular governor has disappeared to, we may have a clue. He could be in hiding. The man must have rubbed some elders the wrong way with his strict orders to contain the Covid-19 spread. Corridors is apprised the elders slaughtered five goats and seven sheep in a ceremony in which they cast spells against the county boss who is not in good books with his party leader. The man has since become afraid and has been sending emissaries to appease the wazees. The elders reportedly rejected the first attempt to give them Sh500 each to undo the spell, a move which angered them. *** A former MP from Nyanza recently held a goat-eating ceremony to celebrate what he called a breakthrough in his push to be appointed to a parastatal board. The man, who has never left his rural home since Covid-19 hit, said he is set to be appointed to the board of a top state agency under the Ministry of Energy. Prior to the celebrations, the ex-lawmaker was all over the village, telling whoever cared to listen about his impending appointment. *** Junior police officers in a Nyanza county are not happy with their boss at regional headquarters whom they accuse of protecting members of a gang who harasses traders and residents at will. They say that each time the goons are apprehended, the senior cop issues orders they must be released unconditionally. The goons who have arrogated to themselves the role of debt collectors are also known to work closely with conmen commonly known as ‘Wash Wash’ whose dealings feed the appetite of the rogue police boss. Junior officers and residents now appeal to the top command to act before the cartel overruns the police station and the county. 