The Covid-19 pandemic should jolt county and national governments to improve their healthcare facilities, outgoing Ernst & Young CEO Gitahi Gachahi has said. Gachahi said it is time the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) capacities are improved in counties. He said the government should think about investing more resources on health as people can no longer travel abroad for medical services. “Now we need to come and invest in our own hospitals in Kenya. We must now start looking internally and explore solutions from within including manufacturing within,” he said. He said the country should not import Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) anymore and instead help improve the local capacity of manufacturing. The Dedan Kimathi University of Technology in Nyeri, he said, has proved that it can manufacture PPE such as hazmat suits, masks and sanitiser for area health facilities. Gachahi said the effects of Covid-19 are affecting Kenyans in a very adverse way and has also affected the corporate world where working hours have been reduced. “People have lost jobs while others have gone through salary cuts yet they are the same people who are supporting their families. It is a very dire situation globally,” he said. He said intercountry trade has also been affected as many are unable to import or export goods they used to, further affecting the economy. However, he said, the government has managed to cope with the situation well despite a scarcity of resources. “Despite the limited resources, the government has gone ahead and even given some stimulus packages just to alleviate the suffering of its people,” he said. He spoke at Huho-ini area in Tetu, Nyeri county, during the distribution of foodstuff by Diamond Trust Bank to needy families in the area on Wednesday. Over 150 families benefitted from the food aid with each of the families getting assorted foodstuff worth Sh2,500 to last them for one month according to the bank’s branch manager Martin Kimathi. Gachahi hailed DTB for the good gesture and called on other corporates to emulate the bank in their corporate social responsibility. “Let them not focus on profits at the expense of the public. We cannot ignore the same market where we take our goods and services and then expect profit at the end of the day,” he said. “We must focus on the public and this is what DTB is doing. I congratulate them and call on others to emulate.” He called on the local community to also sacrifice a meal a day and help the needy in society. Earlier, Gachahi had donated sanitiser, handwashing water systems to residents and medical supplies to a local dispensary. (edited by o. owino)