National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi will make a ruling on whether Nasa can recall Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa as their representative to the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo had raised a procedural question on how to remove a member of the influential commission. He wanted the Speaker to guide the House on how a PSC member can be recalled, especially after losing the confidence of the sponsoring entity. “The Nasa coalition met and reached a unanimous decision and resolved to effect certain changes to the composition of the Parliamentary Service Commission,” Otiende said. “I seek your guidance because before we take action and to avoid acting in vain and unnecessary varied interpretation of relevant provisions.” Jumwa is among the nine MPs that Nasa resolved to dewhip during their May 28 Parliamentary Group meeting at Parliament's main chambers. Nasa had also announced plans to start the process of recalling her from PSC. It proposed Mishi Mboko (Malindi) as a replacement. The dewhipped MPs were accused, of among other things, of not toeing the coalition line and advancing Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential agenda. Others dewhiped for a period of six months include Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango, KNC), Nakara Lodepe (Turkana Central), Catherine Wambilianga (Bungoma Woman Rep), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango, Ford Kenya), David Ochieng (MDG), Bady Twalib (Jomvu, ODM) and Tindi Mwale (Butere). Muturi said he will give directions on the matter soon. The Speaker will also rule on the issue of Ugenya MP Ochieng’, who was dewhipped by Nasa despite not being affiliated to either the majority or minority side in the August House. On Tuesday Ochieng’ sought the Speaker’s direction on the move, saying his Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG) was not a Nasa affiliate as it was being perceived. The Ugenya MP said he was surprised to receive a letter from Minority Whip Junet Mohammed discharging him from being a member of the Health committee. I want you to make a ruling on this letter I received because I don’t belong to the majority side or the minority side,” Ochieng’ said. “Members of the party I belong to have been wondering whether I entered a secret agreement with Nasa without informing them.” Muturi promised to issue a communication over the issue but noted that every MP has the right to sit in at least a committee.“Every member is entitled to serve in a committee that is a fact whether the member is an independent candidate or belongs to a political party. It is how they get into those committees that we will need to determine,” Muturi said.