Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu’s faction of Ford Kenya has accused Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula of forum shopping for a friendly court to frustrate the proposed changes in the party. In a constitutional petition filed at the High Court, the faction allied to Eseli and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi said Wetang'ula’s move to withdraw his case before the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal only to move to the High Court is suspect. They want the court to review orders that put the changes. On June 8, the Bungoma senator withdrew his case before the Tribunal and requested the PPDT to refer the matter for resolution by internal party organs. He then moved to the High Court where he obtained orders keeping on hold the changes that would see Wamunyinyi take over as party leader with Eseli retaining his seat. The orders were issued hours before the maturity of Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu’s notice in the Kenya Gazette, seeking views on the proposed replacement of Wetang’ula by Wamunyinyi. Wamunyinyi’s camp claimed Wetang’ula is guilty of abusing the court process through forum shopping for a friendly court after PPDT declined to give him interim orders. Through their advocate Rachier and Amollo, they argued that the matter was improperly filed before the High Court which, according to Political parties Act, is an appellate court on party disputes and with no jurisdiction to hear matters for the first time. The petition was filed last Thursday before Justice James Makau who issued the initial orders. “The Political parties Act provides that all disputes between a party and its members have to be referred to the party’s internal dispute resolution mechanisms before a dispute is referred to the PPDT and thereafter, the High Court as an appellant court,” the camp argued in the petition. “The petitioner is asking the court to assume the role and jurisdiction of the PPDT and at the first instance entertain party disputes,” the petition stated. The Kanduyi MP also asked the court to strike out Wetang'ula’s suit arguing that the judge who signed the orders is not a designated officer of that court. “The orders issued on the June 15 are irregular for having been illegitimately signed by a non-designated officer who is not a designated Deputy Registrar of the Constitutional and Human Rights Division,” he said. Justice Makau certified the matter as urgent and directed the application be served to the Wetang’ula faction within three working days from the date of his ruling on Thursday. Wetang’ula’s team will also have three working days to respond and then the parties will meet again on June 29 for directions. Edited by R.Wamochie