Education CS George Magoha is spending sleepless nights as he seeks ways to ensure all learners get at least two masks as schools reopen in September. Speaking in Kitui, Magoha said President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed that schools be reopened by September. “A mask must be worn and there is no negotiation about it. That is what is keeping me sleepless because, in order to give children two masks, we need to produce 24 million masks,” the CS said. He also disclosed that when schools reopen, each classroom will have 15 to 20 learners. He said all schools will be inspected ahead of reopening to ensure they have sufficient running water and proper sanitation. The CS added that teachers will report to schools two weeks before the reopening for training on how to handle Covid-19-related cases. "Every school will also be expected to have thermal guns to check learners’ and staff temperature. If a learner is found to have a fever, they will be put aside to be examined,” he said. He pointed out that to ensure learners get the masks, the procurement process must be bypassed and that instead of ensuring merchants make money without the government getting value, government institutions will produce the masks. “The government is looking at what it has first to fast-track the production of masks. We have been to the NYS and Rivatex and today at Kikotec,” he said, adding the Kitui facility was good and producing quality materials. “I was highly impressed that the girl I spoke to said she can make up to 1,500 masks per shift; at Rivatex one can make 150 masks per hour. You can see they are almost the same,” he said. The Interior and Health ministries have produced a prototype mask for the ideal materials to be used for mass production, Magoha said. He lauded the youth working at Kicotec for being committed to the production of high quantity masks to fight Covid-19. “This is the path for us to take in terms of being self-reliant.” Kicotec, he said, had in the past spearheaded the production of materials related to health and school uniforms. Edited by R.Wamochie