A senior official in Deputy President William Ruto’s office was among 12 suspects charged with Sh198 million fraud at the Kenya School of Law on Wednesday. Prof Morris Kiwinda who formerly worked at KSL is a senior secretary for policy in the DP’s office. He and the co-accused denied misappropriation of public funds for goods not supplied. The charges revolve around making fraudulent payments and unlawful acquisition of public property. The offences are said to have been committed between 2014 and 2018. Anti-corruption magistrate Lawrence Mugambi granted Kiwinda, Amos Mwangi and Frank Were Sh5 million bail or a bond of Sh10 million each. The other suspects were granted a cash bail of Sh3 million or a bond of Sh5 million. They are Hudson Amwai, Nobert Gondi, Ephraim Ngumi, Paul Lovi trading as Ademwa Enterprises, Fridah Wanda, Francis Mwaki, Alfred Murange, Sam Achiro and Kennedy Ochieng. The accused persons were ordered to deposit their passports in court. It is alleged that between September 30, 2014, and March 15, 2018, the accused misappropriated public funds amounting to Sh198 million from Kenya School of Law for goods not supplied. The court heard that on February 23, 2016, at KSL, Mwangi and Were fraudulently made payments of Sh14.2 million to Hudson Amwai Lwigado and Paul Lovi trading as Ademwa Enterprises for goods not supplied. In another count, Mwangi and Kiwinda are accused of fraudulently making payments of Sh40 million to Hudson Amwai Lwigada and Paul Lovi Andenga trading as Ademwa enterprises for goods not supplied. The offence was committed between March 2, 2016, and February 19, 2018, at the offices of KSL. Fridah Wanda trading as Frigoya Investments is accused of unlawfully acquiring from KSL Sh19.6 million for goods not supplied. Mwaki and Murange jointly trading as Altranc Investments unlawfully acquired from KSL Sh23 million for goods not supplied. Three of the accused were not in court and the Magistrate issued summonses to appear. Investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission revealed that the companies associated with the employees benefited from the funds for goods and services that were not supplied. Edited by Henry Makori