Three state entities are scheduled to pay a total of Sh21 billion pending bills and VAT refunds to thousands of traders and suppliers by June 30. The Prisons Department owes about 2,000 suppliers Sh5.3 billion — part of the longstanding Sh6.2 billion claims. The National Youth Service has begun paying Sh6 billion of the Sh14 billion claims to over 2,100 suppliers. The Kenya Revenue Authority has rolled out Sh10 billion VAT refunds for payment to traders and eligible taxpayers. This follows President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive to state agencies with pending bills to pay them promptly and cushion firms from adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. A team is reviewing the Prisons pending bills to weed out forgeries and double claims. Correctional Services Principal Secretary Zeinab Hussein told the Star that payments for suppliers under the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) arrangement and SMEs will be prioritised. “Our aim is to release monies to the most vulnerable entities, which have been worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in line with the President’s directive,” the PS said, restating her commitment to the Monday date. “From the ongoing data clean-up, majority of the claims are meeting the revised threshold as set out by the National Treasury,” she added. The NYS and Prisons bills had been declared non-payable as they did not meet the threshold set in the Public Finance Management Act. But this was unlocked after the Cabinet approved the National Treasury’s request to amend the criteria in respect of the bills. The amendment was aimed at not only boosting liquidity in the economy but also saving small and medium enterprises from collapse. The claims are now being checked against evidence that the supplier was prequalified in the fiscal year of the supplies. Treasury sources indicated that those vetting the bills are also checking if the prices quoted are the same as those pre-qualified. Also required is evidence that the goods and services supplied were received by a competent officer at the receiving stations. NYS’s other Sh8 billion bills are set for settlement in September after audit review. Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said the bills are being verified by an inter-agency team of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission,  Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Attorney General and the Auditor General. For KRA, the refunds began last Friday with the taxman expected to compile the full report by the end of this month. The taxman, through the communications department, did not give the exact number of traders to be paid but said several have been paid. The refunds were fashioned to offer financial relief to businesses worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. This was to target, especially, entities in the horticulture, transport and hospitality sectors. MPs want delayed payment of pending bills to be criminalised for their settlement to be prompt. The Budget and Appropriations team says it is regrettable that the issue of pending bills has persisted despite the government’s commitment to clear them. It cited bills owed by the IEBC, the Registrar of Political Parties, and Sh38 billion owed to the SGR operator by Kenya Railways. The Crops department has pending bills of Sh12.4 billion including Sh8.3 billion arising from the fertiliser subsidy programme. There is also Sh3.9 billion owed to maize millers and traders. Others are for IT equipment, furniture, and general office supplies. Public universities have pending bills totalling Sh19 billion on account of non-remittance of statutory deductions such as PAYE.  - mwaniki fm