Education CS George Magoha has raised concern over the rising cases of teenage pregnancies in the country. Speaking in Nakuru on Thursday, the CS said he will lobby, seeking for formation of a law to block pornographic content from being accessed in the country. "I'm going to lobby the Cabinet and by extension his Excellency the President so that they consider blocking content related to pornography from being accessed by all and sundry in this country," Magoha said. The CS added that accessing such pieces of information can trigger students to think about sex, ultimately leading to rising cases of pregnancies among schoolgoing children. He said some countries have successfully blocked pornographic sites. Magoha, however, cast doubt on a report released indicating that pregnancies among schoolgoing children has surged since the schools were closed on March following the breakout of coronavirus. "I would like to interrogate the rates of the pregnancies because they look obnoxious," he said. According to a report by the Children’s Department Technical Working Group 3,800 girls over 15 years and 200 others under 14 years became pregnant between January to May. The report was released on Tuesday by Machakos children's officer Salome Muthama during the Day of the African Child celebrations. However, the Machakos government has refuted claims that the county has recorded over 4, 000 cases of teenage pregnancy in four months. Machakos CEC for Education and social welfare Lazurus Kivuva on Wednesday said he disagrees with the given figures and opted to conduct a new report. Through a statement sent to the media, Kivuva said concerned stakeholders held talks over the matter and directed for more investigations to get the correct information. He said it was "impossible" for so many schoolgoing children to get pregnant in four months. "I would like to clarify that the numbers are yet to be confirmed, but my social welfare department has launched investigations upon the matter," he said. The CS said that before reopening schools in September as projected, the Ministry of Health must be satisfied that the children, teachers and staffs are safe. The CS said that it is high time that the parents take over the control of their children while at home to prevent further spread of the virus. Magoha said the government is currently taking stock of what is required before the schools are reopened. He said all the schools should have enough water before being supplied with the sanitisers. As a preparation, the CS said the government has allocated his ministry Sh2.4 billion for the recruitment of 10,000 intern teachers to support 100 per cent transitions as well as Covid-19 related issues. The government has also set aside Sh2.1 billion for the construction of additional classrooms and secondary schools. Also, 1.9 billion will be used for the provision of at least 250,000 locally fabricated desks for both primary and secondary schools. "Under my watch, we shall make more desks for less but the quality will be better." Added that " We want to assure you that nobody will make too much profit from this process."