The Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute has warned that fisheries could cease in Lake Naivasha following increased illegal fishing and use of undersize nets. The institute says overfishing and the high number of boats in the lake are major threats to the sector. The boats need to be reduced by more than 60 per cent. Hence, Nakuru county has agreed to engage the services of the Kenya Coast Guard Services (KCDS) to contain the problem. This emerged on Tuesday during a meeting between sector players over the future of the lake, which is currently in the hands of hundreds of illegal fishermen. Nakuru Agriculture executive Immaculate Maina admitted that the lake is under high pressure due to increased cases of illegal fishing and seining. Dr Maina noted that it has about 200 licensed fishermen across four landing beaches and tens of illegal fishermen. This is against the recommended number of 73 by Kemfri. She led other government officials in destroying illegal nets. Maina said the next 30 days will be crucial for the lake as painful and long-lasting decisions will be made. “We have engaged the services of the Coast Guard Services and in the next 30 days we shall announce the way forward, including reducing the number of fishermen,” she said. To address the issue of undersize nets, Maina said anyone involved in handling or selling fishing gear or equipment would have to be forthwith licensed by the county. “We shall make major changes in the way we operate and we have banned the issuance of licences to any fishermen until the committee of agriculture solves the current crisis,” she said. KCDS director of enforcement Joyce Awino said they are keen to work with the county in ending illegal fishing and lake-based disasters. The KCDS is currently operating in the Indian Ocean and lakes Victoria and Turkana. Awino said they are ready to venture into Lake Naivasha. “It’s evident that there are challenges in this lake mainly involving illegal fishing and we are ready to chip in and offer our expertise,” she said. Nakuru chief officer for Agriculture Enos Amuyunzi said they had trained coxswains who would be used in patrols along the lake to deal with poachers. "The county boats shall be operated by our officers who have undergone training and we shall support them with the necessary equipment so that they can end this problem," Dr Amuyunzu said. Edited by F'Orieny