Though Kenyans are worrying more about Covid-19, they want the government to focus more on unemployment and lack of food that are making life unbearable. A poll by Infotrak released on Sunday suggests more than half of those surveyed, 53 per cent, want the government to focus on other problems, with only 47 per cent believing the main focus should be on the virus The research firm survey of  attitudes about Covid-19 indicates while the level of concern has increased by 17 per cent in the last month, most Kenyans say the state should focus on other virus-related issues that have made life painful. “Despite everything, the majority of Kenyans, 57 per cent, think the curfew should continue,” Infotrak CEO Angela Ambitho said in a virtual briefing. Forty-five per cent of those surveyed want the government to address hunger caused by the disease and improve food security. About 35 per cent of Kenyans compared to 25 per cent a month ago said the state should address the high rate of unemployment that is fast turning thousands of people into paupers. Most Kenyans say the fight against the disease is hampered by people’s failure to adhere to government directives on hygiene and safety, lack of awareness and corruption. At the same time, the poll indicates most people, especially in hotspots, want the curfew and other restrictions to remain in place to check spread of the virus until the disease is deemed manageable. The poll of 1,203 adults was conducted between May 28 and June 2 through Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews (CATI) in 24 of 47 counties. The margin of error was +/-2.83 per cent with a 95 per cent degree of confidence. It was funded by Infotrak. The survey said the level of concern about the Covid-19 situation has increased from 50 per cent in April to 67 per cent currently. Sixty-four per cent of respondents said they are more worried than before. “The 11 per cent who indicated they were worried before but now they are not worried at all are predominantly young males, 18 to 25 years old and living in rural areas,” Ambitho said. Other major concerns are infrastructure (19 per cent), healthcare (18 per cent), clean water (17 per cent), high cost of living (16 per cent) and education (13 per cent). Most of those who want the state to focus on containing the contagion are in hard-hit areas of the Coast (57 per cent), Nairobi (44 per cent), Nyanza (48 per cent), Rift Valley (48 per cent) and Western (44 per cent). Nairobi is leading in the number of coronavirus cases with 1,221. It is followed with Mombasa 776, Busia (Western) 179, Kajiado (Rift Valley) 83 and Uasin Gishu (Rift Valley) 33. The poll suggests 89 per cent of Kenyans are worried many people are probably infected already but don’t know it and could be spreading the virus. Another 88 per cent are concerned they will not be able to make ends meet should the virus persist. Another 76 per cent are worried about the lack of hospital beds to cope with surging numbers. About three quarter of the respondents, 71 per cent up from 55 per cent in April, are worried that failure by most Kenyans to adhere to containment measures is hurting fight against the disease. Most of those concerned are living in Nairobi (82 per cent), Western (82 per cent), Coast (74 per cent) and Nyanza (52 per cent). “Unlike April when 40 per cent felt the worst of the coronavirus pandemic was yet to come, only 28 per cent feel the same today. Indeed, 34 per cent feel we are currently experiencing the worst,” Ambitho said. The Ministry of Health has been imploring Kenyans to keep social distancing, avoid gatherings, wear masks, wash their hands regularly with soap and running water or sanitise them, among other measures. Again, those want the curfew to remain are in the hotspots: Nairobi (59 per cent), Mombasa (49 per cent), Western (61 per cent) and Rift Valley (61 per cent). About a third of the population, 30 per cent, want the curfew order lifted so people can move freely. Twelve per cent said the order should be relaxed and imposed for a shorter period. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the dusk-to-dawn curfew and cessation of movement in Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera by 30 days. The curfew hours were shortened, now curfew is from 9pm to 4am, no longer from 7pm to 5am. According to the poll, had the head of state lifted the restriction of movement into and out of Nairobi, about a half of parents living with their children in towns would have ferried them upcountry. “Nearly four out of 10 Kenyans still think it’s better to take their families upcountry to protect them from Covid-19,” the poll said. Sixty-eight per cent of those polled were satisfied with the government’s interventions to contain the spread of the virus, with those in Nyanza (80 per cent), Eastern (70 per cent), Rift Valley (69 per cent) and Coast (67 per cent) praising the state. Respondents gave high marks to health workers (77 per cent up from 58 per cent in April), the Health ministry (67 per centup from 61 per cent), the media (66 per cent up fro 62 per cent) and the President (62 per cent up from 59 per cent). Parliament scored only 49 per cent, courts 44 per cent, county governments 37 per cent and police 40 per cent. “Who can be more appealing than the President?” Ambitho asked. “He resonated well with Kenyans, stressing their feelings in his addresses.” But even with this concern, more than half of Kenyans, 53 per cent, want the government to focus on other matters, with only 47 per cent believing the focus should be on the virus. Infrastructure (19 per cent), healthcare (18 per cent), clean water (17 per cent), high cost of living (16 per cent) and education (13per cent) are the other major concerns. The majority of those who want the state to focus on containing the contagion are those in hard hit areas of Coast (57 per cent), Nairobi (44 per cent), Nyanza (48 per cent), Rift Valley (48 per cent) and Western (44 per cent). Nairobi is currently leading in the number of coronavirus cases with 1221 case. It is followed with Mombasa 776, Busia (Western) 179, Kajiado (Rift Valley) 83 and Uasin Gishu (Rift Valley) 33. The poll shows that 89 per cent of Kenyans are worried that there are probably many people who already have the virus but are not aware that they have it and could be spreading the virus. Another 88 per cent are concerned that they will not be able to make ends meet should the virus persist with another 76 per cent worried about the dearth of hospital beds to cope with surging numbers. About three quarter of the respondents, 71 per cent up from 55 per cent in April, are worried that failure by most Kenyans to adhere to containment measures by the government to hurt the fight against the disease. Most of those concerned are living in Nairobi (82 per cent), Western (82 per cent), Coast (74 per cent) and Nyanza (52 per cent). “Unlike April when 40 per cent felt the worst of the Coronavirus pandemic was yet to come only 28 per cent feel the same today. Indeed 34 per cent feel that we are currently experiencing the worst,” Ambitho said. The Ministry of Health has been imploring Kenyans to keep social distancing, wash the hands regularly with soap and running water, sanitise hands and wear masks, among other measures. Forty two per cent, 38 per cent and 29 per cent of the respondents said lack of awareness about the disease, corruption in national and county government institutions and weak health systems also hinder the war against the disease. In the view of the foregoing, the polls shows that majority of the population want the current containment measures and restrictions including the curfew remain in force until such a time that the disease will be deemed as manageable. “Despite everything, majority of Kenyans; 57 per cent think the curfew should continue,” Ambitho said. Again, those want the curfew to remain are in the hotspots; Nairobi (59 per cent), Mombasa (49 per cent), Western (61 per cent) and Rift Valley (61 per cent). About a third of the population, 30 per cent, want the curfew order lifted so that people can move freely. Twelve per cent feel the order should be relaxed and imposed for a shorter period. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the dusk-to-dawn curfew and cessation of movement in Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera by 30 days. The President said he was split between two rights: relax the restrictions to save the economy and endanger lives and maintain the restrictions, hurt the economy but save lives. “With these two viewpoints on the table, I was not dealing with a right and a wrong: I was caught in-between two rights.  Those who want to open up are right, and those opposed to opening up are also right.  And this clash of two rights placed me on the ‘horns of a dilemma,” Uhuru said. According to the poll, had the head of state lifted the restriction of movement into and out of Nairobi, about a half of parents living with their children in towns would have ferried them upcountry. “Nearly four out of 10 Kenyans still think it’s better to take their families upcountry to protect them from Covid-19,” the polls says. Some 68 per cent of those polled were satisfied with the government’s interventions to contain the spread of the virus with those in Nyanza (80 per cent), Eastern (70 per cent), Rift Valley (69 per cent) and Coast (67 per cent) applauding the state. In terms of performance of various stakeholders in the war against the virus, most Kenyans still feel Parliament has performed the poorest despite the approval of several laws to cushion the citizens. Some 49 per cent of the respondents believed that Parliament has performed poorly in the fight followed by the courts/Judiciary (44 per cent), county governments (37 per cent) and police (40 per cent). Health workers, Ministry of Health, media and the President are the excellent performers in the war against the contagion. The medics got an approval rating of 77 per cent compared to 58 per cent in April, CS Mutahi Kagwe-ed Health got 67 per cent compared to 61 per cent a month ago, Media got 66 per cent against 62 in April while the President got 62 per cent versus 59 per cent a month ago. “Who can be more appealing than the president? He resonated well with Kenyans, stressing their feelings in his addresses,” Ambitho said.