A court clerk and a man who offered her a bribe to influence the outcome of a case have been sentenced to two years in jail each. Anti-Corruption magistrate Leticia Wachira convicted both of committing bribery to influence a church dispute suit. The magistrate directed John Ngigi Wainaina and clerk Adeline Shitawa to pay a fine of Sh400,000 each for conspiracy to commit corruption or serve one year in jail. On a second count, Shitawa was fined Sh400,000 for receiving a bribe and Wainaina a similar amount for giving a bribe, or one-year imprisonment each. On January 6, 2017, the Judiciary through then Ombudsman Kennedy Bidali reported suspected bribery at Milimani court to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The prosecution called a number of witnesses among them two High Court judges and Bidali. According to court documents, justices Lydia Achode and Roselyn Aburili blew the whistle. Justice Aburili told the trial magistrate that she was handling the case pitting two factions of the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Kenya (AIPCA) in Bahati, Nairobi. She said she received a call from Justice Achode informing her that there was a report by an advocate about allegations of money changing hands to influence a case. Upon getting the information, Aburili inquired from her court clerk Lorna Odhiambo and that of Justice George Odunga on whether they had received any money, she told the court. She saw a folded brown envelope on the desk where Odhiambo was seated. When asked, the clerk said it was a parcel. Immediately, Aburili instructed her to open the envelope in which they found money. Odhiambo told her it had been given to Shitawa by someone outside the gate to keep for them, the judge said. Achode narrated how she received a call while attending a meeting, from a lawyer who was representing one of the factions. The lawyer, she said, informed her that money had been handed to a clerk. She then enquired from Justice Aburili before involving the Ombudsman, she said. Edited by R.Wamochie