North Eastern leaders have thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for retaining Aden Duale as the National Assembly Majority Leader amid the Jubilee purge. Led by Garissa senator Yusuf Haji, the leaders asked Uhuru to forgive them if they had wronged him in any way. "We are grateful that the president has decided to retain Duale to continue to be the majority leader. We want to assure you(Uhuru) that we have always been loyal ..and we will continue to be loyal. We will obey and fulfill any instruction given by the party," Haji said. "We have a saying that when you lose your road during the dark, you can re-trace it at day time. If for any reason there is a feeling that we have gone wrong, we did not intend to do so but our intention is to work with you through thick and thin." Speaking during a press conference on Thursday, Haji asked Uhuru to continue entrusting the job to Duale adding that they will not let him down. "We will not allow Duale to let you down. We pledge our loyalty to you...," he added. Mandera senator Mohamed Mohamud said they are ready to ensure that nothing goes wrong again. "We will try and ask him(Uhuru) to believe in us because we have been with him for a long time," he said. Mohamud said Duale has done a great job and tried to drive the agenda of the party. "We will assure him that Duale will be able to do this . We want to thank Uhuru for retaining him," he said. Duale who seemed to have survived President Uhuru Kenyatta’s axe on Tuesday is not out of the woods yet. At least  117 MPs have signed a fresh petition asking President Kenyatta to kick out of the Garissa Town  MP from the powerful office of Majority Leader. A sign of the ruthless power play in Jubilee, there are reports the plot to hound Duale out of office could be have been hatched by a clique of powerful movers and shakers at State House. But Duale said it was unfortunate that the proponents of the petition failed to raise their issues at the State Gouse PG. “I am used to Kanini Kega’s petitions. He brought two against me in the 11th Parliament but they both flopped. He needs to acquaint himself with the preocedures for appointing and removing parliamentary leaders in accordance with the law,” he said.