 Lamu street families have decried police harassment during curfew hours. The families, mainly drug addicts, have no permanent abodes and mostly spend their nights in discarded and unused boats packed in various yards on the seafront. The country was put under a dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 26 to restrict movement and curb the spread of coronavirus. Once the curfew starts at 7pm, the street families retreat into the parked vessels that have now become their homes. Many have admitted to finding themselves on the streets after they were thrown out by family members for using drugs. Speaking in Lamu town on Tuesday, Khadija Shebwana, the spokesperson of the Lamu Old Town drug addicts, said police have been pursuing them right into their sleeping abodes and beating them up for no reason. She said police have been harassing them daily asking them to go back to their homes and refuse to listen to the fact that they don’t have homes. The street families are now urging President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider their plight and lift the curfew in Lamu, saying the county has not been affected by the coronavirus infections. Shebwana said that will save them from the daily wrath of the police whom she said seem to enjoy frustrating them. “We don’t have homes and if we did, why would anyone want to sleep in a boat with all that cold on the Indian Ocean? Many of us were abandoned by our families due to our drug use and that’s how we ended up on the streets. That doesn’t make us any less human. We need to be respected and protected too but the police here are on a mission to harm us,” Shebwana said. Salim Omar, a 36-year-old, said many of them have suffered a double blow after being rejected by their families and also by the community. He wants the government to allow them to continue living on the streets as they mean no harm. “Our families want nothing to do with us. Many people talk about rehab but they forget that such a journey requires that someone holds your hand. We are on our own. But what the police have been doing to us since the curfew started isn’t fair or humane. Aren’t we humans just because we are addicts and we live on the streets?” Omar asked. Athman Khamis, 38, and an addict for the last 15 years, said many of them are willing to reform and urged well-wishers to come to their rescue. “Personally, my story is that of been-there-done-that. There is nothing I haven’t tried and I want to be sober again. We need help and not to be shunned like what’s happening. Can someone out there come to our rescue?” he asked.  Edited by R. Wamochie