Kenya on Thursday won a non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council after garnering 129 votes against Djibouti. President Uhuru Kenyatta has termed Kenya's win as a demonstration of the country's growing profile and influence in the community of nations as a steadfast and dependable development partner. He thanked Djibouti for being a worthwhile opponent and the African Union for the endorsement as the continent's flag bearer in the contest. Djibouti got 62 votes after forcing the second voting by denying Kenya the win in the first round on Wednesday. "Kenya will endeavor to consolidate and voice Africa's position in the Security Council and will advance its 10-point agenda as outlined during the campaign period," he said. On his part, African Union Special Envoy on Infrastructure  Raila Odinga congratulated the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the government for a formidable campaign. "Kenya's election to the U.N Security council marks one of the brightest points of our engagement with the world. It is also a bold manifestation that with solidarity, Africa, which backed Kenya, can have its way on the global stage," Raila said. "This vote is also a major statement on how this country has presented itself to the world, as a nation determined to find home grown solutions to challenges to peace, stability and prosperity and in the process provide a pragmatic example to the rest of the world". Deputy President William Ruto said the country will use the chance to lobby for multilateralism. "Very pleased that we have won the UN Security Council seat. The victory reaffirms Kenya’s strategic position in the community of nations. We will no doubt use this stint at the Council to further the pan-Africanist agenda of peace building, security around the globe and multilateralism. Congratulations to our team led by President Uhuru Kenyatta," he said. National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi said securing the position is a proud moment for the country. "It is my belief that during our tenure, we shall contribute more strategically to global peace and security; to the UN reform agenda, and that we shall ably represent the African Continent, whose backing we remain grateful for," he said.