The Nakuru county government has denied that it closed the only Covid-19 quarantine centre in Naivasha due to budget constraints. Persons admitted to the facility located in Naivasha Girls Secondary School were sent home due to lack of funds to run it. There were also allegations that security officers in the town were using the facility to threaten members of the public during the ongoing curfew. But the county was quick to deny that the centre had been closed down, noting that the last batch of seven persons had finished their 14 days of quarantine and were sent home. The chief officer in charge of public health Samuel King’ori said the centre was still operational for any cases that needed to be quarantined. King’ori said the county had set aside funds towards fighting the spread of Covid-19 and bought more medical equipment and drugs to contain the pandemic. “At the moment we have closed the centre as there are no patients as the last lot has cleared the mandatory 14 days as per the law,” he said. But a source at the facility said that the centre had been closed indefinitely as the subcounty hospital could no longer sustain the needs of the inmates. The junior officer who is not authorised to speak to the press said that it had become very expensive to maintain and treat the high number of persons admitted weekly. “The majority of those in the facility were arrested fleeing from Nairobi which is under lockdown and there were fears that they could even spread the disease among themselves,” he said. King'ori said the centre had been fumigated twice with directive that only patients with symptoms be admitted to the isolation ward in Naivasha subcounty hospital. He said seven patients been treated for the disease were responding well to treatment. He said among them were two truck drivers who had tested positive and a woman picked in Naivasha while on her way back to Nairobi after attending a burial in Vihiga. “The national government in collaboration with the county has opened a testing facility in Mai Mahiu social hall targeting truck drivers as part of measures to contain the spread of the disease,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori