Kitui county police commander Yoana Tanui has warned criminals that their days numbers are numbered. “If one cannot earn genuine money, we will show him where he belongs,” Tanui said. He spoke in Mwingi town on Saturday when he attended a training by National Gun Owners Association on Covid-19. There has be an increase in crime in Kitui, with Mwingi town recording over five cases of theft suspects being lynched. A week ago, three watchmen were killed at Ikanga market in Kitui South subcounty. According residents, a suspected gang of six robbers hacked the three night guards to death on Tuesday night. The criminals reportedly attacked the watchmen with machetes, axes and blunt objects when they were cornered trying to rob shops at Ikanga trading centre, hardly 100 meters from Ikanga police post. Residents said the watchmen had panga cuts and broken limbs.  They, however, accused area police of insolence saying they were slow to respond even after they were alerted about the incident. Paul Mwangi, a businessman in the market said he got a call informing him that there was a robbery and when they informed police, they questioned him about the authenticity of his source. Patrick Kiema, another businessman, called on Interior CS Fred Matiang’I to intervene to ensure safety of residents and their property. Confirming the incident, Kitui County Commissioner John Ondengo said the police had already arrested two suspects and security beefed up. In addition, the county commander said increased cases of insecurity might rise  due to the release of petty offenders from prison in a bid to decongest cells in in efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus. Tanui added that joblessness has contributed to insecurity due to the harsh economic times but he warned the lawbreakers that they will face the full arm of the law. He said they are having patrols day and night and has mobilised extra officers and vehicles. “The officers are fully armed to deal with insecurity and we will deal with you ruthlessly,” the police boss said. Edited by EKibii