ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Narc-Kenya's Martha Karua and former MP Peter Kenneth have formed a seven-person secretariat to build a third force ahead of 2022 General Election. The initiative — driven by the civil society groups to build a ‘national interest’ movement — brings together religious leaders, non-governmental organisations, politicians and professionals. “We are working together with people who have the interests of this country at heart. They include the civil society groups, professionals and other politicians,” ANC leader Musalia told the Star after the Friday meeting. “We should not treat party politics as national policies.” Though the details of their activities remain scanty, the Star has learnt that the meeting at a Nairobi hotel was the third. Former Head of Public Service Sally Kosgey was also in attendance. Others working with the national interest movement include Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, a number of second term governors and former politicians. The outfit is a build up to last year’s civil society groups meeting Saba Saba conference in Limuru, which was attended by Kivutha, Economist David Ndii, human rights defender Maina Kiai and anti-corruption crusader John Githongo, among others. “It is not the Constitution that has failed. It is those in power who have failed to implement the Constitution,” Kiai told the media after the meeting. Those who attended told the Star that the Friday meeting was held to “deliberate on the way forward”. “Catching up with Karua, Ambassador Sally Kosgei, former Head of Public Service, and Hon. Peter Kenneth, discussing the challenges facing our nation and agreed to jointly with other like-minded Kenyans put our heads together in search of sustainable solutions,” Musalia tweeted after the meeting. An aide to one of the politicians said the movement is being spearheaded by three  groups. “The first group coordinates politicians. The second group coordinates civil society groups and the third brings together professional groups,” the aide said. Ndung’u Wainaina, who has been in the civil society, says their agenda is to ensure "tribal barons no longer have their way". “When we talk about national interests, we mean stopping tribal or ethnic barons from using tribes to push their agenda. We stop tribal kings from capitalising on election wars and then sit on the table to dictate how the country moves forward,” Wainaina. “This country is run by ethnic barons. They thrive on dividing Kenyans. They use their positions to stay in power. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, President Uhuru Kenyatta and former president Mwai Kibaki failed to honour the 2010 Constitution, “ Ndung’u said. The new force will unveil its activities after the state of nation address and consolidate plans following the meeting held in Limuru last year by the civil society groups. “The plans are beyond 2022 so that we ensure those who hold senior offices are held accountable, even if they are out. We must hold everyone in a senior accountable going forward.,” Ndung’u said. The making of the Third Force in 2022 is likely to take on Deputy President William Ruto and Raila, who are seen as the forerunners in the next polls, if they vie. 