The budget have presented involved making hard decisions in the quest to move our country forward, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani has said. Speaking at Parliament Buildings during the Budget reading on Thursday, Yatani thanked all the stakeholders that were involved in the process. "Faced with limited resources, the balancing has not been easy," he said, adding that the Budget has been read during a special time. Yatani, who spent roughly 1 hour 40 minutes reading the budget, touched on health, security, the Big Four agenda, among others. HEALTH The Treasury has allocated Sh1.2 billion to hire 5,000 health workers to help in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Yatani said the health workers will be on a one-year contract. Another Sh500 million was allocated for the supply of 20,000 locally made beds for public hospitals. Sh25 million was set aside to support establishment of modern walk-through sanitisers at border points and main hospitals across the country. HOUSING The government has set aside Sh15.5 billion to cater for the affordable housing programme. Yatani on Thursday said out of this, some Sh6.9 billion will cater for the enablers of the drivers under the programme. He said the government will get an additional of Sh3.6 billion from the African Development Bank, Sh7.5 billion for Urban development and Sh1.1 billion to cater for the construction of the Gikomba, Githurai, Chaka, Kamukunji and Githurai markets. PENSION Yatani said the government will clear all pension payments backlog by the end of the calendar year. "The National Treasury is re-engineering and upgrading the pension system to clear all pension payments. This will guarantee smooth transition of retirees from a monthly salary cheque to monthly pension payment," he said. Yatani said the increasing public pension budget and accumulation of pension claims remains a challenge. He further said that the government has waived landing and parking fees at all airports. Yatani said tourism sector is among the worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. "To support this critical sector govt has initiated a number of urgent measures, including a temporary lift the ban to hold meetings in private hotels by govt agencies," he said. UNEMPLOYMENT Yatani said the government has set aside funds targeting unemployed youths in the country. The CS said that his ministry will allocate Sh10 billion to the 'Kazi Mtaani' programme. Kazi Mtaani programme is meant to accommodate youths in eight selected counties. The programme was launched by the President on April 25, targeting youths in slums from the eight counties.