Maersk has spent at least Sh10.6 million to acquire Personal Protecting Equipment (PPE) for the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), in a move meant to curb the spread of COVID-19. The donation is to  ensure frontline staff  continue operating to keep essential supply chains moving across Kenya and neighbouring countries. In March, tens of KPA staff in Mombasa got infected- necessitating drastic measures by the National Government, which included a gradual downscale of workers. To complement the government’s efforts, Maersk-one of the biggest users of the Port of Mombasa- has so far supplied KPA with critical items, ranging from hand sanitizers, protective face masks, disposable overalls, disposable medical gloves, infrared thermometers and protective eyewear. According to Sharon Delphine, Maersk’s East Africa Port Captain  the firm is committed responsible for Maersk vessels and port operations, committed to support the Port of Mombasa in a bid to ensure business continuity. “Another batch of the donation including 12,000 pieces of protective face masks is expected to arrive from South Africa in a few weeks,'' she said. “We are truly grateful for this kind gesture by Maersk, these items will go along way to ensure our workers are protected as they discharge their duties,” KPA chairman (Rtd) General Joseph Kibwana said. He added  that the move by Maersk “is a true testament of the solid relationship that exists between the two organizations.” KPA has since rolled out strict mandatory procedures for ship crew and vessels, to ensure the disease is not exported in the course of carrying out maritime trade. Meanwhile, the port has since received containership Ono, a pioneer vessel from the recently launched Jeddex line of the CMA CGM group- a French container transportation and shipping company. The new service line will be offering a direct service between Kenya, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Somalia by deploying four dedicated vessels on a weekly basis. KPA acting MD Rashid Salim said the Port is handling  an average of 34 Million tons as total throughput a year and container traffic of 1.4 Million TEUs. ''As KPA, we look forward to more cooperation with a view to supporting efficiency and business growth,”  said during the launch of the new service,''Salim said. Exports from Mombasa will benefit by connecting to the Global Network via Jeddah offering transit times to European hubs -Genoa in 20 days, Rotterdam in 27 days, Fos-sur-Mer in 26 days and Antwerp in 33 days.