The World Health Organization on Tuesday clarified its earlier advice that transmission of the coronavirus by asymptomatic people is “very rare”. Head of WHO’s emerging diseases and zoonosis unit Dr Maria Van Kerkhove said it’s a complex question and much is still unknown. “We don’t actually have that answer yet. There are some estimates that suggest that anywhere between six per cent and 41 per cent of the population may be infected but not have symptoms within a point estimate of around 16 per cent,” she said on a live Q&A streamed across multiple social media platforms. Transmission mostly takes place from people who have symptoms and are spreading it through infectious droplets, she said. “But there is a subset of people who don’t develop symptoms. To truly understand how many people don’t have symptoms, we don’t actually have that answer yet." "While the asymptomatic spread of coronavirus does occur, the portion of asymptomatic transmission remains a big open question,” WHO emergency programmes executive director Dr Mike Rya said during the Q&A. “It’s clear that both symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals are part of the transmission cycle. The question is what is the relative contribution of each group to the overall number of cases.” An asymptomatic person is someone with Covid-19 who doesn’t have or never develops symptoms. Both scientists clarified that it’s not the same as someone who later develops symptoms, who would be classified as pre-symptomatic. “Some estimates of around 40 per cent of transmission may be asymptomatic, but those are from models, so I didn’t include that in my answer yesterday but wanted to make sure that I covered that here,” Kerkhove said. The WHO had stated that it appears to be ‘rare’ that an asymptomatic individual can pass the virus. The global health agency said government responses should instead focus on detecting and isolating infected people with symptoms and tracking anyone who might have come into contact with them. Last week, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said many cases in the country remain asymptomatic and can be managed from home. Globally, studies have found that asymptomatic cases account for between five and 80 per cent of positives. But symptom-based screening misses these people. This means that Covid-19 patients who do not develop and show any signs are a concern as Kenya battles to flatten its curve. Preliminary evidence from the earliest outbreaks indicated that the virus could spread from person-to-person contact, even if the carrier didn't have symptoms. Speaking during the daily briefing on Tuesday, Health CAS Rashid Aman said if it turns out that asymptomatic people may turn out to be of low risk, the ministry will be able to remove patients who are currently at health facilities to free up facilities. “Clearly if we have a large number of asymptomatic patients here then it will make sense that we need to change tact if the evidence is in place,” Aman said. The government has put in place containment measures, including imposing cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi and Mombasa and insisting that people work from home. “With Covid-19, there are very many unknowns and there is still a steep learning curve on how this virus behaves in different settings and what that means for us,” the CAS said, noting that the latest information from WHO might have been arrived at after observation from many different places. He, however, said sufficient evidence is yet to be gathered to be clear on what an asymptomatic status means. “We know we can pick a virus without symptoms. Some of this information might point to infection but it may not be as serious as in other cases that are clinically manifested,” he said. “But as evidence is presented and we feel it’s strong enough, our measures and policies will be shaped by that information as it develops.” Kenya is on the 12th week since the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 a global pandemic. Data from Tuesday’s briefing show that the number of positive cases in the country now totals 2,989 after 127 more cases were confirmed by the ministry in a day. The 127 were from 2,247 samples. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 100,683. Twenty more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of recoveries to 873. The new cases are aged between three weeks and 72 years comprising 84 men and 33 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 62 are from Nairobi while 34 are from Mombasa. Busia had 14 cases, all truck drivers at the Malaba border point. Machakos had four cases, three in Bungoma while Kwale and Uasin Gishu had one case each. Three more patients, however, succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 88. According to experts, the curve of infections is fast-rising in many regions, implying the country is likely to record increasing numbers of positives and more people requiring clinical management. It is projected that the peak of infections is likely to be in September, with county emergency response teams expected to meet and discuss the directive by the President that each county sets up at least a 300-bed capacity in preparation for any surge in numbers. Edited by R.Wamochie