 Bungoma county assembly deputy speaker Simiyu Womusai has resigned ahead of his impeachment motion on Wednesday. The impeachment was to be tabled by Township MCA Joseph Maguda. Womusai's resignation came two weeks after the Bungoma assembly resumed duties. The MCA has been accused of influencing the assembly to dance to the tune of the executive, which members say was hurting the oversight role of the assembly. This is the second time an impeachment motion was being tabled to remove the deputy speaker. The first time was last month when 40 out of the 60 MCAs supported signed for his removal. At the time Womusai withdrew his support for Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to save his job. The removal motion was then set aside. He also apologised to his colleagues and joined the team that intended to carry out proper oversight of the executive. “From today I want to declare that I recognise the new leadership and vow to work with his team which I have previously worked with,” Womusai said last month. But even after the first attempt to remove him and being forced to apologise, the Siboti ward representative went back on his word and continued to support Wangamati. This is the reason Maguda reintroduced the impeachment motion. But Womusai on Tuesday afternoon blamed his woes on a certain team in the assembly, which he said wanted to sabotage him using false allegations. “There is a malicious team that has held the house at ransom to oppose the development agenda of Governor Wangamati and tarnish my good name. I can no longer put up with this,” he said. Womusai said he made the decision to resign after realising that his name and with it a 20-year political career was on the verge of being ruined. “I ride on integrity, democracy and decency,” he said. “I worked with the late Vice President Wamalwa Kijana, George Captain and Senator James Orengo and I have never gone through a petty game like this one.” Womusai said he would "deal" with opponents who continue to drag his name into the mud. He has called upon the new house leadership to serve the people of Bungoma diligently. “If they think I was a stumbling block by holding the position, then I'm happy to return it to them and I thank them for the time they allowed me to serve them,” he said. W0musai vowed to work harder to spearhead the development agenda of Governor Wangamati and serve the people of Siboti ward. "I only quit as deputy speaker to protect my name because a good reputation is better than a position,” he said. Womusai said he does not regret his actions.  Edited by A.N 