Lamu has announced its first two cases of Covid-19. Until Sunday, Lamu was among a few counties that had not recorded a single case of coronavirus infection. The two cases did not present the obvious symptoms including coughing, difficulties in breathing and high temperatures. They are residents and casual labourers in Lamu town aged 22 and 27. One of the men had a recent history of travel to and from Kilifi and Mombasa, which are both hard hit by Covid-19. Speaking in Lamu town on Monday, Health CEC Anne Gathoni confirmed the two cases. They are residents of Langoni in Lamu town and Kashmir in the outskirts, she said. Gathoni said the two tested positive from a sample of 98 collected at the King Fahad Hospital on June 27 and sent to the Kenya Medical Research Institute in Kilifi. She said they are currently in isolation in their own homes and are being closely monitored by health workers. “The two cases were asymptomatic and were not showing any signs of being sick. We have isolated them in their homes as we keep an eye out. Our plan is to find ways of how Covid-19 patients will receive home-based care effectively,” Gathoni said. A total of 113 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Lamu in the past four months. Gathoni has urged residents to take all precautionary measures seriously to help curb the spread of the virus. “For the longest time we have managed to keep the virus out of Lamu but now that it is here, let us ensure we follow all directives. Let’s sanitise, observe social distancing, wash hands with soap and water, avoid social gatherings and stay home unless it’s an emergency. We can defeat this disease only by doing that,” she said. County commissioner Irungu Macharia, who co-chairs the County Covid-19 Task Force, said contact tracing is already underway by a multi-agency team. “The tracing started on Monday morning. We have not traced anyone so far but we are on it. We urge people to be calm,” Macharia said. The county does not have a functional ICU facility. There are concerns that containment of the pandemic will be a huge challenge for Lamu as it is  plagued by infrastructural challenges in all sectors. The health sector has been on the spot over the deplorable state of facilities and inexistent infrastructure. Residents are appealing for an ICU to help those affected by coronavirus. Many have called for the restoration of the cessation of movement into Kilifi county. Edited by R.Wamochie