Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has threatened to file for contempt against the assembly speaker and MCAs who will proceed with her impeachment motion on Tuesday. In April, the High Court temporarily stopped the impeachment of Waiguru on grounds that the current Covid-19 pandemic will violate her Constitutional rights to a fair hearing. Judge Weldon Korir on Tuesday ruled even though the MCAs were carrying out their mandate, the current coronavirus crisis will not accord parties a fair hearing. "If the assembly proceeds with the violation of the subsiding court orders, I shall see such orders for contempt against the speaker and all participating members as are available under the law," Waiguru said. In a statement on Tuesday, Waiguru said she shall not be bullied by the members of the Assembly. "For some inexplicable reason, the members pushing this motion believe or have been led to believe that they are above the law. Their allegiance seems to be to a master pulling and pushing the levers from outside the assembly and not the rule of law," she said. "I shall not be bullied. My single and unceasing interest is to serve the people who elected me. I will be vindicated by the law, truth and justice." Waiguru said the assembly has put an order paper that is 'ill-informed and ill-timed'. " As I have stated before the issues raised in the motion are baseless and a waste of valuable time that would be better spent handling the serious issues impacting the county, including the corona crisis," she said. "... their intent is merely to bully me to achieve nefarious and personalised political objectives." About 24 MCAs who have endorsed Waiguru's impeachment motion. This was after they spent Monday night in the county assembly. This was meant to avoid any coercion and intimidation before Waiguru slated impeachment today Tuesday at the Kirinyaga county assembly. The defiant MCAs further switched off their phone to ensure that their plans to impeach Waiguru went on as planned. The impeachment motion set to be debated today was filed by Mutira Ward MCA David Kinyua. The MCAs have accused Waiguru of gross violation of the Constitution, abuse of office and gross misconduct. Kinyua said today in an interview on a local TV station that their attempts to meet the governor and address the issues raised have failed.