A Senate committee on Wednesday tried to unravel the mystery of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru’s former PA who suddenly became very powerful and awarded lucrative tenders in a complex ‘web’ of influence. The enquiry is part of the committee's hearing into Waiguru’s impeachment by the county assembly and MCAs claims of Sh145 million tender irregularities as well as hiring and other irregularities. Waiguru says these are all minor administrative issues that could have been easily and routinely clarified. She says she’s the victim of a witch-hunt and a fishing expedition. On Wednesday, Waiguru was wearing black slacks, a turquoise-coloured jacket and a black and white polka dot blouse. In contrast with her behaviour on Tuesday, she was not playing solitaire on her phone — photos of which were trending and drawing a deluge of comments. The governor’s legal team led by Paul Nyamodi and Kamotho Waiganjo, who is her husband, put up a spirited fight to delink the governor from the claims about the elevation of her personal assistant and a web of irregular tenders. Pauline Kamau, Waiguru’s former PA and currently director of county administration, has been placed at the centre of an alleged scheme by the governor to control mega tenders and award them to the governor’s favourites. In their case against the governor, the MCAs portrayed Kamau as a dreaded and powerful individual who is leading a team of the governor’s top confidants to sway the award of contracts. “The governor has been in charge of a corrupt county tendering policy,” the MCAs said in their charge sheet against the county chief. Kamau, alongside Wayne Gichira, who was appointed ICT adviser, has chaired nearly every tender evaluation committee dealing with huge contracts, the MCAs said. “The two officers take directions directly from the governor and alternate as chairs of all major evaluation committees,” they said through lawyer Ndegwa Njeru. In what MCAs described as a well-orchestrated scheme, Kamau is appointed to chair the influential tendering committees by chief Finance officer Mugo Ndathi. MCAs claim she has been awarding lucrative contracts to his brother’s company. While testifying as the governor’s first witness, county director of supply chain management Joseph Carilus Otieno, had difficulty justifying the choice of Kamau to head the powerful tendering committees. Appearing puzzled by the documents showing Kamau chairing most tendering committees since Waiguru took office, the 11-member Senate team described what they said appeared to be a complex web. The committee is chaired by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala. “Is it a deliberate and well-orchestrated chain, connecting events from controversial appointments [to director’s position] to now a further controversial appointment to chair certain and specific tender committees, which will eventually give specific companies tenders? Malala asked. “Is it a web that is well orchestrated to achieve a certain goal in the Kirinyaga County Government?” he asked as he pursued Kamau’s role in the apparent network. Waiguru’s lawyers Nyamodi and Waiganjo discounted the narrative advanced by the county assembly and demanded evidence that directly linked the governor to the alleged tender malpractices. Supply chain boss Otieno admitted Kamau awarded tenders to the brother of the chief Finance officer who appointed her to chair the committees. Otieno, however, sought to distance the governor from the tendering issues and denied the existence of a network controlling county tenders. “I am not aware of a web. I am not aware of a network,” he responded, prompting a further inquiry from the chairman. “So you are alluding to this committee that you are just a member of but you do not know those other people?” Otieno denied knowing that Kamau had been Waiguru’s Personal Assistant. According to documents submitted by the MCAs, Kamau chaired a tender evaluation committee that awarded a Sh30.09 million tender for the Kagio Matatu Parking bay. The contract, which was reserved for AGPO (Access to Government Procurement Opportunities) contractors, was controversially awarded to Jipsy Civil and Building Contractors. The firm was not listed in the AGPO certified list in 2017-18. The firm was also the highest bidder. Kamau also headed a committee that awarded a multi-million contract to Humfel Limited for the supply and delivery of assorted UPVC (unplasticised polyvinyl chloride) pipes for the Kenera Water project. The tender was open to qualified companies at least three years old, however, the tender was awarded in March 2018 despite the company being incorporated on December 28, 2018. Kamau also chaired a committee that warded a Sh11.94 million contract to Eva Trading Agencies Limited. The firm, which was to work on the Riagicheru Irrigation Water project, has chief officer Mugo Ndathi’s brother, as one of the directors holding 300 shares. “There needs to be a China Wall [Great Wall of China] between the accounting officer and the people who bid for county tenders,” Kajwang said. “If indeed the assembly was to prove, and I am not saying it happened, that this tender was awarded to the brother of the chief officer, in your view, would that constitute a breach of the regulations?” the Homa Bay senator persisted. Otieno responded in the affirmative. The vocal senator dug deeper, demanding to know the role Governor Waiguru played in the ‘network’. “In this network, where you are recommending and someone chairs, and someone signed letters of award and [there] seems to be a network, where is the governor in this? Because the charge against the governor is that she adopted a corrupt county tendering policy." "Is it a policy that relatives will get jobs or this would be treated as a one-off? Such that if there were infractions of the law, then they would be at the level of the officers involved?” Kajwang asked. Again, Otieno denied the existence of a network, explaining that he did not know much about Kamau or the others when he got a job in the county government. The committee retreated on Wednesday evening after the concluding the hearings to consider to the submissions and file a report for tabling in the House on Friday. 