Civil society groups will soon be allowed to initiate private investigations and prosecution of police officers involved in human rights violations, DPP Noordin Haji has said. Haji said he was considering a framework to allowing lobby groups who are dissatisfied with the decisions taken by his office and other state agencies regarding investigation and prosecution of accused officers to initiate their own processes. In cases where the sentences handed to the officers are not satisfactory to the lobbies, Haji said, the framework will be explored to allow an engagement for appeal. The Director of Public Prosecutions announced that the officer involved in the killing of 13-year-old Yassin Moyo in March in Kiamaiko slums in Nairobi would be arraigned this week. Haji spoke during a webinar hosted by the ICJ-Kenya on Tuesday. The International Commission of Jurists chairman Kelvin Mogeni and University of Nairobi law professor Patricia Kameri-Mbote participated as panellists. There has been concern that the wheels of justice are taking long to roll, rolling too slowly,  or not rolling at all in cases where police officers are accused of brutalising, harassing or even shooting unarmed and subdued civilians. But Haji said his office was doing a lot to be open in engaging with the public and civil society groups as well as working with agencies like Ipoa and the police to expedite the investigations and the cases. “You know before the cases land to my desk, they must involve investigations and even police inquest,” Haji said. He said between April and May alone, he has received 38 files of police excesses. Ten files have been returned to the Independent Police Oversight Authority to beef up the evidence. He also said that from October last year, he has had 75 files before court on the same subject and that 85 files on similar cases have been received since then. Haji said that while Ipoa was doing its best, non-cooperation from the police was undermining its work, making the investigations inconclusive and dragging. He said there was need to de-link Ipoa from police to secure its independence in terms of expertise and investigations. "Its dependence on cooperation with the police undermines its capacity to deliver," Haji said. "Ipoa should be able to visit police stations and inspect armoury without hindrance or relying on ballistic experts from the same police its investigating to help it." Haji challenged the civil society and other rights groups to present a proposal to the BBI team to have Ipoa strengthened and its independence safeguarded because "that would be the only opportunity." Haji said he had declined to press charges on those arrested and quarantined by  police for violating curfew or health regulations, saying police had misunderstood the regulations in a large extent. Out of the over 1,500 arrested for the related offences, he said, he only approved charges for about 500.  Edited by P.O