The National Olympic Committee of Kenya has rolled out a stimulus package to cushion retired athletes who represented the country in various international events during the yesteryears. The beneficiaries of the programme are Kenyan athletes athletes who participated in the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games and African Games and retired by 2004. The programme was launched last month with NOC-K putting in the initial capital of Sh500,000. About 89 athletes, who donned the Kenyan colours, have so been identified and will reap from the programme that is expected to run for the next three month, according to NOC-K acting secretary general Francis Mutuku. He said the current coronavirus pandemic has brought all the sporting activities to a standstill, forcing them to rethink how best they  can assist the former athletes to survive during this difficult period. He said: “Basically, we have seen the need to offer material support to our past heroes and heroines. We are going to give foodstuffs worth Sh2000 per head and Sh500 to serve as transport. Our plan is to carry out this exercise for three months depending on the situation.” “Due to the limited resources, we decided to start with the veterans, who represented the country at Olympics, African Games and the Commonwealth Games. However, the support will extend to others subject to raising of requisite resources,” he added. At the same time, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amb. Amina Mohamed has reiterated her earlier warming to criminalise doping in the country. She said by virtue of the fact that Kenya was a giant sporting nation, she will not allow the country’s name to be tarnished by a few selfish individuals. “We are going to criminalise doping, believe me. If you engage in doping, you will be a criminal and you will not represent this country anywhere. You can do it on your own peril but let us not find you. We will not also spare those who are assisting the athletes to dope,” the CS added. “Kenya should be known for everything else apart from doping as our athletes have the potential and ability to win without using additional substances. We have begun drafting the bill which I will sign into a law once it reaches my desk,” CS Amina asserted. Meanwhile, the Chief Administrative secretary in the Ministry of Sports, Hassan Noor Hassa, said they are keen to see the building and renovation works on all the stadia within the country completed before the end of next year. Also in attendance were  Sports PS Joe Okudo, Sports Fund chairman/Athletic Kenya (AK) president Gen. (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei,  and Kenya National Sports council (KNSC) chairman Nderitu Gikaria among others.