A magistrate was taken aback when police on Wednesday presented a suspect in court without a face mask but for a different offence. The police seemed undeterred. This is despite it being an offence to be in public space without wearing one as one of the measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. "You mean you people allowed this man to enter into this compound without a face mask? How did he manage?" tough-talking Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani asked. It is at that point that the police officers realised they had been reckless. "Never shall you people allow anyone to access this court in without a face mask," she said. They explained that the suspect had been in police custody and hadn't been in a position to buy one. It is not news that traffic police solicit for bribes and the amounts differ. But a man charged with a traffic offence almost engaged in a fistfight with an investigating officer said that he attempted to bribe him with Sh500. He even pushed the officer in front of the magistrate. "When, where and how did I give you a bribe of Sh500? What I know is that you asked Sh50,000 from me. I request this court to release my vehicle from custody," he roared. The magistrate ordered that his car be released and gave him a later hearing date. A magistrate ordered as suspect to explain how he managed to steal cash from a client when he said the testimony in court was wrong. "Sasa tuambie venye ulienda kwa sababu unasema hizi facts si sawa, tuambie zenye unaona ziko Sawa (Now tell us how you managed to steal because you have said our facts as incorrect)," the magistrate said. Put on the spot, the man who was in court with his co-accused stammered, made about-turn  and told the court that he was ready to negotiate with the complainant. "I want to speak with the complainant your honour," he said. The duo were released on bond. A defilement suspect shocked a Nairobi court when he said he raped a 17-year-old because she was his girlfriend. He said that he committed the offence because "they were in love". "She was my lover and we loved each other that's why we agreed to have sex," he told the Magistrate. The man repeatedly pleaded guilty and the magistrate ordered that he be detained at a police station for a week before he is brought back for sentencing.