  Police in Nambale, Busia, are hunting for a man accused of killing a rival he found in his lover's house. Esther Adhiambo, the woman in the suspected love triangle, has been arrested, police said. The early Monday morning incident attracted a huge crowd, with residents condemning the killing. Nambale police station boss Rolex Nyoka said Adhiambo was detained at the station and would be arraigned. The OCS said Adhiambo may have been a lover to both men. “This is a love matter,” Nyoka said. “The woman must have been playing these two men. The suspected killer is still on the run but we are closing in on him because his identity has been revealed.” The suspected killer has only been identified as Chweti while the dead man 42-year-old Benjamin Ododo. The two men are reportedly sugar cane cutters in Nambale. Ododo’s body was discovered on Monday morning at Ikondokhero village in the outskirts of Nambale town. It was dumped along the road near Adhiambo’s house. Nyoka said Adhiambo and Chweti must have carried the body to the spot where it was found on Monday morning after the killing. He said Ododo’s body had several knife stabs. Police are yet to establish the number of times he was stabbed, Nyoka told the Star. The owner of the rental house where the murder took place, James Ndung’u, said he heard commotion at Adhiambo’s house on the night Ododo was killed. He said he feared coming out to establish what was happening since it was too dark. “I thought it was police officers battling local brew drinkers,” Ndung'u said. He described Adhiambo as a polite, jovial and friendly person. He said he never thought such an incident could happen in her house. The suspected killer, police said, is a resident of Malanga village. Ododo’s body was taken to the Nambale Subcounty Hospital Mortuary. Nyoka called for calm as police hunt the suspected killer. He said residents should use the legally available mechanisms to solve problems instead of taking the law into their hands.  Edited by P.O