The controversy over the sharing formula for the Sh5 billion coronavirus grant to counties will today dominate President Uhuru Kenyatta's extraordinary meeting with governors. There are protests over the 'skewed' sharing of the resources meant to enhance the capacities of the counties' Covid-19 isolation centres as the country approaches the virus peak. The Star has established that governors yesterday held a day-long meeting to harmonise their agenda amid protests ahead of the extraordinary summit at State House today. The meeting, to be attended by national and county government representatives will review the effectiveness of the coronavirus containment measures already in place. The summit will also evaluate the level of preparedness by the counties to handle the virus spike, especially in equipping isolation centres in public health facilities. It comes against the backdrop of disclosures that some county chiefs are still lagging behind in the Covid-19 war, despite billions allocated to the devolved functions, health included. Last week, President Kenyatta blasted some counties for their unpreparedness to handle the respiratory disease. This, he said, has delayed the reopening of the country’s economy. Uhuru cited Siaya and Busia as some of the devolved units still grappling with establishing quarantine and isolation centres  — the basic facilities in containing the virus. In today's meeting, governors will be tasked to affirm their preparedness in handling the virus whose infection rose to 2,862 on Monday. “Governors will be mandated to secure the undertaking of every county government to deliver isolation facilities with at least 300 bed-capacity,” Uhuru said on June 6. However, even as county governors came under pressure from the President, the Star has established that most of them are unhappy with the criteria used to share the Sh5 billion grant. Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku was the first to protest over the criteria used to determine the sharing formula, saying the distribution was unfair. “The allocation of Sh5 billion to counties to support efforts to fight Covid-19 needs an urgent review,” Lenku said on Monday. He said that despite his county being among those with most cases, it received less money, yet some devolved units with fewer cases were allocated more. “We have been allocated Sh52 million, yet we now have 92 confirmed cases. “Counties that are yet to record a single case have been allocated more than Sh200 million,” he said. Lenku's remarks appeared to set the tone for the summit today with the Commission on Revenue Allocation set to explain how it arrived at the controversial formula. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe had said the sharing of the funds would be as per the revenue allocation formula by the CRA. On Monday, a governor from Western Kenya, who sought anonymity, told the Star that they were not satisfied with the sharing formula as it does not consider crucial imperatives. “How do you allocate a county with as fewer as one case more money than a county grappling with spiking cases and with more predisposing factors? This is why we want fairness so that all counties are empowered to address Covid-19,” he said. He said they will ask the President to intervene so that money is allocated using a scientific formula. “Ours is justice. This is a grant and there is nowhere it can be skewed to benefit some counties. We want fairness," the county boss said. According to official records on the sharing of the Sh5 billion grant, Nairobi will get the lion's share of Sh294.3 million, while Lamu will get Sh13.6 million, the least. Nairobi has most Covid-19 cases at more than 600, while Lamu is yet to record any. Kakamega is second in allocation with Sh262 million, followed by Bungoma (Sh213 million) and Nakuru (Sh201 million). Kakamega has one case while Bungoma has two. Machakos, with 13 cases, will get Sh188 million, while Kiambu, which has recorded 71 cases, has been allocated Sh185 million. Others are Baringo (Sh84 million), Elgeyo Marakwet (Sh57 million), Embu (Sh80 million), Garissa (Sh41 million), Homa Bay (Sh98 million), Laikipia (Sh54 million), West Pokot (Sh75 million), Vihiga (Sh60 million), Marsabit (Sh28 million), and Mandera (Sh91 million). Yesterday Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya defended the sharing formula. "The money was shared based on the CRA revenue sharing formula. That was the fairest way to go about it. But if we get more money  going forward, counties on the borders and those worst hit will be considered," he said. The Kakamega governor confirmed that there will be an extraordinary summit at State House today. - mwaniki fm