Barthes Cup earlier rescheduled for September here in Kenya has now been cancelled due to Covid-19. This follows the cancellation of the 2020 season by Rugby Africa following regular and consultative online meetings with federations and doctors concerning the health situation in the world. The federation had envisaged competition resuming next month after  coronavirus pandemic in Africa but this seems impossible. The decision means there will be no Africa Cup for the second year running. Lat year, lack of funding saw the event cancelled. The Africa men’s and women’s 7s competition as well the Barthes Cup will also not take place. However, Countries will be allowed to have test matches if the situation eases later in the year. Kenya Simbas head coach Paul Odera termed the decision a blow for the Simbas with no competitive matches being played this year and leaving their hopes of qualification to the World Cup in 2023 in doubt. "It's sad that we only have one year to prepare for the World Cup qualifiers in 2021 or 2022 thereabouts and it leaves us in a tough situation,” noted Odera. The Simbas will for the second year not be able to play powerhouse Namibia, who were their target. A statement from Rugby Africa said: "The decision to cancel the competitions follows a joint agreement reached with the federations consulted on 7 and 8 May. "These bodies want to be able to focus on resuming their activities in the final quarter of 2020, if possible. "After assessing the pandemic’s impact on the sports industry and in particular on rugby, and studying the various options, the following considerations led to matches being cancelled. The current bans on travel, public gatherings and sporting events across Africa means it is unlikely  to resume competition once again on the continent this year." "Not all African nations will lift restrictions at the same time or in the same way. This would compromise some countries’ participation. Travel costs are also expected to increase significantly. Potential quarantine requirements could require some players to spend much longer periods abroad," added the statement. "Rugby Africa is also strengthening support for federations and is considering, where financial resources allow, the release of a one-off solidarity fund for rugby team activities and preparations," the statement continued. The Simbas matches were scheduled to commence on  May 30 with the side set to host Morocco in Mombasa. Their second match would see them travel to Abidjan to face Côte d’Ivoire on June 27  in the second Pool match.  They would then warm-up for the semis with Victoria Cup matches pitting Uganda in Kakamega on  July 11 and Zimbabwe on  July 18 in Nakuru.