The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is investigating the National Police Service Commission over alleged irregular recruitment of its staff. In a letter dated June 19 to the police CEO, the anti-graft agency requested several original or certified documents from the commission to facilitate the probe. The EACC wants the NPSC human resource manual, a current nominal roll of all staff, list of staff who have been employed at the commission and their designation from January 2019 to date. The agency has also requested a list of all officers attached to NPSC and any other relevant information. “To this end, you are requested to inform Director, Human Resource Capital management- National Police Service Commission to appear at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Headquarters at Integrity House, Nairobi on 25th June 2020 at 10.00 am to avail the requested documents and record a statement,” the letter signed by Patrick Owiny for the agency's CEO reads. The move comes three weeks after EACC received complaints of alleged nepotism and unfair dismissal of police officers by NPSC chairman Eliud Kinuthia. The complainant who wrote to the EACC last month claimed that six staffers have been fired and replaced with others from Kinuthia's community. “They have been replaced by a number of new staff members from his ethnic group who comprise his son, his brother-in-law and his sister-in-law, among many others. All individuals he has recruited since his arrival in the commission come from Lamu,” the letter reads in part. The complainant further claims the commission boss was involved in “worst form of abuse of office not fit for a state officer.” However, Kinuthia said he was being accused because of doing what is right by undertaking reforms at the commission. “Remember I have been there consistently over 12 years since the inception of reforms and authored five different reform strategy books. EACC is welcome with or without notice to establish facts for themselves,” Kinuthia said. NPSC is in charge of human resource management of the police service which comprises the Kenya Police, Administration Police and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Established under Chapter 15 of the Constitution 2010, NPSC took over, among other functions, the human resource management function that previously was being handled by the Public Service Commission. Membership of the commission comprises Kinuthia, Alice Otwala (vice chairperson), Eusebius Laibuta, Lillian Kimba, John Ole Moyaki, Naphtaly Rono, Hillary Mutyambai (Inspector General of Police) and Joseph Onyango (secretary) In December 2018, a group of police officers sued the NPSC for unfair treatment and discrimination in promotions. The officers, who have filed a case at the Employment and Labour Relations Court, accused the commission of bypassing them in promotions despite meeting all the requirements. Edited by R.Wamochie