Kenya is among African countries selected to sit in the Congress of African Journalists, which was launched on Tuesday. The inaugural meeting to launch the CAJ was hosted by Nigeria Union of Journalists, and saw Kenya Correspondents Association’s chairman, William Oloo Janak, elected as interim CAJ Secretary. This is after the congress set-up an interim governing council of six members presided by Alexandre Niyungeko, who is the President of Union of Burundi Journalists. Other members of the council are Foster Dongozi (Secretary General of Zimbabwe Union of Journalists), Patricia Adjissekou (Secretary General of Togo Union of Independent Journalists) Treasurer; Christopher Isiguzo, (President of Nigeria Union of Journalists), and Aicha Ahmed Youssouf (President of Djibouti Union of the Press and Audiovisual). The Congress seeks to address the current challenging effects of Covid-19 and the collateral impacts on press freedom, safety of journalists, access to information and how it is affecting journalists in the course of their work. Other participating countries were Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, and Zimbabwe. "We commend all African journalists for their dedication to press freedom and access to information for the general public. We call on African Governments to empower the journalists and media organisations to do their work efficiently in this trying moment,”CAJ interim President Niyungeko said. During the launch, delegates noted that journalists in different countries have fallen sick or died of the virus, and others have been victimised in the course of their duties as essential workers in the frontline. “We condemn all attacks on journalists, and call for the release of all journalists in prison in Africa,” Niyungeko said. CAJ made a commitment to continue engaging all governments, the African Union and partners in expanding freedom of expression and access to information for good governance.