Eleven-time Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker have rubbished reports linking their goalkeeper Emery Mvuyekure to South African giants Orlando Pirates as a free agent. Last week, the Rwandese custodian was rumoured to be on his  way out of  Ruaraka for a lucrative deal in the Premier League Soccer (PLS) but the club insist his contract expires on  November 30 next year. This contrasts the reports which indicated that the lanky gloveman, who joined the club in 2018, was in his final six months of his terms. "There is no way the player can leave as a free agent yet he has a running contract with us neither have we delayed his salaries. The news caught us by surprise considering he has a copy of the contract and we are always ready to give printouts to our players,"' said club chairman, Daniel Aduda Aduda, however, urged the Pirates to follow the right channels in their push to secure Mvuyekure's signature. He said the brewers will not stand in his way should the two clubs reach an agreement. "We are always open to our players when it comes to deals elsewhere. In this case,  we do not intend to stand in his way but the right channel must be followed. Those who want his services should approach us for negotiations and I believe should we reach consensus, then we will let him go with our blessings. Heading south is a good move," he added. At the same time, the administrator opened up on the looming talks between him and Mvuyrekure's agent to wipe out the misunderstanding. He faulted the agent for failing to advise the player on the terms in his contract. He also assured players whose contracts had expired before football was suspension that they will get their full salaries. "I will meet his agent for more talks and see if we can read from the same page. Apparently, he mis-advised the player on the terms within his contract but we will sort things out. In the meantime, we are committed in paying our players even those whose contracts have expired. This is in line with the Fifa's directive to continue paying even when football remains suspended. The only player we struck off our payroll is Humprey Mieno who is on loan in Oman,"' he assured.