Treasury CS Ukur Yatani has asked Parliament to approve an additional Sh14.8 billion to fund current expenditure and help counties respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. Yatani is seeking approval for Sh8.9 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh5.9 billion for development in the third supplementary estimates tabled in Parliament on Tuesday. For recurrent reallocations, Yatani is seeking to add State House Sh300 million for other operating expenses, Sh300 million to Interior ministry and Sh1.9 billion to Defence ministry. The Treasury also seeks an approval to spend Sh6.3 billion for Covid-19 emergency response, of which Sh5.8 billion will be to support counties to respond to the pandemic. President Uhuru Kenyatta, from the development estimates, appears keen on continuing his plan for a commuter rail in Nairobi. In this regard, Treasury has reallocated Sh1.8 billion from Big Four projects under the transport sector towards the railway project, affecting the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone project. Yatani further wants Sh1.5 billion for the Interior ministry towards the national security communication and surveillance system. At least Sh218 million is being sought to help mitigate displacement by floods. A chunk will be spent on rehabilitation works. Treasury is also seeking for approval to spend Sh220 million to purchase vehicles for the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and Sh14 million for works at the Mombasa State House. MPs have also been asked to approve Sh468 million to strengthen the health system and Sh350 million to support universal health coverage in the counties. The government is also seeking Sh2.4 billion for the construction of social housing units to support the Uhuru housing agenda. Treasury has also fronted requests for Sh1.16 billion for Suswa - Loiyangalani high transmission line. Yatani also wants Parliament to approve Sh203 million more towards the completion of the multi-storey office block. A Sh96 million allocation to the Public Service for a payroll management system has been dropped alongside Sh90 million that was set aside for the construction of regional DPP offices. The third supplementary budget has ignited debate on the state of the economy with experts warning the move suggests that all is not well at the Treasury. Institute of Economic Affairs CEO Kwame Owino told the Star that Yatani’s move is an admission of poor budget planning and execution and should be blamed on both the Treasury and Parliament. “This is not the first time. This has been an issue we have dealt with for three years now where we have too many revisions of the budget. Last year we had two supplementary budgets,” Owino said. He added, “It tells you that the budget execution and controls are not happening well as contemplated by Public Finance and Management Act and the Constitution and in my view, the blame must be shared by Treasury on one side and Parliament because Parliament is allowing for that to happen.”  Edited by P.O