The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal will on Friday determine whether the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu should be stopped from recognising Wafula Wamunyinyi as the interim Ford-Kenya leader. Ford-K's former secretary-general Eseli Simiyu moved to the tribunal yesterday after the National Executive Council purported to dethrone Moses Wetang'ula as the leader on May 31. Simiyu attempted to take over the party in a clandestine meeting at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Nairobi. Wetang'ula was accused of, among other things, gross misconduct and alleged failure to unite the party. The tribunal was told that Simiyu had pronounced himself the new leader in an acting capacity. “Simiyu intends to register a purported list of ‘new officials’ for the party with the Registrar of Political Parties,” the Tribunal heard. Ford-K seeks an injunction stopping the registrar from receiving, acting upon or entertaining any documents purporting to be from the party and emanating from Simiyu and Wamunyinyi pending the hearing and determination of all charges facing them by the party's internal disciplinary machinery. Also sought is an order stopping the registrar from effecting changes in the office of Ford-K recognising Wamunyinyi as the interim party leader and Simiyu as the SG. Ford-K had earlier summoned the two for a disciplinary hearing scheduled for May 31. They failed to attend and instead attempted to take over the party. The party then suspended them and two other members for, among other accusations, violating its constitution.  To avoid the disciplinary action, the two decided to stage a coup and take over the party leadership. They are accused of supporting activities of parties and organisations in conflict with Ford-K interests, conspiring with other persons and passing resolutions dewhipping party members from both parliamentary leadership positions and committees. Documents before the Tribunal show that on May 28, Simiyu proposed and nominated himself as the party nominee to the position of Deputy Minority Whip under the Nasa coalition in Parliament, which proposal and nomination were not discussed or approved by any organ of the party. Party vice-chair Susan Wafula says in an affidavit the two acted against the constitution of the party by purporting to have a NEC meeting and appointing an interim leader who has never held a position of leadership or any other senior position. “The two intend to submit illegal document to the office of the registrar to effect changes arising from the unlawful meeting held on May 31,” she said. Ford-K insists it has all the legal instruments and wants the registrar stopped from acting or implementing any resolutions coming from the two and purporting to be from the party.  - mwaniki fm