A lawmaker on Tuesday accused Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa of using relief food distributed by his ministry to score political points. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, before he was ruled out of order, tore into CS Eugene accusing him of taking advantage of the platform to play politics. During the plenary, some MPs lamented that there was bias in the identification of the beneficiaries of relief by the national government. The claims came after National Security and Administration Committee chairman Paul Koinange issued a statement outlining the steps the government has taken to mitigate floods. “Currently, the ministry is providing assistance to people affected by floods and landslides across the country,” Koinange said. MP Wamalwa claimed there was discrimination against some sections of the population in Trans Nzoia – a home turf he shares with the CS. “We have seen food being distributed and many Kenyans are being discriminated against along political lines,” the lawmaker said. “The food is given to some specific MCAs and others are left out and told they are not politically correct. “We want clarity. What do we mean to be politically correct? It has been demonstrated that some chiefs sold these foods. What action is the ministry taking? What action is being taken against the CS who is using the food for political purposes?” But Moses Cheboi – who chaired the session – told the MP that taking that direction would amount to the House engaging in local politics. It is said that the two Wamalwas are keen on succeeding Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba in the 2022 election. Eugene was not available for comment on the concerns raised about the food distribution. He has been to almost every corner of the country leading the drive. Other MPs said what mattered was the channels that someone followed to get rations from the national government. Some called for a change of strategy so that beneficiaries are given cash instead of food rations – as they may be having more pressing needs than unga and rice. Leader of Majority Aden Duale said he had held conversations with President Uhuru Kenyatta on the matter. He said that with the billions the House allocates to relief food, there was need for the government to think outside the box. “We need to in future turn the relief food into cash transfer. There is pilferage hence the food doesn’t reach the intended people 100 per cent,” he said. “If you give somebody maize or rice, what else are they going to do with it? Why not give them some Sh2,000 so that it helps them better – and grow the economy of the nearby shopping centres?” the Garissa Township MP said. “As a House that should be the route we should go to instead of the maize and beans we have given year in year out.” Endebess MP Robert Pukose regretted reports from some areas that some vegetable oils were stolen from the stores. Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe also cautioned against politics, saying Kakamega residents have received their food rations in a coordinated approach. “It takes involvement and coordination of the administrative structures on the ground,” the Navakholo MP said. Baringo MP Gladwell Cheruiyot backed Duale on the concerns the ideal beneficiaries were not getting the assistance, adding that there was a need to incorporate Nyumba Kumi leaders. Edited by Henry Makori