Traders in Kwale on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after the county government extended a tax waiver for another 30 days. The traders had asked Governor Salim Mvurya for more time to allow their businesses to completely stabilise after the disruptions brought by Covid-19. Speaking at Kwale headquarters during his weekly Covid-19 briefing, Mvurya said the waivers include market fees, parking fees, penalties for land rates and public hospital outpatient services. But the waiver doesn’t cover patients who require specialised medical attention. The governor said he aimed at cushioning citizens mostly businesspeople who were striving to revive the county economy. “We re aware things are not good and lifting waivers very early won’t be conducive to the business environment, so I add more days for our determined businesspeople to fully recover,” he said. Mvurya said in a bid to ensure steady recovery of the economy the county with the help of the national government would slowly allow open-air markets to resume normal operations. He said public health officers would lay down rules and regulations to mitigate the spread of coronavirus. The county boss said the opening will be held gradual, with livestock markets reopening first after meeting certain requirements. “The markets must first comply with the public health directives and after approval, they will be told how to start working,” he said. Meanwhile, Mvurya advised residents not to be complacent about the government’s lifting of the cessation of movement in Kwale. He appealed to every citizen to be more vigilant and heighten the fight against Covid-19 individually. The county chief added that the virus still exists and doesn’t recognise the relaxation of some of the rules. “Now that the rules were a little bit relaxed, it doesn’t mean corona is no more. The truth is that it is here with us and it doesn’t sleep anytime. You can be exposed to it,” he said. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo said already 20 police officers had been deployed at a new police station in Lunga Lunga to man the Kenya-Tanzania border. Edited by Henry Makori