Still in Nyanza, a senator from the region who has been a political nemesis of a sitting governor has been forced to swallow a humble political pie after he promised to have the county chief jailed over corruption. The senator, who plans to replace the governor in 2022, has been hard-pressed to explain why he can't condemn looting as he had promised. Corridors has learnt that the lawmaker fears that any war against the governor who enjoys strong support in the grassroots will make his candidature untenable hence his loud silence. A senior finance officer from a county in Nyanza shocked his secretary when he went down on his knees in the office while on a telephone call from his boss. Corridors learnt that the boss was breathing fire and demanding to know why he authored a letter changing signatories of one of the county hospitals giving the chief executive officer and an accountant who is his Mpango wa Kando authority to withdraw money leaving out the administration officer. Source told Corridors that the change of signatories was a ploy to sidestep the administrator to withdraw huge cash with no supporting documents. The purpose of the money was equally unclear. The hospital which has remained a cash cow over the years is on its death bed. The furious governor is said to be contemplating sacking the finance officer whose work has left trails of misappropriation of billions of shillings. Residents of a county known for ran away corruption are worried that area ward representatives may not conduct their oversight roles as expected because of the way they are now doing business with the devolved unit. A resident told Corridors that most MCAs are now contractors of major projects in the county. They are doubtful that the ward representatives will check the excesses of the executive because they are already in business with the administration. The area governor is said to have recently hosted them for lunch to deliberate on issues that were not made public. The MCAs are also said to have taken the contracts of all ward projects through briefcase companies. A woman representative has been accused of using sanitary towels donation by the government to play politics. The leader has been hoarding the pads and planting spies to monitor rivals who plan to distribute the essential towels before hijacking their functions and passing off the entire donations as from her office. NGOs and Civic Organisations have also been left in anger as the leader has been insisting on hijacking their programmes in distributions and vow to expose her soon. They have promised protests soon.