Last week a photo was widely shared purportedly showing how Kakamega residents took to the streets in support of Deputy President William Ruto. In a photo shared on social media networks, the 'locals' are seen sitting in the road while lifting their hands during the 'demo'. A message attached on the photo read, But did this happen?, the Star moved swiftly to establish the authenticity of the claim. Where did it start? The photo with the caption was widely circulated on WhatsApp indicating that Kakamega residents had decided to welcome DP Ruto as their preferred leader. This post was made at a time when there is currently a lot of political re-alignments, especially within the major political parties as well as the Western region. Kakamega for years has been one of the stronghold areas for the opposition outfit whose Governor Wycliffe Oparanya swept to power on an ODM ticket. The Star called Shinyalu OCPD Robert Maku to confirm the claims. The police boss confirmed the alleged incident did not take place on the airstrip. According to Makau, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa was destined to Budalangi where they were to flag off a relief food distribution exercise. But a crowd of boda boda operators and some youth started shouting at the CS's entourage chanting that they knew Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula. The post thus implied that residents had decided to shift their allegiance to Ruto and his wing of the Jubilee Party. FINDINGS The Star established that the said photo was not taken in Kakamega as alleged. The photo was in fact taken in 2016 outside the Anniversary Towers in Nairobi where protesters had camped during the famous anti-IEBC demos. The photo was originally used on an online story by the Daily Mail on June 6, 2016. Whereas it is true that Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa accompanied by the governor flagged off trucks containing relief food, the Cotu Secretary General was not part of the delegation and the food was from the national government under the Covid-19 kitty. According to teams on the ground, the event took place at the Kakamega Airstrip in Shinyalu. There was no problem when governor Oparanya and CS Wamalwa arrived for the event. Residents had gathered at the venue to witness the flagging off. When the CS was done, the residents hoped that he alongside other leaders addressed them. A few days earlier, the leaders were part of a 'Luhya Unity meeting at Atwoli’s residence. The meeting had brought a lot of jitters in the Western region and the residents knew it was an opportune time to be informed of what that particular meeting was about. They were however disappointed when the CS, governor and other leaders entered in their cars and sped off saying they were to attend to other matters. This did not go well with some of the youth who had come for the event. At this point, they started chanting ‘tunataka Ruto’ (we want Ruto). This incident was captured and used on an online story by the Standard Digital. A day later, former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale was arrested for allegedly inciting the youth in the chants. Khalwale presented himself to Malinya police station after warrants of arrest were issued against him and deposited a Sh100,000 police bail to secure his release. He was later released after the DPP withdrew the incitement charges against him.