 Support for Deputy President William Ruto could be behind the Ford-Kenya wars with secretary-general Eseli Simiyu accusing party leader Moses Wetang'ula of secretly warming up to the DP. An embattled Wetang’ula is fighting to retain the leadership of his party after Eseli orchestrated a coup that has left the Bungoma senator on the verge of being ousted. Already, Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu has given a notice of intention to remove Wetang'ula as Ford-Kenya leader. Wetang'ula was suspended as Ford-Kenya leader two weeks ago by National Executive Council and his place taken by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyiyi in an acting capacity. Speaking during an interview on a local radio station, Eseli said the party membership had made a decision to remove Wetang’ula so that the party can be revamped. “Wetang’ula has been holding night meetings with William Ruto. I even attended one of the meetings in which Ruto was openly insulting our community and its leadership. I left, but Wetang’ula kept sending Ford-Kenya MPs to Ruto,” Eseli said. The Tongaren MP said the ground had shifted considerably in their favour and that is why Wetang’ula had resorted to underhand dealings including bribery and intimidation of delegates and National Executive Council members. He said the decision to remove Wetang’ula was arrived at following an outcry from branch officials in party strongholds of Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties. Similar complaints were also received from Kitui, Taita Taveta and Mombasa branches, Eseli said. He said the intention of the change in the party leadership is to take Ford-Kenya back to its owners who are the people and expand the democratic space. “Officials in our branches complained that the party leader has been out of touch with them. They have organised many meetings and invited Wetang’ula to address their grievances but he [Wetang`ula] has been unavailable,” Eseli said. Wetang’ulahas accused the Wamunyinyi faction of presenting forged documents to the registrar to remove him as party leader. "Wamunyinyi and Eseli forged signatures of some of the NEC members who did not whatsoever attend their meeting at Radisson Blu Hotel. Among those whose signatures were forged is our director of elections,” Wetang’ula said. He also accused the duo of duplicating the names on the attendance list, saying some even appeared twice. Among the names is that of former Kimilili MP Suleiman Murunga. “Fourteen members who attended the Eseli meeting were imposters who signed the attendance list as NEC members to achieve a quorum,” Wetang'ula said. Wetang’ula said Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati also signed as a NEC member despite having resigned in 2018. He said two CECs in the Bungoma county government also attended the meeting as NEC members against the party's constitution that says one is automatically removed from NEC upon joining the civil service. Wetang'ula says the party constitution requires formal correspondences to be signed by three officials with the party leader a mandatory signatory on any document by party organs. "All the correspondences Eseli made to the registrar were solely signed by him alone. The Eseli team also forged the party’s official stamp. The stamp indicates party’s headquarters are in Kileleshwa yet we only have One Simba house at Ole-Dume road,” Wetang’ula said. The senator defended his leadership saying before the coronavirus pandemic, the party had concluded grassroots elections and made a notice of NDC to the registrar intending to hold elections for national office. He questioned why the registrar was "playing ping-pong games" yet she received and gave the green light to the NDC. Eseli, however, said nominations of candidates during elections has all along been a sham with Wetang’ula handpicking those he wants to fly the party flag. “As secretary-general, my role had been reduced to signing documents after the party leader handpicked his cronies and those who buy tickets to contest. He has weakened and killed the party,” Eseli said. He accused Wetang'ula of usurping his powers and single-handedly running party affairs. He said previous attempts to address the grievances fell on deaf ears with Wetang’ula refusing to convene a meeting to resolve the complaints raised by members. “We tried all avenues within the party to work with Wetang’ula but they all failed. We can’t work with him as a party leader. We shall take action against him including expulsion from the party if he continues intimidating our members,” Eseli threatened. He defended the planned removal of Wetang'ula as party leader, saying the constitution was duly followed. Speaking separately on Sulwe FM, Governor Wangamati said they will never work with Wetang'ula as party leader. He said the Bungoma senator had disagreed with all leaders from the region and was a lone ranger. “He disagreed with Governor Oparanya, Governor Khaemba and now me. He spent the better part of his previous term as senator antagonising Governor Lusaka [now Senate speaker]. The four leaders can’t all be bad. There must be a problem with Wetang’ula and his leadership style,” Wangamati said. He said he had tried his best to work with Wetang'ula but failed. “I know he wants to run for governor. He is free to come and contest in the primaries as an ordinary member of Ford-Kenya without the advantage of being party leader,” Wangamati said. The governor accused Wetang'ula of hiding behind the fight against corruption and oversight to intimidate him and create scandals to campaign for himself ahead of 2022. He said the senator is a dishonest leader who can’t be trusted because he always turns against his word.  Edited by P.O