The lack of a single functional Intensive Care Unit in Lamu has raised questions on the county’s preparedness to fight Covid-19 as the cases rise around the country. Lamu still faces immense infrastructural challenges in all sectors, but most especially the health, road and education sectors. The county is yet to record a case since the outbreak in Kenya was announced in March. It has four key public hospitals, 34 dispensaries and several health centres. But all its hospitals lack specialised ICU beds and other infrastructure necessary for an ICU. Health executive Anne Gathoni said plans are underway to reform the sector. “We plan to put up a five-bed ICU. The building is ready, we are working on the other bits,” she said. The Health department and activists have raised concerns that reckless distribution of aid by politicians and other philanthropists directly to the public could cause an outbreak of the disease. Gathoni, however, says the Health department is well prepared and alert to arrest any arising cases of the coronavirus. “We’ve put up several isolation facilities for coronavirus patients at the King Fahad Hospital as well as at Mpeketoni and Faza subcounty hospitals. Health workers' sensitisation has also been done and is still ongoing,” she said. Lamu has only established three Covid-19 centres, one at the Lamu King Fahad Hospital and one each at the Mpeketoni and Faza subcounty hospitals. However, apart from the empty buildings earmarked as isolation centres, there is no equipment, including basic resuscitation equipment and other facilities needed for any ICU to function. The only available tangibles are face masks and protective gowns for medical personnel. While the likes of the Mbagathi Isolation Centre are equipped with beds, scanners and test kits, the Lamu facilities only have beds and cupboards. As at now, they can only receive Covid-19 patients but can’t treat them as they lack even the basic facilities. CAPACITY QUESTIONED Early this week, the county commenced distribution of over 100,000 free face masks to locals. The Health executive earlier admitted to a shortage of drugs in the facilities. She said in February that the drugs were being stolen by staff at the various health facilities. In March, Governor Fahim Twaha was summoned by the Senate Committee on Health over the deteriorating state of health facilities. The committee had been to Lamu on a fact-finding mission following a successful petition by Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip, who called for deeper investigations into matter. So dire is the situation that patients haven’t been able to access the simplest drugs, with hundreds being referred to hospitals in Mombasa, Kilifi and Malindi for simple ailments. Locals have been forced to seek treatment in private hospitals, which are costly. Residents, community leaders, elders and other players are now questioning the ability of the health sector to handle a Covid-19 outbreak, with missing amenities, infrastructure and staff. Community leader Mohamed Asham says the fact that the county government seems relaxed about the whole matter is worrying. He warned that just because the region has yet to record a case does not mean the region is out of danger from the pandemic. In April, the county assembly approved Sh50 million to go towards combating coronavirus concerns, bringing to Sh60 million the total allocation by then. “Between April and now, I am aware the monies have gone past Sh150 million, yet there is nothing to show for it,” Asham said. "If you visit our so-called isolation centres, you will encounter shame. Why is Lamu not bracing for this disease like the rest of Kenya?" Edited by T Jalio