 Five more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the disease even as the country's total confirmed cases rose beyond the 2,000 mark. Fifty-nine more cases were confirmed on Monday from 1,518 samples tested in 24 hours, raising the total number of confirmed cases so far to 2,021. The total number of tests conducted since the first case now stands at 80,054. Eight more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully recovered to 482. The new cases are aged between 10 and 76. They included 35 males. Of the new cases, 29 were from Nairobi and 14 from Mombasa. Turkana had six, Busia four, Taita Taveta and Kajiado two cases each while Kimabu and Kilifi had one each. The five who died were undergoing treatment in Nairobi and Mombasa, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said. The new deaths push Kenya's Covid-19 fatalities to 69. Kagwe urged Kenyans to remain focused and not to allow complacency by continuing to abide by the various regulations put in place to control the spread of infections. “For the first time, Kenyans understandingly followed the proceedings of the 57th Madaraka Day celebrations from their homes. This is because we are not in normal times,” Kagwe said. He added, “The coronavirus pandemic has disrupted several aspects of our social, political and economic lifestyles. We are however confident that together, we shall be able to defeat this virus, and let our lives get back to normal.” Kagwe however urged Kenyans to consider the importance of staying healthy by regularly exercising and eating foods that are rich in vitamins. In Nairobi, the cases were from Ruaraka (8), Westlands (six), Dagoretti North (four), Langata (four) and Kibra (three). Embakasi East, Karasani, Kamkunji and Makadara all had a case each. All the Ruaraka cases were from a quarantine centre. The Mombasa cases were from Mvita (six) and two each from Kisauni, Nyali, Jomvu and Changamwe. In Turkana, all the six cases were at the Nadapal point of entry. The cases in Busia were from Malaba point of entry where three people tested positive and at the Alupe quarantine facility where a case was confirmed. The two cases in Taita Taveta were from Mwatate. In Kajiado, the two cases are from Kajiado East and Kiambu's lone case was from Thika. In Kilifi, the case was recorded in Rabai.  Edited by P.O