 The media has been asked to proactively highlight activities of institutions of higher learning to help solve some challenges facing communities. The University of Nairobi VC Stephen Kiama said varsities are hubs of research and knowledge that if well harnessed will go a long way in addressing the day-today challenges facing communities. Professor Kiama was speaking on Friday when editors and sales and marketing managers from The Star paid him a courtesy call in his office. The Star delegation included Head of Content Paul Ilado, Radio Africa Group Chief Operating Officer Agnes Kalekye, News Editor Francis Mureithi, photo editor Jack Owuor and sales and marketing managers Millicent Wandera and Stephen Mumo. The VC was accompanied by Director of Corporate Affairs John Orindi and his (VC's) personal assistant Peter Muyukani. “We do a lot of research, and it is good to always tell how this knowledge is helping the communities, a lot is happening,” Kiama said. During the meeting, UoN and the Star and Radio Africa Group in general agreed to work closely for mutual benefit and for the benefit of the public. Ilado said the Star will go the extra mile in highlighting the institution’s activities including publishing works of various lecturers and ensuring that their knowledge positively shapes the different sectors in the society. He said experienced journalists from the Radio Africa Group will be readily available to offer practical experiences and lessons to UoN students pursuing journalism and other communication-related courses. Other areas of collaboration will be Radio Africa and the Star readily offering internship opportunities to the university’s students and enabling them to have practical experience that will be handy in the job market. Kalekye said Radio Africa has a very strong digital presence, widely listened to radio stations and an influential newspaper hence providing the institution with a rich platform to reach out to millions of readers and audiences.  Edited by P.O