Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi was on Monday summoned by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission over incitement remarks. The vocal legislator told journalists that he offered to present himself at the commission headquarters in Nairobi to clarify issues. Though he did not disclose what the issues were, Sudi said he had given the commission the information they wanted from him. The MP however accused the commission of undertaking its mandate selectively. "I was summoned over here to clarify a few issues. As leaders when we speak and the commission feels we need to come over and clarify on what we said they are allowed to summon us," he said. He added, "The have questioned me and I have given them all the information they wanted including what I said about Mungiki". Sudi said he maintains his stand that he cannot allow "political failures to use the outlawed group to threaten their rivals". "I had a different perspective when I came here, but we have had a very fruitful engagement and I know they are very appreciative of the information I have given them," he said. Last month, Sudi, while reacting to the dewhipping of Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Nakuru's Susan Kihika, said he was aware of a plot to "eliminate" some politicians opposed to Jubilee's governance. Sudi said some powerful people within the political circles were using the outlawed group to execute the plan. "They can kill whoever they want but we shall not surrender, we shall not be moved," he said. Sudi said if the plan to eliminate them would continue, they were ready to surrender their lives and would name those who killed former IEBC ICT manager Chris Musando. "No one lives forever, we are all passers-by. Even Moi was here and he left, we are ready to surrender our lives but we want remind them that we shall say who killed Musando," Sudi said. Last year, the commission let the MP off the hook over other incitement remarks he had made. Sudi had been grilled over remarks he had made against a section of leaders in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). NCIC said Sudi issued remarks against a certain community, which it reasoned were derisively condescending and inciting. Chief Executive Officer Hassan Mohamed said the politician issued a statement which to them "crossed the red line", breaching section 62 of the commission's Act. He said the reason why the commission let him off the hook was because Sudi owned up to the statements and apologised. “We acknowledge that the utterances the MP made went overboard with regards to being inciting. We, however, also acknowledge that he has consequently been making efforts to express regret for his wrongs, including owning up to the mistakes and tweeting his apologies," the CEO said. The commission felt  Sudi was remorseful and therefore issued him with a cessation notice and a  warning. This meant stringent actions would be taken if the MP repeated the mistake.