ANC party Musalia Mudavadi on Sunday said Kenyans are on their own because a large part of the opposition has joined President Uhuru Kenyatta's government. In his statement to the media, Mudavadi noted that with schools closed, floods, inhumane evictions in parts of Nairobi in the wake of Covid-19, the country is in “deep crisis.” “In short, all is not well in the country. We are in the midst of serious national crises. They call for focused and action-based leadership. Sadly, Kenyans are marking this year’s Madaraka Day virtually on their own,” he said. The former Deputy Prime Minister said the leadership problems is the opposite of the dream the founding fathers had, questioning why MPs have abandoned Kenyans at the time of need. “Why have these political power games now led to the capture of Parliament? Both the National Assembly and the Senate no longer work for the people. With very few exceptions, the legislature is now the forum of self-seeking individuals,” he said. “The Executive has capitalised on legislator’s anxiety for the good life to make Parliament hostage with the free will and invitation of the legislature itself. Capture of the people’s representatives in Parliament mocks what we are celebrating as this year’s Madaraka day,” he added. In a jibe that appeared to target Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Mudavadi said “trade union leaders have abandoned workers to their doom” due to the effects of Covid-19, while the trade unionist is busy cutting political deals. “As workers wallow in uncertainty, their leaders are immersed in celebratory dances with sections of the political class. The wider relevance of what Cotu is doing for the workers at these celebratory jamborees is not known. What is known is that the worker is alone,” he said. Mudavadi warned that time is catching up with the political class who have taken Kenyans for granted, saying there is need for the leaders to “rediscover and rededicate themselves to the original values and visions of Madaraka”. “We must go back to our responsibility of placing the people first. It does not matter what we the leaders become if the people are not part of the equation,” he said.