@Yobramos4 The Umoja Summit Party of Kenya is in a race against time to fully register itself in time for the Msambweni by-election. The party wants to field a candidate to replace MP Suleiman Dori who died on March 9. The by-election had been initially set for June 25 but was postponed indefinitely because of the coronavirus outbreak. This will be USPK's first-ever participation in an election after plans to field a candidate in the Ganda by-election in Kilifi county late last year failed. A virtual meeting of USPK’s National Executive Council last Wednesday resolved to fast-track the process of the full registration by the end of this week. USPK interim chair Matano Chengo said the party has resolved to have a strong candidate to take on those who will be in ODM and Jubilee. “At the end of the week, we will have finished all the issues about compliance. We are going for the seat,” Chengo told the Star on phone Monday. The plan is to use the Msambweni by-election to announce the party’s entrance and then use that opportunity to speak to the Coast residents about the importance of having their own house. Chengo said the Coast people have for decades been used and dumped by the big parties from other regions including ODM and Jubilee. “At the Coast, we have all communities but because we have no strong voice and we just follow other people’s vehicles,” Chengo said. For instance, Chengo said, the Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa county assemblies had nomination slots handed to people from other regions. “We have Luos, Kikuyus, Kambas, Luhyas and other communities at the Coast. But still, these were overlooked and people from Nairobi had to be nominated to these county assemblies,” Chengo noted. USPK Kwale interim chairman Mazera Kuto said the party has switched on its machinery to raise the Sh500,000 needed for the completion of the registration process. By Tuesday last week, the party had raised about 15 per cent of the half a million shillings needed. Kuto said the branches have to chip in and come up with innovative ways of raising the funds. Finances had been a stumbling block for the new party but interested members in the US have agreed to help the party grow by pumping in money. “Things have started to move positively, dear members, and we as a branch need to come up with something to compliment the efforts going on at the national level,” Kuto told his Kwale branch members. Currently, USPK is scouting for a strong candidate who will be able to take on the ODM and Jubilee candidate in Msambweni. Sources say Jubilee will support the ODM candidate in the by-election because of the handshake deal between ODM chief Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. This has forced some candidates who were eying the Jubilee ticket to start looking for alternatives. These, according to sources, include Kwale Finance CEC Bakari Sebe and Kwale deputy governor Fatma Achani who is eying the Kwale governor position in 2022. Chengo said: “We have several people who have joined us from the big parties in the country.” USPK interim secretary general Naomi Cidi said the party will put the interests of Coast region ahead of any other interest. “Definitely, we will sell the gospel truth and those who have eyes will see. And Coast people have eyes and ears,” Cidi said on phone. Cidi said the Coast region has been supporting ODM and Jubilee but have little to show for it. She said had the government had the interests of the Coast region at heart, there would be no Naivasha dry port and the Nairobi Inland Container Depot. “They would not have forced the SGR down our throats like they are doing now leading to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. “The SGR is a good project but they should not force it on people like they are,” said Cidi. Chengo said Coast leaders working for other parties like ODM and Jubilee have been forced to keep mum while their people are hurt. “They are them given an incentive individually just to shut them up,” Chengo said. He said the 2,000 families in Utange would not have had their houses demolished during the coronavirus pandemic if the Coast leaders had not been pocketed by the other parties. “They have not spoken up against it. They are quiet because they have been forced to keep quiet since they are serving the interests of the big outsider parties and not the coast region’s interests,” Chengo said. Chengo was himself the Jubilee Mobada chairman before quitting to join USPK. Talks are underway to have all other Coast-based parties like Kadu-Asili, Shirikisho Party of Kenya, Chama Cha Uzalendo, and Devolution Party of Kenya join or support USPK. “Our aim is to have a strong national party with roots from the Coast,” Chengo said.  (edited by o. owino) 