 Maasais and Kipsigis living in Narok South have surrendered 526 bows and 1,120 arrows to the government as part of measures to restore peace following tribal clashes in the area. The weapons were surrendered to Narok South deputy county commissioner Felix Kisalu at Oloolbangi on Wednesday. The violence broke out at Olooruasi and Olpusimoru in Narok South and North subcounties respectively. Nine people have been killed and 13 others seriously injured since the clashes started two weeks ago. The row started when a young man from the Kipsigis community allegedly stole his father’s cow and sold it to a man from the Maasai community. While thanking the locals for returning illegal weapons, Kisalu said only police officers are allowed to carry weapons. “The move is commendable but you must surrender more weapons because we are aware that some people are still holding them at home,” Kisalu said. The administrator said they have given the communities three more days to surrender the weapons, saying those who will not heed the directive will face the full wrath of the law. “I call upon the village elders to take a register of people who have not returned the weapons after the expiry of the ultimatum so that they will face forceful disarmament,” he said. Kisalu also announced that they have banned the sale of illegal weapons comprising bows, arrows and spears in all markets and trading centres. “The weapons were meant for protective measures and now we have started misusing them by attacking one another which is against the law,” he said. He urged the residents to be wary of outsiders whose only mission is to incite people to cause violence. Resident Samuel Koech said they support the government’s move to mop out illegal weapons and that they were ready to maintain peace. He urged the government to strengthen peace in the area especially Olooruasi which is prone to frequent violence that often escalates. Samuel Sanare said violence was usually started by a few individuals whose agenda is to advance selfish interests. Sanare urged the two communities to embrace peace saying tribal clashes are detrimental to development.  Edited by R.Wamochie