 The High Court has acquitted a man convicted of wrestling a six-year-old boy and sodomising him in a valley while herding cattle. Wambua Mutinda earned his freedom after appealing a life sentence by a magistrate. The High Court concluded that evidence presented related to an offence that took place on February 26, 2017 while the charge sheet indicated an offence committed on February 26, 2013. The court said there was no effort made to amend the flawed charge sheet. “It was therefore unprocedural for the learned trial magistrate to attempt to wish away the said discrepancy,” Justice David Kemei said. Mutinda was accused of sodomising the boy at Mwala in Machakos county on February 26, 2013. He was consequently charged with committing an indecent act with a child contrary to the Sexual Offences Act. Mutinda pleaded not guilty but was was convicted and sentenced to life after a full trial in a magistrate's court. The evidence of the boy was that he was herding family cows when an employee of a neighbour called him and informed him that he wanted to show him something. He agreed to accompany the man towards a nearby valley only for the person to wrestle him to the ground, undress him and sodomise him. “I tried to scream but the man held my mouth and warned that he would kill me if I informed anyone about the incident,” the boy said. He said he was in pain and subsequently had difficulty in relieving himself. The boy informed his guardians that his assailant was an employee of a neighbour but he could not tell his name. His grandmother said she noticed a swelling on the boy’s body as she prepared him for school. The minor also had difficulty in walking. Mutinda was arrested and charged. He told the court he had been framed. At the Machakos Hgh Court, Mutinda said the magistrate erred by convicting him yet the prosecution had not proved its case beyond any reasonable doubt. Justice Kemei concluded that Mutinda’s conviction was unsafe. "The appellant’s appeal has merit and is allowed.  The conviction is hereby quashed and the sentence set aside.  The appellant is ordered to be set at liberty forthwith unless otherwise lawfully held,” Kemei ruled on May 28.  Edited by P.O