National team play-maker Debra Obunga is keen to propel Zetech University Sparks to greater heights in the when the Premier League resumes. New signing Obunga, who joined the institution from former champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) on a scholarship, said the team is strong enough to battle for honours when the action finally resumes. “The team has good players and it’s balanced in all positions,” she said. “I believe if we train together; get the right chemistry and the necessary confidence, we can take on any team in the league.” Obunga, who earlier this year joined the varsity side to pursue her degree together with her team-mate Christine Akinyi, said basketball is a team sport where everyone’s contributions is important. “Having been a member of the national 3 on 3 side that featured in the All Africa Games in Algeria last year and also having knocked on the senior national side door for Senegal, Akinyi is polished and will also play a key role in the team,” she pointed out. She said apart from Akinyi, Zetech also has former University of Nairobi Dynamites’ Valerie Kemunto who is a good rebounder and shot blocker. Others in the team are Chantel Kyobe a strong shooter, who starred for Buru Buru Girls and Maureen Bosibori. Obunga, who starred for Kenya in last year’s Fiba Afro-Basket Championship in Dakar, said before the coronavirus pandemic, the team had been working together for over one month and everything looked good. “We were already training hard together as we got to know one another when the sporting activities were stopped. But now, we will take one step at a time when the season finally starts and see how it goes,” she noted. She went on, “Zetech will not be a one-man team. It has a variety of good players spread in all positions. Everyone will bring something on board and this will be important for us in the end.” Coach Maurice Obilo said his focus is to build a team that can take on top sides like champions Equity Bank and KPA although the  process will be gradual. Zetech did well to finish third behind the two giants in last year’s title race. “I am happy about what is happening at Zetech. I am building a strong team and the institution is fully behind us. We will work hard to do our best both on the court and in academics. This is equally important for my players,” Obilo said. He cited the bankers as the leagues favourite again but alluded that if he builds a solid combination, they will be one of the most  formidable sides.