Traders and drivers in Migori county have asked the government to help release over 50 trucks impounded by Tanzanian authorities at the Isebania border. Tension has simmered along the border between Kenyans and Tanzanians since Migori reported the first three Covid-19 cases on April 24. All the persons had travelled from Tanzania. Drivers and traders who spoke to the Star on Friday said over 100 trucks were impounded on the Tanzanian side but Kenya Revenue Authority station manager Richard Kibor put the number at only 50. “I am not authorised to speak further on the matter as it involves several departments,” Kibor said. Several vehicles which had crossed the border with goods were detained on their way back. “We were told that our health clearance certificates were fake as Tanzanians could not believe results given from Kenya,” Patrick Songa, a truck driver allied to a Nakuru-based firm said. Drivers said Tanzanians blame Kenya for associating them with spreading a virus they believe does not exist. “I reached the border on June 2. Ever since then my truck has been detained. I have been warned against crossing to Kenya without any permit from Tanzanians,” he said. Songa said Tanzanians have forced them to undergo a mandatory test and the results delayed. “They have forced us not to sleep in our trucks and since we don’t have money we sleep under the trucks,” he said. Millicent Achieng, a trader whose truck was impounded said she was forced to engage her bankers to renegotiate the loan payment schedule. “When we approached Tanzania officials they said they are waiting for a speech from President Uhuru Kenyatta to apologise over closing the border with the country. We know this is more than what meets the eye,” she said. Yahya Aden, a clearing and forwarding agent said the standoff has affected the business flow and they are afraid Kenyans will hit back, creating more tension. The traders have asked the two countries to find an amicable solution. On May 3, Kenya and Tanzania security officials at Isebania facilitated the return of over 50 motorbikes impounded in both sides. Kuria West subcounty police boss Kemboi Kimaiyo and his counterparts from Sirare in Tanzania together with local leaders held a meeting at the One Stop Border Point to release the motorbikes. On April 24, Tanzanian youths chased away motorbike operators and Kenyans from their side before impounding 27 motorbikes. In retaliation, Kenyan riders impounded 24 Tanzania motorbikes before taking them to Isebania police post. “When the news came in that the positive cases were people who recently came from Tanzania, youths across the border accused Kenyans of labelling them carriers,” Kimaiyo said. Kimaiyo said they have held a series of administrative meeting between elders and police in Migori county and Mara province which ended on Saturday.  (edited by o. owino)