Kenya on Sunday recorded 167 new Covid-19 cases, bringing number to 2,767, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. This was out of 2,833 samples tested in the past 24 hours. The tally was the highest ever recorded in Kenya in a single day since March 13. Kagwe said 125 of the 167 patients who tested positive yesterday are male and 42 are female. Forty six patients were discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 752. The country, however, lost one person bringing the total number of fatalities to 84. The CS added that as the country considers opening up more and more, personal responsibility is most important. Kagwe made it clear that the directive to close bars has not been lifted. "Some are saying they want to order ono ‘Kagwe special’. So if you are caught selling alcohol or opening any bar, your licence will be withdrawn permanently," Kagwe said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday announced that he has extended the ban on opening of bars for another 30 days. Uhuru said bars will be closed for 30 more days as the country continues to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. He also extended the nationwide curfew for another 30 days. Uhuru also announced the lifting of the cessation of movement in Kwale and Kilifi counties from June 7, 2020, at 4 am. The President further lifted the cessation of movement into and out of Eastleigh and Old Town from June 7, 2020, at 4 am. The President said opinion was divided by his team of experts on whether or not to open the economy. "We must accept that we are not dealing with a right or wrong opinion we are caught in between two rights. Those who want to open the economy are right and those opposed to opening the economy are also right," he said. "We must speak truthfully to each other. The rate of infection in Kenya would have been very high had we not taken the measures we took." Uhuru said that if the country had not taken the measures the rate of infections would have peaked and by the end of August approximately 75,000 Kenyans would have lost their lives with over 800,000 infections. The President also announced the ban on all gatherings will also be extended for another one month while the gradual reopening of schools is now set to commence on September 1, 2020. Uhuru announced that within seven days, the ministries of Interior and Health will constitute an inter-faith council for protocols of reopening of places of worship. The President also extended international travel restrictions due to what he termed as the 'evolving nature of the disease globally'. "In the meantime, the Ministry of Transport is directed within seven days from the date hereof, to engage all Key Stakeholders and develop protocols to guide resumption of local air travel," he said.