Kenya is unlikely to experience shortage of crucial vaccines for children, at least for the next five years. The country will be a major beneficiary of the Sh900 billion ($8.8 billion) that world leaders pledged on Thursday to buy and distribute vaccines. Donors will honour their pledges by sending the money to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a Geneva-based agency that buys vaccines for most developing countries, including Kenya. President Uhuru Kenyatta attended the fundraiser, held virtually and hosted by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Vaccination levels in Kenya are at about 80 per cent, having risen from a 12-year low of 63 per cent in 2017, the Ministry of Health says. Gavi said the $8.8 billion pledged will help immunise 300 million more children in developing countries against diseases such as measles, polio and diphtheria by the end of 2025. Last year, Kenya experienced shortages of crucial vaccines for polio and measles, a problem attributed to poor distribution. The pledges will also support health systems to withstand the impact of coronavirus and maintain the infrastructure necessary to roll out a future Covid-19 vaccine on a global scale. The UK remains the Vaccine Alliance’s largest donor, pledging the equivalent of Sh44 billion per year over the next five years. “If you’re in Kenya and have received a measles, pneumonia or HPV vaccine, that has been through Gavi with UK support,” said British High Commissioner Jane Marriott in a statement. The other top donor to Gavi is the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which gave $1.6 billion (Sh200 billion). “Not many people outside the global health sector have heard about Gavi, but over the past twenty years, it has transformed the way the world invests in and protects the health of its children,” said Melinda Gates, co-chair of the foundation. “If the current pandemic has reminded us of anything, it’s the importance of vaccinating against deadly diseases. The pledges that leaders are making today will help Gavi save even more lives.” The foundation is also committing $100 million (Sh10.6 billion) to Gavi’s new effort to buy Covid-19 vaccines for lower income countries through a new Covid-19 Vaccine Advance Market Commitment. Gavi-supported countries like Kenya will together contribute Sh400 billion ($3.6 billion) towards the cost of buying vaccines – more than double the amount for the 2016-20 period and more than 40 per cent of the total estimated cost of supplying vaccines to these countries. They are also expected to invest around $6 billion in immunisation service delivery costs over the same period. The dire economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic may, however, disrupt these estimates. Gavi’s market-shaping efforts to make life-saving vaccines more affordable have seen a 21 per cent price reduction for fully immunising a child with pentavalent, pneumococcal and rotavirus vaccines – from $20.01 (Sh2,124) in 2015 to $15.90 (Sh1,688) in 2018. Gavi is one of the world’s largest and most successful public-private partnerships. The wider private sector continued to show support for its mission with the announcement of more than $70 million (Sh7.4 billion) of new pledges and partnerships, bringing new technology, networks and expertise to help solve some of global health’s most intractable problems. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya