The 100 days given to Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) ends today with focus turning to achievements by the new office. This comes as the NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi is set to hand over a report to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday containing the achievements made. NMS was put into office on March 18, 2020, by the President nearly a month after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko handed transferred four key functions to the National Government. The transferred functions include county health services, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary services and county government planning and development. At State House Badi’s-led team was tasked with certain directives that ought to have been completed by today. Earlier this month, Uhuru officially  placed NMS under his watchful eyes of the Executive Office of the President in a repealed Executive Order For the past 100 days, Director-General has been hosting weekly meetings with his team and receiving updates on achievements based on the Presidential directives. While receiving the reports, the DG from time to time called on his officers not only to achieve the set targets but exceeded beyond expectations of Nairobians. Water distribution During a courtesy call to the County Assembly of Nairobi last week, Badi made it clear that the main focus of MS was to deliver services “NMS is working daily to ensure that all the Presidential directives are not only achieved but exceeded and projects sustainability continues for improved living standards of Nairobians, long after the 100 days elapses,” he said. President Kenyatta had tasked NMS to come up with strategies of equitable water distribution services as well as dismantle cartels in management and distribution of water by registering and monitoring water vendors as reinforcement of water bowsers to ensure Nairobians pay fair water bills. Through Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company has embarked to weed out the non-registered water vendors. Badi has also reconstituted the Nairobi Water board with new members for efficiency. The team has also elevated 35 tanks, completed 20,903 meters of extension piping as well as the daily distribution of 200,000 litres of water to informal settlements using water bowsers. Transport NMS was also tasked to work with NAMATA to implement Nairobi urban mobility plan, come up with pedestrian walkways, dedicated cycling and pedestrian lanes on Wabera Street, Kenyatta Avenue and Muindi Mbingu Street within 100 days. The project is in the final stages as witnessed along Wabera Street and Kenyatta Avenue. Badi and his team are aiming to complete more than 100 km in Nairobi in a span of one year. In efforts to control CBD’s traffic, NMS was tasked to set up bus termini; Park and Desai roads which are almost complete. Garbage collection The next and major task of NMS was to get rid of the uncollected garbage that was chocking the streets of Nairobi. The office was ordered to operationalise effective garbage collection and disposal methods working in collaboration with NYS with all grounded trucks repaired to increase capacity. On a daily basis, NMS has been collecting an average of 175 truckloads of garbage daily, against the target of 2,000 truckloads daily, with over 70 per cent waste backlog cleared. Uhuru also ordered fro the crackdown of illegal dumpsites and reinforcement on effluent discharge from firms into rives. The Gazettement of legal solid dumpsite was to follow, and at the moment illegal ones have been closed. According to NMS Environment Directorate, the target is to dispose an average of over 3,000 tons daily at Dandora Dumpsite which has seen delivery to the dumpsite shoot from 1,000 tons to average of 2,500 tons a day. In addition, The President also tasked Director-General Badi to bring to an end corruption as well as dismantling cartels that have hindered development in Nairobi. What followed was the DG dismantling the development plans approval committees which was accused of being the centre of corruption at City Hall. The team was also to review and make determinations on existing projects, streamline urban renewal and come up with development control and approvals for the county as well as move-in speed and recover contested county land meant for solid waste matter across Nairobi. The other deliverables were to work closely with relevant institutions to establish the Railway City Development Authority and identify the anchor projects and investors for this redevelopment project. More on NMS achievements will be highlighted in the report being handed over to the Head of State.