Rivatex in Eldoret has stepped up mass production of masks in preparation for possible re-opening of schools and other education institutions in September. Rivatex CEO Thomas Kipkurgat said on Thursday Education ministry official had visited the factory to assess production of masks to help control spread of Covid-19. Kipkurgat said the factory produces 80,000 masks a day and so far three million have been turned out. “We have even doubled the number of our tailors and we are producing day and night so we can meet the needs of the country once the schools reopen,” he said. He was speaking in Eldoret when the company and Moi University donated 3,000 masks to the Eldoret police station. Present was Moi University vice chancellor Professor Isaac Kosgey. Kipkurgat said they were also producing surgical masks for medical teams as well as ordinary masks for the public. The Education ministry took samples of masks for younger children and those in upper primary and secondary schools for consideration. The Rivatex boss said they will produce enough reusable masks for schools once the government decides on reopening. President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Education CS George Magoha to set up a team working on the gradual reopening of schools as from September. It is working on Covid-19 safety protocols. Chairman of the Kenya National Parents Association Nicholas Maiyo, who is also a task force member, assured parents the government will ensure children are safe. “All issues are being discussed extensively before a decision is made but the safety of our children is of great importance,” Maiyo said. Institutions of higher learning like Moi University and the University of Eldoret are putting in place measures for re-opening, complying with all Covid-19 protocols for students, staff and suppliers. The two universities together have more than 70,000 students and 20,000 staff. Moi University’s VC Kosgey said a committee is working on protocols so the institutions are ready for reopening once the government gives the okay. The university senate will meet next week to discuss a preliminary report on protocols for reopening. (Edited by V. Graham) 