Kenya on Friday recorded 117 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total number to 4,374, Health CAS Rashid Aman has said. This is out of the 3,043 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. Out of these, 112 are Kenyans while five are foreigners. A total of 83 of these cases are males, while 54 are females. The youngest is 11 while the oldest is 75 years old. Another 91 patients have been discharged, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,550 However, another two patients have died, raising fatalities to 119. Of the new cases, 51 are from Nairobi, Mombasa has 22, Kajiado 18, Kiambu six, Machakos three, Kericho, Busia and Uasin Gishu have two cases each, Nakuru five and Wajir has one case. The cases in Nairobi are distributed as follows; Kibra and Langata have eight cases each, Makadara and Dagoretti North have six each, Kamukunji and Embakasi East with four, Embakasi North and Embakasi South three,  Mathare, Ruaraka, and  Embakasi Central have two while Embakasi West, Starehe and Kasarani have one case each. In Mombasa, the cases are from Mvita eight, Kisauni five, Changamwe four, Likoni three while Jomvu and Nyali have a case each. In Kajiado, Loitokitok has 12 casesa, Kajiado Central and Kajiado East have two each and Kajiado North and Kajiado West have a case each. Kiambu has 6 cases from Thika three,  Kiambu Town, Limuru and Lari have a case each. In Nakuru five cases are from Naivasha while Garissa has five cases from Daadab In Machakos three cases are Athi River.  In Kericho the two cases are from Ainamoi, while in Busia, the two cases are from Teso Nolh and Matayos. In Uasin Gishu, the two cases are from Kapseret and Soy, while the case in Wajir is from Wajir West. Aman said there is a worrying rise in the number of cases in suburbs including Westlands, Hurlingham, Lavington and Kileleshwa. He said there have been instances of youths holding parties, thus raising the risk of spreading the virus. Aman called for discipline. "It's not back to normal," he said.