Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has asserted that Western is still firmly under Amani National Congress and Ford Kenya parties. He said the parties are currently consolidating support in their respective backyards before they move to other regions of the country. The Ford Kenya party leader said he had been receiving a lot of support in his strongholds and so is his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi. “Musalia and I are crafting and moving along the philosophy line that all politics is local. First, consolidate your region and your constituencies and then make friendship with others,” he stated. He said Western had attracted the interest of outsiders mainly because it is active politically and densely populated. “If you go to Western today, Musalia and I are doing very well. I don’t want to blow my trumpet but the people there will tell you who their leaders are. They will not mention those generic leaders who are invented in Nairobi and given choppers to hop all over Western,” he stated. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa have lately been holding meetings in Western to consolidate their influence in the region. The two have already held several functions in Trans Nzoia, Busia and Vihiga counties and have lined up meetings in Kakamega. Oparanya and Wamalwa's tours started soon after a meeting at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli’s Kajiado home. Oparanya maintained that the Western meetings were geared towards fulfilling the responsibilities bestowed upon them during the meeting at Atwoli’s home. “Focus is to bring all leaders across the region together and galvanise Western ahead of the 2022 General Election,” he stated. But speaking on Citizen TV, Wetang’ula said Kenyans will know who the leaders of Western region are when elections come. “When the time comes, you will be able to see who the leaders of Western region are and eventually the leaders of the country,” he added. On June 19, police in Bungoma teargassed Wetang'ula and other leaders from Western Kenya as they attempted to address the public in Kimilili town. It was the first time the Bungoma senator was returning to his home turf following leadership wrangles in his party. A splinter faction led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu who is also the party’s secretary general purportedly removed Wetang’ula as party leader. But Wetang’ula maintained that changes in party leadership could only be made by the National Delegates Congress. “We are going to have an NDC to pick new leaders once the lockdown is lifted. The National Executive Council or even the Registrar of Political Parties has no authority to make changes in the leadership,” he stated. The Bungoma senator blamed wrangles in Ford Kenya on other political parties. “These parties have no regard for others. That is now water under the bridge. What happened is part of Kenyans politics - politics of intrigues and backstabbing,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori