A section of civil rights activists have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of taking advantage of Covid-19 to violate the rule of law. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday in Nairobi, George Kegoro (KHRC) , Kawive Wambua (Inuka Kenya) and Ndung'u Wainaina (ICPC) said Uhuru is using  the coronavirus as cover to extend his control over the state. "What is happening in Nairobi is not innocent. Uhuru has killed the idea of a political state, and has replaced this with a military state. Starting with Nairobi, Uhuru is building towards establishing a military state over the entire country as an act of self-succession what he now refers to a constitutional-change moment is design to provide a constitutional anchorage to the militarised state that he has already created," Kegoro said. The trio accused the Head of State of using the Building Bridges Initiative to weaponize the constitution while at the same time sweeping away politicians who stand on his way. They linked the bitter fallout between factions led by Uhuru and that led by Deputy President William Ruto in Jubilee Party, to the past grievances in Narc. "The unresolved issues in the Coalition then played into 2007 election and were the source of violence. If this comparison holds then there is very deep reason to fear that 2022 could be a repeat of 2007 or worse with the mooted referendum providing a dress rehearsal as happened in 2005," they said. Over the last couple of months, Uhuru's camp has led a coup against Ruto's side with the latest being the removal of allies of the DP from Parliamentary leadership positions. The purge has seen Ruto's people also de-whipped from various committee and it is expected more of his allies in government will be axed in an upcoming reorganisation. The DP last week hosted the MPs who were recently kicked out of Parliamentary leadership and committees for lunch at the new Jubilee Asili Centre. After the meeting, Ruto posted a new slogan - 'Sote Pamoja' (All of us together) - indicating that he had dumped 'Tuko Pamoja' (We are together).