Six senior Kenya School of Law employees are among 12 suspects who are being hunted by police to face a Sh198m graft case. EACC commenced investigations into allegations of fraud at the Kenya School of Law in relation to fraudulent payment of Sh198,441,030 to six companies associated with the institution's employees for goods and services not supplied. In May 17, 2019 upon conclusion of investigations, the EACC forwarded the investigation file and the report under Section 35 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003 with recommendation that the suspects be charged with various offences. DPP Nordin Haji said that upon review of the inquiry file, he found gaps and deficiencies in key areas and returned the file to EACC with instructions to cover and resubmit. The file was resubmitted on December 13, 2019 and upon perusal, found that the areas identified had not been fully covered. But on June 9, 2020, EACC resubmitted the file with all outstanding areas having been fully covered. Upon reviewing, Haji established that the Kenya School of Law lost Sh198,441,030 to business entities registered in the names of senior employees at the school. "The business entities were not pre-qualified to supply any goods and indeed never supplied any goods or services to Kenya School of Law," the DPP said. The business entities are Ademwa Enterprises, Alfranc Investments, Deskench Investments, Firmline Company, Frigoya Investements and Ngoya Cosmetics. "The fraud was perpetrated by the bank signatories to the Kenya School of Law accounts who were senior employees at Kenya School of Law, Finance Department who would sign for different entities to be paid in cheque endorsement register and then effect payments," he further stated. The persons are Amos Kabue who is the Assistant Director Finance and Administration, Professor Morris Kiwinda Mbondenyi (Deputy Director/CEO), Frank Kackson Were (Finance Manager), Hudson Amwai Lwigado (Accountant Kenya School of Law and Proprietor Ademwa Enterprises), Achiro Nobert Gondi (Assistant Accountant Kenya School of Law). Others are Proprietor Firmline Company), Ephrain Thuku (Assistant Accountant), Paul Lovi Andenga (Proprietor Ademwa Enterprise), Fridah Ngoya Wanda (Propprietor Ngoya Cosmetics and Frigoya Investments), Francis Mwaki Lwegado (Proprietor Alfranc Investments), Dennis Achiro (Deskench Investments) and Kenneth Ochieng (Deskench Investments). The DPP has further directed that the above suspects be apprehended and arraigned in court to face various charges under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003.