The Labour court has suspended the NMS boss Major Mohammed Badi’s decision to appoint a new board at the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company. Judge Maureen Onyango issued the stay in the case filed by Activist Okiya Omtatah where he is seeking to quash the appointment of the new board at the NWSC. Omtatah has accused Nairobi Metropolitan Services of acting unlawfully in the appointment of the said new board. He claims that on June 17 2020, Badi acted against the law by purporting to effect changed to the Board and in part of the top management of the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company He allegedly wrote to the Registrar of Companies and terminated the appointment of the current Board of Directors of the company and replaced them with new persons. “They have no capacity in law to appoint a parallel Board of Directors and the Company Secretary. They cannot appoint the Chairman whose appointment under the law is reserved for Board members,” Omtatah argues. The activist argues that NMS does not have the capacity in law to disband the current Board of the company “Their claim that the Deed of Transfer of Functions between the Nairobi City County and the National Government grants them the powers to so act is not supported by the law.” Court documents read. Omtatah avers that the said changes have no basis in law and therefore are invalid, null and void. “The board of the company is supposed to be autonomous and independent in its operations under the law but that cannot be achieved where Badi and Nairobi Metropolitan Services handpick and appoint members of the Board and company’s corporation secretary,” he says. Further, the purported vacancy on the board was not announced and the purported new chair and members of the Board were not recruited through a competitive process in tandem with the provisions of the law. “The purported changes on the Board’s company is fatally flawed, irresponsible and an affront on to the Bill of Rights, the principles of competitive recruitment and public participation,” he argued. He also dismissed claims by the NMS that they were exercising emergency powers since it is impossible to do so under the Constitution of Kenya.