Embattled Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula is teetering on the brink of being ousted from the party’s supreme seat as wrangles intensify. The faction pushing for his removal on Monday appeared to have succeeded in convincing Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu to remove the Bungoma senator as the party leader. The registrar reviewed the submission against the relevant laws including the Political Parties Act, Ford Kenya constitution and records of the party in their possession. Nderitu published the party’s intended change of leadership after the wing led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu filed convincing documents. “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 (1) ( c ) of the Political Parties Act, 2011, the Registrar of Political Parties gives notice that the Ford Kenya party intends to change its party officials,” reads the notice. The registrar said the party intended to replace Wetang'ula with Wamunyinyi as the new leader of the country's second oldest political outfit. Nderitu also notified the public of the party’s plans to replace its national organising secretary Chris Mandu Mandu with Josephine Maungu. “Any person with written submissions concerning the intended change by the political party shall within seven days from the date herein deposit them with the Registrar of Political Parties,” Nderitu said in the notice. If no objections are submitted to the registrar within the specified period or are submitted but are found not to be substantive, then Wetang'ula will cease being the party leader. With the reality of losing the influential position that has the potential of shaping his future politics dawning on him, Weta, as he is popularly known, immediately visited the registrar’s offices at Lions Place building in Westlands. After a five-hour closed door meeting with the registrar, Weta, in the company of a host of MPs and party officials, came out dismissing the intended ouster and accusing the rival camp of staging a coup. “This kind of shortcut they are trying to take is a complete anti-thesis of democracy. Democracy is not about doing the kind of things like hiding in five-star hotels,” he said. The legislator claimed that the Eseli and Wamunyinyi used a fake register of the members of the National Executive Council to deceive the registrar to tweak the party leadership. “We have demonstrated that the list of the called NEC members, majority of them were fake. The registrar is the custodian of our NEC register. We believe and we have no doubt that we are legitimately in office,” he added. The splinter group, led by Wamunyinyi, Simiyu and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, ousted Wetang'ula in a special National Executive Council meeting held at the Radisson Blu Hotel. They accused Wetang'ula accused Wetangula of failing to provide inspiring leadership and planting the seed of discord and disunity in the party. But Wetang'ula reacted swiftly and replaced Eseli, who is the party secretary general, with Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa. He accused the rival faction of being used by outside forces to stage a coup in the party. Last week, the two camps filed their papers with the registrar changing the party leadership but the status quo remained after gaps were identified in the documents they submitted. "In this regard, you are kindly guided to address the issue highlighted above within the precincts of your party constitution and in line with section 20 of PPA and apprise us on the same," Nderitu responded to the Eseli-led wing last Thursday. Edited by Henry Makori