Embattled Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru was on Tuesday spotted playing the popular card game Solitaire as her impeachment case was being heard in the Senate. Solitaire is a one-player card game that can be played on a computer or on smartphone with a deck of standard playing cards. The classic Solitaire game can seem confusing at first, but it’s easy and fast-paced once you get the hang of it. In pictures taken by the Star, Waiguru was seen busy scrolling her phone as she arranged the cards while the hearings were going on. Waiguru earlier on Tuesday dismissed as false and unfounded grounds advanced by the MCAs in her impeachment. Speaking before the senate committee, Waiguru said the allegations are mere malice and innuendos meant to embarrass her and destabilise the county operations. "These MCAs are on a fishing expedition, their superficial evidence is unintelligible," she said. Waiguru had earlier suffered a blow in her bid to have several documents filed by the Kirinyaga County Assembly expunged from the senate records in her impeachment case. This after the 11-member Senate Committee probing charges against the governor declined to grant her request to expunge the documents. The governor's lawyer Paul Nyamodi wanted the documents containing four witness statements struck out arguing that they contain new evidence. However, the committee said the documents shall remain saying that their admissibility will be argued out during the course of hearing. On Wednesday, the governor will take the stand to defend herself against the particular allegations advanced for her impeachment. The 11- member committee will immediately retreat to scrutinise the submissions and file a report. The report shall be tabled on the floor on Friday. Should the committee find any of the allegations to be valid, it will uphold the MCAs decision to remove the governor. The decision shall be subjected to a vote on the floor. However, should the majority of the member dismiss the allegation, the case shall have been defeated.