Mvita legislator Abdulswamad Nassir has dismissed links to a company that won a cargo verification tender at the Nairobi Inland Container Depot. Nassir said there is no relationship between him and Mercantile Cargo Terminal Operations Limited, which has been contracted to do cargo verification at the Nairobi ICD. “Everyone has been told I am a director somewhere. Go and do a CR12 search and find out if my name is there,” he told reporters in his office on Tuesday. The MP accused some Dock Workers Union officials of being used to fight other people politically. According to him, those pointing fingers at him want to provoke him into mentioning their names and that way enhance their popularity. “I will not do that. Some of them have been coming to me for help,” the MP said, adding that they are bitter he did not help them with their personal issues. He reminded those people that he has been at the forefront of fighting port privatisation attempts. The MP faulted his Nyali counterpart Mohammed Ali’s bid to impeach Transport CS James Macharia over the transport sector woes associated with the standard gauge railway. According to him, impeachment is not the way to go and refuse to sign on the motion as that would be a conflict of interest. “If I sign on a motion to impeach someone who I want to answer questions before me, then I will be told I have ulterior motives in summoning them,” he said. Nassir is the chair of the National Assembly's Public Investments Committee. He said removing a Cabinet Secretary in Kenya is a long process, noting that only one minister in Kenya’s history has been impeached. He advised Ali to instead use one of the factors in the motion, which accuses Macharia of disregarding parliamentary pronouncements as the basis to have his issues addressed. “I explained this to him and he agreed with me,” Nassir said. He said taking the impeachment route will be akin to putting all eggs in one basket. It has a higher risk of failure. “It is always better to spread the risks by using different options like using community-based groups, NGOs and mass demonstrations. “I prefer killing the snake, which is a bad policy. If you don’t kill the snake, and you try to make it an individual issue, it will still continue popping up,” he said. He hit out at Ali for personalising the fight against bad transport policies and trying to gain popularity through transport stakeholders. He appreciated issues raised by Fast Action chair Salim Karama and Kenya Transporters Association CEO Dennis Ombok as they are on the ground and know where the shoe pinches most. “These others who just talk through home-made videos, please have mercy on us. If you truly love Mombasa, come join us the day we call for demonstrations,” Nassir said. Ali says he has participated in several demonstrations in solidarity with the transporters. “In fact, he (Nassir) abandoned the Black Monday demonstrations the moment we started calling out Governor Hassan Joho,” said Ali. He said the Mvita MP’s conflict of interest explanation is understandable but said he should not hide behind it. “I respect his excuse. But that does not stop him from lobbying other leaders to support the motion,” Ali said by phone. The Nyali MP, who wants the Transport CS to stop implementing policies that hurt the region, called on Coast leaders to salvage their economy. “What does he want us to do if diplomacy, demonstrations and other routes have all failed?” Ali asked. To him, the impeachment is the only medicine left and it should be tested. Nassir said called for different approaches to address regional problems instead of one. “An octopus has many tentacles but it has one brain,” he added.  - mwaniki fm