The Ministry of Health has now turned to the religious sector for assistance as it aims to introduce home isolation and quarantine remedy for Covid-19 patients. This comes as Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Friday re-emphasised that the battle against the coronavirus has entered a very crucial phase where people will start being quarantined and isolated at home. “It is especially important and we have asked for assistance systems in this area from this (religious) team because of the next stage in our fight, where we are going to take people in quarantined at home. We are going to isolate people at home," he said. “We are going to need community-based isolation and community-based quarantine. And we have asked our religious leaders to be part and parcel of that effort.” Churches and other religious institutions are known to have well-managed facilities, including schools and prayer centres. The government could be targeting such facilities as an option for taking care of patients to cope with the increasing numbers. Speaking on behalf of the religious leaders, Citam Bishop David Oginde said all stakeholders must work together to ensure the virus is contained. He said every Kenyan must take responsibility. “As religious community and from a spiritual perspective, we have come up with what we believe would be a reasonable way forward, which will be presented to the President and his team,” Oginde said. “Hopefully, a decision will be made that can help us move forward, the reality is that this pandemic is becoming endemic, and we have to find a way as Kenyans on how to live with it." He spoke at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Nairobi, where they met with Interior CS Fred Matiang'i . Matiang’i said he will present a report on how the places of worship will operate to President Uhuru Kenyatta today. The report contains recommendations from the religious sector on how places of worship should operate amidst the battle against the spread of Covid-19. "The contents of the report will be communicated to the nation by the chair of the National Security Council who is His Excellency the President and commander in chief at an appropriate time," Matiang’i said. As of June 4, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kenya was 2,340 . President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to hold a meeting with the National Security Council in State House later today. He is also expected to address the county tomorrow.