The County Assembly of Nairobi  has called upon DCI and EACC to investigate four grabbed parcels of land owned by Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company in the next 30 days. This comes as the MCAs adopted the report by the assembly’s Public Investment Committee of Auditor General on the financial statement of Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company limited for the year ended 30th June, 2018 on Tuesday. On the spot are four lands; Kariobangi North Sewerage and Treatment Works, Loresho Water Reservoir, Ruiru dam and a water booster station located off Kabete road meant for the expansion, storage, water and sewerage treatment works. However, the Kariobangi North land was already reclaimed by the National Government last month displacing more than 5000 residents. The PIC committee led by its chairman Elijah Stazo recommended that EACC and DCI also investigates Nairobi Water officials who colluded with the land grabbers. “The Managing Director of Nairobi Water Company is directed by the committee to do a letter to the DCI and EACC for thorough investigations within thirty days and the officers who were alleged to have colluded with the land grabbers be investigated and charged before a court of law after adoption of the recommendations of this report by the County Assembly,” reads the report. It was noted that most of the county owned parcels of land lacked requisite legal documents and perimeter walls. According to the report, it was observed that the Ruiru Dam –Kabete pipeline transmission has been encroached at Good Shepherd and Kiangima area. The structures under construction have been erected on top water pipes used for the transmission. Land grabbers have also managed to take over parcel of land, LRNO13119/2 where booster station 2 is situated off Kabete road; where water from Ruiru dam is pumped into Kabete treatment works for redistribution . It was established that despite a complaint had been lodged by Nairobi Water in June 2007 concerning the encroachment, no records of the land were made available for audit review. The report also indicates that  Loresho Water Reservoir (Nairobi block 90/587)had been subdivided into six sub plots- block that is 90/596(where the reservoir is located), 90/591, 90/592, 90/593, 90/594 and 90/595. Howver, it was the above blocks were issued to people illegally, as the original block of land was reserved for future water works expansion. At the Kariobangi North Sewerage and treatment works, the land was allocated to several groups including Kariobangi Sewerage Farmers self-help group, Provincial Administration (Chief’s camp), Our Lady of Fatima Secondary school, Alice Nursing Homes and Kariobangi Catholic Church fir Polytechnic construction. Records relating to allocation, survey and sub-division of the land have, however, to date not been made available for audit review. As a result, the committee wants the County’s land department to revoke all the title deeds that were illegally issued to the parcels of land before the financial year ends next week.