City businessman Stuart Herd got a reprieve on Tuesday after the High Court barred another businessman from encroaching on his Sh200 million residential property in Karen. Environment and Land Court judge Samson Okong’o issued the directive after Herd told the court Eric Lugalia attempted to unlawfully possess the land. Herd is the director of WOW Beverages. Herd said Lugalia lodged false complaints and abused legal processes to forcefully trespass on the suit property. The judge said Lugalia should not in any way interfere with Herd's peaceful, quiet possession and use of the property situated on Bogani road in Karen, Nairobi. The court ordered the officer in charge of Karen police station to ensure law and order in enforcement of the  directive. The case will be heard on June 22. The suit property was  first acquired by CMC Holdings whose title was registered on August 2001. CMC Holdings then sold it to Cheryl Sonnichesen who became the registered owner on May 2006 and lived there until her demise.  Herd acquired the property in April last year. According to court documents, Lugalia with police officers from Hardy police station based on Lugalia’s false claims of ownership of the suit property invaded the property and arrested Herd’s guards in an attempted eviction. They also confiscated the keys to the suit property. Herd who was in Tsavo when the incident occurred called and sent a copy of the title to his business partner Satyan Patel at Karen. Patel later met the officers and Lugalia. He said although the police officers from Hardy did not disclose the complainant or show proof of the alleged competing title, they unconditionally released the guards back to the suit property on the same date of arrest upon being shown a soft copy of the title. Herd says on May 28, the officer in charge of Hardy police station declined to record his complaint on the purported raid. The officer acknowledged the property was within Karen police station administrative area. “Such admissions and acting upon Lugalia's alleged claims without establishing the bonafides clearly acknowledge that the purported raid and arrests on my property without proof was trespass, illegal, unlawful and in excess of jurisdiction,” the documents read. Herd says as a result of Lugalia’s trespass he suffered inconvenience and unjustified harassment by the National Police service at the instigation of and following the latter’s baseless allegations. Edited by Henry Makori