Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua has congratulated the Kirinyaga County Assembly despite their unsuccessful bid to impeach Governor Anne Waiguru. Karua on Saturday said the assembly had raised the bar of accountability high by doing what the Constitution and the laws mandated them to do. "Keep your eyes on the ball and safe guard the interests of the people of Kirinyaga County," she tweeted. Waiguru on Friday survived impeachment after the Senate cleared her of all the charges against her stating that they were not substantiated. The assembly had sought to remove the governor from office on charges of abuse of office and gross misconduct. MCAs had passed the motion accusing the governor of having undermined their authority. Some 23 out of the 33 MCAs supported the motion before it was passed and later tabled in Senate. Hours after her acquittal, Waiguru said it was clear the impeachment process did not meet the required threshold and was all a choreographed plan of events that was aimed at tarnishing her name. The governor challenged the county assembly to own up to their failures and play their part in ensuring Kirinyaga moves forward. "Rather than prioritising funds to projects such as building of MCAs offices, they should prioritise allocation of funds for Covid-19 management and healthcare projects as proposed by the executive," she said. The senate select committee formed to probe the allegations against Waiguru had noted that Waiguru's attitude does not inspire confidence and trust in the County Executive leadership. They also noted that the condescending attitude of the governor towards the assembly was uncalled for. "The Governor appears to require to be reminded of the high calling of her office and the responsibilities of leadership," they said. In their report, the 11-member committee led by Kakamega Cleophas Malala said they were unimpressed by the governors attitude. "The Committee must express its reservations on the pattern of conduct of the Governor that it has perceived on the basis of the evidence adduced before it," they said.