Wiper MPs from lower eastern region have said party leader Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka is the only leader with authority to sit at the national negotiating table with President Uhuru Kenyatta to represent the region and their interests. Speaking in Machakos on Friday MPs, senators and MCAS elected through the Wiper party unanimously said Kalonzo is the only trusted leader and also the only kingpin of Ukambani. Led by Kitui Senator Enock Wambua, the leaders fully supported the signing of the corporation agreement between Wiper and the Jubilee party to formalise a working relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We unanimously and without undue regard to our political party affiliations support Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka in his decision to formalise a working relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta,” they said. While addressing the press, Wambua said the agreement will lay a firm foundation to build unity of purpose between the two parties. The cooperation agreement intends to achieve national stability and also create a unity of purpose between members of the two political persuasions and their affiliates. “The agreement of corporation is calculated to set the stage for an all inclusive exercise by like- minded Kenyans transcending political party affiliations to weave together an indivisible one Kenya movement to address the challenges of our time and lay a foundation for national stability”, he said. The leaders also said the signing of the agreement opens a window for fast-tracking of several important national vision 2030 flagship projects. Kiio said the unity will lead to completion of stalled projects in Ukambani like; Konza city, completion of grand highways like Kibwezi –Kitui- Migwani road and Umaa and Thwake dams which will not only create business but also provide job opportunities to the region. They called upon leaders and the Kamba community at large to support Kalonzo to push forward the development and political agenda of the region. “We call upon the clergy, the business community , professionals and the politicians from all corners of the region to rally behind our leader and support him to push forward the development and political agenda of our region”, they said. However the leaders have said that Kalonzo is not after any government job and rubbished the rumors made by some leaders in the region. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior called upon youths in the region to refuse to be used to insult leaders by a small clique of political brokers alleging that their intention is to auction the community to the highest bidder for selfish gain. “We are not ignorant of divergent views in our region which are unfortunately being expressed through insults and character assassination. Our people are known and respected for their humility and love for peace”, he noted. He added that, “Those with divergent views and are aggrieved by the direction given by our leaders are at liberty to table their issues for discussions through a mature and respectful channels. We cannot afford to send the wrong impression that our community is dividend for it's not”. Mutula also said Wiper party is still an independent party despite the signing of corporation agreement with jubilee.