Political parties that have been enjoying funding by the exchequer could have the money slashed drastically if a bill before Parliament sails through. A proposed amendment contained in the Statute Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2020, seeks to reduce allocations by changing the current quota. An amendment to the Political Parties Act, 2011, would mean that the Political Parties Fund will no longer be pegged on the total national revenue raised annually. The National Treasury has previously reckoned that Kenya cannot afford to cede 0.3 per cent of its revenues to the main political parties — currently ODM and Jubilee — without hurting county and national government operations. The proposed quota would be a blow to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, whose parties have dominated the political scene. The Political Parties Act, 2011, which established the Political Parties Fund, sets an allocation of not less than 0.3 per cent of national revenues to political parties to entrench democracy. However, in what could trigger an outcry from the parties, the allocations will now be based on a quota pegged on the national government’s net revenues after deduction of mandatory expenses. “Such funds not being less than 0.3 per cent of the national government shareable revenues net of mandatory and non-discretionary expenditures of the government,” the proposal reads. The net effect of the amendment to Section 24 (1a) of the Political Parties Act, 2011, is that the Treasury will factor in the fund after meeting national government obligations such as loans. The National Treasury will also provide the fund after deducting the county governments’ equitable share of the national shareable revenue. This means the money that will be set aside for political parties will shrink drastically at a time when they are pushing for an increase in their funding. The current section being amended reads: “Such funds not being less than 0.3 per cent of the revenue collected by the national government as may be provided by Parliament.” The Treasury has for long been championing a law change to cut the share of cash allocated to major political parties annually, saying the current quota is unsuitable. It has been allocating Sh371 million each year from 2015, instead of more than Sh3.6 billion. Jubilee and ODM are the only political parties that have been benefitting given their performance in the last election. According to the Act, 80 per cent of the Fund is to be distributed proportionately, considering the total number of votes garnered by each political party in the preceding General Election. Parties that do not qualify are those that “do not secure at least three per cent of the total number of votes at the preceding General Election; or if more than two-thirds of its registered office bearers are of the same gender and the party does not have, in its governing body, representation of special interest groups”. In addition, any party that does not have at least 20 elected members of the National Assembly, three elected senators, three governors and 40 MCAs stand to miss out on the cash. Last year, the Court of Appeal awarded ODM Sh4 billion from the Political Parties Fund —being the accumulated arrears for the previous five years. A three-judge bench, in a majority ruling, said Parliament should pay the money — backdated to November 1, 2011 — until the arrears are cleared. This followed a case filed and lost by ODM in the High Court. The party had argued that it had been receiving Sh100 million for over four years from 2011 to 2016, contrary to the figure set by law. It moved to the Court of Appeal after the case was thrown out by Judge Roslyne Aburili, who ruled that she could not force the taxpayer to shoulder the arrears, as ODM never demanded the money.  Edited by F'Orieny