Transport CS James Macharia won big on Tuesday after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi threw out a motion to impeach him. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali had sought to remove the Transport CS over his order to use the SGR to transport cargo from Mombasa to the Naivasha inland container depot, virtually eliminating all other transport. Muturi said Ali’s impeachment motion was inadmissible as it lacked supporting evidence for the allegations. Ali argued the CS had violated Article 10(1) (c) of the Constitution by not seeking public participation with leaders and stakeholders. He said Ali should be removed for gross misconduct and abuse of office. Truckers, clearing agents and others said requiring cargo to be transported only by the SGR denied shippers their rights to decide how they want their cargo moved. Many have lost their livelihoods because of the SGR edict. Muturi said, however, the allegations were not substantiated as required by Standing Order 64 (1A) , which requires such a motion be backed by necessary evidence including annexures or sworn testimonies. Without evidence, Muturi said he was unable to decide whether the allegations were valid. “The notice of motion by the Member for Nyali Constituency lacks any annexure or sworn testimonies or any other evidence thereto. I am unable to confirm whether the allegations contained in the notice meet the thresholds,” Muturi said. “It is therefore my determination the proposed motion by the Honourable MP is inadmissible having failed to comply with Standing Order 64 (1A)(c)." The Speaker also said as many as 11 MPs who were among the 90 lawmakers who signed the impeachment petition had requested to withdraw their signatures. They included John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South),  Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Mboni Mwalika (Kitui Rural), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Edith Nyenze (Kitui West), Irene Kasalu (Kitui Woman Representative), Thaddeus Nzambia (Kilome), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), Moses Kirima (Central Imenti) and Nasri Ibrahim (nominated). Last week, the MPs accused Ali of duping them into signing the documents, with the youthful Igembe South MP saying the Nyali MP told him they were meant to help him (Ali) obtain a loan from the Parliament Sacco. Muturi, however, reminded them of Standing Order 66 (4) that bars a member who signs for such a motion from withdrawing his or her signature. “It is expected that a Member of Parliament acclimatises himself or herself with the contents of a motion or a notice thereof, before appending a signature,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)