National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has confirmed that two MPs have contracted coronavirus. In a communication to the House, Muturi said the first case has been discharged from hospital and is in self-isolation after testing negative. The second case was taken ill but is now in stable condition recuperating in the general wards. “I wish to note that, as of today, June 30, far from the speculations reported in the media and elsewhere, information available to the Office of Speaker indicates that we have two cases of the virus that have been reported among Members of Parliament,” Muturi said on Tuesday. This is the first time the House is admitting cases of coronavirus amongst MPs. He said his communication was deliberate to end ongoing speculations on the number of MPs who have contracted the respiratory disease. The Speaker dismissed media reports putting the number of MPs infected to six. “The media should desist from sensationalising the cases in Parliament as though these cases were any different from the rest of the cases in the country,” Muturi said. Last month, State House confirmed four of its officials had tested positive for coronavirus and now Parliament joins as the second top government’s institution to go public on the viral infection. Muturi, however, did not disclose the names of the affected MPs, only urging the lawmakers and other parliamentary staff who might have come into contact with any suspected  Covid-19 patient to immediately undergo voluntary testing. as responsible Kenyans. “Depending on the results, one is advised to self-isolate and notify the Speaker’s office immediately,” Muturi said. “Members of Parliament are reminded to also encourage their staff, including drivers and security officers, to undertake the tests and more importantly, to wear face masks whenever in public.” There have been media reports of Covid-19 in Parliament with a number of lawmakers said to be secretly battling the virus. Muturi at the same time banned any physical Committees’ meetings within Parliament without his direct authority. Parliament has developed mitigation measures, including limiting the number of lawmakers accessing the plenary during parliamentary sessions, to ensure the safety of the members. The august House has also adopted the use of virtual sittings for committees as well as working from home measures for staffers. In April – when the Star reported possible Covid-19 infection in Parliament – the House held several voluntary testing sessions for MPs and the Ministry of Health has pitched tents where lawmakers get tested for free. Edited by EKibii