Police Reforms Working Groups has appealed to the Inspector General to refer all cases on police brutality to independent agencies. The group also asked the Director of Public Prosecutions to reconsider having police lead investigations into police brutality and instead suggested that such cases be referred to the Independent Policing Oversight Authority and the Internal Affairs Unit. The PRWG brings together like-minded organisations that advocate a reformed police service. "To solve this issue effectively, commanding officers should be held directly accountable for their junior officers' violations," it said in a statement even as it applauded the leadership of Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and IG of Police Hillary Mutyambai, who have led to the disciplinary measures, arrest and prosecution of no less than 16 officers in recent months. “We, however, maintain that the culture of disrespect for human rights and integrity has to be uprooted for the public to have confidence in the police service.” The group also asked the IG to cite the names, ranks and stations of officers who are being disciplined on human rights and corruption grounds in the quarterly crime reports. The PRWG said the recent spike in unlawful killings, torture and assault of Khamis Juma, Calvince Omondi, David Kiiru, Peter Gacheru, Eric Ngethe, Idris Mukolwe, John Muli, Ibrahim Onyango, Samuel Maina, James Waitheru “Vaite” and Yassin Moyo, among other victims, is unacceptable to all who believe that all have the right to life. “The names should be familiar, but the officers that violated the Sixth Schedule of the National Police Service Act, brutalised and killed them are still largely unknown,” it said. The group also called upon Mutyambai to operationalise the National Coroners Service Act and the Prevention of Torture Act and publicly express zero tolerance for police violence. The PRWG welcomed an invitation by the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government to dialogue on ways of improving human rights-based and professional policing during the Covid-19 period but asked that they be gazetted as essential services. “With unemployment, economic distress and time on their hands, public frustration and anger are at an all-time high. We fail to learn from the Minneapolis, Los Angeles, New York, Chicago and elsewhere at our peril,” the statement read. The group said reestablishing the defunct security sector multi-stakeholder taskforce would help facilitate mutual understanding, dialogue and open governance. On the ongoing evictions, the group urged CS Matiang’i to issue a public notice stopping the ongoing expulsions until the country can flatten Covid-19 and recover from the economic distress it has caused families.