 Kwale residents have condemned a plot by their MCAs to impeach Governor Salim Mvurya. The county assembly summoned Mvurya to appear before the house on Tuesday to discuss development matters sparking off rumours that the county chief could be facing impeachment. Residents say it would be against the spirit of unity required at this time when the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic. Led by Wachira Karioki, the residents said the county’s economy is at stake and people need immediate help as the coronavirus pandemic hurts. They said the MCAs should stop fighting and undermining the governor and instead combine forces in addressing issues that affect residents. “What will the move to impeach Mvurya help us with at this time? We are hungry, unemployed and very broke. Why don’t they use that energy in setting right things that are of great benefit to us,” Karioki said. He said the ward representatives should stop politicking and wait for the appropriate time to campaign. Karioki said it was shameful that MCAs only think of relieving Mvurya from his work yet residents were suffering. Joseph Chyalo said both MCAs and the governor should sort out their differences for the sake of ordinary citizens. He said it was time for MCAs to make peace with Mvurya and help come up with amicable solutions on how to combat the coronavirus pandemic. Another resident, Dzifitse Mwamutsami, said the MCAs’ decision to summon the governor was a plan meant to emasculate his leadership. The ward reps have previously said there was a plan to impeach Mvurya. They accuse the governor of undermining the assembly’s powers, misuse of office and corruption. The residents however criticised the assembly for refusing to approve Sh160 million to buy relief food for the vulnerable during the Covid-19 pandemic. They threatened not to re-elect the MCAs should they proceed with the impeachment motion against Mvurya. “If you ever impeach Mvurya then know that you are next, we will meet in 2022,” said Mwamutsami. The residents promised to interfere with the assembly session on Tuesday if the governor honours the summon.  Edited by P.O