Chief Justice David Maraga has been asked to support President Uhuru Kenyatta in reforming the Judiciary. The National NGO'S Council Board director for Western region Henry Indakwa on Monday said Maraga should also desist from commenting on matters that are already in court. Maraga last week complained that President Kenyatta had failed to appoint 41 judges as recommended by the Judicial Service Commission and also disobeyed court orders. But the President through Attorney General Kihara Kariuki said some of the judges recommended for appointment had integrity issues. “This disregard of court orders by the President is part of the pattern by the Executive. I must remind the President that he swore to defend the Constitution and the laws of Kenya. He must demonstrate his respect for the law by complying with court orders,” Maraga said. But Indakwa who spoke in Bungoma asked Uhuru to ignore the CJ. “The President should ignore statements from the Chief Justice pressurising him to appoint judges with integrity questions. If the Chief Justice thinks that things are not working for him then he should honourably resign and allow another Kenyan to lead the important office,” Indakwa said. Indakwa said Maraga’s outbursts against the President in public was unfortunate, saying such an action would be interpreted to mean the CJ was in support of a corrupt Judiciary. “We know that very many people have lost their property, are languishing in jail because of corrupt, incompetent and lazy judicial officers. The Chief Justice should cooperate with the President to ensure that corrupt judges are purged,” Indakwa said. Citizen For Good Governance director Phillip Wanyonyi Wekesa supported the President’s move saying the public is aware that most shortlisted advocates and judges have unresolved corruption cases. Wanyonyi said the President is right to reject the list once he gets information about the conduct of the appointed officers but asked the Head of State to give reasons to the public as to why he refused to endorse the names.  Edited by P.O