Mourners escorting the body eof pastor Sabastian Karithi for burial in Meru were shocked after their temperatures ranged from 38 degree celsius and above. Those who screened the mourners headed to Ngage village, Tigania East at Miomponi roadblock were also in panic as half of the mourners had high temperatures. They were told to relax for 20 minutes, after which another screening was done. They panicked and would be heard lamenting about spending 14 days in quarantine. A few of them still had high temperatures. Those with abnormal temperatures were referred to hospital for further tests. The rest, most of them known to the screening officers, were allowed to proceeded to the burial. Meru government is conducting mandatory screening for all travellers by checking their temperatures. Pastor Karithi died in a road accident on the outskirts of Meru town. Kariithi was riding his motorcycle when he was hit by a lorry near Giaki market as he headed home. He died on the spot. The pastor preached at the Pillar in The Community Miracle Church. Family and friends demanded that justice be served. Geoffrey Mutwiri a DCI officer attached in Kisumu, said though no one can question God on Karithi’s death, he had left a very big gap in the community. The father of two — a boy and a girl — was eulogized as hero "who cast out demons and loved the family and community at large". Villagers said Karithi was the first man to acquire three bachelor's degrees and a masters degree in Ngage village. Kariithi served as the IEBC deputy returning officer in Tigania East during the 2017 General Election. His father, Jakubu Ikamati, was overcome by grief and was not able to speak when given a chance to address mourners. He was his first born son. Karithi’s wife Leah had told the Star police were yet to give them a conclusive report on the investigations. “We have written statements but we are yet to know if the driver who caused the death was processed. They told us he was arrested after he escaped from the scene,” Leah said. Karithi was involved in several community development projects. Karithi graduated with a master's in project planning and management and had a bachelor's degree in theology. He also had a master's degree in theology. Police officer John Gichunge eulogised Karithi as a pillar to the community and had left a big gap. “We grew up together with Kariithi, were circumcised the same day and it is unfortunate that a road accident had robbed the community of our humble man of God. We have lost a very important person in our community. I can’t imagine,” Gichunge said on Friday. Many mourners attended the burial but were denied access to the grave site as well as their pastor’s home due to Covi-19 guidelines. Edited by EKibii