Senior KCB players, whose contracts are on the verge of expiry, can sit pretty after the management revealed plans to retain them. The club's skipper Michael Kibwage is among the players who are in their final months of their contracts but they can now afford a smile after the management expressed their desire to extend their stay at Ruaraka. A senior member of the technical bench, who sought anonymity for fear of reprisals, said all the players whose terms are set to expire at the end of the year will be offered new terms soon. He, however, said that the club will not impede any of the players seeking to pursue greener pastures elsewhere. "We are not ready to release any of our players although we will not stand on their way should they get better packages elsewhere. "We have already communicated to the players, whose terms are supposed to end this year and we are willing to have them for a longer period. "We are still committed in making our players comfortable despite the challenges we are facing. I understand most of them are worried that they may be rendered jobless once their terms lapse but the management is looking in that  issue and will negotiate with them," he said. Kibwage confirmed that his employer is keen to hand him a new deal. He showered them with praises for paying their salaries in time despite the the current Covid-19 situation that has halted sporting activities. "'The club has shown interest in retaining me but negotiations are likely to start once the pandemic is behind us. The club has been in a class of its own as far as players' welfare is concerned and hopefully, they will renew my deal. I am yet to get offers elsewhere," said the Mukumu Boys' alumnus. Meanwhile,the club's head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno disclosed that seven players are almost running out their contracts  but were in his plans .He urged his the playing unit to observe the safety guidelines and continue practicing from their homes. "The club has been taking good care of the players and is aware of the contracts of the players. "All players are  important and are part of my plan and we are waiting for right moment to discuss their future. "I will table my report to the management and wait for their direction and thats what i will exactly do when the right time comes. "At the moment, I urge the players to follow all the instructions given by the government and the club," said the Harambee Stars assistant coach.