Coast tourism stakeholders are united in calls for Mombasa and Nairobi to be re-opened for normal business to resume. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday lifted the cessation of movement in Kilifi and Kwale counties as well as in Mombasa's Old Town and Eastleigh in Nairobi. He also limited curfew hours to 9pm-4am compared to the previous 7pm-5am. He at the same time extended the countrywide curfew by another 30 days. However, tourism leaders in Mombasa and Kwale on Monday said  that this is not enough. Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohammed Hersi said the continued containment of Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera is ill-advised, faulting the experts who advised the President. “The key issue that has not yet been fully appreciated by many is that getting infected is not something that people need to be terrified about as 90 per cent of those infected have no symptoms and are not unwell at all. They do not even know they have it (Covid-19) and have zero risk of dying,” Hersi argued. United Green Movement secretary general Hamisa Zaja and Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo said on Saturday that the Covid-19 restrictions are hurting small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and ordinary citizens. Mbogo, who spoke at Mshomoroni, said time has come to accept that coronavirus may be here to stay. “We cannot go on living like this. Nobody can feed all Kenyans forever. Not even the national government. People must be allowed to go on with their lives and look for their daily bread as comfortably as possible,” he said. The MP said the Kenyan economy is built by the SMEs. “All buying power comes from the grassroots where the Wanjikus and Alis live. If that Ali cannot go and do the masonry work and get his Sh500 to buy maize flour, then Mombasa Maize Millers and Ajab will not be able to make the flour in the first place,” he said. He called for the lifting of the curfew and  cessation of movement “if we want to rebuild the economy. We need guidelines on how we will go forward as a nation without these restrictions.” He was handing over a freezer to the Kosovo Youth Group to boost their drinking water selling business. Zaja accused the police of taking advantage of the restrictions to extort the little money the citizens have in the name of enforcing curfew and face mask wearing rules. “UGM is concerned by the selective application of the Covid-19 restrictions which has led to fellow wananchi being brutalised by ill-intentioned law-enforcement officers," she said. She accused the high and mighty of ignoring travel restrictions and hosting parties as the poor were forced to abide by the regulations. “Are these restrictions meant for only ordinary wananchi? If not then your (Uhuru's) administration is engaging in and encouraging impunity, discrimination and elitism. This is not acceptable,”  Zaja said at Pembe za Ndovu. Hersi said Kenyan experts had predicted that by end of April there would be 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases and a high death rate yet by Sunday evening, there were 2,767 cases and 84 fatalities. “While we cannot throw caution to the wind, we equally cannot pretend that the economy can withstand continued closure of the capital city and the port city.” According to Hersi, global data shows that 99 per cent of the fatalities are over 65 years or have pre-existing serious health conditions. “So those are the high risk group who could require hospitalisation and might overwhelm the health service unless they are given special protection. “We should prevent infection in the high-risk group and allow the low-risk group to go back to work,” he said.  - mwaniki fm