The government could use alternative information to track down individuals who tested positive for coronavirus but had given wrong contact details. The rapid response teams have been left frustrated after at least 140 Kenyans had given false personal details while testing for Covid-19. The individuals are said to have deliberately given wrong contact details and can, therefore, not be traced after the tests. Health CAS Rashid Aman said the government was unable transfer them to quarantine facilities and now risk spreading the infection to their close contacts. The ministry began mass testing in April in high-risk areas and populations in upscaled efforts to combat the virus. Speaking during the daily Covid-19 briefing at Afya House, the CAS revealed that the government is beginning to look at whether data from the case information forms filled by the individuals can be used to try to trace them. “There is other data that can be used, particularly IDs, that had been presented. We know the ID can be used to trace these individuals so we are working on whatever possible information that we can get to try to be able to trace them,” Aman said. “They could also be traced through further contacts because all these contacts are in some way connected. We are also looking at those connections we may have a handle on to be able to get to those that we have a handle on.” The ministry is also continuing to watch the unfolding in Kibera, which has turned to be an epicentre of transmission of the virus. The area recorded 16 new cases in 24 hours according to data released by the CAS. Aman said mapping of clusters to identify particular areas with high infection is ongoing, adding that it is not the entire estate that has seen a surge in cases. He said once that is done, the information obtained will help the government make key decisions on extra measures to be imposed in the area. “We are identifying and mapping that and I think once we have enough information and we feel that the numbers have now reached a point where a particular measure needs to be taken, they will be taken as soon as we feel that moment has arrived and the trigger point reached,” he said. He, however, emphasised that since informal settlements present their own unique challenges, there is a need to look at them carefully before arriving at conclusions. “We have engaged all our community health workers. We are sending the message and making sure we minimise movement and mixtures.” He noted that an option to put the area on lockdown is always on the table but will only be after the ministry feels it necessary. Data from Tuesday’s briefing shows that the number of positive cases in the country now stands at 2,093 after 72 more cases were confirmed by the ministry in a day. The 72 were from 2,892 samples tested. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 82,946. Seventeen more people were discharged from hospital bringing the total number of patients who have successfully recovered to 499. In terms of age, the new cases are aged between 11 and 73 comprising 50 men and 22 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 39 are from Nairobi while eight are from Mombasa. Busia recorded 13 cases, Kajiado four, Migori three, Kiambu two, Garissa two and Kisumu one. Two more patients, however, succumbed to the virus bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 71. The CAS further warned truckers who are defying the Covid-19 testing protocols that require them to be tested at least 48 hours before they commence their journey. He said those defying are creating a big problem at the border crossing points and causing unnecessary congestion. “I appeal to them to pay attention to the guidelines. Otherwise, they will not only create a problem of congestion at the border points but also for themselves because they will be held back for a number of days,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie