  Kisumu hospitals remain deserted as health workers' strike enters day six with patients left on their own. Patients in most public hospitals have been discharged, some asked to seek alternative medical services and go to private facilities. The more 3,000 health workers, including doctors, are demanding prompt payment of salaries, implementation of promotions and payment of Covid-19 hazard allowances. They insist they will not return to work until their demands are met. Governor Anyang Nyong’o has directed that the names of the striking workers be deleted from the county’s payroll if they fail to report back to work by Friday last week. The governor Press Unit director Aloice Ager Sunday said the county was concerned with ensuring the hospitals remain open and operational. Ager said the striking workers' names will be removed from the payroll as wasm directed by the governor. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union chairman for Nyanza branch Kevin Osuri told the Star on Sunday that he does not know whether they have been fired. The Kenya National Union of Nurses branch secretary for Kisumu Maurice Opetu however said the governor cannot sack anybody because the county government is in contempt of court. He said the strike is legal. Opetu said the county government had not reached out to them and was instead trying to get injunctions to halt the work boycott. “This is because they didn't demonstrate any clear roadmap of implementing the promotions as ordered previously,” Opetu said. He asked Nyong'o to meet the health workers' demands and bring to book his county officers who misappropriated some Sh250 million and another Sh38 million which were approved for implementing the medics' promotions. “He should sack those responsible officers instead of taking any offence on health workers who have been sacrificing to serve Kisumu residents under deplorable conditions of work, including the risks of contracting coronavirus,” Opetu said. While most hospitals remain deserted, the Covid-19 isolation centre at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital was staffed and fully operational, the county said. The facility has four patients in isolation after two others were referred to Nairobi. Many residents said they did not know how to care properly for post-surgical and other discharged patients. They said without public hospitals, they feared for their health and their lives as private hospitals are too expensive. Nyongo who is also the acting health executive said on Thursday the strike was frivolous, unjustified and meant to defeat justice and subject innocent citizens to unwarranted suffering. "I, therefore, declare the strike is baseless and in bad faith, contrary to the ethics and call of duty of health workers,” the governor said.  Edited by P.O