The National Assembly Security committee wants police payroll moved from the Interior ministry to the commission tasked with handling the officers' human resource function. The team chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange said it would be prudent for the payroll to be managed by the National Police Service Commission. The National Security and Administration Committee wants the Fred Matiang’i-led ministry to hand over the human resource function to the commission in totality. “This should include the personnel emoluments budget that goes hand-in-hand with it. This should be taken back to the NPSC for ease of dealing with issues of the police,” Koinange said in Parliament. “Best practice requires that such resources be with the commission, which exercises disciplinary control over the police." The committee asked the Ukur Yatani-led National Treasury to expedite the process of transferring the payroll management to the commission “together with the corresponding resources". Koinange further raised concerns with the way the police resource is centralised. He cited officers commanding stations who suffer resource constraints despite the governments’ pledge of prompt service delivery. The Interior ministry has been allocated Sh132 billion, of which Sh94 billion is for recurrent expenditure for policing services. A chunk of the allocations, above the Sh22 billion for coordination support, is for salaries of the police. The NPSC has been allocated Sh806 million. National Police Service Commission CEO Joseph Onyango told the Star that the committee is right in demanding the payroll be transferred to the commission. Onyango said that since the NPSC is in charge of the human resource aspects of the service, it should also have a say on the pay. “The NPSC is the Human Resource arm of the service. The chairman is right in saying that the payroll is moved to the commission,” Onyango said. He said they are optimistic that the ministry has also realised that payroll management is the function of the commission. “The issue has been the modalities of the transfer,” the chief executive added. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho was not available when reached for comment on the Koinange concerns. According to the NPSC Act, the commission is mandated to “develop and keep under review all matters relating to human resources policies of members of the service on the recommendation of the Inspector-General”. It is also to determine the appropriate remuneration and benefits for the police service and commission staff on the advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. The NPSC also defines terms and conditions of service and the procedure for recruitment and disciplinary measures for civilian members of the police service. Separately, the Koinange-led committee has asked the government to invest more in modern technology to thwart crime and improve security. In this regard, the committee wants the national surveillance and control systems expanded to cover all major towns and highways. To this effect, it approved an allocation of Sh1.5 billion towards the national communication and surveillance systems. "To fight the increasing cases of crimes and to thwart terrorism activities, we need CCTV cameras along major highways and in major towns. This will complement the efforts of police officers,” Koinange said. The provided funds are projected to be used in installing the cameras in Kisumu, Nakuru and Eldoret.  (Edited by F'Orieny)