Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has pleaded with health workers to shelve their strike plan and make room for negotiations over their demands. The health workers had issued strike notice effective Tuesday midnight. Nurses, laboratory workers and other health staff are demanding promotions, deployment and an end to chronic late payment of salaries. The Nyong’o termed the planned strike regrettable. Speaking during the swearing-in of two newly appointed county executives on Monday, he asked the healthcare workers to give negotiations a chance on how their pending grievances would be tackled. He further stated that the impending strike could jeopardize service delivery to the residents in the midst of Covid-19. “You are assured of our commitment in addressing your grievances systematically and rationally,” the governor said. Nyong'o called on the health workers to join hands in delivering health care services to  people during this very difficult time. “It would be disastrous to our people to go on strike for issues which have either been solved or are rationally and systematically been mutually dealt with by all parties concerned,” he said. The governor said his administration had already effected the promotions of 1,007 heath workers including doctors, nurses and clinical officers as plans were underway to consider other groups of health staff. “We shall make sure the process of promotion is done properly to the satisfaction of all health workers backdated to July last year,” he added. Last week, the county assembly committees on health and labour called both the union and the county government to a meeting chaired by the speaker to help resolve the dispute. During the meeting, it was agreed that there was going to be a joint team of the assembly and the union to ensure that the executive issued promotion letters to 144 health workers who were due for promotion but may had not received their letters. All promoted workers will earn the new salaries as the payroll is updated and all the arrears arising from the promotions are budgeted for in the 2020-21 financial year. However the unions officials led by KNUN branch secretary Maurice Opetu noted that they did not trust the executive and would continue with the strike as planned until they commit. Edited by Henry Makori