At least 30 farmers' groups in Garissa will receive funding through the Agricultural Sector Development Support Programme funded by the national and county governments. Speaking on Wednesday at a local hotel during a one-day workshop to teach farmers on grant mechanisms, Garissa ASDSP coordinator Ahmed Hassan said the grant is meant to cushion farmers who were affected by floods, Covid-19 and locusts. Dr Hassan said the programme will support 30 farms under the three value chains to be rolled out every financial year to boost farmer’s productivity until the project ends in 2022. The forum also brought together farmers, extension staff and opinion leaders. “Our target is to ensure that funds are available to farmers towards the end of August. They will undergo proposal writing, vetting by the county steering committee, after which the successful groups will receive the grants,” he said. The CEC for Agriculture, Livestock and Cooperatives, Mohamed Shale, said the funding programme has come at the right time and will go a long way in supporting farmers who were affected by the three disasters. He urged value chain actors producing tomato, beef and camel milk to develop fundable proposals before August for approval. The executive regretted that farmers have over the years incurred huge losses to floods amounting to Sh693 million. This year he said the figure could be more because of locust invasion. “We truly sympathise with farmers for the losses they keep incurring. Unfortunately, this problem has persisted and the agencies that are in charge of protecting people from floods have not done enough to ensure that they cushion farmers from these losses,” Shale said. He added that with the high frequency of the floods, there is a need for the entities to immediately put in place measures that will address the effects of the floods. The Kenya Farmers Federation chairman, Dubat Amey, welcomed the grant idea and challenged farmers to take up the opportunity and apply for the funds. “We want more training for the value chain actors in the areas of grant mechanism guidelines, innovation, proposal and application formats and writing of memorandum of understanding so that everybody understands what is required of them,” Amey said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya