Former Karachuonyo MP James Rege is a wanted man in relation to a court case in which he is accused of stealing public funds during his tenure. On Friday, a warrant of arrest was issued against the former lawmaker after he failed to appear in the Anti-Corruption Court in Homa Bay. Senior principal magistrate Thomas Obutu, in justifying the warrant, said Rege failed to come in person despite receiving a summons. “A warrant of arrest is hereby issued against the first and the sixth accused after failing to comply with a court summons,” he ordered. Rege is the first accused. The sixth suspect is Fred Matara — the director of the Alliance Logistics Centre Limited, a firm at the centre of the alleged theft. Obutu, however, lifted a warrant of arrest against suspect Kennedy Ochieng' after prosecutor Lazarus Sirituy informed him that he had been arrested in Nairobi. The other three suspects — Michael Ocholla, Pacifica Adero Kobe and Samuel Okuta — appeared in court. They, including Rege, are accused of defrauding the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) of Sh909,398 between 2011 and 2013. They allegedly stole the funds through a supply agreement for the provision of telemedicine equipment to Kendu Adventist Hospital in Karachuonyo. “The suspects are accused of committing an economic crime by engaging in a scene to defraud the government on diverse dates between 2011 and November 28, 2013," the court heard. "Rege, being an MP, improperly used his office for fraudulent procurement of telemedicine equipment for the said hospital and conferred an improper benefit on Alliance Logistics Centre Limited." Ochieng', who was a personal assistant to the MP, is accused of improperly using his office between 2011 and November 2013 to facilitate fraudulent procurement. “Ochieng' and Matara colluded to submit a tender for telemedicine equipment with a specified price and equipment specification in order to award the tender to Alliance Logistics Centre Limited,” the court heard. Ocholla was then the NG-CDF accounting officer. He is accused of failing to comply with the applicable procedures and guidelines relating to procurement and tendering. “The fund account manager, whose functions entails ensuring that NG-CDF fulfils its obligations, failed to ensure the procurement of telemedicine accessories for Kendu Adventist Hospital at Sh1 million was carried out in compliance with the applicable procedures set out in the Public Procurement and Disposals Act as required of him,” the court was told. He was also accused of making irregular payment to the company and forging documents to facilitate the same. Ocholla allegedly forged the tender opening minutes of the meeting for supply, delivery, installation and commissioning of the machines on July 20, 2012. He faces the count of fraudulent payment alongside Kobe and Okuta. They are accused of jointly and fraudulently authorising payment of Sh909,398 to the company for the supply of the machine. Matara is accused of fraudulently acquiring public funds using his firm. He is said to have received funds to supply accessories to the hospital but failed to do so. Okuta, Ocholla and Kobe denied the charges. Lawyer Charles Onyango, who represented Kobe, appealed to the court to consider his client’s health condition when deliberating on bond terms. “The client is on medication and ready to produce documents to support that. We appeal for reasonable bond terms,” Onyango said. In his ruling, however, Obutu granted each suspect Sh1 million bond with a surety of a similar amount, and alternative Sh700,000 bail. The case will be mentioned on July 17.  Edited by F'Orieny