The government has identified 50 health facilities that will serve as Covid-19 hospitals. The hospitals have 3,407 isolation beds and will have 193 intensive care unit beds. They were identified by the National Coordination Centre for Isolation and Quarantine Centres. This ad hoc body comprises the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council, Kenya Health Professionals Oversight Authority and other regulatory agencies under the Ministry of Health. On Tuesday, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Kenya was 2,093 from a total of 82,946 people tested so far. The Ministry of Health expects the number to rise with Kenya reaching the peak in August or September. "KMPDC is continuing to identify more facilities that can be used as isolation centres throughout the country," KMPDC boss Daniel Yumbya said. Isolation centres are for patients already confirmed to be infected. Yumbya said by May 27, the council had recorded a total of 467 quarantine facilities including government institutions and hotels countrywide. "The centres have a bed capacity (for quarantine) of 157,850," he said. In Nairobi, there are 60 quarantine centres with a bed capacity of 4,378. Currently, more than 800 Covid-19 patients are admitted in at least 35 hospitals across the country, the majority of them in Nairobi and in Mombasa. Nairobi Metropolitan Services director for health services Josephine Kibaru-Mbae said they have included Mama Lucy Kibaki and South B Level 3 hospitals as isolation centres. Mbagathi Isolation Centre is currently full with about 90 patients. "This is in addition to Mbagathi Isolation Unit managed by KNH," she said. Kibaru said the NMS is particularly concerned that slums are becoming the new coronavirus hot-spots. "We have been concentrating on mass testing in informal settlements so that any positive cases are isolated to avoid the spread of Covid-19 within the community," she said. "At least 720 community health units are conducting household registrations to assist in the implementation." The virus was first reported in Kenya on March 13. The country closed schools the same month. The current containment measures, which include a night curfew and restriction of movements from certain areas of Kenya, will expire on Saturday. Epidemiologists and other specialists have warned there will be a spike in infections if these measures are lifted immediately. "It would be important to conduct short-term assessments on both disease burden and economic effects that tell the magnitude of the pandemic with clear proposals on the safest and cost-effective reopening strategy," Dr Mark Nanyingi said. He is an infectious diseases epidemiologist at the University of Liverpool. He said there is a need to suppress the virus before reopening. "A two-week steady decline in the number of newly detected cases would be indicative of limited community transmission," he said. Nanyingi said the government should also ensure that there’s robust ability to detect, test, track, isolate and quarantine cases. "The health system capacity should be able to contain the virus and treat all new cases with the human and technological capacity to mitigate increased transmission." Dr Nanyingi, who also lectures at the University of Nairobi, proposed the reopening should be gradual. He said Kenya should be ready to reimpose restrictions if, as happened in South Korea and France, a second wave of cases is reported. "Room must be left for flexibility," he said. "Steps need to be taken so that workplaces can make the various readjustments to maintain high hygiene standards. And the use of facemasks and sanitiser should be sustained in some places that are high risk." Edited by R.Wamochie