The High Court has dismissed a case by five trade union members seeking to restrain their officials from accessing or dealing with the union accounts. Gwito Damon, Ronald Achoki, Jophinus Musundi, Newton Kimanthi and Florence Munoru have accused Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako, Agnes Wangechi and Henry Majanga of violating the union’s constitution and the Labour Relations Act. The five nurses claimed the officials in cohoots with others were incurring irregular, unauthorised and unlawful expenditure of union finances without authorisation from the National Governing Council, National Executive Council and finance committee. They said there have never been any budgetary estimates read and adopted by the relevant union organs authorising the officials to spend the funds. “There are no audited accounts of the union since inception, particularly for 2015-16 to 2018-19,” they argued. The nurses further alleged that there were no audited accounts presented to the Registrar of Trade Unions and that previously audited accounted presented were not approved by union organs and were tainted with misdeeds. They want the union accounts to be subjected to a forensic audit for 2013-19 in line with the union constitution and the Labour Relations Act. The petitioners accused the NGC and NEC of failing to discharge their constitutional mandate which would have salvaged the union resources. “The continued incurring irregular, unauthorised and unlawful expenditure of the union funds in contravention of the union constitution shall render great injustice and prejudice the affairs of the union and the interests of its members,” they said. In response, Panyako objected that the petition was barred by rule of sub judice and therefore, “untenable because there were similar suits subsisting with similar cause of action”. Panyako argued that the petition offended the mandatory provisions of the Employment and Labour Relations Court rules “as the nurses had failed to adduce any authority from the other nurses to act on their behalf”. He claimed the nurses had failed to demonstrate and describe any rights or fundamental freedoms that were allegedly denied or violated. “The petition is frivolous, misconceived, incurable and fatally defective,” the officials said. However, in a judgment delivered on June 2 by Justice Monica Mbaru, she noted that the non-attendance by the Registrar of Trade Unions denied the court crucial evidence in the petition having been included as an interested party. “Accordingly, as set out above, the court finds no violations of the union constitution or the law and the substance of the petition is lost. The petition is hereby dismissed,” she ruled. Edited by R.Wamochie