No officer based at the Nyali police station has tested positive for coronavirus, Nyali subcounty police boss Daniel Masaba has said. Masaba denied reports that some of the officers tested positive for Covid-19 after 10 remandees were found to be positive. “It is not a guarantee that when you interact with a positive case you will be infected,” Masaba said on the phone. Earlier, Commission for Human Rights and Justice executive director Julius Ogogoh had demanded that the police station be closed after the remandees tested positive. Ogogoh said lives of police officers and suspects are at stake adding that Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai must order the police station closed. “Chief Justice David Maraga closed the Mombasa law courts when 11 of its officers tested positive for Covid-19. The police should follow suit and close the station down,” Ogogoh said. He said just like any other Kenyans, the suspects and police officers have rights that should be protected. “We demand that all police officers in that station be tested.” However, Masaba said all the police officers who interacted with the remandees are in self-isolation. He said the suspects who shared the cell with the two positive cases found initially were all taken to Shimo la Tewa for isolation. “They are almost coming out of isolation because they have about four days left,” Masaba said. He said with care and strict adherence to the anti-Covid-19 directives, one can protect themselves from contracting the virus from a positive person. “It is what our officers did. We have been extra careful, strictly adhering to the Ministry of Health directives.” He said the cells the suspects were in has been sanitised together with other places in the station intimating that it is not easy for the police station to be closed down because it would lead to a possible spike in crime. “I would be happy if we are told by the boss to close down because it will mean a break for our hardworking officers to recharge,” Masaba said. However, he said they will have to be on duty and ensure lives and property are protected and that law maintained. The police boss said contracting the virus is not a death sentence as many people fear. “This disease, in most cases is mild,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie