Undergoing specialised training for coast-based sprinters will go along way to boost their technical ability believes Athletics Kenya (AK) Coast Region chairman Dimmy  Kisalu. According to Kisalu, top sprinters from national primary and secondary schools championships in the region, most of whom are in the camp for World Under-20 Championships, have no clue on how to use starting blocks and running spikes. “We have in the recent past produced national primary and secondary school champions but don’t go far owing to many obstacles including lack of proper training equipment,” said Kisalu. Kisalu was speaking at Kijiwetanga camp for the World Under-20 Championships at Kijiwetanga Primary School, Malindi, Kilifi County where the junior athletes received cash and food donation from Athletics Kenya and the government. “We urged the national office to organise for a camp at the Nyayo National Stadium for their juniors to familiarise the starting blocks and running spikes,” chipped in AK Coast Region secretary general Felix Ngala. Ngala singled out the 2008 National Secondary School Games 200m champion Katana Chaleo, the 2019 National Primary School 100m/200m champion Benson Kombe, Beatrice Karisa, the 2019 National Secondary School Games 100m/200m finalist and 2019 National Primary School 4x100m gold medallist Muktar Farhan. Kisalu and Ngala were accompanied by guest of honour Thuo wa Ngugi, who is the deputy commissioner Kilifi County and AK Director for Youth and Development Barnaba Korir. Kombe said he has never used running spikes or the blocks. “I hope to use them before trials are called for the World event,” said Kombe. Kombe and Farhan were part of the Coast Region team that won the 4x100m title at the national primary schools athletics event last year. “We can go far in sprints if we are to get help with running apparels and good coaches. We have been running barefoot for long and its about time we are helped,” said Farhan, who won silver in 110 hurdles and bronze in 200m at the 2019 national primary schools athletics. “We simply need help both from the county governments at the coastal region and Athletics Kenya,” said Karisa, who reached the finals of the 100m, 200m and 4x100m during the Kenya National Secondary School Games last year. Kisalu warned other regions that they should be ready for a bruising battle especially in sprints when trials for World Under-20. “We are tentatively concentrating on sprints since that is where we are strong atand believe we shall produce athletes for the world event,” noted Kisalu. Korir said Coast Region has the capacity to produce good athletes capable giving their rivals a run for their money. Korir called on county governments in the region to develop its respectively sporting infrastructure. “AK shall also play its role too. We have identified Coast as part the areas that will benefit from training equipment that we shall be receiving soon from Nike,” said Korir. Abdullah, who is also the Agricultural Society of Kenya (ASK) Show chairperson, said they will donate training shoes and tracksuits to those at the Kijiwetanga Camp. Thuo wa Ngugi said Kilifi County will donate five bags of rice and a similar number of beans to Coast Region world under-20 camp in Malindi. Athletics Kenya have now covered 19 out of the 20 camps in their World Under-20 Championships stimulus package.