 A Jubilee MP has called for the removal of deputy secretary general and Soy lawmaker Caleb Kositany from the party over his corruption claims. Nyeri Town MP Nginjiri Wambugu wants President Uhuru Kenyatta who is the Jubilee leader to eject Kositany from his party position. Kositany has claimed there is corruption at Jubilee offices. Wambugu said Kositany has been the deputy SG of Jubilee since the party was established and thus his claim there was misuse of funds does not sound genuine. He said the MP who is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto, made the "wild allegations after realising that they are losing the hold they felt they had on the party." “And when I say they, I mean the team that coalesces around them and the deputy party leader (Ruto). Now you will read and listen to them saying a lot of the times that they are going to destroy this party if they cannot have it,” Wambugu said. Wambugu spoke to reporters in his Nyeri town office on Monday. He said Kositany was trying to cast aspersions on Jubilee party so that they can destroy it. President Uhuru Kenyatta has led a reorganisation of the party leadership in the Senate and the National Assembly during which several allies of Ruto were removed from plum positions. Wambugu wants the President to shift focus to the leadership of the party. The party cannot afford to have somebody like Kositany representing it at any level, he said. “This is somebody who goes to the public to suggest that the party has been stealing public funds that has been entrusted to it. This is somebody who is breaking every cardinal rule of what it means to be a member of a party,” Wambugu said. He said if the deputy secretary general has a problem with how money is being spent in the party, there are protocols and processes to be followed other than rushing to the media to make claims. Wambugu said Kositany's claims were meant to portray the party and its leader in a negative light. The MP said Kositany cannot tell Kenyans that he has just woken up and discovered that money was being misused in Jubilee party. His colleague's statement was just meant to make the party unattractive to the public and destroy it as "they have been saying," Wambugu said. “So the allegations made by the deputy secretary general must be understood to be an attack on the integrity of the party meant to portray the party in bad form so that the public can lose the attraction,” the Nyeri MP said. He said Kositany and his allies wants to ensure Jubilee party is not a player in the 2022 succession politics. "But that will not happen," Wambugu said. Kositany was reported by the Daily Nation as having said there was massive corruption at Jubilee party headquarters, claiming that the officials were spending Sh7 million on tea and snacks monthly. The Soy lawmaker asked the Auditor General to probe the party’s financial books so that members can also know why they are paying Sh5 million rent monthly.  Edited by P.O