The future of any sport depends on the incorporation of young players into an outfit, be it a club or national team. The mixture of youth and experience perfectly balanced not only creates rhythm but also boosts unrivaled performance should the chemistry work as expected. While seasoned players carry on even at their twilight, youngsters knock on the door for first-team experience at club while a first senior national team call up is always described as a ‘dream come true’ by many athletes no matter the outcome. Upcoming players are talented and a joy to watch as they hone skills in their freshman years with many descriptions and huge expectations firmly placed on the shoulders. Normally, words like ‘the perfect brainy of a modern creative midfielder, the incognito engine of the national team, the talent never seen before, the missing piece in attack, Mr or Miss dependable’ and many others are often identified with top-crop talent. The early promise seems to spur these athletes because they have the world at their feet. The potential in them results into coaches making the so called ‘tough and bold decisions’ in terms of team selections at both club and international assignments. Orange Leonas prodigy Shila Chenany is an astute player in this line of thought — noticeable and hard to ignore. Talent is a universal gift but it has taken a lot of character for Chenany to exploit hers even though she is not the finished article yet. To uncover her true potential, she has discovered her own limits and the courage to blow past them. She believes talent is like a flower, you have to fully tend to it if you want something beautiful. The 21-year old is the club captain despite having some senior figures in the side. The duo of Cecilia Mwongeli, 23, and Mercy Cherotich, 24, are older than her since Shalyn Nabifo is also 21. The utility player led from the front as Leonas successfully gained promotion to the Premier League last season, courtesy of a second-place finish in the Super League. Chenany is the epitome of hard work and dedication and was crowned the Super League top scorer last season with eight goals, having played in various positions prior to achieving this fate. Chenany is the youngest captain in the Kenya Hockey Union League and her talent is amazing. While Orange Leonas was only formed two years ago by KHU to nurture talent, the team produced the bulk of the under 18 team that played in the hockey five-aside tournament held in Nairobi last year. She’s not the quickest of players but her confidence with the ball surpasses age. Her eye for goal, dribbling and the general skill is outstanding. She’s a weaponry to the side especially when she plays in an advanced position upfront. Chenany joined the team in late 2018. Despite being a newcomer, she was appointed the captain in her first season with the team a year later, which speaks volumes. Little is known about Trans Nzoia Mixed Secondary School in sports circles but a towering Chenany was the reason why the school qualified for the national championships and East Africa games for the first time in the school’s history, in 2015. She was instrumental right from the start of the competitions. The teenager played handball before transitioning to hockey in Form Two. Playing at the nationals will be an unforgettable experience for Chenany who’s statistics are on an upward trajectory because they floored down overwhelming favourites in the competition. On her change of heart from handball to hockey she says: “I used to play handball which was less popular and played up to the County level. Hockey used to have the inter-classes competition so I could go and watch. I had never held a hockey stick but mentally I knew how to hold it.” “The teacher in charge of hockey softened my initial hard-stance on the sport and challenged me to join his charges and I took the challenge. When I held the stick for the first time, it was like magic because I did everything like someone who had trained for a while. Joining hockey was something I always felt I was destined to." "That year was the first time our school made it to the nationals and yes we won the national championships (2015) and qualified to represent the country at the East Africa Secondary games,” Chenany explains. After her exploits with the team she rose to become the vice captain until when she left the institution in 2017. A month after donning the orange and white colours that Leonas are identified with, many clubs came calling for her signature. After weeks of soul-searching, she opted to remain loyal to Leonas. That decision, she says, gave her the opportunity to fully express her talent and to interact with like-minded players at the club. Her execution on the field are typical of  a relaxed, focused and a know-it-well leader. She played for Multimedia University during the 2018 season. Chenany is a creative, intelligent, disciplined and committed individual who is eager to learn and grow everyday — a super amazing talented go-getter who lets nothing stand in her way. “I have the ability to compromise, show respect and listen to the needs of my teammates. Though I am the captain, I also play equal role on the team when situation merits." "I can multi-task and also work under pressure. I acquired a lot in high school and I believe I will eventually be the best. I only need to recognise my capacity and develop my talent to full potential,” she says. “Being a leader has taught me patience, determination and discipline as my teammates and the kids at the development side look up to me as a role model. This has made me more understanding and a positive feedback taker.” She works hard everyday despite the coronavirus pandemic with a training schedule for indoor workouts and running. She wakes up at 5 am daily, goes for morning jogs and strictly observes a core and physical training program. The indoor workout is self-motivated. On her experience at the development side she says: “It’s been great. I have learnt a lot about hockey and life, appreciating what we have and one another. It has set a foundation for me and others. Development is my second home.” Eight months since the heartbreaking snub in the national team, Chenany remains confident of earning her senior call up during the African Cup of Nations qualifiers which are expected to commence once COVID-19 has been contained. Interestingly, Chenany never played for the national team at junior levels. “Being given a cold- shoulder hurts but I habour confidence in representing the country in the near future. By training with experienced players is a recognition of my potential by the technical bench. Yes, it hurts but I took it positively; a challenge that I have to do better by exploring my new strengths and work smart,” she says. “I am now stronger than I could have imagined. If I can explore my abilities to the maximum, I stand a chance of realising my dream. I am young and there’s a lot to do some but at the same time I feel am ready irrespective of the time.” Despite her optimism, Chenany wants the technical bench to be free and fair in national team selection. Jackline Mwangi, the national team coach is the teenager’s idol. She said with the development of the league, players from all teams have to be considered for fairness to prevail. The last couple of years has seen Blazers produce majority of players to the national team. Lilian Aura, Tracy Karanja, Flavia Mutiva, Lucy Wangechi, Cynthia Anyango, Caroline Guchu and Maureen Okumu were Blazers’ brigade for the Olympic qualifiers in South Africa last year. She also wants the senior players to show love to the juniors, pointing out that egocentricism demoralises the youngsters and their adaptation to the demands of the team becomes a tall order. More often than not, rookies end up suffering from a lack of confidence. Confidence is vital and any great player will tell you this regularly. If you need to fire on all cylinders your confidence need to be top notch. “There is physiological torture from the senior players. The rookies go through a lot and no motivation at all. Like when the trials are called they already know who will be selected and who will be left out,” she laments. “They kept telling us during training that we don’t have experience, we can’t play a certain position we can’t march their game. I cannot though discredit all of them because few were dedicated in seeing us grow. Nobody is perfect and we all have our inadequacies but despite our shortcomings, we need guidance-a vital component in the growth of any player.” Every player has his or her own challenges and Chenany is no exception. For her growth is only possible when there are challenges, development can never be realised when things get easy. “You know hockey is an expensive sport in terms of equipment, which makes it very hard to manage. Sometimes I am forced to use the one pair of shoes I have for training and matches which is tough. I can even survive with this for two seasons which shouldn’t be the case in normal situations.” Chenany observed that the sky is her limit and nothing. Whether the most-sought-after-talent will live up to this billing remains unknown but the early signs are promising.