Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has called on the police to come up with concrete solutions that will help nab those dumping babies and those promoting abortion. This was after two more bodies were retrieved from the Nairobi River by the Comb Green clean-up team on Monday. The bodies of the infants were retrieved in Korogocho area and reported at the Kariobangi police station, who authorised their burial. This brings to 21 the number of bodies retrieved from the river since the launch of the Nairobi River Restoration Project last year. The 21 include 16 infants and 5 adults. "I think the police have a big role to play. l know they have been working tirelessly to curb this vice but we note that it's beginning to resurface again. They will need to be more vigilant," Sonko said. The governor has called on locals to be on the lookout as well to help report those perpetrating the vice. He promised to invite various agencies to conduct a probe and unearth the real problem affecting society. Sonko asked sub-county administrators to file such reports and hand them in before end month. According to Fredrick Okinda, who is leading the clean-up team, the exercise was cut short when one of the team members noticed a paper bag floating on water only to realise that the remains of an infant were hidden in it. "One of us noticed a paper bag floating around and when he went on to open it, he was shocked to find remains of an infant and minutes later, we found another body of a girl dumped around the same area," Okinda noted. The issue has also attracted the attention of organisations dealing with children rights who are now calling on young ladies facing abortion temptations to contact them for counselling. Beatrice Muema, who works with Kangemi Childline Organization, says that they have been issuing counselling services to many women faced with the challenge. Most of the cases, she says, are about defilement but reported to them as teenage pregnancy. She thanked the county government for the monthly clean-up exercise. "When you dig deeper we realise that the child was either defiled by a grown-up but for them, they thought that they are in a relationship. We thank the county government, more so Governor Sonko. We must find a long-lasting solution," Muema said. She said the cases are rampant in Nairobi and Kiambu Counties. She added that young girls who have been sexually abused can be assisted, reunited with their family members and urged them to stop dumping bodies in the river.