Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa have said they will pursue unity among communities in western Kenya through the BBI. The leaders said the initiative, which is anchored under the Building Bridges Initiative, seeks to cultivate a culture of unity among members of the Luhya, Teso and Sabaot tribes. The three are Western Kenya’s main communities. Inhabitants from other tribes who live in the region will also be brought on board with the objective of ensuring the region remains a united bloc. Oparanya and Eugene spoke after meeting Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and members of the Teso Elders Council at Ojaamong’s home in Okilidu village in Teso South subcounty on Saturday. “We agreed that we will work together through the BBI after the meeting we held in Kajiado,” Oparanya said. “We have met with the Sabaot and Bukusu elders, and we will continue to bring these people together based on our Kajiado resolution.” Oparanya, Eugene and Ojaamong were among Western region leaders who met Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli at his Kajiado home a week ago. During the meeting, Atwoli and Oparanya were tasked to spearhead negotiations for the revival of the former Western province’s economy. Oparanya alongside Eugene and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka were also mandated to lead formal negotiations to ensure Luhyas have a say on all fronts. “Where there are elders, things never go wrong,” Eugene said after the Okilidu meeting also attended by Luhya Elders Council chairman Patrick Wangamati. “The vision of these elders is to see that all communities in Western Kenya live in peace and unity.” “I want to thank members of the Teso Elders Council who have blessed Governor Ojaamong to become the Iteso community leader as he walks along with Governor Oparanya so that we continue uniting our people.” The leaders met in Busia after holding similar meetings with members of the Bukusu Elders Council as well as the Sabaot Elders Council on June 4. The meeting with Sabaot elders took place at Eugene’s home in Kitale. Former Busia county assembly deputy speaker Moses Ote, who spoke on behalf of the Teso elders, said the council supports the Western unity bid now that the country is moving closer to holding the 2022 General Election. “We support the handshake and the BBI as enforced by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga in transforming Kenya,” Ote said. “BBI embraces the spirit of unity which has seen our communities live together.” Others present during the meeting were Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, former Webuye MP Musikari Kombo and Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi. Oparanya and Eugene’s unity bid is however facing resistance from a cross-section of leaders. Twenty MCAs from Kakamega last week said the Kajiado meeting, which preceded a series of meetings conducted by Oparanya and Eugene, was illegal and was a betrayal to the community. “Some people have misinterpreted our previous political kindness for weakness,” county assembly minority leader David Ndakwa, who spoke on behalf of other MCAs, said. “We have helped them achieve their political goals using our support but these same fellows are busy coercing our sons and daughters to play into their dark evil plans to see us divided so that they can thrive in their political kill.” Edited by A.N