Have you ever wondered why farmers have reigned supreme on competitive sections? Former world rally champion Petter Solberg learnt the ropes from their their farm in Oslo. Like his former 2001 Subaru team-mate and former world champion, the late Richard Burns, Solberg started his driving career like most children—on their first bicycles. From eight years old, he was driving cars on the fields around his parents’ farm in Spydeberg, 50 km east of Oslo. Solberg’s parents were both keen rally-cross drivers and naturally, he and his older brother Henning inherited their skills with cars. The then 11-year-old Solberg helped his parents build and maintain their autocross cars. Still far too young to compete himself, Solberg raced radio-controlled cars and was Norwegian champion at 13. The story in Kenya is not different. While most Kenyan kids grapple with initial bicycle lessons at the age of eight years, a unique group of young ‘bush boys’ may well have discerningly dispensed with their two-wheel contraptions and busy driving trucks at some rough terrain in the countryside. It’s most certain that the young and perhaps the older generation of rallying and motocross aces in Kenya trace their roots from similar remote backgrounds. The legendary Shekhar Mehta, winner of five WRC Safari rallies and former President of WRC Rallies Commission at the world motorsports governing body, FIA, honed his skills in the lush green family farm fields. Otto Ulyatte, Kenya’s celebrated bike champion sharpened his skills at their farm in Narok District after being inspired by his father, Robin Ulyatte who raced for Toyota works team in Safari Rally. Five-time Safari winner Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo and 2003 Kenya rally champion Lee Rose are farmers. Rose and Tundo’s fathers, Frank Tundo and John Rose were wheat farmers in Nakuru and reputable rally drivers who savoured a feel of the works team cars when the country was blessed with world-beaters in the WRC Safari Rally. The local rally farmers, fondly referred to as the ‘bush drivers’, have dominated the local rallying scene leaving their opponents trailing in their dust. Interestingly, a group of Kenyan drivers who got their mitts on the national championship have some sort of bush connection. Retired driver Rory Green, who was a horticultural farmer in Limuru, won the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) title twice in succession in 2001 and 2002 before Lee Rose took over the reins in 2003 and 2004. As if to prove that the ‘bush boys’ obduracy is far from over, Carl Tundo lost the KNRC title in 2005 to veteran auto-engineer Azar Anwar on homestretch at the KCB Guru Nanak Rally. You may think that there is some voodoo of sorts working for the bush drivers but Carl is quick to dispel this perception. “I learnt to drive when we were farming up in Maralal from about 15 years and before that, I rode motorbikes from about six years. The advantage of living on a farm in remote areas is that you get the chance to learn riding and driving much earlier. My father (Frank) made us a small track to drive around. He inspired me and I grew up with him rallying from the day I was born. We have always had a rally car in the yard and his enthusiasm rubbed off on me,” Tundo says. “Driving on the farm helps you to read the road better. Because the majority of my driving has been on gravel roads, you then get to understand the lines to take and how to tackle rougher and more technical sections. You also get to know what it takes to navigate the rough. When it’s wet, we have the advantage because we have more experience than those who live in town,” said Tundo. “It’s not magic! If you throw all these combination of reasons together along with a deep passion for rallying and winning, you are bound to come up with a very competitive driver,” Tundo went on. Rory Green’s Subaru Impreza, then reigned terror to local drivers. The Timau-based agricultural engineer, Peirs Daykin won the navigators’ title twice while sitting with Rose. Lee Rose, who learnt the ropes at a tender age in Narok on his part, says: “Farmers do a lot of driving on gravel roads due to the nature of their business. I started riding bikes when I was 11 and even won the national motocross championship twice in succession in the early 80’s. The feat earned me the motor sportsman of the year award around the same time.” The late Shekhar Mehta, renowned as a master of wet and slippery terrain, perfected his driving skills at their family’s sugar plantation farm in Jinja, Uganda and was untouchable by the time he migrated to Kenya in 1973. His migration to Kenya was occasioned by former Ugandan dictator, the late Idi Amin’s decision to kick out all people of Asian origin. But the relocation turned out to be a blessing in disguise for Mehta as he went on to win the 1973 Safari Rally, which had just been elevated to world status. Azar Anwar, who has won the KNRC thrice in 1998, 2005 and 2006 also has the farm connection. Despite being automotive engineer, Anwar was brought up in Narok, where his father farmed for the better part of his school days. But Azar didn’t follow in his father’s footsteps as he ended up in the garage. Asked about the aspect of rallying farmers who have continued to call the shots on the local scene, Azar concurs with the fact that they have had an edge by virtue of the atmosphere they were brought up in. But he’s quick to clarify that these crop of drivers enjoy a good financial backing from their families, owing to their affluent background. There is, of course, a second reason for the dominance of rallying by the farming elite. Racing the world over is a prohibitively expensive affair, particularly without the advantage of the corporate world. Anwar explains: “For instance, I spend a fortune to prepare for one event in 2005. That was inclusive of things like recce (rally practice), fuel, spare tyres, transportation of the serving van and crew to the place of action. It is just damn expensive. Others,especially the farmers and some top drivers with good corporate backing, spend a lot more to do one particular event,” Azar said. Reigning Kenya champion, Baldev Chager, has over the years showered high-flying farmers with praise. He says: “With or without money, they are great drivers. But there can be no rallying without money. It’s a casual affair for them because they drive off-road on a daily basis. Whether it’s dry or muddy, their nature of business requires them to drive. They are just great drivers.” Lee migrated to South Africa (Nelspruit) near the Mozambique border after winning his last event on Guru Nanak Rally. He lived with their family at Gicheha Farm near Nakuru. Lee did the South African Rally Championship in 2017 and won the Classic Class navigated by South African champion Elvene Coetzee who was a works navigator for Toyota Gazoo Racing South Africa. Lee was incidentally the overall winner of a South African National Rally in his 1979 Ford Escort which wasn’t a mean achievement going by the standards down south! Lee is now a macadamia nut farmer. “I have been in and around motorsport all my life. I think you are just born with it and it runs in your blood. I was given my first bike at the age of six but I started racing competitively at the age of nine. The first thing I ever drove at six years old was a Lorry. That’s because my parents would not let me drive their cars but the truck driver had sufficient faith in me and that’s how I learned the ropes. I suppose my Dad (John Rose) is to blame for my enthusiasm in motor-driven machines. We had a motocross track which we practiced on all the time in Narok, but we did not have buggies or cars, just bikes then,” said the three-time motocross champion. Rose was almost unconquerable on the KNRC front from 2002 to 2010 and he thinks it was down to his motivation to win and his background in bikes. “The bikes helped a lot with lines and balancing the car at high speed. The fact that the pace of rallying increased as events changed from endurance to flat out sprints required a change in one’s approach to rallying in order to stay on top. It was, however, a fine balance of speed and caution over the rough terrain,” Rose offered. 