History proves that anyone who changed the world had a made-up mind. They had a strong conviction, acted, and moved unflinchingly towards a specific goal. These people did not second-guess themselves. The direction was clear, and they moved accordingly. Hence, they changed the world. During World War II, the British prime minister, Sir Winston Churchill, took a stand and England prevailed against Nazi Germany. When Barack Obama saw an opportunity to become the first black president of the United States of America, he took the shot and did not look back. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., made history when he courageously championed the Civil Rights Movement with a non-violence ideology. Now, the question is: what is your resolve? What is your conviction? In the twenty-first century, it is common to find people with a weak stance on issues or no conviction. The downside to this is that it is now normal to find leaders who lead without conviction or a firm resolve. Why is it important to have a firm resolve? One: you get dreams and ideas done. This is because a firm resolve means you have clarity. When clarity is in place, you can focus your energy on a specific goal or direction and therefore, move with speed. You are not easily distracted, and your dreams, ideas, and goals are likely to happen. A firm resolve gives you a laser approach to goals and enhances your impact. Two: a firm resolve ensures that you follow your inner blueprint. You move from a deep place of inner knowing and assurance. When you are clear on a direction, it is usually in line with what you already know in your inside. A firm resolve is that place where your head and heart connect to move in a specific direction. You move from a place of deep knowing and you are ready to take full responsibility for the outcome of your actions. Three: you move with confidence and grace when you have made a firm resolve and people want to follow you. People hardly enjoy following a double-minded person because it is confusing. Clarity in thought, will, intention and direction instill confidence in the people that decide to follow or help you achieve your goals. When you get on the path of firm resolve, the help, answers, and resources that you need begin to emerge and this grows your confidence. So, make up your mind, choose a focus, move forward, and watch the magic happen. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com