With the latest extension of the restrictions put in place to combat the spread of coronavirus, AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda is now calling on both Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League to consider annulling the 2019-2020 season. Shikanda has been a fierce critic of the FKF's decision to controversially conclude the season, declaring Gor Mahia as the champions and demoting the pair of Chemelil and Sony Sugar without consulting KPL. The administrator has been pushing for the remaining nine rounds to be played but he says the extension of the restrictions by President Uhuru Kenyatta has put off his dream to have the season finished. The former player wants the season voided and the duo of Gor Mahia and Bandari handed the rights to represent the country in the Caf Champions League and the Confederations Cup respectively. "In the interest of fairness, I think the two bodies should put aside their differences and void the season. "Of course declaring Gor as  champions yet there were nine matches yet to be played is not fair to the teams who had a chance to challenge them as well as those who were demoted but in the current situation we have no choice. "Worse still that decision was made by an individual who did not consult all the stakeholders but all is not lost as we can salvage the situation by convening a virtual meeting and agree to cancel the season," he said Shikanda in the meantime revealed that his technical bench was interested in having Wazito left back Washington Munene on permanent basis with hardly a season at the den. Munene joined Ingwe at the start of the season from Wazito albeit on loan and following his remarkable performance, Leopards are looking to sign him permanently. "We are talking to the player and his parent club in a bid to secure his services for a longer period. He executed his roles well and the technical bench has recommended him,"' observed Shikanda.  At the same time, Shikanda said the club will unlike in the past, make fewer signings to beef up ahead of the new season. "The current playing unit we have is strong but we will make fewer additions to strengthen a few departments.We have in the past made the mistake of releasing almost the entire squad at the end of the season and bringing an equal number. This has been a major factor for the poor run we have had but we have learnt our lessons and we will do things the right way," he added.