The High Court has ordered a security firm to pay Sh390,000 to former employee who they dismissed from work after falling sick. Maclyson Musundi, a former Human Resources manager and a Controller with Wells Fargo Ltd sued the firm after being fired in 2011. Musindi testified that he fell ill on October 25, 2011 and was given a leave-pass for one day and he sought treatment at Kisumu District Hospital and Kapsabet District Hospital. He was diagnosed with pneumonia and typhoid. He was consequently given four days off. Upon returning to work on November 3, 2011, he was fired by the office administrator on the instructions of the area manager, Kisumu. He also testified that there was no prior notice. “The firm was aware that Musundi was ill and had issued him with a leave-pass. It tried to contact him through the controller/dispatch team and phone but he was unreachable,” the judgement says. The firm’s case was that Musundi absconded from duty from October 26, 2011 and that he was declared a deserter on November 3, 2011. A termination letter was issued on November 12, 2011. In a judgement delivered on June 8, Justice Stephen Radido noted that the firm’s administrator was not called to rebut Musundi’s testimony and the failure to call him was not explained. “The court, therefore, finds that the claimant reported back on November 3, 2011 and was dismissed verbally, despite showing he had lawful cause to be away,”the judge said. He added that by assuming that Musundi failed to report to work warranted being subjected to summarily dismiss by dint of section 44(4)(a) of the Employment Act, 2007, there was a need for a mandatory oral hearing before he was instructed to clear. The dismissal was procedurally tainted, Justice Radido ruled. “In the view of the court, and the court so finds, the termination of the claimant’s was not only substantively unfair but was not in accord with justice and equity as demanded by section 45(4)(b) of the Employment Act, 2007,” he ruled, Edited by EKibii