Vandalism of infrastructure is one of the hurdles encountered by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service as it attempts to address the plight of city dwellers. NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi said illegal connections and vandalism of water and sewage systems are rampant in most informal settlements. “Illegal connections and vandalism of water and sewer infrastructure are a criminal offence and can attract a fine of Sh100,000 or a jail term of two years or both, according to the Water Act, 2016,” he said. In October last year, the county government earned about Sh13 million as penalties for illegal water connections in the 2018-19 financial year. The City Hall-based court had fined 232 people about Sh3.2 million in the same period, according to the Water department. The department unearthed 1,834 illegal water connections and regularised 893 in the crackdown on illegal connections. It also revealed that Nairobi loses Sh3.7 billion annually to illegal water connections and leakages. Estates with most illegal water connections were Mathare North, Baba Dogo, Kayole, Tassia, Embakasi, Kware and Imara Daima. Others are Githurai, Zimmerman, Kasarani, Mwiki, Kiamaiko, Huruma and both North and South Kariobangi. Other challenges faced by the Badi-led team in informal settlements are encroachments on access roads and water and sewage wayleaves. Encroachment on access roads has been a recurring problem. The Nairobi Disaster Management Unit has highlighted that over the past three years, poor road networks in slums have made it difficult for firefighters to put out fires in time. In some instances, firefighters have had to connect their pipes and carry them to a disaster scene because of poor access roads. The NMS has also experienced overcrowding in places where water is supplied using bowsers during this coronavirus crisis. On June 4, 2020, the NMS distributed 207,000 litres of safe and clean water to 2, 070 households with 10,350 people, both for domestic and handwashing purposes. This has been achieved through the Kenya Government Free Water Initiative Programme being implemented daily to informal settlements. The areas include Kibra (Kwa DC, Makina, Kianda and Fort Jesus), Mathare (Huruma and Gorofani), Embakasi East (Kayole, Mihango and Soweto), Embakasi South (Mukuru Kwa Njenga), Westlands (Kangemi), Makadara (Makongeni) and Starehe (Shimo La Tewa and Nyakwegeria). The NMS is drilling 51 boreholes in these areas to ensure sustainability in the provision of clean water improved living standards. (Edited by F'Orieny)