President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday led Kenyans in celebrating 57th Madaraka Day. This is a national holiday celebrated every 1 June of every year in Kenya. It commemorates the day in 1963 that Kenya attained independent self-governance after decades as a British Colony. "As we stand on the sacrifice of those who came before us, let us be prepared to make sacrifices for our children who come after us and the nation we call home," he said this via Twitter on Monday. ODM leader Raila Odinga said that under this unique circumstances, Kenyans should have a happy and a rewarding Madaraka Day. "I salute our health workers who have made all the difference in saving lives. I salute the civil servants in the ministry of Health. I thank CS Mutahi Kagwe for leading the team in a gallant struggle," he said. "I salute our citizens who have followed the government guidelines. I wish to urge the few Kenyans who are desisting from washing their hands..to do what the government is asking them of." Raila said the health workers, civil servants, and obedient Citizens are heroes that have to be celebrated. "We have showed the world that what other nations can do, Kenya can do better. I want to thank the president for standing firm but there is room for improvement," he said. "Every struggle requires that you fore-go the struggle to get what you want. If our parents resorted to excuses and chose the easy life, there would be no Madaraka day." Raila said Kenyans need to embrace the sacrifices of their parents. "Let us reflect on personal responsibility, dignity and respect for our nation," he said. He said this will come in handy in rebuilding our nation after the coronavirus pandemic. 'Kenyans resilience and mood to fight will triumph. We need to work together as one people and one nation by embracing the ideal that inspired freedom struggle," he added. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said we are accorded the opportunity to cherish our independence and those who made it possible for us to attain the freedom we enjoy. "As we do so,let us remain focused in building the future of our great nation for the sake of those who come after us," he said. ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi said: "Let’s celebrate today paying tribute to those who fought for our freedom and to us continuing to shape our future. The strength of a nation lies in the homes of its people. Happy Madaraka Day! May God Bless Kenya!" For the first time in history, Kenyans will celebrate Madaraka day virtually. The celebrations will be hosted in two venues in Nairobi due to coronavirus pandemic. The unique June 1 celebrations will start at 8am where the Kenya Defence Forces stage a show at the Nyayo stadium and culminate in the live address by President Uhuru Kenyatta from State House, Nairobi. All the events are synchronised into one event and will be aired live on media platforms with no crowd allowed at the venues. Very few people will attend the State House celebrations according to the details obtained by the Star. The 57th national celebrations will be streamed through all local media houses and also through online platforms.