Newly-appointed Majority Chief Whip Emmanuel Wangwe has written to 16 Jubilee MPs, notifying them of plans to discharge them from key committees in the National Assembly. In letters dated June 3, Wangwe wrote to Moses Kuria (Transport committee), Kimani Ichung'wah (Budget committee chairman) and others, notifying them of the party's intention to discharge them should they fail to respond in seven days. “You are hereby given seven days to respond before you are discharged from the said committee,” a common line of the 16 letters read. Others facing the axe are Robert Pukose (Energy), Cornelly Serem (Trade) and Joyce Korir (Labour). The letters were copied to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and clerk Michael Sialai. The letters come barely a day after Wangwe was made the Chief Whip after Benjamin Washiali and his deputy Cecily Mbarire were kicked out following a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting at State House. The two are perceived to be Deputy President William Ruto's allies. During the meeting, chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the party leader warned members against sabotaging his development agenda. He told Jubilee leaders he will pass the baton to an heir who supports and values his legacy. In a statement many will consider a veiled warning to Ruto, Uhuru said he will support a candidate who will build on his agenda. Speaking  during a Jubilee Coalition Parliamentary Group meeting, a furious Uhuru maintained that there is no way he will rally behind anyone who will sabotage the agenda he has laid for the country. MPs who attended the meeting held at State House in Nairobi said Uhuru warned that he will not dither from shoving away any politician who would undermine his leadership and national unity agenda. “I will be happy to know that the person I will be passing the baton to is part of my agenda,” Uhuru told the 212 MPs. Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale on Tuesday survived the purge being undertaken by President Uhuru Kenyatta in the ongoing Jubilee party leadership changes. Secret talks between Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday saved Duale from the Jubilee purge. Uhuru, who is said to have been under pressure from his close political allies to fire Duale, sought Ruto's input in their State House meeting. The Star understands that it was in the lengthy talks, just two days to the Madaraka Day, that a deal on Duale was reached. The President also met the DP for brief talks on Tuesday, before calling in Duale as members waited in the tent. Duale left the meeting room and joined anxious colleagues in the tent with critics taken aback at the rather unexpected “honourable” treatment.