The country on Thursday recorded the highest number of fatalities, with 10 patients having succumbed to Covid-19. Similarly, 213 positive cases were recorded, the highest since the first case was reported in the country on March 13. Of the 10 deaths, one was a community death recorded in Kiambu, while nine were recorded in various health facilities. According to Health director general Patrick Amoth, seven of the 10 had underlying health conditions, with four having diabetes mellitus, one having hypertension, one had bone cancer and one HIV. “Studies from South Africa indicate that those taking their ARVs appropriately are able to achieve viral suppression so it is again our call to those on treatment to ensure that they adhere to the treatment,” Amoth said. Six of the fatalities were from Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, two from the Coast General Hospital and one from The Nairobi Hospital. “That tells you that our health-seeking behaviour is changing; many people are going to the facilities. I am confident that even though we lost this number of people, these deaths occurred in facilities and they received the best care that they would be able to accord them,” Amoth said. He, however, emphasised that there is no cure for Covid-19, adding that the treatment is basically supportive. On a positive note, 106 patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovering. The numbers now stand at 4,257 positive cases, 117 fatalities and 1,459 recoveries. The number of high cases recorded on Thursday is associated with a high number of tests conducted (6,024), bringing the number of cumulative tests to 130,498. In terms of age, the new cases are aged between one and 73, comprising 151 males and 62 females. Of the cases confirmed on Thursday, 136 were from Nairobi, while 32 are from Mombasa. Kajiado had 13 cases; Kiambu seven; Busia five; Nakuru and Machakos four each; Garissa and Isiolo three each; Taita Taveta two; and Kitui, Migori, Narok and Embu one each. The numbers have continued to surge in the past few days, as the country gears towards the projected peak period. Health CAS Rashid Aman said the increasing numbers are an indicator that everyone is at risk. Nairobi continues to be the epicentre, with infection in Westlands, Kibera, Lang’ata, Embakasi and Dagoretti steadily rising. Based on data released on Thursday, Dagoretti North had 36 cases, Westlands25, Kamukunji 17, Kibera 13, Makadara 11, Starehe eight, Lang’ata nine, Kasarani six, Embakasi East four, Embakasi North and Ruaraka three each, and Embakasi Central one case. "This situation should be of concern to all of us, particularly to the residents of these areas. This requires serious soul-searching by residents of these estates on what it is that they are not doing right,” Aman said. “Something is not right and they must move with speed to rectify this before things spiral out of control.” The CAS said that even though the government will do everything to protect Kenyans, people have a responsibility to protect themselves and others. In addition, the concern is on the large numbers of truck drivers who have been testing positive, especially at the Malaba, Busia, Taita and Namanga border points. The truckers, who have been traversing the northern corridors, are seen as the weakest link in the fight against the virus.