Kariobangi Sharks chairman wants the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Shield Cup cancelled should the government extend the restrictions put in place to curb the spread of coronavirus. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to either issue tougher restrictions or lessen the existing ones this weekend—a move which Maoga believes will determine the fate of the remaining matches of the tournament. Before the government suspended all sporting and public gatherings,the competition had entered the round of 16. The federation controversially concluded the Kenyan Premier League in April but spared the Shield Cup competition which the winner earns a ticket to the Caf Confederations Cup. The federation is understood to be buying time with an aim of playing the remaining matches but Maoga wants them nullified in line with what the government will come up with this weekend. He said in the event that the government lifts the ban on sporting activities, implementing the safety guidelines issued by Fifa as well as lack of resources and facilities, will work against any plan to hold the remaining matches. “The tournament should also be voided if the Head of State will employ more tougher measures or even extend the existing ones. "We will have literally run out of time to organise the remaining matches as far as implementing the safety guidelines issued by Fifa are concerned. "If the government lessens their stance on public gatherings, then we will wait for directions from the Ministry of Sports but I don't think we have sufficient time to resume training and honour the remaining bit of the tournament,” he said Asked if defending champions Bandari should be handed the rights to represent the country in the continentals if the competition is cancelled, Moaga said there are no provisions in the FKF constitution. The federation has already fronted Gor Mahia's name as the country's representative in the Caf Champions League after being declared the 2019-2020 league winners. “Just to avoid the controversy which emanated from the declaration of Gor as the ticket bearers to the Champions League, the federation should not have a representative in the Confederations Cup. "The constitution does not provide the way forward in case the tournament ends prematurely and giving Bandari the rights by virtue of being defending champions will not only be unfair to the rest of the teams but will contravene the constitution,” he added.       