Traffic police officers are partly to blame for the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Busia, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has said. Ojaamong said they are yet to implement his agreement with county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri that truckers without coronavirus negative certificates be barred from driving into Busia. He said the truck drivers’ free access to Busia may have contributed to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases at the border county. The county chief wants Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to rein in the traffic officers and ensure truckers without Covid-19 clearance certificates are not allowed into the county. Busia had by Tuesday recorded 358 Covid-19 cases. “Busia cannot take its law enforcement officers outside the county. The mandate to enforce traffic control to ensure truck drivers do not pass without Covid-19 certificates lies with the IG,” he said on Tuesday. Ojaamong said there was a huge gap because the drivers leave Mombasa without any checks, without certificates and get into Busia to mingle with people. “There was an order from the national government that before these truck drivers leave their places of origin, they must undergo testing 48 hours earlier.” The county chief spoke during an interview at a local radio station. On June 2, a meeting attended by Ojaamong and Kanyiri resolved that truckers without negative test certificates should be denied entry into the county. The ban was prompted by an alarming rate at which truck drivers who test positive are admitted at the Alupe Treatment and Isolation Centre after they were returned from Uganda, he said. “No more trucks will be allowed entry into the county through Malaba, Mayoni or Bumala routes whose drivers have not been tested to ascertain their status,” Ojaamong said. The county chief said the treatment facility is overstretched and staff overwhelmed with no equipment to match the rising numbers of cases. Ojaamong said his office is negotiating with the national government to take responsibility for truck drivers’ testing and subsequent treatment. His administration would focus on attending to Covid-19 cases when reported, he said. (edited by o. owino)