Preliminary research at Kemri in Kilifi shows a possibility of mutation of the coronavirus. Viruses carry minor modifications as they move from one host to the next. Researchers at Scripps Research, Florida, in their latest study have found out that mutations of the virus might make it more infectious. The new, yet to be peer-reviewed study shows the mutation appears to change the biological function of the virus. The government on Monday maintained that the possibility of asymptomatic patients infecting others still remains high. Epidemiologists say there is no data to show the coronavirus is changing significantly, either in its form of transmission or in the severity of the disease it causes. The World Health Organization last week said the chances of asymptomatic positives transmitting the virus to others were low but later pulled down the statement. Acting director of public health Dr Francis Kuria said the findings on mutations would have to be validated by other Kemri labs and the final results relayed in due course. “We have seen very many positive asymptomatics even in the community and others turning positive in the midst. So, there is a possibility of asymptomatic positives shedding the virus to others and we have to maintain our masks,” Kuria said. The WHO had stated that it appeared to be "rare" that an asymptomatic individual can pass the virus to someone else. The global health agency said government responses should instead focus on detecting and isolating infected people with symptoms and tracking anyone who might have come into contact with them. Globally, studies have found that asymptomatic cases account for between five per cent and 80 per cent of people testing positive for the virus. But screening misses these people because most is symptom-based. The ministry last week rolled out home-based care based on the fact that more than 80 per cent of patients in hospitals are asymptomatic and may be managed from home. If this is implemented, the move will free health facilities from congestion. “The virus does not move on its own, it is moved by people. If you see any strangers in your locality, report them to your Nyumba Kumi leaders or the local chiefs immediately,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The country recorded 133 new Covid-19 cases from a total of 3,365 samples tested in a day. The total number of confirmed cases was 3,727 on Monday. The number of tests so far conducted since the first positive case was reported on March 13 is 118,701. Thirty-three more people recovered from the virus and were released from the hospital, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,286. However, one more person died. The total fatalities now stand at 104. Nyandarua is among the nine counties in the country that are yet to record any positive case of the virus. “We have so far conducted 112 samples from Nyandarua and none has tested positive. However this does not mean that the people of Nyandarua are immune to contracting the virus,” Kagwe said. Edited by Henry Makori