Transport sector players in Mombasa say Kenya risks losing Sh2.3 billion from Ugandan clients by insisting on haulage of cargo from the Naivasha dry port instead of Mombasa port. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir on Tuesday said already, Ugandans are talking to Tanzania with a view to doing business with them through the Dar-es-Salaam port should Kenya insist on using the Naivasha port as the cargo clearance facility. Uganda is one of the main users of the Mombasa port. Last year, the Kenya Ports Authority raked in Sh2.3 billion from Uganda in business. However, the neighbouring country has expressed unwillingness to have its cargo evacuated to the Naivasha dry port for clearance. “A number of companies, people who are large in the Ugandan economy, are currently discussing with Tanzania. What that means, based on figures from the KPA, is that one state corporation, by virtue of trying to enforce a certain policy that is unconstitutional, will make another state corporation to lose business worth $22 million,” Nassir said. He spoke at his office in Mombasa where he was flanked by officials of the Kenya Transporters Association, the Fast Action Business Community, Haki Africa and the Kenya Long Distance Truck Drivers and Allied Workers Union. KTA chief executive officer Dennis Ombok said making cargo evacuation to Naivasha dry port mandatory is risking not only the country’s economy but also its bilateral relations with Uganda. “Customer is the king. The Ugandans have spoken. They have said it should be optional. I don’t see why the Kenyan government should make it mandatory,” Ombok said. He said goods should be destined to a place declared by the importer. FABC chairman Salim Karama said the government is hell-bent on destroying the transport sector. “We are talking to our lawyers so that we block the government from implementing its new directive forcing all cargo at the Mombasa port to be transported to the Naivasha dry port for clearance,” Karama said. The directive was to take effect on June 1 but has so far not been implemented because of protests by the transport sector players. Karama said Coast MPs need to unite in the fight against the punitive policies by the government that hurt the region’s economy. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said the national government is making outright and deliberate efforts to frustrate, infuriate and irritate the transport sector. “We are seeing policies and practices being thrown at the transport sector to do nothing but make it difficult for them to do their work,” he said. All this is for purposes of satisfying their monopolistic tendencies that will only benefit the SGR, he said. “We are not against the SGR. We are for free trade,” the rights activist added. He said under the international rules — particularly the Hague Accord to which Kenya is a signatory — the client has a right to decide the means of transport they use for their cargo. Nassir said though the directive did not take effect, they will not relent, saying "once bitten, twice shy.” In August last year, the government issued a similar directive to have all cargo evacuated to the Nairobi Inland Container Depot for clearance. On Tuesday, the MP said though the government is struggling to repay China’s debt over the SGR, it is not right to do it at the expense of a single region. He equated the government's decision to committing treason on its own people and the bad policies from the Transport ministry to a snake, which he said must be killed even after it has retreated and does not attack you anymore because it will resurface some other time. “We should come up with friendlier policies,” Nassir said. He said the government should renegotiate the repayment of the debt with China. Edited by F'Orieny