 An 18-member committee has been formed to take inventory of City Park's infrastructure and facilities and present a report to Environment and Forestry Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko in seven days. This follows the deployment of Kenya Forest Service rangers to the park last Friday to beef up security. The committee members are drawn from Friends of City Park, National Environment and Management Authority, Nairobi Metropolitan Services, Kenya Forestry Research Institute and the National Museums of Kenya. The national government, through the KFS, has taken over the management of City Park from the county government. The committee will map out the areas needing urgent attention, deputy Chief Conservator of Forests Charity Munyasya said on Saturday. She spoke after workers started cleaning up the park.  Tobiko was also at the park for a briefing on the restoration and rehabilitation of the green space by the KFS-led joint committee. "The committee should come up with a complete action plan, identify  medium and long-term  working conditions, work out on the budgetary implications and measurable targets," the CS said. He was accompanied by Nema acting director Mamo B. Mamo. Last week, Tobiko said the park will remain a public facility and that the KFS will collaborate with other stakeholders to restore it. Nema which will be responsible for waste and air pollution managementwhile Kefri will be in charge of research and development and together with NMK establish a module on the national botanical garden. The NMK will also be responsible for the protection of national heritage and historical sites within the park. According to Tobiko, Friends of City Park will continue providing a central role of management and conservation at the park. The KFS rangers will secure the park, conserve and ensure it is well protected for the public recreation and connection with nature. Already, the rangers are sensitising the public on their presence and the need to secure, conserve, and protect the park for recreational purposes.  - mwaniki fm