Truck drivers continue to be a weak link in the fight against the coronavirus in the country. Out of the 121 new positive cases recorded on Thursday, 37 were truckers at the Malaba border point, a trend witnessed for the past two weeks at various points of entry. The truckers have been accused of failing to adhere to the testing protocols that require them to undertake a Covid-19 test before they commence their journey. Others have been accused of presenting fake Covid-19 certificates, a move that has prompted the EAC member states to plan to introduce digital Covid-19 free certificates in a week’s time. “At the moment we are working on a small issue with the linkages of the laboratories, because you want your results to be visible by each partner state so that it can be a true attestation that test is valid,” Public Health Director Francis Kuria said. Busia county has over the past few weeks emerged as the third Covid-19 hotspot after Nairobi and Mombasa. This puts a lot of pressure on the county government that has to deal with the large numbers. “The issue of truck drivers at various border points particularly Busia has remained of great concern to us. The ministry is working very closely with the county to give the support necessary to address the situation,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. The number of positive cases in the country now stands at 3,215. The cases comprised of 115 Kenyans and six foreigners. The 121 were from 3,291 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 106,247. On a positive note, however, 44 more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered to 1,092. “We want to thank all our healthcare workers for their dedication and commitment that has made this possible,” CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement on Thursday. The new cases are aged between four months and 86 years comprising 92 men and 29 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 49 are from Nairobi, 37 from Busia while 20 are from Mombasa. Kajiado recorded five new cases, Migori had four, Kiambu and Kilifi had two cases each while Murang’a and Nyeri recorded one case each. Three more patients in Nairobi, however, succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 92. In Nairobi, Kibera continues to record high Covid-19 cases, with the area accounting for 18 out of the 49 cases recorded on Thursday. Westlands recorded nine cases, Kamukunji and Ruaraka had four cases each while Dagoretti North had three cases. Other areas that recorded new cases in Nairobi were Embakasi Central, Embakasi West and Lang’ata with two cases each, while Embakasi South, Kasarani, Roysambu, Starehe and Makadara recorded one case each. Kagwe said the ministry will continue to provide emergency assistance to Kenyans affected by floods. “To this end, we are providing drugs and other essential items such as mosquito nets and water purifiers. These are programmes that contribute to the overall well-being of our people.” Edited by R.Wamochie