Nature lovers and environmentalists have thrown their weight behind the government’s move to ban plastic bottles in all protected areas. Kenya’s ban on single-use plastics in protected areas comes into effect Friday, coinciding with the World Environment Day, whose theme is saving biodiversity. The ban prohibits visitors from carrying plastic water bottles, cups, disposable plates, cutlery and straws into national parks, forests, beaches, and conservation areas. “We have witnessed the catastrophic effect single-use plastics have on our ecosystems and our communities,” Dipesh Pabari, the Flipflopi Project Leader said. “And now, during the pandemic, we are witnessing first-hand what happens when we destroy our planet, which is that we destroy the system that supports human life. That is why we wholeheartedly support this ban and encourage the East African community to take even bolder action in the future.” The Flipflopi is the world’s first sailing boat (dhow) made entirely from plastic waste collected from towns and beaches in Kenya. It is currently anchored at the Kenyan Wildlife Service headquarters, one of the first places that will see the effects from the implementation of the ban. The Flipflopi and its supporters have called on the East African Community to work together to reduce single-use plastics within the region. Flipflopi made global headlines in 2019 when it sailed 500km from Lamu, Kenya to Zanzibar, Tanzania as part of the UN environment programme Clean Seas initiative. The dhow created huge international awareness on the impact of plastic pollution and changing mindsets and behaviours about waste plastic. A new expedition is planned in January 2021 to Lake Victoria, Africa’s largest freshwater lake. The expedition aims to draw the world’s attention to the pollution affecting the health and environment of the lake, and engage communities, businesses and policymakers in Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya to make commitments to end single-use plastic. Kenya banned the use of single-use plastic in 2017. The move was lauded globally. Karura Forest was, after the ban, declared plastic-free. Single-use plastics and the resulting pollution has been cited as one of the biggest catastrophes of our generation and a major threat to biodiversity. It is estimated that about five trillion macro and microplastic pieces are floating in the ocean, making up 60-90 per cent of marine debris. This new ban is the latest in Kenya’s wide-ranging measures to protect the environment through limiting pollution, further cementing its leadership in environmental conservation and protection. Those found with plastics in Kenya are fined between Sh2 million and Sh4 million or a jail term of 1-2 years, or both. As part of their own initiatives to support World Environment Day, The Flipflopi and their supporters, including Kenyan activist James Wakibia and singer-songwriter Muthoni Drummer Queen, have launched a new Swahili campaign in the hope of making environmental education more accessible to East Africans. Together with a new Swahili website, there are also educational materials aimed at inspiring school children and teachers during the Covid-19 pandemic. Muthoni Drummer Queen, famed Kenyan musician and Flipflopi ambassador said, “We are thrilled to bring our new Swahili website and educational materials to the wider population.” She called on everyone to help accelerate further action by calling for a widespread regional ban against single-use plastics, beyond Kenya, and across the entire East African community. Meanwhile, Greenpeace Africa will be screening The Story of Plastic, a new documentary directed and produced by Deia Schlosberg. The documentary exposes the global environmental, climate, justice, and health impacts of the plastic industry. The virtual screenings of the film will take place between June 3 and 5 in honour of the World Environment Day. Greenpeace said the plastics industry is producing more single-use plastic than ever before and is working to increase production drastically. “Around the world, one million plastic drinking bottles are purchased every minute, while up to 5 trillion single-use plastic bags are used worldwide every year," said Frederick Njehu, Greenpeace Africa’s senior political advisor. Njehu said half of all plastics waste emanates from plastic packaging and much of it is thrown away within just a few minutes of its first use. “When discarded in landfills or in the environment, plastic can take up to a thousand years to decompose. Greenpeace Africa is calling on the president to issue a total ban on all single-use plastics in all areas to curb the plastic crisis,” Njehu said.