The presence of Governor Hassan Joho’s press team in at least three functions where politician Suleiman Shahbal has been has led to speculation about who his preferred successor is. Governor Joho has not been explicit about who  will succeed him, holding that card close to his chest as he works to build his image at the national level. The three politicians who have been most active in working towards succeeding Joho are  Shahbal, who unsuccessfully vied on a Jubilee ticket in 2017, and MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita) and Ali Mbogo (Kisauni). Others who have had an interest in the seat are Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, Deputy Governor William Kingi and former county secretary Francis Thoya. Joho’s aides have, however, been quick to pour cold water on the speculation that Shahbal is Joho’s preferred successor. Chief of Staff Joab Tumbo on Sunday told the Star that Joho is concentrating on the fight against Covid-19 and reviving the economy, and has no time for political preferences. “In fact, Joho has no constitutional mandate to choose his successor. Every Mombasa voter will be given an opportunity to elect the next governor,” Tumbo said on the phone. He added that the governor can speak for himself and when the time comes, he may choose to make public his preferred success or go silent about it as former President Mwai Kibaki did. “People should not fret about who Joho would want to succeed him. I don’t think he will announce his preferred successor,” Tumbo said. Joho's press team was present on at the Technical University of Mombasa Covid-19 Isolation Centre on Saturday when Shahbal donated 1,050 personal pieces of protective equipment. But Tumbo said Joho’s press team always covers county events. Shahbal has formed a partnership with the county government and has been active is rallying support for the county from the private sector and donating equipment, food and other materials in the fight against Covid-19. This, and his frequent visits to ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Capitol Hill office in Nairobi, has led many to believe the ODM leader and Joho support Shahbal’s third stab at the county’s top job in 2022. On Saturday, Shahbal presented his donation to Mombasa, with county chief health officer Khadija Shikely receiving the donation. On Sunday, an aide to Joho told the Star the governor has no preferred candidate to succeed him. “It is almost a political period now and people are reading too much into things,” the aide, who sought anonymity, said. “This is a courtship period. Joho has a big following and everybody wants to be associated with him,” the aide added. Joho has also been spending time with Nassir, who was at some point was his blue-eyed boy. Nassir has been building his network behind the scenes. His fight for the retention of port services in Mombasa is seen as his way of telling Mombasa residents he is capable of fighting for them the same way Joho has been. The Mvita MP has been vocal in Parliament fighting any government directive that has negative impact Mwakuja Mrombo, a political analyst, said Shahbal’s aggressive manner in which he has taken towards helping the county speaks volumes. “He has learnt a thing or two in the two last general elections, in which he lost to Joho. He has seen something in Joho that he sees will be useful to his bid,” said Mrombo on phone. Nassir has been holding his cards close to his chest but Mrombo said his political experience as an elected leader is a strength. Mbogo is banking on the masses in Kisauni to propel him to propel him to the county CEO job. Kisauni is the largest and most populated constituency in Mombasa with more than 400,000 of the county’s 1.5 million residents. On June 6, he told Mshomorani residents they cannot afford to let the county’s leadership slip away from Kisauni. “The county is being led by a former Kisauni MP. This seat must not leave Kisauni,” said Mbogo, whose grassroots manoeuvres are geared towards uplifting the living standards of residents. The Joho aide, who is one of his trusted lieutenants, said the Governor is now working with anyone willing to help the county go through the coronavirus pandemic without much damage. “This is a period of goodwill. Anyone who shows goodwill is friends with the county and the people of Mombasa,” he said. He said it is still too early to endorse anyone.