Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Presidential aspirant Lodvick Aduda has asked incumbent Nick Mwendwa to stop  hiding under Fifa wings to illegally extend his stay in office. Aduda accused Mwendwa, who is seeking another four-year term, of dancing to the Fifa tunes while at the same time disregarding both the Kenyan institutions and the FKF constitution. The Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer said Mwendwa had depicted open defiance to local institutions by snubbing the stakeholders meeting convened by the Sports Disputes Tribunal last week and meant to unlock the elections stalemate. Mwendwa in his defence argued that his office would only await for directions from Zurich, who in a letter dated April 6, were keen to hold the stakeholders meeting last month was it not for the currently travel restrictions. Aduda termed Mwendwa's defence for snubbing the tribunal as a ploy to cling onto power for long under the guise of Fifa. He said the Kenyan laws and institutions are superior to those of Zurich. Efforts to reach Mwendwa for a rebuttal were futile "He should stop hiding under the wings of Fifa to continue staying in office illegally. Fifa is registered under the Swiss laws and upholds them to the letter. "FKF is also registered under the Sports Act and should respect the laws of the land first and respect the institutions put in place to govern sports. "The FKF constitution says that his mandate expired in February but he deliberately failed to organise free and fair elections just to stay in office longer. "He has since been cornered and he continues to hide under Fifa. However, I wish to remind him that he must adhere to both the Kenyan laws and  FKF constitution just as he has done with Fifa," he said. At the same time, Aduda called on Mwendwa to leverage on the current situation caused by coronavirus to create an environment which would lead to the elections before the start of the new season. He also reached out to all KPL chairmen to resist from enrolling their teams into a different league before all details touching on management, prize money and how it shall be run are tabled. Mwendwa has been on record insisting that he will not renew KPL's contract which is set to expire in September should he retain his seat. "He should use the break we have to right the many wrongs he has done touching on the polls. "We should use technology and conduct the exercise before the new season begins. "I have heard him say he doesn't want to renew KPL'S contract but he is not telling clubs who will manage the competition, the criteria he will use to give them the contract, how much clubs will get and other details," he added.