@robertomollo3 A 24-year-old teacher has tested positive for Covid-19 in Kabondo Kasipul after interacting with a school principal who died of the disease. The teacher at Ober Boys High School in Homa Bay tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The male teacher has been under self-quarantined in his house in the school compound where he has been staying alone after schools were closed. His samples were tested at the Kemri laboratory in Kisumu. The teacher reportedly attended a meeting chaired by the principal, Maurice Muholo, on May 19. Speaking to journalists, Homa Bay Health executive Richard Muga said Muholo had travelled from his house in Migori town and convened the meeting at the school. The meeting was attended by four other officers including the deputy principal, two other teachers and the school bursar. “They met and after that, the principal went back to his house in Migori. The principal started feeling unwell before he sought medication but his health deteriorated and later died,” Muga said. The Health executive said the body buried in his ancestral home in Gem, Siaya. On June 3, the County Incident Management Committee (CIMC) with the assistance of security officers began contact tracing and identified the teacher. “The CIMC put four from the meeting under home-based self-quarantine because each of them lived in independent quarters,” Muga said. He said they had isolated the 24-year-old teacher at Malela Covid-19 treatment centre for medication. The health executive said the CIMC team is tracing the teacher’s contacts. “We are also decontaminating by spraying the school, houses, surfaces, gates and other premises and Ober Market, Muga said. He said the county is continuing to enhance public awareness through community dialogue through mobilisation of community health volunteers and village elders. The executive told residents to focus on measures to prevent the coronavirus. “Let residents know that Covid-19 is real. Let us take precautionary measures to avoid it,” Muga said. (Edited by V. Graham)   A 24 year-old teacher has tested positive for Covid-19 in Kabondo Kasipul after interacting with a school principal who died of the disease. The teacher at Ober Boys High School  in Kabondo Kasipul constituency in Homa Bay tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The male teacher has been under self-quarantined in his house in the school compound where he has been staying alone after schools were closed. His samples were tested at the KemuiKEMRI laboratory in Kisumu. The teacher reportedly attended a meeting that was chaired by the late school principal Maurice Muholo on May 19. Speaking to journalists over the matter, Homa Bay health executive Richard Muga said the late Muholo traveled from his house in Migori town and convened the meeting in the school. The meeting was attended by four other officers including the deputy principal, two other teachers and the school bursar. “They met and after that the principal went back to his house in Migori. The principal started feeling unwell before he sought medication but his health deteriorated and later died,” Muga said. Muga said the body of the deceased was later buried in his ancestral home in Gem, Siaya. On June 3, Homa County Incident Management (CIMC) with assistance of security officers began contact tracing and rounded up the 24 year old teacher. “The CIMC put the four under home based self-quarantine because each of them lived in independent quarters,” he added. Muga said they had isolated the teacher at Malela Covid-19 treatment center for medication. The health executive said the CIMC team is going on with tracing the teacher’s contacts in the area. “We are also undertaking decontamination exercise through spraying of the school, houses and surfaces,  gates,  and other premises and Ober Market,” he said. Muga said they are also going on with public awareness through community dialogue through mobilization of CHVs, village elders. He told residents to focus on measures for preventing the coronavirus. “Let residents know that covid-19 is real. Let us take precautionary measures to avoid it,” Muga said. *END*