Voluntary donation of blood during the global coronavirus pandemic will ensure availability of blood in hospitals and save lives, health sector partners have paid. The stakeholders on Saturday said the blood situation in Kenya has been worsened by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that has strained healthcare systems across the world. They added that obligatory measures put in place in response to the virus such as constrained mobility and physical distancing hamper the smooth running of blood services. This has led to reduction in donations and blood shortages in hospitals and maternal deaths. The team led by the Health Ministry organised a three-day blood donation drive at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. The drive is expected to end tomorrow (Sunday) and is being conducted in line with the government’s guidelines on Covid-19. Damu Sasa System Limited director Aaron Ogunde noted that utilising the company’s Damu Sasa technology platform will allow donor registration and scheduling to avoid congestion at the donation centres. “We are grateful for these crucial efforts considering the challenging blood situation in the country, which has been worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic. Every unit of blood counts towards saving lives,” Charles Rombo from the KNBTS noted. UNFPA country representative Dr Ademola Olajide said achieving zero preventable maternal deaths will be predicated largely on secure and timely access to safe blood. Olajide said pregnancy and its complications including bleeding do not stop because of Covid-19. “We understand the impact the pandemic has had on the healthcare system. We support the government, its agencies and all Kenyans in efforts to alleviate the worst through collaboration such as this one targeting the alleviation of blood shortage,” Dr Elizabeth Wala said. Wala is the director, health systems strengthening project at Amref Health Africa. Country director PharmAccess Isaiah Okoth said having sufficient blood stock at hand to handle emergencies ensures service is uninterrupted and lives are saved, translating to better health outcomes. According to the Kenya Red Cross Society secretary general Dr Asha Mohammed, shortage of blood in the country is well documented even as demand continues to rise. “The challenge we have is that there has been a decrease in the number of those willing to voluntarily donate blood,” Mohammed said. Last year, Kenya collected 164,000 units of blood against the WHO recommended minimum of one per cent of the population (480,000 units). This is the bare minimum that WHO expects of Kenya’s population ratio against the maximum of 960,000 units per year. The World Health Organization has designated June 14 as the World Blood Donor Day to thank voluntary, unpaid blood donors for their life-saving gifts of blood and also to raise awareness of the need for regular blood donation. Edited by Henry Makori