A former politician from Mt Kenya, previously associated with the Democratic Party, is expecting appointment to a senior position in government. The ex-MP who runs a hotel along Thika Road has confided to his close friends he could be one of the beneficiaries of the impending Executive shake-up by President Uhuru Kenyatta. While it is not clear what slot awaits him, one of his allies has hinted that he could be named a chief administrative secretary in an influential ministry that could raise his profile ahead of the 2022 polls. The former MP now believes that once he gets the post, his dream to rise to the helm of a county elective position in 2022 would be almost guaranteed. The post-election pact signed between Jubilee Party, Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper and Isaac Rutto’s Chama Cha Mashinani is done and dusted. However, what captured the attention of political analysts is what appeared to be “lack of class” by the two politicians such that they had to drive to Jubilee Party headquarters to sign the cooperation agreement. Some suggest that while it was within their right to join forces with Jubilee, at least they would have valued their parties. They suggest that the deal would have been signed either at State House and witnessed by President Uhuru Kenyatta or equally at a neutral place to shed off the tag of them being desperate to join government. While it is common knowledge, and actually practice for that matter, that all government vehicles are fuelled by the State, this might not be the case. Some drivers are crying foul over a tendency by some state officials in Nairobi forcing them to use money from their pockets to fuel government vehicles. It has emerged that fuel meant for such vehicles is siphoned into private cars belonging to certain individuals, leaving state vehicles without fuel. This trend has forced drivers to dip into their pockets to fuel state cars. The drivers are now crying to Interior PS Karanja Kibicho to move in and tame these rogue officers running roughshod over drivers. Amidst the raging alignments and realignments ahead of the 2022 polls, Corridors of Power understands of a scheme by some professionals to influence the Kisii gubernatorial race. There are reports that the professionals have been holding talks virtually, with the aim of altering the Kisii gubernatorial arithmetic. One proposal is to have county Senator Sam Ongeri join forces with his predecessor Chris Obure. In the line-up being pushed, Obure would run for governor while Ongeri will be backed to retain his Senate post. It is a combination that analysts argue would be unbeatable. The two support the handshake.