At least 12,000 residents in Mathare will have access to water as the government completes a water supply project. The project at the Mathare North Chief's Camp will be completed by end of June and will supply 220,000 litres, Water CS Sicily Kariuki said. Speaking in Mathare on Thursday, Kariuki noted that the project will be helpful as Nairobi continues to be a hot spot for the coronavirus. Residents will now be able to have easy access to water despite the prolonged water rationing experienced in the city. The work is being implemented by Athi Water Works Development Agency and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. This week, the CS inspected the development of Independent Water Supply Projects within informal settlements. She was accompanied by Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director-General Mohamed Badi. Water tank donations World Vision Kenya has donated 30 water tanks valued at Sh2 million which will be distributed across various informal settlements in Nairobi. The tanks will aid in the provision of clean and portable water during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I would like to thank World Vision Kenya for the donation that will go a long way in boosting our efforts in the provision of adequate water for people living in vulnerable communities,” Kariuki said. The CS called upon individuals and organisations to join in the efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Badi emphasized on the collaboration between NMS and Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation in bridging the water gap for Nairobi. He also noted that NMS is embarking on measures to regulate water supply through the registration of water vendors, bowsers and exhauster services in Nairobi. Hand washing points To promote hygiene in the wake of Covid-19,  CS Sicily noted that the Water ministry and agencies have put up short term water investments by setting up 1,927 handwashing points in Nairobi to curtail the spread of the virus with a total of 5,537 across the country. As of June 8, 2020, NMS had set up close to 2,000 portable hand washing machines in various strategic locations like Kibra, Mathare, Mukuru and Korogocho to ensure access to sanitation. At the same time, the Badi led team has set up 1,633 water points in the city's informal settlements to forestall the spread of coronavirus. Kibera has 1,185, Mathare 60 and Mukuru Kwa Njenga 388. In collaboration with the Athi Water Works, the NMS director-general said they will ensure equitable supply of water in underserved areas by drilling 50 boreholes in collaboration with the national government. Already, 15 of the boreholes have been completed and handed over to Athi Water. They are at Waithaka Health Centre, Silanga community ground, Kibra DC’s office, Southlands Kijiji, Mukuru Kwa Njenga Primary School, Mukuru chief's camp and Utawala market. The Rapid Deployment Unit in Embakasi has dug boreholes at Chemichemi Community School, Kamulu Police Station, Kabiria chief's camp, Riruta Primary School, Matopeni Police Post, Kayole Police Station and Dandora Phase 4 Police Station. 