Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa’s busy weekends in Western have rekindled debate on who can actually call the shots in the vote-rich bloc. Until recently, the region has been presumed to be in the grip of ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Senator Moses Wetang’ula. Oparanya and Wamalwa have been holding meetings to consolidate their influence in the region, however, with the blessings of the Luhya Elders Forum and former Cabinet ministers. The two have already held several functions in Trans Nzoia, Busia and Vihiga counties and have lined up meetings in Kakamega. “We have a mission to put together the people of Western and our mission is to ask the community to support the Building Bridges Initiative, President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga in their efforts to unite the country,” Oparanya said. Oparanya and Wamalwa's tours started soon after a meeting at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli’s Kajiado home. More than 30 MPs and leaders from Western Kenya's four counties attended but Mudavadi and Wetang’ula were absent. Former Cabinet ministers Musikari Kombo, Noah Wekesa and Fred Gumo as well as Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito have been accompanying the duo. Soon after the Kajiado meeting, Atwoli announced he will host a second Bukhungu Stadium rally to declare the Western Kenya spokesman. Awoli had already declared Mudavadi the Luhya spokesperson in June 2017. Gumo affirmed they had resolved to have Oparanya and Wamalwa assume the region’s leadership mantle after Mudavadi and Wetang’ula “refused to play ball”. “We want Oparanya and Wamalwa to be at the negotiating table and to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. Mudavadi, however, dismissed claims the meetings Oparanya and Wamalwa are holding in Western could be giving him sleepless nights. He said the two are messengers of other people and have been tasked to convince the community that they will lead them into the next government. “I do not want to be in government. I have been in government before and I now want to form the government,” Mudavadi said. Wetang’ula said no one has the sole mandate to appoint people to be Mulembe nation spokesmen. “Eugene is one person who failed to get an elective seat. He even went ahead and auctioned his New Ford Kenya party for survival. If he can't lead a party, how can he lead the region?” the Bungoma senator asked. Political and communications strategist Advice Mundalo said there is a struggle involving external powers [ANC leader has accused ODM chief Raila Odinga of interference] to transfer the leadership mantle of the community away from Wetang’ula and Mudavadi. “The mere existence of two centres of power makes it easy for anyone with personal political intent to penetrate. However, it will not be a walk in the park to topple the two perceived community kingpins from their throne,” he said. Mundalo said the attempt to replace the two seasoned brands, household words, with Wamalwa and Oparanya might also not work as effectively as imagined. “Wamalwa has been away from elective politics in the region since 2013 and apart from his surname ‘Wamalwa’, which is legendary among the Luhya, little can be said of him,” he added. Political analyst Joseph Mutua said the meetings held by Oparanya and Wamalwa are making Mudavadi and Wetang’ula extremely uncomfortable. He said the two enjoy the support of Atwoli and Raila, who command a huge following in the region. “Oparanya and Wamalwa have the blessings of Raila and Atwoli. Raila can still call the shots in Western since he enjoys massive support,” Mutua said. Wetang’ula said it is ridiculous for Wamalwa to fly around in choppers to consult elders on the kind of development the region wants. “It means he doesn't understand the needs of the people he purports to represent. He has been in the Cabinet for many years now. Does he need elders to push the region's agenda or what does he do in the Cabinet?” Mutua asked. He further said it is laughable for Oparanya to go to the elders to discuss sugar issues.“Remember, he was appointed chairman of the Sugar Task Force chair by President Uhuru Kenyatta, meaning he has all the answers and he should be telling us what has been done in the sector and not be a cry baby,” he said. The analyst added, “The two are amateurs in this field. They have zero popularity on ground and we are well aware of the cold reception they received recently while trying to introduce themselves. They are just agents of dividing the community for their selfish political gains.” Jotham Ihaji, the chairman of the Maragoli Council of Elders, denounced “the evil plot to divide Luhya elders and community at the behest of outsiders”. “We'll not let a few greedy and discredited traitors mislead our people. The evil plot to undermine Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula will fail,” he maintained. Hezekiah Makora, chairman of the Vihiga Cultural Society, asked residents not to allow outsiders to undermine their leaders. He said the community should realise that by shifting the leadership mantle to Wamalwa and Oparanya, their bargaining power at the 2022 table will be heavily compromised. “Oparanya and Wamalwa’s collaborators are a mob from the discredited Luhya Elders Forum styling itself as a lobby group. It used to sow discord between Wetang’ula and Mudavadi but since the two signed on to work together and unify the region, the elders lost their divisive market until they found a buyer in Eugene,” he said. 