More than 500 girls in West Pokot been subjected to female genital mutilation since Covid-19 was reported in mid-March and schools were closed. The grim statistics were released on Tuesday as a 12-year-old girl fought for her life at Kapenguria County Hospital after undergoing the cut and suffering severe loss of blood. FGM activist Domtillah Chesang, who is also the director of the Irep Foundation, expressed fears cases will increase during the pandemic as schools are closed. She said more than 100 FGM cases have been reported in two weeks, mostly performed secretly at night. Many circumcisers are idle and turned to the knife to earn a living, she said. “Many girls are idle and due to peer pressure have resorted to asking circumcisers to cut them,” she said. Girls are ridiculed, ostracised, not considered ‘true women’ and not marriageable if they haven’t been mutilated. If they are sexually numb, they are considered to be faithful wives. She said Tapach area has the highest number of cases, 250 since mid-March. “Many girls are suffering in silence. Most schools were rescue centres and used to protect our girls,” she said. Chesang said that it was a shame for the parents to take advantage of the coronavirus pandemic — and the redeployment diversion of officials and police — to cut the girls. “Parents need to understand dangers they are exposing their children to and learn how to protect them,” she said. Chesang asked the government, especially chiefs, to be on the alert to ensure no more girls are  married off or subjected to the cut. “Many parents have taken take advantage of the suspension of schools and public gatherings and decide to cut their girls secretly. They have taken advantage of quarantine stay-at-home orders to have their daughters mutilated and married off.” One of the effects of Covid-19 is further impoverishment in an already poor area. Parents have the incentive to marry off their daughters for dowry payments. Chesang asked residents to be vigilant, report danger and save girls. The coordinator said many parents understand FGM is illegal and thus practice it in secret. “Many parents also fear subjecting their girls to the cut after some parents and circumcisers were arrested and prosecuted,” she said. The prevalence of FGM in the county is 74 per cent, about three times the national average of 21 per cent. (Edited by V. Graham)