A Kisumu court has ordered striking county health workers to resume their duties immediately or by Friday. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's administration and the County Public Service Board had gone to court to halt the strike currently in its third week. The county sued the Kenya National Union of Clinical Officers, Kenya National Union of Nurses, Kenya National Medical Laboratory Officers and the Union of Kenya Civil Servants. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Nduma Nderi on Wednesday ordered suspended the strike notice issued by the health workers. However, Justice Nderi, who failed to declare the strike illegal, directed the county government to promote the workers. “It is hereby ordered by consent that the 260 employees whose letters of promotion are ready to receive their salary increment effective 1/07/2019 in lump sum together with their January 2020 salary while the other 616 employees whose letters are to be delivered by 28/02/2020 to receive their salary increment effective 1/07/2019 by 31/03/2020,” Justice Nderi ruled. The workers would be free to resume industrial action if the county government failed to comply with the court order, the court ruled. The county government was also ordered to pay all salary arrears in terms of the consent order entered into by the parties on January 30 on or before the July 30, failing which the respondents be at liberty to resort to the terms of the consent order. In the suit, the county government faulted the workers' going on strike at this time of Covid-19 and in disregard of the Hippocratic oath which binds health professionals. They said Kisumu had reported cases already and there was a national spike in Covid-19 cases, making it critical to have the workers back to service to implement the necessary emergency measures to curb the spread of the pandemic. However, the respondents vehemently opposed the application on the grounds that the applicants were hellbent on perpetuating violation of their basic rights. Edited by Henry Makori