Some Rift Valley residents have welcomed the elevation of Senator Margaret Kamar to the position of Deputy Speaker of the Senate. Residents interviewed urged her to focus on delivering services and not to be pulled down by tribal politics or individuals' interests. Kamar on Tuesday replaced Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki who was removed in a purge of Deputy President William Ruto's allies. Women leaders headed by Jane Kiptoo said they were proud of Kamar’s record in politics and urged her not be swayed by partisan politics aimed at serving the interests of some leaders. “She should not be pulled down by tribal politics or the interests of individuals. Let her serve the Senate with dedication and work for her electorate in Uasin Gishu while serving the country," Kiptoo said. Kamar's  elevation to Deputy Speaker of the Senate has put her at the centre of politics in Uasin Gishu, home county of Ruto. Kamar has been the subject of heated social media debate in the region after she attended President Uhuru Kenyatta's State House meeting. There, it was decided to remove allies of DP Ruto - Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority Whip Susan Kihika - from leadership positions. Ruto allies led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi accused Kamar and her Trans Nzoia colleague Michael Mbito of being traitors. They claimed the two had betrayed Ruto by attending the State House meeting. Kamar and Mbito signed the list of attendees. “It was a must for them to sign on the list of those opposed to the removal of Murkomen and Kihika but they did not and that means they are not with us," Sudi said. Kamar has ignored the accusations and social media attacks, refusing to be drawn into exchanges over her decisions. There had been calls for her to reject the position of Deputy Speaker in a show of solidarity with Ruto allies. North Rift senators allied to Ruto were absent from the chambers as Kamar was sworn in to deputise Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. Kiptoo said were it not for the strict Covid-19 control measures they would have hosted a major homecoming for Kamar in Eldoret but the event would still be held at a later date. "We fully support Kamar. She is a very principled and experienced politician who cannot be swayed by cheap politics and we urge her to stand firm," a group of Uasin Gishu residents led by Paul Kibet said. He is the Elgeyo Marakwet Kanu chairman. Kamar has risen through the ranks starting as university lecturer. She then entered politics when she was elected MP of Eldoret East. She ran for Uasin Gishu governor in 2012 and was narrowly defeated by Jackson Mandago. In 2017, Kamar won the Senate seat and has maintained her non-combative style of politics. She is considered a frontrunner to succeed Mandago. (Edited by V. Graham) 