Bacterial infections are increasingly becoming resistant to the medicines, a World Health Organization report shows. WHO is concerned that the trend will further be fuelled by the inappropriate use of antibiotics during the Covid-19 pandemic. Hanan Balkhy, assistant director-general for antimicrobial resistance at WHO, said evidence shows that only a small proportion of Covid-19 patients need antibiotics to treat subsequent bacterial infections. The report was released on Tuesday. “The Organization has issued guidance not to provide antibiotic therapy or prophylaxis to patients with mild Covid-19 or to patients with suspected or confirmed moderate Covid-19 illness unless there is a clinical indication to do so. “We believe this clear guidance on the use of antibiotics in the pandemic will both help countries tackle Covid-19 effectively and prevent the emergence and transmission of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) in the context of the pandemic,”  Balkhy said. Tedros Adhanom, the WHO director-general, said, “These data underscore the importance both of protecting the antimicrobials we have and developing new ones, to effectively treat infections, preserve health gains made in the last century and ensure a secure future.” He said a record number of countries are monitoring and reporting on antibiotic resistance - marking a major step towards the global fight against drug resistance. Balkhy said more countries are also reporting on the recently approved indicator of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) as part of the Sustainable Development Goal monitoring. “The enormous expansion of countries, facilities and patients covered by the new AMR surveillance system allows us to better document the emerging public health threat of AMR,” Balkhy said. Balkhy explained that high rates of resistance among antimicrobials frequently used to treat common infections, such as urinary tract infections or some forms of diarrhoea, indicate that the world is running out of effective ways to tackle these diseases. WHO is also concerned by declining investment and lack of innovation in the development of new antimicrobial treatments, which is undermining efforts to combat drug-resistant infections. “We must bolster global cooperation and partnerships including between the public and private sectors to provide financial and non-financial incentives for the development of new and innovative antimicrobials,” Balkhy said. To support this effort, WHO has released guidelines to help in development of new treatments for common resistant bacterial infections and an economic model that simulates the costs, risks, and possible return on investment of antibacterial drug development. Edited by A.N