A CEO has disowned a video that appears to show him drunk in a city pub with a slay queen, saying his detractors are out to finish him. The CEO is telling anyone who cares to listen, "I am a born-again Christian who has never stepped into a pub nor have I carried a glass of wine in my hand. This is the work of my opponents who are trying to malign me." In the clip, the CEO is quite obviously drunk and enjoying a glass of wine as a slay queen sits beside him. The clip cannot be independently verified. It is not clear when the video was taken. The man is said to be eyeing a seat in his rural constituency. A senior police officer from Western is totally in the pocket of an influential politician ahead of the 2022 elections. The officer described by his peers as a lone ranger has been hosting delegations of politicians, especially those who lost in the last polls. The meetings are supposed to be kept top secret. However, moles have whispered to Corridors the man in uniform is doing the bidding of some powerful forces who are trying to win the political rejects over to their side. The aim is to penetrate the region that has traditionally voted in one pattern. Residents who have got wind of the night meetings are now wondering how the officer will create a balance between his crucial duties and the dirty game he's involved in. They are calling on Police IG Hillary Mutyambai (pictured)to come to their rescue by transferring and disciplining the officer. An outspoken MP risks being thrown out of his office apartment due to several months' rent arrears. The landlord is reported to be angry at the legislator whom he accuses of making endless excuses about pending business deals that never materialise. Tired of his empty promises, the landlord is said to have resorted to throwing him out and seizing some of his personal property, saying he cannot eat one excuse after another. The landlord has sworn he will be getting the services of auctioneers to sell the MP's belongings should he fail to clear the debt. A senior official of a political entity is the talk among his colleagues with his irritating excuses to get money from them. According to friends who are fed up with his modus operandi, the official uses every opportunity to get financial favours that he does not even bother to refund. Moles have intimated to Corridors that his friends nowadays avoid him and assume his numerous phone calls are about his single agenda - money.