Kenya’s blood banks are running on empty. The government has been criticised sharply for over-reliance on donor funding, especially from learners, for blood collection and testing –essential, lifesaving services. The closure of schools during the Covid-19 pandemic, means that pupils and students cannot be relied upon to donate blood. Schools have been closed since March. Senators said the situation is partly to blame for declining blood bank reserves following the withdrawal of the US government funding. Last September, the US, through the President’s Emergency Plan for Aids Relief (Pepfar) terminated its support for blood collection and testing. US officials said in November 2019 that Kenya is spending about Sh200 less than it receives each year and is carrying over the money – while other countries are in desperate need of funds. Pepfar, which funds most HIV activities in Kenya, has been cutting funding since 2017. Kenya is the largest beneficiary. “Kenya’s request for a six-month funding extension, which was denied, points to both over reliance on donor funding for such an essential service and a lack of seamless transition of responsibility between Pepfar and our Health ministry, the legislators said in a statement. The Senate Health Committee expressed alarm about declining blood reserves in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito summoned Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to explain the transition protocols between Pepfar and the ministry’s plans to bridge the gap. “The committee has noted with great concern the troubling decline of blood reserves across the country,” Mbito said. The committee seeks to know the total funds and other aid received from the US government for the Pepfar programme and establish the systemic gaps resulting in redirection of blood supplies, allegedly by cartels. Reserves have declined sharply since the US government withdrew its support last September. The situation has been worsened by revelations some unscrupulous Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service officials were selling blood to other countries. The blood transfusion service says about seven Kenyans need blood every 10 minutes and risk death if it is not available. This translates 1,008 units of blood daily. However, blood units donated and stored by KNBTS fell to a low of 155,600 in the year ending June 2019, down from 160,000 units in the same period in the previous year. According World Health Organization guidelines, Kenya should be collecting a minimum of one per cent of the population (470,000 units) of blood a year. Data by the UK-based Global Blood Fund indicates African countries depend on learners for 60 to 70 per cent of their blood supply. The Global Fund has supported blood drives in Africa since 2008. “In view of the foregoing therefore, the closure of academic institutions across the country owing to the novel coronavirus indicates a correlation to the alarmingly low numbers of blood collection across the country. "It also paints a picture of the palpable danger posed by the lack of diversification in the sources of blood donors,” Mbito said. Recently, Health CS Kagwe inaugurated the National Advisory Committee to oversee the supply and utilisation of blood and blood products. The ministry has partnered with social media platforms to drive blood donation campaigns that capitalise on location to notify social media users of facilities near them in need of blood supplies. “As a committee, we appeal to Kenyans to demonstrate their patriotism during this dire time. As doctors exercise their duty to protect life, which to us is nothing short of heroic, we ask you to keep people healthy by donating blood,” the chairman urged. (Edited by V. Graham) 