Bomet county can now recruit staff to various positions after a court quashed a suit filed by three petitioners seeking to stop the process. Sammy Koech, Patrick Muge and Peter Ngeno had moved to court to challenge the recruitment,  saying the County Public Service Board was conducting recruitment during the Covid-19 pandemic when citizens are not allowed to move freely. In their application, they claimed the advertisement for early childhood development education (ECDE) teachers was done online and that the advertisement did not form part of the staff establishment as it was done without guidance from the relevant department. In his affidavit, Koech argued that some jobs advertised were occupied by people employed on permanent and pensionable terms and that the recruitments were done contrary to the recommendations of the Controller of Budget. Lawyer Rogers Mugumya, who represented the trio, stated that if the recruitment continued, it would increase the county wage bill. However, Justice JN Abuodha of the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Eldoret dismissed the application, saying the court’s jurisdiction in such a matter could only be invoked where it was clearly demonstrated that there was gross violation of the law or total dereliction of duty by the authorities tasked with the responsibility. “A court of law would be reluctant to delve into a matter where there is a competent body tasked with the responsibility of dealing it…but, even in such cases, the court will not substitute itself as the competent  authority. Its role is only to issue an edict that the relevant body do so with the constitutive Act,” he ruled. Abuodha, however, stated that while the petitioners may have a genuine concern over the wage bill and the process of hiring in the county, the responses filed by the respondents showed there existed adequate legislative and regulatory oversight framework to ensure the activities at the county are aligned into law. “The petitioners have failed to demonstrate that the county assembly has failed in its oversight role to warrant interference by the court through a conservatory order,” the judge said. “Upon review of responses filed by respondents and submissions by counsel for the parties, the court is persuaded that public interest leans more in favour of discharging the conservatory orders.” Edited by Henry Makori