Did an MP from Rift Valley engineer his own removal from a house committee? Well, sources within Parliament tell Corridors that the legislator sought to have his name included among those earmarked for purging to show he is a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto. The move was aimed at attracting sympathy from his electorate to dislodge his county governor in the 2022 General Election. And true to his word, he was among those kicked out of the committees. But the legislator is rumoured to be double-dealing the DP with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi (pictured). The two Rift Valley politicians don't see eye-to-eye in the political arena. This says a lot about the machinations of the legislator. *** Call it a brazen daredevil scheme aimed at the very top of Kenya’s national leadership chain. Some MCAs in one of the 47 counties backed by none other than the county boss himself have pledged to repossess all the ranches and conservancies in their jurisdiction as soon as each of the leases comes to an end. Our little bird with the latest from the grapevine whispers to Corridors the idea is to transfer part of the ownership to the county honchos. A contact in the know overheard deliberations from a ‘secret’ hideout in a town on Madaraka Day. The operation is code-named ‘Ng’oa Mabwenyenye Sasa’. Apparently the onslaught is meant to serve as a campaign strategy for 2022. *** With recent skulduggery and evil machinations not working, a cabal appears determined to go to any lengths to ensure its schemes come to pass. Corridors understands that some former MPs in Nakuru were mobilised to give inflammatory speeches at the funeral of a young man who was murdered. The plot was to incite and stir animosity among two communities in the county. Plans backfired after the Wananchi realised the leaders had an evil script to instigate fear and acrimony. A Kiswahili saying goes: "Mjinga akierevuka, mwerevu yuko mashakani." The time for politicians using people for selfish needs are long gone. *** Who will come to the rescue of a businessman who is on the verge of losing his enterprise to a moneyed rival? It is said that a company that deals with oil products has launched an all-out war to kick out the businessman who has been  running the show.  The motivation is to take over the prime area, which is situated in Nairobi’s Karen estate. A bird has whispered to Corridors that the businessman has been operating his enterprise for over 25 years now but was taken aback recently when the new company claimed ownership. 