Chinese Phone maker, OPPO, has launched another amazing smartphone known as OPPO A92 being praised for its unique features that rhyme with the needs of a Kenyan millennial. The phone is built in line with OPPO's quest for smartphones that revolutionalise photography with high-definition cameras. The new Oppo A92 sports a 6.5-inch full-HD+ display with a hole-punch of design that gives the user the comfort that comes with the lifestyle. The phone is powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 665 SoC and packs 8GB RAM as well as 128GB of storage, enough to store files from photos, videos and music. The new smartphone also runs on ColourOS 7.1, based on Android 10. It also packs dual stereo speakers and has Dirac Stereo 2.0 sound effect. "OPPO’s A Series has collected impressive popularity since its debut. The OPPO A92’s launch is to further serve young group with a versatile and powerful product designed in trendy style and most updated tech features," OPPO Kenya PR & Communication Manager Muthoni Wachira said. Multiple modes are supported on OPPO A92 to help users juggle between different aspects of life, including a Simple Mode that shows only the current task in large font, a multi-user mode to keep work and life separated, and a riding mode specifically for bikers and motor riders. With Quick Return Bubble, OPPO A92 helps you to prioritize and efficiently organize tasks on your phone, making life much easier. The Real-time privacy protection is embedded to enhance the security of users’ personal data. OPPO A92 carries a 5,000mAh battery and has support for 18W fast charging. It has a quad-camera setup at the back consisting of a 48-megapixel primary camera with an f/1.7 aperture, a 8-megapixel ultra-wide-angle camera with a 119-degree field-of-view, and two 2-megapixel cameras, one for monochrome shots and the other for depth. Oppo also offers a side-mounted fingerprint scanner on the new Oppo A92. OPPO A92 with 48 MP AI Quad Camera is a complete package of all the trending photography features. 48 MP Ultra HD Main Camera with a-half-inch Extra-large Sensor brings high-resolution imaging capability and high resolving capability, providing users with an on-the-go photography device to explore better detailed clarity in images. "The rise of visual expression seeing in social media platform, and the technological advancement utilized in entertainment experience. We hope OPPO A92 can help the young generation to cope with the changes in their lives, find their personal expression style, and to shine at every important moment of life," Muthoni said. Assisted by wide-angle distortion optimization, the 8 MP Ultra Wide-Angle Lens of 119.1° can widen your horizon in hand and capture life moments without cutting anyone or anything out; no matter if you are shooting scenery or shooting in small spaces. Ultra-Night Mode 2.0 together with the F1.7 large aperture on the main camera provides users night scene photos that exceed the brightness and details human eyes can see. With superior low-light performance and a wider dynamic range, OPPO A92 in handheld mode can create a single night scene image by combining 3-8 images of different dimness, optimizing the ultimate clarity and clearness. Powered by 16 MP front camera and f2.0 large-aperture, OPPO’s self-developed AI Beautification can reveal the user's natural beauty in a delicate way. The algorithm can automatically identify age and gender to create more customized natural selfies. Coming with a more delicate skin effect and a smoother contour effect, users can easily obtain their own style in different scenes and lighting conditions. With the booming of short video platforms and vlogging lifestyle becoming mainstream, OPPO A92 is designed into an on-the-go filming handset which makes high-quality video shooting and editing more accessible. 4K Video Shooting will deliver high-quality videos that are clearer, more stable, with more vivid colors and no latency, as today’s users are asking for.