Residents and the business community in the North Rift are pressuring governors to waive or write off taxes because of the ravages of the Covid-19 crisis. Farmers, MCAs and traders say businesses have been so adversely affected in the last three months that owners are unable to pay land rates, fees and other charges owed to county governments. The region's eight counties have already lost an estimated Sh5 billion in uncollected taxes and stalled projects since Covid-19 broke out. The Uasin Gishu County Assembly has approved a motion moved by MCA Kaptagat Jonathan Ngetich meant to give relief to businesses. Ngetich wants the Uasin Gishu government to grant businesses in the county some waivers on levies. “We are alive to the fact that our people and the business community have been negatively affected by the effects of Covid-19 and none of them is making any money to be able to pay taxes due to the counties,” nominated MCA Maria Kesumo said. Kesumo said most traders cannot even put food on the table, let alone pay rates and salaries of their workers. “Counties should help the traders through waivers as a motivation to help them recover and resume normalcy so that they can pay taxes,” Kesumo said. Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia) and Stephen Sang (Nandi) said they were working with all stakeholders to reopen the economy. “We are in discussion with the county assemblies and the chamber of commerce to work on an economic recovery strategy and help the business community to get back on track,” Mandago said. This development comes two weeks after a study by Moi University and the chamber of commerce showed that six out of 10 workers have been laid off by North Rift firms in the last three months. The researchers estimated that 60 per cent or more than 170,000 workers in the eight counties have been affected because of the coronavirus pandemic. The worst-hit sector is the hospitality industry which is operating at 25 per cent of its usual potential. The transport sector is operating at 50 per cent and other businesses at 75 per cent of capacity. The report recommends a reduction of taxes and levies to cushion businesses from collapse as the coronavirus pandemic crisis prolongs. Governor Mandago asked the educational institutions and KNCCI to establish a Covid-19 economic recovery committee to work with counties to prop the economy of the region. “This is where we really need to work together and come up with homegrown solutions to the challenges we are facing as a region and as a country in relation to Covid-19,” Mandago said. (edited by o. owino)