Deputy President William Ruto has embarked on crafting a new alliance with key politicians from the 47 counties billed to vanquish the dynasties. As ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta have turned the home of Cotu secretary Francis Atwoli as the epicenter for planning their 2022 succession politics, Ruto has for the last three weeks been holed up in meeting after meeting with his dream team. Uhuru and Ruto have fallen out politically and their 2013 succession deal has been shattered. The DP is now shopping for new alliances which he hopes would hand him the ticket to be the next occupier of the top seat. The Star has established that the DP working with other leaders has reached out to 75 leaders across the country who will make it to the negotiating table to agree on the flag bearer. The Ruto team that is crafting the new alliance has divided the country into the previous provinces where each region will have representatives from each county at the negotiating table. The representatives range from governors, MPs, senators, religious leaders, youth leaders, community leaders, professionals and civil society groups. While ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has denied reports that he has accepted to support Ruto in 2022, it is reported that they are indeed in talks on who can support the other for the top seat. Musalia has held several meetings with allies of Ruto and Friday saw leaders from Western making several trip to the DP’s Karen residence and the home of Mudavadi. The same Friday, Ruto held a seven-hour meeting with three governors from Coast who were accompanied by several MPs. While Ruto was meeting the Coast leaders, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula were also co-chairing a meeting of leaders from Western region. On Saturday morning, the DP held talks with leaders from Mt Kenya region and in the afternoon he met others from Ukambani. A member of Ruto’s think tank who is not allowed to be quoted in the media told the Star that “Ruto is keen on building a winning alliance.” “For now it is not about who will be the presidential flag bearer or runnin gmate. Ruto wants to expand his influence beyond Central Kenya and Rift Valley where he enjoys support. He believes Western, Coast and Eastern regions will support him through influential leaders from those areas,” he told the Star. Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama who is leading the Ukambani team confirmed that talks are ongoing to bring on board all like-minded leaders. Muthama who has been Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s right hand man told the Star that the “team will be a true representation of Kenya”. “What is happening is that we have Kenyans who are candidates who stand a good chance to be president. Many of us trying to look at ourselves –who among the leaders we has a better chance to unite and develop this country without giving personal interest first as we have seen,” he said. “Several leaders are now on board. We are  at 75 and in the coming weeks we will grow. We have key leaders from Coast, the DP, we are talking with Mudavadi, and all other leaders from corners of this country who have expressed interest,” he said. “Without tribal inclinations, we will pick our candidate not based on the name, body size or weight but the capacity to unite Kenyans, deliver services and ensure that the rule of law and democracy is not trampled upon as is happening now.” With the fears that Uhuru is likely to push for a referendum to amend the 2010 Constitution, Muthama said Ruto and his team will follow the will of the people. “If Kenyans will be fine with expansion of the Executive to create more positions, we will be the first to support. There has been a narrative that the DP or some of us are opposed to a referendum. No.” he said. He however questioned the rationale for proposing reduction of salaries of MPs and end up introducing other positions such as the Prime Minister and two deputies. “There are issues that will make Kenyans think twice. The country is in financial crisis. Kenyans have lost jobs, businesses have been closed down then we have some people proposing a referendum just to preserve the interests of some few individuals,” he said. Mathira MP Nderitu Gachagua said there is no crime in leaders meeting to plan, noting that even Raila and his team has been meeting and strategising. “People must put their heads together. Everybody else is meeting and we are also meeting. We had an excellent vision and plan for this country in 2013 to 2017 but unfortunately self interests put that in disarray so we are planning again,” the close ally of Ruto said. President Uhuru  is serving his second and last term in office but it is understood that he is banking on the anticipated Building Bridges Initiative report where he might make a comeback as Prime Minister. The envisaged post of a Prime Minister is the epicentre of the battle pitting  Uhuru  and Ruto camps in the quest to control of Jubilee Party. The Star has established that Uhuru’s think tanks are scheming on how they would use the party to bargain for the PM's position. The BBI team working on a different governance structure is expected to recommend the creation of the PM's post to address inclusivity concerns. According to the President's insiders, having the Jubilee Party firmly under their control would accord them sweeping bargaining powers in the expected political formations ahead of the 2022 polls. Edited by Henry Makori