Sarova Hotels and Resort have re-opened its city restaurants, Thorn Tree and Flame Tree, to the public for indoor dining, three months after closure following coronavirus fears. The restaurants located at Sarova Panafric and Sarova Stanley will operate between 7 am-7.30 pm daily and offer dine-in, take away and delivery services in line with a larger strategy of the business to open in phases starting with its restaurants. In recent times the hotel has only been attending to in house guests following directives from the authorities and providing take away services and delivery options, which it will continue to offer. It has also repurposed 80 rooms into office spaces to offer a serene working environment for those seeking some time away from working from home which has become the norm following authorities’ directives in order to flatten the curve. In a press statement, Sarova Hotels and Resorts managing director Jimi Kariuki said that they have reinvented services to suit customers and ensure that they are comfortable and safe. Some of the safety protocols the hotel will employ include, frequently cleaned, sanitized and disinfected surfaces after every guest use, linen-less tables in the restaurants, social distancing and spaced seating as per government’s specified directives Other measures include sanitization of tableware and glassware after every guest use, QR coded and website menu availability, contactless payment options as well as guest signage reminders on safe hygiene practices. The restaurant will also offer the option of disposables including cutlery, menus, paper serviettes and condiments provided in disposable sachets and on request. Sarova has also incorporated novelties to its in-room dining services to minimize contact including digital in-room menus, contactless delivery – placement outside the room and providing the option of disposable cutlery, crockery and glassware. Gloves and masks to be worn as standard during all room service deliveries. Sarova’s plan is coming in the wake of a ‘New Normal’ safety protocol issued by the Ministry of Tourism, indicating that restaurants will only be opened after following the laid down requirements.