Is a second-term governor from the Western part of the country silently eyeing a Parliamentary seat after serving his full constitutional limit of two terms as the County boss? Well, Corridors has leant that the governor has been concentrating development projects. This has triggered speculations that he could be plotting a stab at Parliament. Some of his close allies are proudly saying that the county chief will be offering his candidature for the seat currently held by a first-time legislator. Already the information has unsettled the incumbent MP. The MP who is strategising to defend his seat has now unleashed his social media armies to malign the Governor. They are accusing the governor of corruption. There is uproar amongst traders from a County in Nyanza over the corrupt manner the market stalls that were constructed to help them. The shades are being dished out to those who are well connected at the expense of poor traders who were initially told they would be considered in the multi-million project. Moles have told corridors how well-connected people not known to the local traders are the major beneficiaries. This is after they oiled the elbows of the local authorities. Not ready to run any business in the stalls, the cabal is now leasing the stalls to the genuine traders who were actually the intended beneficiaries but were disinherited. The party leader of one of the political outfits in the country is living on borrowed time and sources tell Corridors that it is a matter of time before a major coup to change the leadership is staged. It has emerged crucial documents of the registration of the party are with another member who was unceremoniously dismissed from a key position. Corridors has been informed that the coup which is at an advanced stage will be more ‘noisy and messy’ in the coming days as a shake-up in political parties intensifies ahead of the 2022 polls. In the last few weeks, Corridors reported of rampant flouting of Covid-19 regulations especially by bar operators in Kasarani in Nairobi County. It seems nothing changed and life is almost getting back to normal for revellers who not only throng the bars for a drink but also do not observe social distancing as being advised by the Ministry of health. It seems the bar owners in this Nairobi estate are the law unto themselves given the manner they operate in total disregard to the existing Covid-19 protocols. Maybe someone in authority will intervene to avert possible explosion of the pandemic in the sub-county as a result of reckless bar operators who are out to make a coin at the expense of the lives of the people.