Most parts of the country are expected to turn cold and dry for the next three months. The weather department says Western Kenya and Rift Valley highlands are the only places assured of rain, which may be higher than their average for this season. Head of Meteorological Department Stella Aura said the Coastal strip may also receive near-average with a tendency to below-average rainfall. "The rest of the country will remain largely dry, with occasional rains," she said. Aura said most areas in the Central Kenya, including Nairobi, will experience cool or cold and cloudy conditions with occasional rain and drizzle. A few days in Central Kenya may turn out to be "extremely cold" with temperatures falling below 18 degrees during the day. The department warned respiratory illnesses such as asthma, pneumonia, flu and common colds will be rampant because of the cold weather. "The general public is advised to adopt warm dress codes and follow advice from the health authorities," she said in a three-month forecast. " It is advisable that during chilly days, jikos in poorly ventilated houses should be avoided as burning charcoal produces carbon monoxide gas that is lethal when inhaled," Aura added. Last week, researchers predicted that maize production in Western Kenya and Rift Valley highlands will fall. Timothy Njagi, a senior researcher from Tegemeo Institute, said the long rains started early in those regions and caused leaching and loss of soil nutrients for healthy growth. "The rains have been good and farmers who planted early around February could have a good harvest but those who planted late may have their crops affected by too much rain," Njagi told the Star. He said this year's maize production could be lower than the 2019 harvest of 35 million bags. Maize and rice crops also have been damaged by flooding. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said the ministry is yet to collect data. “Projections for this year’s maize harvest can only be done once data has been collected and this is yet to happen due to many factors including the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Last year, the government projected a harvest of 38 million bags but post-harvest losses amounted to nearly 30 per cent because farmers were unable to dry maize due to the long 'short' rains. Boga said national monthly consumption is about four million bags both for maize meal and animal feed. National annual consumption is 52 million bags against the annual production of 40 to 45 million bags, which drops to fewer than 40 million bags in some years. Data collected from 14 counties in April showed farmers hold a surplus maize stock of 10.1 million, 90kg bags. Trans Nzoia has a surplus of 3.2 million bags, having an annual production of 4.8 million bags against the consumption of 990,000 bags. Uasin Gishu produces 3.6 million bags against the consumption of 1.2 million bags. It currently has a surplus of two million bags. Nakuru has an annual production of 2.4 million bags against the consumption of 2.1 million bags. The surplus is only 33,368 bags. Edited by Henry Makori