More than 300 schoolgirls in flood-prone areas in Nyakach, Kisumu, have benefited from a sanitary towel donation. Friends of Engineer Vincent Kodera Lobby Group and True Vine International organisations made the donation and educated the girls on how to avoid early pregnancies, led by True Vines member Winter Ogacho. The girls were from various rescue camps where they are sheltered following flooding in parts of Nyakach subcounty. "As young girls, you must keep safe and aware of men. Focus on your studies to make your future bright," Ogacho said at Rae Primary School on Sunday. Former Road executive Vincent Kodera urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare total war on teen pregnancies just like corruption in the country. Uhuru, he said, should take stern action against those preying on school girls. Kodera said the government should charge in court, culprits responsible for teen pregnancies. He called for the protection of girls by addressing the cause of teen pregnancies. Kodera decried the increase in early pregnancies, saying police, jointly with the Children’s Department, should ensure suspects are jailed. “We cannot allow criminals in our midst to ruin the lives of young children. Those guilty should be in prisons,” he said. More than 300 flood victims also benefited from food and supplies by the two organisations to cushion them from the effects of floods and Covid-19. Donations included cooking oil, maize flour, salt, bar soaps and sugar. Lobby chairman Philip Marende said they aim to help 10,000 vulnerable families in the subcounty. He also called for support for boys. Lumumba Owade, who presided over the distribution, called for well-wishers to support the vulnerable in Nyakach. "Many people are suffering and we need to come together to support them," he said. Kodera's call comes at a time when statistics show high numbers of teenage pregnancies across the country. They are largely attributed to cultural, religious, and socioeconomic factors. A report by the United Nations Population Fund shows Nairobi county leads with 11,795 teenage pregnancies between January and May. This is slightly higher than last year’s figures in the same period where 11,410 cases were reported. Kakamega county is second with 6,686 cases compared to 8,109 cases last year. The agency also found that Machakos had 3,966 cases registered this year compared to 4,710 cases last year. The total numbers reported between January and May from all the counties are 151,433 compared to 175,488 for the same period last year. Edited by R.Wamochie