Kisii Governor James Ongwae has handed out Sh42 million to 520 farmers’ groups. The money is given out under the National Agricultural Inclusive Growth Project funded by the World Bank Kisii is among 21 counties where the programme is being implemented. It is expected that more than Sh21.2 billion will be given to farmers' groups at the end of the programme. In Kisii, the programme is operational in six subcounties namely; Bonchari, South Mugirango, Bobasi, Nyaribari Masaba, Kitutu Chache North and Bomachoge Chache. The five-year programme aims at increasing agricultural productivity and profitability. “I am happy that our farmers’ groups from the 20 implementing wards have received funding to a tune of Sh42 million,” Ongwae said. "Four months ago, we disbursed another Sh46 million to various groups across the county under this programme, while last year we gave out Sh22 million. So far, farmers have received Sh110 million under the programme." Ongwae, who handed out cheques at the Agricultural Training Centre on Monday, said the project uses a value chain approach. He said in Kisii four value chains namely banana, dairy, chicken, and local vegetables are being supported. The governor indicated that the aim of the programme was to promote food production and income generation through enhanced horticulture development, dairy farming and other smallholder activities. He urged the beneficiaries to use the funds wisely to attract further funding. The exercise was attended by only group representatives due to Covid-19 restrictions. Ongwae said a banana market will be built at Nyamache for Sh117 million, with the World Bank offering Sh100 million and the county Sh17 million. He thanked NARIGP for investing in small-scale farmers. Agriculture is now largely driven by small-scale farmers due to diminishing land sizes as a result of demarcation. Agriculture executive Esman Onsarigo urged youth and people living with disability to take advantage of the programme to form common interest groups along the four value chains to receive funding. “Food security is one of the Big Four agenda prioritised by President Uhuru [Kenyatta] and we are determined to equip farmers towards realisation of this important goal through the World Bank's support,” he said. Edited by Frank Obonyo