Kenya is among countries whose urbanisation worsens the transmission of infectious diseases such as Covid-19, making containment and response measures more difficult. A report released on Tuesday by the UN-Habitat says Covid-19 risk factors are acute in African cities because of the largely unplanned and poorly managed urbanisation, resulting in widespread informal settlements and severe infrastructure and service deficits. As of Tuesday, Kenya had confirmed 3,860 cases out of cumulative tests of 121,956. Those who have succumbed to the virus are 105, while 1,326 patients have recovered. Historically, the report says, urbanisation has been a force of change and is closely associated with structural transformation, innovation, economic growth and improved well-being. “Cities enable the expansion of the productive sectors of the economy which is key in driving growth and decent job creation.” However, with inadequate urban planning and management, and where severe infrastructure and service deficits prevail with limited productive job opportunities and inadequate housing, urbanisation can be a risk factor. “Covid-19 has vividly revealed that the characteristics of African urbanisation have exacerbated the vulnerability of cities to the pandemic’s impacts, as many of these stem from systemic shortfalls in urban planning and management,” the report says. It details the impacts, responses and policy pathways related to Covid-19 in the context of cities in Africa. The continent is currently experiencing the most rapid urban growth in the world. UN population projections show that this year, 44 per cent of Africa’s total population lives in areas defined as urban, compared to only 19 per cent in 1960. This translates into a 10-fold increase, from 53 million urban residents in 1960 to 588 million in 2020. It is projected that the number of Africa’s urban residents will increase to 1.5 billion by 2050 and the continent will pass the tipping point of 50 per cent urban population by around 2035. In Kenya, Nairobi county has the highest population at 4,397,073. It is among the counties with the highest population growth rate. The report says people living in slums and informal settlements are at heightened risk of contracting the virus. Whereas social and physical distancing and hand washing are essential precautions against the virus, in urban slums where physical space is constrained, rooms are often shared. They are poorly ventilated and water and sanitation services are inadequate or absent. The report says access to safe water and other hygiene facilities is, especially, critical to protecting populations during infectious disease outbreaks. It adds that access to clean drinking water is considerably high in African urban areas. Though there have been improvements in water coverage in different cities, about 69 million African urban residents have no access to safe water services. The UN-Habitat's database shows that only 55 per cent of all Africa’s urban residents have access to basic sanitation services. The report says access to hygiene facilities is low in Africa as only 47 per cent of all residents have basic handwashing facilities in their homes. “This presents challenges for preventing the spread of Covid-19 and other infectious diseases.” Informality, underemployment and the precarious nature of employment affect almost all Africans of working age and most work is self-employment (80 per cent in Africa overall). The informal sector is where 71 per cent of African’s work is the mainstay, posing significant threats to families and exposing them to food and health insecurity. The report says containment measures such as lockdowns, curfews and mandatory quarantines are extremely difficult to enforce in African cities where most people rely on casual informal work with daily earnings covering critical expenses. It cites a survey, which was conducted in five Nairobi slums on April 22 and found that 81 per cent of the residents already suffered complete or partial loss of their jobs and incomes because of Covid-19. It says people still have recurrent expenses for food, energy, water and even in slums the rent still comes due at the end of the month. The report says there is risk of housing eviction due to lack of income, and consequential rent arrears are thus high. The share of people renting their accommodation can be as high as 70 per cent in urban areas in Africa, it adds. Most people live on less than a dollar a day. Of the 19 most income unequal countries in the world, 10 are in Africa. And to promptly and adequately address the challenges, the report recommends six key responses for short-, medium- and long-term interventions. This includes the application of local communication and community engagement strategies. Also recommended is the support for SMEs and the informal economy. Response to Covid-19 must be deepened and decentralised through the strengthening of local government capacities. Other recommendations target the informal settlements through data-driven contextualised measures and the establishment of mechanisms to promote rapid access to housing and prevent forced evictions. The report also calls for the integration of urban planning and management needs as key priorities for recovery and rebuilding strategies towards long-term resilience.  Edited by F'Orieny