Shivling Supermarket Limited has opened its second outlet in Kisumu city. The outlet moved into the space formerly occupied by Choppies Supermarket at Reinsurance Plaza on Oginga Odinga Street. The store’s first outlet located in Kondele on the Kisumu-Kakamega Road was opened on March 25. Chain director Rajesh Patel on Tuesday said the outlets have been accepted by customers on the Kisumu market. He hinted at plans to expand to wholesale and more stores in the county and create more jobs. “I thank the team that worked on the supermarket for the last two months and invite customers to sample and enjoy our varieties with a price guarantee of being the lowest in town and beyond on all essential food and non-food goods,” he said. He said Kisumu was good for doing business following the existing peace. “We look forward to having the relative calm beyond the handshake,” Patel said. Retailer’s operations manager Sammy Wawire said they are focusing on satisfying the needs of clients. He said the branches are in line with their strategic growth in the next five years. “We have realised that the market is vibrant as there is peace and tranquility in Kisumu,” Wawire said, urging residents to take advantage of the outlets to increase their income. Shivling is 20 years old. It has branches in Migori, Homa Bay, Kericho, Kisii, Nyamira and Kisumu. Wawire said they hope to get into the market and take advantage of the positions left after Choppies’ exit. He said despite financial constraints due to Covid-19 and slow economic growth, the retailer has seen it necessary to invest as per its expansion plans. The local community, he said, stands to benefit most mainly with direct and indirect jobs, which includes supplies of fresh farm produce and cereals. The investment is also expected to boost the county’s economy. “We are going to employ 100 people directly and more than 200 indirectly,” Wawire said. He said the retailer will offer payment platforms such as ‘Lipa Pole Pole’ that allows customers to pay for certain products at their convenience. “We are looking on the struggling mwananchi who has some little money in their pocket that needs to be converted into an item or goods to improve their living standards,” Wawire said. A number of supermarkets have recently expanded to Kisumu. They include Game Stores which opened its third outlet in Kenya at the Mega City Mall in the county. The store replaces Nakumatt which was the mall’s anchor tenant. Other supermarkets in the county include Tuskys, Chandarana Food Plus, Naivas, Chandarana, Choppies, Khetias and Tumaini. Tuskys, Khetias and Tumaini all have two outlets each. Botswana retailer Choppies has had four outlets exits the market following financial challenges. Edited by R.Wamochie