Orange Democratic Movement party leader Raila Odinga has disclosed his coronavirus status, moments after receiving his results from the Kenya Medical Research Institute. Raila, who tested negative, was presented with his results on Monday by Prof Matilu Mwau of the Kemri Testing Centre. The AU envoy urged Kenyans to get tested as they continue to adhere to the government guidelines, which include practising social distancing while in public places and sanitising. The ODM leader took the test on Sunday at the Kemri facility at Mbagathi Hospital. While taking his test, he said a Covid-19 certificate is becoming an important document as the world continues to fight the pandemic. This comes as reports indicate that the number of staff working at State House have been confirmed to be positive for Covid-19. There are indications that State House is to issue a statement on the same on Monday. Sources across government have told the Star that the staff have been admitted. Another 10 staff whose results were inconclusive will be undergoing additional testing before they can be allowed outside their residences. Targeted mass testing was carried out at State House last Wednesday and Thursday with the results being received on Saturday. As a result, no staffer is being allowed to access the areas near the offices of President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. Sources told the Star that the results came as a surprise due to the protocols employed by the President's official residence. Despite the ongoing directives by the government for Kenyans to minimise physical contact, the President has hosted several events, including the Madaraka Day celebrations. More than 80 per cent of Kenya's Covid-19 patients have been asymptomatic at the time they tested positive for the virus. Kenya on Sunday recorded 137 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total confirmed cases to 3,594. The new cases emerged from 3,167 samples that were tested in 24 hours, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a press briefing. He said Kenya's cumulative tests done now stand at 115,336. Kagwe said, unfortunately, three more patients have succumbed to the disease bringing the number of deaths to 103.