Kenya’s capacity to conduct more Covid-19 tests continues to be hit by the dwindling supplies. On Monday, the ministry conducted just 1,090 samples from the previous high record of 3,000 samples and above. The ministry admitted a backlog of tests especially in Mombasa and Nairobi. Most of the samples were collected from virus hotspots in Nairobi, the coastal city of Mombasa and border towns where lorry drivers are tested before leaving the country. Despite that, the country has continued to register a high number of recoveries, with a record high of 97 more people getting discharged from hospital on Monday, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered to 849. “We have been anticipating some new stocks to come in and in fact, there is some progress in the area,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said during the daily briefing. The ministry, however, confirmed that part of the backlog was reduced over the weekend. Director of Public Health Francis Kuria said the backlog had mainly affected truck drivers but most of the results had been released to the respective recipients. “This is of course not to say that we are not still facing issues with our supply chain management, we are trying hard to sort this out,” Kuria said. On Monday, the ministry received a consignment of manual test kits with another consignment of automatic test kits expected in two days. “The backlog is minimal and we are still fighting it. We have employed a lot of testing capacity in western where most of the truck drivers are stuck,” Kuria said. There has been a traffic snarl-up at the Malaba and Busia border points mostly blamed on the inability of truckers to adhere to testing protocols that require them to undergo a test at least 48 hours before they commence their journey. The problem, the ministry said, has been compounded by a downtime on the Ugandan side which is currently having challenges with the customs and URA service. This has further slowed the clearance of trucks at the border. A multi-agency team has already been sent to the borders to clear the backlog. “Two weeks ago, we launched a team of health workers to get many samples from truck drivers who arrived at the border point without the requisite Covid-19-free certificates,” Kuria said. “We have done 5,000 to 6,000 tests of drivers and issued certificates and a flow of traffic in Malaba has now eased out. We were on a two-lane traffic test snarl-up but as of today, we were on a single lane and the jam has reduced to 74km-34km.” Data from Sunday’s briefing shows the number of positive cases in the country now stands at 2,862 after 95 more cases were confirmed by the ministry. The 95 were from 1,090 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 98,439. The new cases are aged between one and 72 years, comprising 57 men and 38 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 13 are from Nairobi, 56 from Mombasa. Busia (10), Kajiado (six) and Kilifi (three) while Kitui, Garissa, Kwale and Marsabit recorded one case each. Marsabit becomes the latest county to record a case, bringing the number of counties with a Covid-19 case to 38. One more patient, however, succumbed to the virus, bringing fatalities to 85. According to a publication by the Lancet, African health authorities are struggling to compete with richer, more powerful countries when it comes to procuring the scarce testing material on the global market. Even low-margin, low-tech items like swabs to take samples are in short supply on the international market. Edited by R.Wamochie