Chemelil Sugar head coach Charles Odera has revealed that some of his players have watched their marriages go down the drain while others have been evicted due to the effects of Covid-19. The former defender said the situation at the club was dire as his players had lost wives while others had been evicted from their houses courtesy of accumulated rent arrears. “Four of my players have been forced to part ways with their spouses. This has largely been contributed to by dry pockets. We also have a sizeable number of players who have been thrown out of their houses while others have sought cover at their friends or family upcountry homes,” he said. Odera said the situation had forced some of the players to take up menial jobs to keep them going during this period. He urged players to consider diversifying their sources of income by investing in education albeit on part time basis. “There are those who have turned to the construction sites just to fend for their families. This speaks a lot of how low our game has sunk but we believe things will stabilise soon and players will have their efforts appreciated handsomely. In the meantime, it is my hope that they have learnt their lessons and those without an extra skill will go back to school to equip themselves for life after football as well as have a fall back plan in case the unfortunate strikes again,” he added. He thanked the government following the financial support accorded to his players and members of the technical bench to ease the burden triggered by the suspension of sporting activities. The government, through the Ministry of Sports, came to the rescue of a section of players plying their trade in the Kenyan Premier League after wiring Sh10,000 directly to those identified as vulnerable. However, six out of the top flight clubs, were exempted from the initiative which is set to run for the next two months, thanks to their deep pockets. Odera observed that the aid had restored hope to a handful of his players who were on the verge of giving up on making a living from football. “We hope the government support will breath life into the broken marriages,” he noted. The sugar millers have been having a hard time financially in the recent years and are currently facing a demotion to the National Super League should the status quo remain. “We can’t thank the government enough for their financial intervention during these tough times. “The club has not been doing well financially and the players are owed salaries for the past months. “Most of my players are young and rely on football for a living and from the time football was adjourned, their lives took a turn for the worse. “However,  the money has helped them realise there is light at the end of the tunnel and someone somewhere cares of their well-being,” he said.