Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula woes continue to deepen as his Ford Kenya rivals on Friday intensified the battle for the party’s leadership. On Friday, the weeklong power tussle splitting the political outfit into two rival factions took a new twist after a group led by Secretary General Eseli Simiyu yet again presented documents supporting the ouster of Wetang’ula as party leader. Eseli’s axis told journalists that they have complied with all the requirements and exuded confidence that Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu will approve the changes and recognise the new leadership. The new structure has Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi as the new party leader. On Thursday, Nderitu wrote to Eseli declining to approve the leadership changes citing form PP7 which was not properly signed as required by the Political Parties Act. “The statutory form PP7 was not properly signed by the authorized officials as per the records held by this office,” read part of Nderitu’s letter. “In this regard, you are kindly requested to address the issue highlighted above within the precincts of your party Constitution and in line with Section 20 of the PPA and apprise us of the same.” Eseli accompanied by Wamunyinyi and a host of party officials said they had rectified the mistake and were upbeat that they will carry the day. “We are hopeful now that we have fulfilled all the requirements to enable the changes and this is now to be done soonest,” said the Kanduyi lawmaker. The Eseli team also accused the Wetang’ula axis of intimidating NEC Members who okayed the leadership changes. Speaking after submitting Form PP7 at the Registrar’s office, Eseli said they will lodge a formal complaint with the police over the threats. "Members who supported the changes are being intimidated, we are telling them to stop intimidation of the NEC members," Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi said. "From here we are proceeding to raise the matter with the police for the sake of our members," added Eseli. Attempts to reach Wetang’ula side was futile as Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, who was picked bu the Bungoma Senator's wing as the new Secretary General,  did not pick up his calls or respond to SMSs. Wamunyinyi told party members to remain calm and that they will accommodate everyone into the party including reaching out to those who left due to bad leadership.