The national government is finding it difficult to replace murdered local administrators in Lamu East. At least five chiefs and a Nyumba Kumi official have been killed by panga-wielding gangs in villages that are equally notorious for drugs. The deaths are believed to be due to the administrators’ tough stance on fighting the narcotic trade in the region. On December 11 last year, Mbwajumwali senior chief Mohamed Haji Famau and assistant chief Malik Athman Shee of Myabogi were attacked and slashed to death in their office in broad daylight by two men disguised as women wearing bui buis who had their faces covered in veils. Seven months later, replacing them has proved to be quite a task as no one has dared apply for the posts even after numerous adverts were placed. On June 10, 2016, senior chief Mohamed Shee Mohamed was hacked to death by unknown assailants in the morning as he headed to work. He is yet to replaced. On April 22, 2019, Ms Amina Bakari, 30, who was a volunteer peer educator with the Kenya Red Cross and a Nyumba Kumi official, was hacked to death by unknown assailants as she closed her shop in Mbwajumwali village at around 11pm. Her replacement is yet to be found. The situation has seen police officers operating in these villages face the same wrath, with at least two killed by suspected drug gangs in the last one year. On Monday night June 8, constable Rodgers Odhiambo who was attached to the Tchundwa police post in Lamu East was accosted by thugs as he walked out of a shop in the village at around 8.30pm and hacked to death. Investigations revealed the officer was lured to his death by a phone call from a civilian friend in the village. On October 5 last year, police constable Hesbon Okemwa attached to the same post as Odhiambo was murdered and his badly mutilated body recovered in a mangrove forest in Kizingitini four days later. He is also believed to have been lured by a phone call from a snitch working for a drug gang. His death was linked to his tough stance on drug dealers in the area. Speaking in his Lamu office on Thursday, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia admitted that it was hard for his office to find replacements for the murdered administrators as nobody has applied for the jobs even after numerous advertisements. He said many residents of the affected villages believe the posts have been cursed as everybody who holds them ends up dead. “This is the third time we are placing advertisements for the positions of chief and assistant chief for Tchundwa, Mbwajumwali and Myabogi areas but no one has come forward to show interest. We know it’s because of the merciless deaths of the previous administrators. It's tough but we hope to fill in the posts soon,” Macharia said. Most of the villages are said to be silently run by notorious drug cartels who don’t hesitate to deal with anyone trying to stand in their way. Locals have proposed that chiefs in such areas be given guns and bodyguards to guarantee their safety. “I qualify for the job but I can never dare apply for it because I know my days will be numbered from the day I set foot into that office. It’s that bad. However, we feel they should first guarantee that chiefs here will be given guns for their own protection before asking people to apply,” said Athman Sudi.  Edited by Henry Makori