Ford Kenya officials from lower Eastern have urged embattled party leader Moses Wetang'ula to accept his May 31 replacement by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wamunyinyi was appointed interim chairperson of the party by delegates at a meeting not attended by Wetang'ula's allies. The Bungoma senator was accused of gross misconduct and causing disunity. The changes have been set aside by the courts. Officials drawn from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties said Wetang'ula has been a divisive leader whose “only interest in the party is self-aggrandizement at the expense of the party”. Led by Kitui county chairperson and National Trustee Sammy Kisilu, the leaders said they recognise Wamunyinyi as the party leader and Josephine Maungu as the national organising secretary. The leaders spoke to the press in Machakos on Monday. “We urge Wetang'ula to give up the fight and allow the interim team led by Hon Wamunyinyi to start work on repositioning the party for the next general elections without any further delay. That way, he might leave some form of legacy although tattered,” Kisilu said. The officials accused Wetang'ula of playing county league politics instead of featuring in the national arena. “All the time he is seen in Bungoma instead of traversing other counties. Members have decided and we will go by the decision. We will still go back to the party and ensure that Wetang'ula will not remain the party leader,” he said. Maungu said that members were not fighting Wetang'ula but wanted a bright future for Ford. She said the party has never conducted national elections since 2011. Maungu dismissed claims that Wetang'ula’s woes might be blamed on his interactions with Deputy President William Ruto or sabotage by ODM leader Raila Odinga. “The new changes are not based on any alignments or any interactions he might have with DP William Ruto. All we want is a Ford Kenya which has a progressive vision,” Maungu said. Wetang'ula has sought to resolve the leadership wrangles in the party internally. On June 12, he requested the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal to refer the matter for resolution by the party. During a sitting in Nairobi, the PPDT said that the Wamunyinyi-led faction would face the disciplinary committee. (edited by o. owino)