Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has been expelled from the Amani National Congress following a special National Delegates meeting held on Friday morning. The party led by former Presidential candidate Musalia Mudavadi accused the first-time senator of being disloyal to the party and the party leader. The party said it had followed the due process including inviting the Senator to appear before the disciplinary committee of the party which he declined. “The special meeting of the NGC hereby adopts and ratifies the resolution for internal disciplinary of the party and NEC expelling Hon Cleophas Malala from the party membership,” read part of the party’s resolution. The disciplinary committee had recommended expulsion of Malala from the party. “The committee finds and holds that your utterances and activities at the political rally convened by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) at Kibra on October 27, 2019 prejudiced the integrity and reputation of the ANC party and its members and employees,” read resolution of the disciplinary committee. “After careful consideration of the penalties set out in Article 50.9 of the Constitution of Amani National Congress party the committee resolved to expel you from membership of ANC with effect from December 5, 2019.” NGC unanimously adopted the disciplinary committee’s resolutions. Contacted, Malala laughed off the matter saying he will issue a comprehensive statement later responding to the matter.. “I have a great matter before me. I will address that issue later,” he said on phone. The senator has been chairing the Senate committee on Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru’s impeachment and will table the findings before a special sitting of the Senate on Friday 2.30 pm. Malala and ANC leadership has been on warpath following the senator’s stand especially on the Building Bridges Initiative which has seen him publicly differing with Mudavadi. The lawmaker also abandoned the party last year when he declared support for a rival candidate in the Kibra by-elections where the ODM party won. The NGC meeting also resolved to adopt a new party Constitution and extended the term of office for all party officials. “This special meeting of the  National Governing Council have full cognisant of the peculiarity of our present Covid-19 induced situation hereby ratify and adopts the resolution of NEC postponing the holding of elections pending the easing of covid-19 and as a consequence resolve to extend the tenure of the current office bearers,” the Friday morning resolved. Speaking to Star, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi who has been demanding elections in the party said the resolutions are null and avoid as the NGC was not properly convened. “This is a political joke of the year and an exercise in futility. I am confident that the Registrar of Political Parties shall not entertain such political fraud by people who profess to be protectors of rule of law,” he said.