The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on Wednesday ordered the arrest of former Chief Officer in charge of Public Works, Roads and Transport at the County Government of Kericho. Peter Kipyegon Kosgey, chief officer in-charge of Public Works, Roads and Transport, was arrested alongside six other suspects over conflict of interest and procurement irregularities. Others are Joash Chirchir, civil engineer, Charles Mabwai, procurement officer, Aaron Njoroge, accountant, Stanley Ruto, Roads Inspector, Lilian Kirui, Roads Inspector and John Rotich ,a director at the Jawlink Logistics Limited. The commission said the suspects will be arraigned at the Anti-Corruption Court in Kericho on Thursday. “EACC directs Japheth Kipgenoh Director, Jawlink Logistics Limited to present himself at the nearest EACC Offices with immediate effect,” a statement by CEO Twalib Mbarak read. Mbarak said the commission investigated a complaint alleging conflict of interest and procurement irregularities in respect of a contract awarded for the construction of a road in Belgut sub-county known as the Bae-Kapsimotwet- Kibaraa road. He said thereafter, EACC submitted a report of its findings and recommendations to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) as required under Section 35 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, No. 3 of 2003. “The County Officials irregularly awarded contract No. CGK/Q033/RD/2015- 2016 for the construction of the said road in Kericho County to Jawlink Logistics Limited at a tender sum of Sh5.6 million,” he said. Mbarak said the official involved in the tender process was also a Director of Jawlink Logistics Limited. “The firm was neither pre-qualified by the County Government nor registered with the National Construction Authority,” he said. Mbarak added, “Upon an independent review of the evidence, the DPP issued consent to apprehend and charge eight (8) suspects with various offences under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act No. 3 of 2003 and for violation of Procurement Laws”.