Stanbic Bank Kenya in partnership with Base Titanium, Centum, Gulf Energy, Valar Frontier, and Africa Practice, have donated over Sh147 million worth of equipment to help tacked Covid-19. The group has donated a total of 192 high flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy devices to the Ministry of Health. This is in  response to the call from to the ministry and the wider government to mobilize resources to combat the Coronavirus pandemic. The acquisition of the medical equipment is an initiative driven by the Stanbic Bank Foundation, in partnership with private sector partners to tackle the pandemic that has affected the country and the entire world. This investment was informed by the increasing pressure on healthcare systems in the country and all over the world in an effort to contain the virus, Stanbic said. This private sector response to deliver the critical lifesaving equipment will have a positive impact and assist in saving lives beyond the crisis , as they will be used to improve the long-term capacity of the country’s healthcare system. Stanbic Bank Kenya CEO Charles Mudiwa said:“We are at a critical stage where the infection rates are increasing. It is therefore important that we strengthen the capacity of our health systems so we can register more recoveries and thereby flatten the curve.” He said the combined effort by the various partners to support the initiative signals the strong bond of the Kenyan spirit and collective commitment to ensure the country moves forward despite the obstacles. The private sector has been instrumental in supporting the fight against Covid-19. Through cash donations and equipment, they have been able to help mitigate the impact of economic and social instabilities. This has been demonstrated in previous outbreaks where companies were able to meet the immediate and short-term needs of frontline health workers during the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The high flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy devices work like ventilators, however, are a less intrusive way of delivering oxygen to a patient. Due to the critical role these devices play in managing severe cases of patients who develop breathing complications – they offer the best chance for survival in those instances. Kenya has been reported to have a shortage of ventilators. At the moment, there are only 245 ventilators across all public and private hospitals in Kenya. With the increasing number of infections, the country risks facing a shortage of essential equipment. Receiving the medical equipment on behalf of the government, the Health CAS Rashid Aman said:“We have had great out-pouring support from the several partners and encourage others to continue with the spirit of donating.” “We will need all the support we can master to combat this pandemic. My challenge is to see more donations as time moves on,” he added. Stanbic Bank and its partners' contribution is a significant boost to the ongoing interventions by the private sector to support health systems as well as vulnerable communities. “The private sector recognizes it is only until the curve is flattened that all sectors can begin the recovery process.,” the group said in a statement. Due to the critical role these devices play in managing severe cases of patients who develop breathing complications – they offer the best chance for survival in those instances. Kenya has been reported to have a shortage of ventilators. At the moment, there are only 245 ventilators across all public and private hospitals in Kenya. With the increasing number of infections, the country risks facing a shortage of essential equipment. Receiving the medical equipment on behalf of the government, the Health CAS Rashid Aman said:“We have had great out-pouring support from the several partners and encourage others to continue with the spirit of donating.” “We will need all the support we can master to combat this pandemic. My challenge is to see more donations as time moves on,” he added. Stanbic Bank and its partners' contribution is a significant boost to the ongoing interventions by the private sector to support health systems as well as vulnerable communities. “The private sector recognizes it is only until the curve is flattened that all sectors can begin the recovery process.,” the group said in a statement.