The country’s capacity to conduct coronavirus testing has received a major boost after the Korea government donated 17,000 test kits to the Health Ministry. They further donated 50,000 masks will go a long way in supporting healthcare workers in the frontline of fighting the pandemic. The ministry has in the recent past been hit by a backlog of samples collected due to lack of test kits and reagents. The problem has been associated with high global demand for the same. Speaking while receiving the donations at Afya House on Friday, Health PS Susan Mochache said that Kenya as a country is also looking forward to sharing best practices and learning from Korean experience on successful interventions that have worked in their  country regarding the ongoing fight against virus. “Early this year, the global supply and distribution chains had almost ground to a halt. The systems are slowly coming back to life but access to the much needed supplies is still very difficult,” the PS said. “As a Ministry we are looking forward to a continued partnership in the fight against this virus and with this united front I believe we will emerge victorious.” The PS lauded noted that this month has seen the cases of Covid-19 on an upward trajectory due to the ongoing community transmission. “This upward trend will be seen for a bit longer before the curve is flattened. In this regard more resources are required to enable us to reverse the trend and reduce the positive cases due to a decline in transmission.” According to a publication by the Lancet, African health authorities are struggling to compete with richer, more powerful countries when it comes to procuring the scarce testing material on the global market. Even low-margin, low-tech items like swabs to take samples are in short supply on the international market. The World Health Organization has always emphasised the crucial importance of testing with speed being of the essence. “You can’t fight a virus if you don’t know where it is. Find, isolate, test and treat every case, to break the chains of transmission. Every case we find and treat limits the expansion of the disease,” WHO director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.