If Government wants to save Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru regardless of the facts,then she will be saved, Elgeyo Marakwet Kipchumba Murkomen has said. In a tweet on Sunday, Murkomen said even if they debate about the issue in the senate, if there is decision to save her then there is little they can do. "If government and Capitol Hill dry cleaners combine forces then Senate will do nothing," he said. "A few of us will make some noise,quote the Constitution and our DC will rule us out of order and declare her Mweupe kama pamba." Waiguru could have a date with senators next week after the relentless MCAs formally notified Speaker Kenneth Lusaka of their resolution. Waiguru was removed on Tuesday after 23 MCAs voted in favour of the impeachment motion over alleged gross misconduct and abuse of office. The motion had been filed by Mutira MCA David Kinyua Wangui. The representatives voted overwhelmingly to impeach the powerful and influential county chief over allegations of gross misconduct and violation of the Constitution. And on Wednesday, the MCAs, led by Majority leader James Murango, submitted to Lusaka a notification of the assembly’s resolution, charges, evidence and a signed list of all the 23 legislators who voted in favour of the motion. In April, it emerged that the plot to scuttle the removal from office of Waiguru was sanctioned by State House. This is even as MPs from Central Kenya, largely affiliated to Deputy President William Ruto, take on Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju for overstepping his mandate. Sources who talked to the Star said Tuju's move to crack the whip in Kirinyaga was sanctioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Twelve elected MCAs were removed as chairpersons of key House committees while Majority leader Kamau Murango was dismissed. Its also reported that State House also implored Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, who has been at loggerheads with Waiguru, to go slow in his war with the governor. Tuju, however, told the Star on Tuesday that his action was in line with Jubilee's constitution, which gives the party powers to appoint the leadership of the assembly. He also dismissed claims that State House influenced his decision, which is being perceived as geared to save Waiguru.