All is not well for Jubilee Party at the Nairobi county assembly as divided camps continue to fight over leadership. This comes after Speaker Beatrice Elachi on Tuesday confirmed receiving a letter from the Jubilee Party affirming the change in leadership but failed to effect the communication. She said her office was reviewing the letter dated May 28, sent to her by secretary general Raphel Tuju communicating the changes. However, giving her ruling at the end of the sittings, Elachi said that the interim leadership will remain until a time Jubilee will review the issue with the party leader. “Jubilee party has to sit down with the party leader to deal with this matter. Before that, this House remains with the same leadership and I will write to Jubilee and we shall deal with that matter next week,” Elachi said. Elachi ruled the interim leadership had Dandora Area 3 ward rep Charles Thuo as the Majority Leader, deputised by Ziwani MCA Millicent Mugadi. The Majority Whip position is held by Nominated MCA June Ndegwa, deputised by California MCA Hassan Abdikadir. Tuju had earlier written a letter on April 16, 2020, stating that he ruling party had made changes to its leadership at the assembly, replacing the interim party leadership who had taken charge from November 12, 2019. To affirm the above letter, he wrote again last week to Speaker Elachi confirming the changes. The party reinstated Matopeni MCA Abdi Ibrahim Guyo as Majority Leader, to be deputised by Dandora Area 1 MCA Peter Wanyoike. Mihango MCA Paul Kados was picked as the Majority Whip and deputised by South B MCA Waithera Chege. Guyo said they will move and engage the party’s secretariat to determine the issue. He said the matter will now be resolved by Jubilee’s top leadership for a final determination led by party leader Uhuru Kenyatta. “ The Speaker is a member of Jubilee and we elected her the position. I know people expected chaos but we have resolved to use party mechanisms to deal with such issues. We shall follow up this matter with the party leader and party Secretariat and we are sure that within the week the matter will be solved,” Guyo said. Backing his sentiments, Kados said that the Speaker contravened the Standing Orders of the Nairobi County Assembly by failing to properly communicate the changes. “The Speaker has the communication from the party but to our surprise, she failed to communicate as indicated in the letter, giving her own opinion on the matter. It is expected that we all follow the law and that is what we will do and involve the party,” he said.