The three police officers and one civilian captured dragging a woman on a motor bike will be detained for nine days. Deputy OCS  Olenguruone Police Station, Inspector David Kiprotich, Police Constables Henry Mureithi and Tom Kikao and a civilian Joan Chepkoech are said to have tied a woman on  . They are alleged to have tied a  21-year-old woman on a motor bike and dragged her on a dirt road while whipping her. Preliminary reports indicated that Mercy Cherono, the victim, had  had stolen household goods and cash prompting the suspects to torture her. Through a miscellaneous application filed by the investigating officer, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Daniel Ng'etich, the prosecution asked the court to allow it more time to complete investigations. Ng'etich said the investigating team was yet to record statements from the locals and feared that the three police officers may tamper with investigations if released. "By virtue of being police officers, the three suspects might tamper with investigations," he said. The investigating officer added that the ground in Olenguruone in Kuresoi South was still hostile and that the four suspects might be in danger. The four  were arrested on Thursday after a video of Cherono being dragged  went viral. The video prompted a public outcry with hundreds people calling for disciplinary action against those involved. Efforts by the suspect to oppose their detention bore no fruits as the presiding Magistrate directed they be held for nine days. The Deputy Ocs said he had a medical condition that might deteriorate if incarcerated while Chepkoech claimed she had two months old twin babies. They all denied that their lives were in danger as alleged by the investigating officer. The matter will be mentioned on June 22. The Independent Police Oversight Authority has also launched a probe into the incident. Meanwhile,  Cherono has since been moved to Nakuru County Referral Hospital for what Rift Valley Regional Police Commissioner, George Natembeya termed as security reasons. Cherono  after enduring the brutality  suffered broken bones, a cut on the head and soft tissue injuries on her hands. The mother of one said she was picked from a pub at Olenguruone on claims she colluded with accomplices to steal household goods, clothes and money from a neighbour's house. Speaking at Olenguruone Sub-County Hospital where she was admitted on Monday, the woman said the officers led members of the public in torturing her by beating her with metal rods and rubber whips. "They then tied my hands, hooked them on a motorbike and dragged me on the ground for a long distance as an officer followed us caning me with a rubber whip," she said. It took the intervention of an elderly man who pleaded with the police to stop the whipping and instead present her at a police station.