The Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company has been reorganised by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Director General Mohammed Abdalla Badi. In a gazette notice, NMS Director-General named Maj. Gen. (Rtd) Andrew Ikenye as a chairperson to the company for three years. Other people appointed to serve to include the Principal Secretary responsible for Water in the National government, Principal Secretary responsible for Housing in the National government, Principal Secretary responsible for Finance in the national government and NMS Deputy Director-General. It also includes the Chief Executive Officer, Athi Water Works Development Agency, Florence Njau (chairperson [Nairobi Branch], Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers), Nicholas Nesbitt – Chairperson, Kenya Private Sector Alliance, Wakaguyu wa Kibiru (Independent Member), Petronilla Asiyo Ogut (Independent Member) and the Chief Executive Officer, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company Limited (Ex-officio). The term of the new team was effected on June 17. NMS DG said the move has been taken following the transfer of key functions from Nairobi County to the National Government. In February, Governor Mike Sonko signed a deal at State House that saw four key functions being rendered to the government. The four functions transferred include Health services, Transport services, County Public Works, Utilities and Ancillary services and the County Government Planning and Development. This comes as the National Government plans to spend Sh18 billion on the renewal of water infrastructure and sewers extension in Nairobi. According to the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company, the acquisition of funds was part of the interventions to improve water supply embarked on by the city water firm in liaison with the office of the President through Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) and the office of the African Union High representative for infrastructure development. The targeted areas include Waithaka, Kasarani, Embakasi, Kangemi, Kawangare and Riruta. Nairobi Water Board of Directors Chairperson Beryl Okumu Odinga noted that the firm had commenced on the automation and use of modern technology to change numerous functions of its operations.