Information volunteered to the relevant security agents to help fight al Shabaab will be treated with the utmost confidentiality. This is according to Northeastern regional coordinator Nicodemus Ndalana, who told residents that no identity will be disclosed. He promised that such information will be promptly acted upon as the government steps up its efforts to rid the region of members of the Somalia-based terror group. Ndalana spoke in his office after awarding certificates of commendation to seven National Police Reservists and an assistant chief from Dadaab subcounty for killing two notorious al Shabaab militants on March 6. “This is not only an act of bravery on your part but a sense of patriotism that ought to be emulated by your colleagues. I've been longing to meet you personally to congratulate you for the brilliant work you did. I expect to be meeting more of you as we work together in getting rid of al Shabaab from our region," he told the officers. “It’s true we have had, in the past, informants complain that the information they volunteer is leaked to the enemy, putting their lives and those of their families in danger.” He said leaking information is unacceptable. "I've been preaching this message to my chiefs, security officers whenever I get the chance to meet them. It remains so and I really don’t expect such complaints." Ndalana urged residents to remain vigilant and volunteer information about suspected al Shabaab operatives within their midst. “We need the information to act. In its absence, our work as security agents will be extremely difficult." Ndalana, however, regretted that some NPRs and chiefs are al Shabaab accomplices. “I want to warn those NPRs, chiefs and their assistants who have been aiding al Shabaab that we shall treat them as al Shabaab when we catch up with them." On the challenges facing the NPRs and the chiefs, Ndalana said his office will take appropriate action. The assistant chief and the NPRs, whose identities were concealed for security reasons, had earlier told the regional administrator that most of them lack uniforms and have inadequate bullets. They also cited delayed payment of allowances, among other problems.