A section of Nakuru town is prone to earthquakes, cracks and sinkholes, geologists have said of the geologically active Rift Valley region. They have detected major faults in Shabab in Nakuru Town West constituency. Shabaab has a fault line that acts as a conduit for underground water. Heavy rainfall destabilizes subterranean water channels surrounding areas deep underground. A team from Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) and the Geothermal Development Company (GDC) said the fault line passes through Shabab, Team Sales, Total Roundabout, Pyrethrum Estates and Koinange Primary School. Heavy rains can cause potentially devastating ground shifts, they said. In early May, an area along George Momanyi Road in Shabab sank and then extended to Koinange Primary School where its wall caved in. Governor Lee Kinyanjui commissioned KenGen and GDC geologists to assess the soil strata and magnitude of the fault. They found the fault line is enlarging southwards along a weak zone. They warned that structures in the area are at high risk, especially during the rainy season. In 2018, fissures damaged the busy Mai Mahiu-Narok road. Geologists warned Kenya could slowly be splitting at the Rift Valley due to earth movements. But don’t expect a split for millions of years. Faults are fractures in the earth’s crust where rocks on either side slide past each other due to constant activity. Earthquakes are caused when the rock suddenly breaks along a fault, suddenly releasing energy that makes the ground shake. Kinyanjui said several families have voluntarily vacated to a safer place. "We sincerely thank residents for voluntarily vacating houses near the collapsed road," he said. About two years ago during heavy rains, massive earth movement left deep fissures in Narok. The Mai Mahu-Narok road was broken up and impassable. A section of John Momanyi Road in Nakuru Town West was cut off due to a fault line. Residents panicked. KenGen experts include Cyrus Karingithi, Kizito Opondo, Ann Mwangi, Ammon Omiti, Samuel Munyiri and Cyrus Rutto. From GDC, Engineer Paul Ngugi, a geologist, took part. To protect residents, the county boss has suspended all development in the areas with faults and weak ground, pending further investigation. Construction is suspended from Team Sales all the way to Total Roundabout and towards Shabab “until we have a detailed report allowing us to assess the areas,” Kinyanjui said. He said anyone seeking building approval in Nakuru must provide a geotechnical report giving a detailed description of the earth’s profile. The governor said more studies were necessary to understand the geology of the area and map fault lines for purposes of zoning. The county engineering department is developing high safety specifications for buildings. The geophysical study is to determine the nature of soil strata around collapsed zones, locate weak zones and possible remedial measures. A report seen by the Star showed the general alignment of the weak zones indicates a major north-south fault. The weak zones are enlarging southwards, posing a high risk to structures and infrastructure, such as roads and underground pipes and cables. “Infrastructure built around weak zones is at high risk especially during wet seasons with lubrication of faults and enlargement of subsurface flow channels,” the report read. Engineer Karingiti said while parts of Rift Valley had remained tectonically inactive in the recent past, there could be movements deep within the earth’s crust resulting in weak zones extending all the way up to the surface. Opondo said Nakuru lies in the path of a major fault line running from north to south of the county. Buildings and infrastructure built along the weak zone are at high risk, especially during the wet season when rain seeps into underground channels. Engineer Ngugi said the fault line is just one of tens or hundreds of other weak spots in the Great Rift Valley. The valley runs through the continent from the Horn of Africa to Mozambique. Geological forces are the strongest at the base of the valley. That’s why in 50 million years or so, some geologists say Somalia and half of Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania could split from Africa to form a new continent, known as the Somali Plate. (Edited by V. Graham)