Key Western leaders are to blame for the disunity that has made it difficult for the region to forge a common political cause, says Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The Council of Governor chairman says residents are faring better in unity on social causes. His take is that the region’s leaders should rally behind one political party, citing the massive support for ODM leader Raila Odinga in the past three elections. Alternatively and, in the best interest of the residents, they should form one party with a solid support base, the governor told Milele FM on Monday. “We spoke as Ford Kenya and ANC to come together and have one party. It has taken long. I am ready to leave ODM to unite with them but they are a roadblock. We need one party,” Oparanya, who is the ODM deputy party leader, said. The county chief said that it was for this reason that the region has lagged behind on development. “We don’t have sufficient leadership that puts us near government. We want to try and be in government,” he said. According to him, Jubilee leaders  have not done enough for the region. "We are looking at how we can be in government to ensure we get development like other regions.” He singled out Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi for being out of touch with the people and leaders. “You can only be supported if you show signs of bringing people and leaders together. We don’t see you; you don’t talk to us. How do we support you? We don’t know where you are from and where you are going,” he said in reference to the ANC leader’s bid for the presidency. Musalia has lately sparked interest on what he is up to ahead of the 2022  polls. On May 29, he was at the Village Market in Nairobi with former presidential aspirant Peter Kenneth, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and former head of Public Service Sally Kosgei to "discuss political issues, the country’s state of the economy, the management of Nairobi and the Covid-19 situation". Oparanya denied that ODM had a hand in the ouster of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula. “How does ODM come in? Why would Raila want to be interested? He has not spoken to me on Ford Kenya issues,” the governor said. He maintained that his eyes are still trained on the presidency ,adding that he is in talks with Raila on the same. “I am still eyeing the presidency. Competing with Mudavadi is good. He has his party and I am in ODM. So, let us try and see who is leading.” On the party he would use should ODM deny him a ticket for the top seat, the county chief said that a lot will happen in the next two years to the election. “Don’t worry about where the party will come from but I will be in the ballot. I am the deputy leader of ODM and we are in talks with Raila on these issues.” He said that the pro-Uhuru opposition leaders from the region want to take advantage of the Handshake to come together with the end game being in the government.  - mwaniki fm