Ten people, including a former Kenya Maritime Authority boss, have been released on bond of between Sh500,000 and Sh20 million. They are among 12 people accused of failing to comply with procurement processes. They are Oluoch Seth, Bakari Omar, Juma Ahmed, Jemima Mkaluma, Francis Okello, Peter Kimani, Jared Biwott, Denis Kipkorir, KMA’s ex-boss Cosmas Cherop and Edwin Mong'are. Chief magistrate Edna Nyaloti released Cherop and Mong'are on Sh20 million bond with a surety of similar amount and an alternative Sh6 million bail. Kimani, Biwott and Kipkorir were all released on Sh10 million bond, with an option of Sh5 million bail. Seth, Omar, Ahmed, Mkaluma and Okello were granted Sh1 million bond each, or Sh500,000 bail. The magistrate said the reason she granted different bond terms was because of the level of responsibility each of the accused persons is suspected to have had. She said some of the accused had high responsibilities while others had low responsibilities. “I am satisfied that the level of decision making is not the same. There are those accused who bear the highest responsibilities," she said. The accused persons faced various charges. Seth, Mkaluma, Okello, with another person who was not in court, faced two counts of adjusting tender sums on the bid documents for three companies. They were also charged with adjusting a plumbing tender for another three companies. Seth further faced two extra counts alongside Omar and Ahmed of adjusting tenders for the construction of an office block for three companies. The trio was further accused of declaring EPCO builders as the responsive bidder, yet the company did not meet the requirements. Former KMA boss Cherop, who was at the time serving as the acting director general, faced two counts of approving the three tenders, which had been adjusted by the evaluation committee. Mong'are, who currently serves as director of supply chain management in Lamu county, faced two charges of recommending the award of tenders to three companies while knowing the tenders had been adjusted. He is accused of recommending the construction tender worth Sh1.8 billion to EPCO, as well as electrical tender of 224 million to Master Powers System and a Sh79.8 million plumbing tender to Plumbing Systems Limited. They all pleaded not guilty before the Mombasa chief magistrate, who scheduled pretrial for June 24. Edited by Henry Makori