The Taita Taveta government plans to start collecting revenue in the border towns of Mtito Andei and Mackinon Road whose jurisdiction is disputed by Makueni and Kwale counties. The county claims ownership of the two towns along the busy Mombasa-Nairobi Highway. Since the inception of devolution, Taita Taveta has not collected revenue in the two towns owing to a protracted boundary dispute with Makueni and Kwale. But Taita Taveta Finance executive Andrew Kubo said the government will deploy revenue officers to Mackinon Township from next week. Kubo spoke during a fact-finding mission at Mackinon Township. The department is working to seal loopholes causing revenue losses across the county, he said. “Our journey towards revenue recovery within our borders has kicked off. We need increased revenue especially at this time when Covid-19 has hit our economy," he said. The Kwale government claims that its boundary with Taita Taveta is at Miasenyi - few Kilometers from Mackinnon Road town. But Taita Taveta holds that her boundaries extend to Landi ya Mwembeni, near Taru town. The row over Mackninon Township has been ongoing since 2013. In 2015, Taita Taveta Assembly speaker Meshack Maghanga and Marungu MCA Paul Waweru were arrested after they attempted to erect a signboard to mark the boundary at Landi ya Mwembeni area in Taru; Kinango constituency. The area is considered to be deep within Kwale county. The dispute has been blamed for delayed development projects in the area. For instance, Mbele primary and secondary schools are lacking critical services since they have fallen at the centre of the dispute. Finance chief officer Leonard Langat said that the border disputes with other counties should not affect service delivery to residents. "We have been offering services in this town like water supply, town cleaning. It's now time to collect revenue to enable us to offer more services to the area residents," Langat said. Richard Mwanyika, an elder and a businessman in the town said that they are ready to pay revenue to the county. "I am a businessman and I am ready to pay revenue to Taita Taveta because this has been the norm all along before this dispute began. Our identification cards were processed in Voi," he said. Residents in Taita Taveta have been pushing leaders to file a court injunction to stop revenue collection by either county at the border towns so as to force dialogue. According to Kubo, the government shall also deploy revenue officers in Mtito Andei town to collect revenue. The town is managed by Makueni county. The county’s dispute with Makueni is over a 65 kilometre stretch of land between Tsavo River and Mtito Andei town. Taita Taveta leaders argue the border between the two counties is in Mtito Andei town, therefore part of the town is its territory. But Makueni county claims the boundary is at Man Eaters near Tsavo River. (edited by o. owino)