@itsetyang This story about an ailing seven-year-old boy in Turkana South has a happy ending after the Star highlighted his plight. Most children aren't so fortunate. A Cuban doctor and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital made it happen. Lowesit Tukwali was originally misdiagnosed with tuberculosis. It turned out to be cancer and MTRH treated him at no cost. Today, after seven months in the hospital, Lowesit is home and happy. It started as a lump just under his left ear. It was painful and he had trouble swallowing. It was getting larger, the pain was getting worse. The Grade 1 pupil in Kanaodon, Katilu, was on TB medication from February to August 2019 but his condition deteriorated. His mother Alice Tukwali, a widow with two other children, was losing hope. She had no more money for treatment. “Since my son started medication I have been trekking 143km from Kanaodon to Lodwar hospital to seek medication, only to realise much later that he didn’t have tuberculosis,” she said. Fortunately, a Cuban doctor, Rogers Gonzalez, found out the boy was not suffering from TB as the early medical report read. Gonzalez told the Star, “I did several tests to determine the cause of the boy’s suffering. Most tests turned out negative; he was negative for adenitis tuberculosis.” He ordered more tests. Tukwali camped at Lodwar County Referral Hospital without getting any attention until the Star described her son’s plight, the need for tests and her lack of money. She said health workers wanted Sh10,000 for tests but she didn’t even have Sh100. Then, Turkana director of Medical Services Gilchrist Lokoel instructed healthcare workers at LCRH to diagnose his ailment. They did a tissue biopsy and fine-needle aspiration, then sent samples to the Moi Teacher and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. The report from pathologist Dr K. Keitany showed the boy had a blood cancer, Hodgkin’s lymphoma – not TB. The Chief Executive Officer of MTRH, Dr Wilson Aruasa, said Lowesit would be treated at no cost. The boy was admitted to MTRH on October 30, 2019, and underwent six cycles of chemotherapy. Dr Aruasa has confirmed that Lowesit has been discharged from MTRH, a place he has called home since he was first admitted. The CEO said, “The plight of Lowesit was highlighted by the Star newspaper on October 28, appealing for treatment. I requested Lowesit be brought to MTRH for specialised treatment as part of the hospital’s continued support to the 24 counties it serves under the Universal Health Coverage agenda.” Tukwali had initially lost hope that her son would recover due to her lack of resources for treatment. But now the lump on his neck is gone and he is clinically stable, Aruasa said. Tukwali’s five-year-old daughter also was admitted to MTRH with massive abdominal swelling. She was found to have leishmaniasis, a parasitic ailment caused by the bite of an infected sand fly. She has been treated and discharged. Tukwali thanked MTRH for the treatment of her children and the Star for highlighting the plight of her son. (Edited by V. Graham)