 Fifty-nine per cent of Kenyans want churches and mosques which were closed to curb the spread of coronavirus reopened according to a new Infotrak poll. At the same time, 70 per cent of the citizenry is opposed to reopening schools before the pandemic is contained. President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 1 asked the Education and Health ministries to chart the path towards reopening the institutions of learning. Of concern, though, is that the increasing number of cases in the country is a sign that the virus is not under control yet. Infotrak research manager Walter Nyagudi said the biggest concern for Kenyans with regard to reopening of schools is a likely spike in Covid-19 infections among children. In a poll released Sunday, 41 per cent of Kenyans reported that there is likely to be a spike in infection rates. Twenty-one per cent of the respondents held that the chance of children contracting the virus in school and spreading the same is very high. Among the concerns – by 15 per cent of those polled, is that there are no proper measures in schools to ensure social distancing and other health rules. Of the 70 per cent opposed to the resumption of learning, six per cent said they have no idea if the worst of the pandemic has hit Kenya. At least six per cent of those opposed stated they were not convinced if schools can keep children safe. Others expressed fears that there would be no enforcement of preventive measures like wearing of face masks and social distancing. Northeastern residents were more cagey with 58 per cent saying there would be a spike in new cases. Eastern residents expressed reservations at 48 per cent and Nyanza at 46 per cent with 45 per cent from the Rift Valley opposing the reopening of schools. There are also concerns around precautionary measures being taken to protect children in residential areas. This was checked against whether children wear masks as they play together; are being supervised by an adult, and whether they observe social distancing. At least 1,200 respondents covering 24 of the 47 counties were involved in the survey with a margin of error of +/-2.83 per cent and 95 per cent degree of confidence. At the same time, majority of Kenyans support the reopening of places of worship with Coast and Western regions indicating the most support. On this, Coast has more Kenyans seeking reopening of worship places at 77 per cent. Residents of Western are also keener on the resumption of religious gatherings at 64 per cent followed by Northeastern, Central and Nairobi at 61 per cent. Eastern residents polled at 59 per cent on the reopening of worship places while Rift Valley polled 57 per cent. The poll released on Sunday shows that Nyanza was a bit pessimistic with the timing with its perception rating at 47 per cent. In terms of location, the urban populace is agitating for reopening of worship place more than those residing in rural areas. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe have formed a committee of religious leaders to chart the plan. The committee is chaired by Nyeri Archdiocese bishop Anthony Muheria among other key voices from the various religious groupings. In the team are Catholic bishops John Obala, Joseph Obanyi; PCEA moderator Julius Mwamba; ACK’s Chris Kamau Kinyanjui and Rosemary Mbogo; and SDA’ Pastor Samuel Makori. Also in the committee are Supkem acting chairman Hassan Ole Naado, Sheikh Sukyan Hassan Omar, Sheikh Abdulatif Abdulkarim, Father Joseph Mutie, Bishop David Oginde, Connie Kivuti, Sujata Kotamraju, Samuel Thiong’o Mwangi and Sheikh Ali Saidi Samojah.  Edited by P.O