The Judiciary has asked the IG to investigate banners that were put up in Nairobi  insulting and defaming Chief Justice David Maraga. The banners had threatening messages, stating that a “vicious fight” targeting Maraga in particular and the Judiciary in general, had just started. The banners also carried images of Maraga and senior judicial officers who were the subject of the attacks. "We wish to repeat this appeal today, and again request the Inspector General of Police, the DCI to investigate and do everything in their power to find and punish those responsible," the Judiciary said in a statement on Friday. They asked Nairobi county  and the Kenya National Highwasys Authority to remain vigilant and ensure that public spaces are not used to perpetuate criminal attacks. The Judiciary further noted that while it does not know the people behind the attacks, it is clear that the banners were a continuation of "well-choreographed attacks on the Judiciary throughout this week, particularly on social media". "These attacks, are clearly meant to threaten and intimidate the Judiciary. They do not and will not detract the Judiciary from discharging its core mandate of dispensing justice in a fair, just, and independent manner, without compromise," it read. "These kinds of attacks are not new and we have in the past requested the police to investigate and bring to book those responsible." In January, Kenyans woke up to banners targeting the Judiciary. We demand a working Judiciary free of corrupt judges now!' These were the words written on two banners in Nairobi's Pagani Estate and Nyayo footbridge. "Why is the majority of inmates in Kenya the poor people? We demand a working Judiciary..."one poster read. Another read:"Akashas were free in Kenya for over four years with cases but were jailed in two months by a USA court. We demand a  working Judiciary." Maraga lashed out at President Uhuru Kenyatta this week, accusing him of refusing to meet him to discuss the stalled appointment of 41 judges proposed by the Judicial Service Commission. Maraga said Uhuru's refusal to swear in the judges has contributed to the backlog of cases currently being experienced in the Judiciary. "You know I have respect for you as our President, you also know that I have unsuccessfully sought an appointment with you to sort out these issues but it has been futile leaving me with no option but to make this public," he said. Speaking on Monday at the Supreme Court, Maraga asked Uhuru to direct the AG to begin the process of satisfying the decrees issued by the courts.