WHAT IS BARINGO Senator Gideon Moi up to? Yesterday, the good senator announced on his social media platforms that he will be making a major political announcement. The news has left tongues wagging as his political supporters and critics are keen on seeing his next move. There have been reports that the legislator with presidential ambitions could be headed to the Cabinet as part of Uhuru's plans to groom him for the big seat in 2022. ** THINGS APPEAR NOT to be working well at a certain Ministry. A chairman of a parastatal under the ministry was overheard boasting how he does not take instructions from the Cabinet secretary. The young ambitious chairman loudly wondered how a man of his caliber and with connections at State House can listen to ministry officials whose tenure is not guaranteed. Friends were left dumbfounded why the ministry was allowing this to happen in a sensitive donor-funded parastatal. ** THERE ARE MURMURS among a section of Members of Parliament from a certain politically charged region that their host - also an MP - played them and kept a huge portion of their facilitation from a sponsor who coordinated the meeting. A Corridor mole eavesdropped into a conversation by a section of MPs lamenting how their host only gave them only Sh20,000 instead of the Sh100,000 that they claimed was the deal from the sponsor. Corridors have learnt that after the meeting, the sponsor went round calling participants randomly disclosing what was in the package. Talking in hushed tones, the lawmakers wondered why their host could not be contented with facilitation for members who didn't attend the meeting instead of invading their package. The MPs have vowed never to attend any of his meetings in the future. ** WHY WOULD AN MP take to social media to accuse the government of being behind a recent fire tragedy in Gikomba, Nairobi, when he could deal with the issue in Parliament or on other proper platforms. Victims of the fire wonder why the MP is pointing fingers on social media instead of using his position to seek a statement from the government if he thinks the state is to blame for the inferno at the country’s largest open-air market. The government says frequent fire incidents are deliberate acts of arson while the legislator claims he knows the people behind them. The victims cannot help but wonder why then can't the MP just use the proper channels to pursue justice for them. 