 The Boni community in Lamu is seeking the return or compensation for land which was allegedly forcefully acquired by the military in Bargoni, Lamu West. The community claims hundreds of acres of the Boni ancestral land were acquired during the expansion of the KDF military camp in Bargoni decades ago without the community’s consent or consultation. More than 20 families lost their homes after they were allegedly fenced off and later demolished by the military. Those displaced were forced to vacate. They are still seeking to either be compensated or their land be handed back. The majority of those displaced are squatters leading miserable lives. Boni elders who have always spoken on behalf of the community expressed concern that they could soon be rendered landless if interventions aren’t made to stop the KDF from further expansion into their land. Their spokesperson Doza Diza said the military is expanding and constructing structures on their land without consultation. He said on inquiries from the KDF on why their land was being taken, they have always been told that the orders are from above and shouldn’t be questioned. “It has become a norm to wake up and find your neighbour’s house fenced off and demolished in no time and without notice or consultations. Why would they do this yet this is our land. If you want something that’s not yours, at least ask nicely,” Doza said. Boni elder Ali Gubo asked the government to explain where the community should go after their land is grabbed. He said efforts to seek help from Governor Fahim Twaha and county commissioner Irungu Macharia have been futile. The elders want the government to compensate all those affected and also provide alternative settlement. The elders are also angered by the demolitions which have left ancestral graveyards unearthed. It is considered a taboo and disrespect to the dead. They said it was demeaning for the military to defecate on their culture in such a manner. Amina Abuli, a mother of eight who lost 30 acres of her land to the military says it was unfair and unlawful. Mohamed Gedi who had just put up a new house worth Sh1.5 million before his land was forcefully acquired and the house brought down is now a mentally disturbed man. “I had saved for years to build that house only for it to be demolished. I developed high blood pressure and have been on drugs ever since,” Gedi said. In September 2014, former Lands Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu visited the area and promised to look into the matter but nothing has happened. Macharia admitted to having received complaints on the matter but added that such an issue needs to be handled by a multi-agency team. “I am aware of the complaints raised but the issue is yet to be addressed as it requires a multi-agency approach. I pray that a permanent solution to the matter is found,” Macharia said.  Edited by P.O