Thousands of residents in Nyandarua are vulnerable to hunger despite the county being counted among the food baskets in the country. Deputy Governor Cecilia Mbuthia said Wednesday that the county has profiled 30,000 families that need constant food and other aid. “People may think that Nyandarua has a lot of food. But the hidden fact is that we have 38 colonial villages inhabited by people who have no land of their own, and who cannot work in the farms now,” she said. People working in the flower industry are currently not fully engaged due to Covid-19, Mbuthia said. “We have the elderly and the sick, and people living with HIV who can no longer work due to the persisting situation,” she said. Mbuthia spoke at the county headquarters when she received 13 tonnes of sifted maize flour donated by Capwell Industries. The deputy governor said the food will go to the needy people who have been waiting to receive some kind of help. Mbuthia said the county started distributing food two weeks ago but it is hardly enough to meet all the needy cases. She called on more well-wishers and corporate organisations to partner with Nyandarua in other areas of development. “There are a lot of investment opportunities in Nyandarua. This is the only county where you can get even 300 acres to plant wheat, barley, peas among other crops. There is also a possibility of processing potatoes which is our main product,” she said. Mbuthia said as a corporate friend, Capwell Industries should consider supporting the local polytechnics and also offer internship opportunities for the youth. Obadiah Gitiye, Capwell Industries corporate affairs boss, said Nyandarua county is a good market for their products. Gitiye said the sifted Soko maize flour which is clearly marked "Not For Sale" is expected to reach the people who are exposed. “This is the time we really need to stand with one another. It has become evident in Kenya that people are really standing with their brothers and sisters who are affected,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)  