Mater Misericordiae Hospital has been ordered to pay a former director Sh6.5 million as compensation for unfair termination of his employment. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Byram Ongaya established that the termination of Alexander Irungu Wanjiru's contract was unfair and lacked either substance or merit. He subsequently awarded him Sh6,574,125, being salary and benefits for 12 months. According to the trustees, Irungu awarded Kenya Medical Engineering the tender outside the stipulated timeframe. The hospital employed the claimant in May 2014 as a quality assurance manager, a position he held until February 2015 when he was promoted to director of operations and administration on a two-year contract, which was to end in May 2017. He was confirmed in June 2015 on a monthly salary of Sh470,000. However, the employment was terminated in February 2016 over alleged  awarding of salaries to procurement staff and irregularly giving tender to Kenya Medical Engineering. Irungu sued Mater trustees in 2016 for sacking him. “The claimant desired to continue in employment and otherwise had a clean record of service,” the court heard. Irungu had asked the court to declare the termination letter void and to order his reinstatement to his previous position. Alternatively, the court could order that he be awarded compensation of Sh17 million and a certificate of service. Mater maintained that the reasons for the termination were valid and sought the dismissal of case in its entirety. Judge Ongaya found the termination to be unfair but declined to award reinstatement as it was more than three years since the claimant was sacked. “The court considers that the relationship between the parties was strained irreparably and in view of the more than three years that have lapsed, the award of reinstatement is not only impracticable to implement but also barred by statute under section 12 of the Employment and Labour Relations Court Act,” he ruled on May 29. Ongaya further ruled that Irungu was entitled to a certificate of service and ordered the hospital to issue it within a month.  - mwaniki fm