Nyali MP Mohammed Ali' s bid to impeach Transport CS James Macharia ran into headwinds on Thursday after a section of MPs who purportedly signed a petition disowned the ouster. At least 30 MPs accused the first-time lawmaker of being malicious. Led by Kiharu lawmaker Ndindi Nyoro, the MPs said the purported signatures were obtained through deceit. Paul Murigi said Mohammed tricked him that his signature was to help Ali obtain a loan from Parliament Sacco. "The MP told me the signatures were to help him obtian a loan," he said. "I have written to the speaker withdrawing my signature." Ali had submitted a censure motion to the office of the speaker with 90 signatures seeking removal of Macharia. Mohammed tabled the motion on Wednesday. a motion seeking to remove Transport CS James Macharia from office over his order to use the SGR to transport cargo from Mombasa to Naivasha ICD. The legislator, in the notice dated June 6, said that the CS violated Article 10(1) (c) of the Constitution by not undertaking public participation with leaders and stakeholders. He said the CS's action has caused a public outcry and has affected the transportation sector negatively, forcing some companies to shut down. "It is deeply concerning that the Cabinet Secretary continues to disregard stakeholders in the implementation of ministerial projects by not conducting any public participation or stakeholder engagement meetings," the MP said. Last month, Macharia announced all cargo destined for Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan will be transported via the SGR for clearance at the Naivasha Inland Container Depot (ICD) starting June 1. This, he said, was to reduce interactions along the Northern corridor and help in the containment of Covid-19. Macharia said it will be mandatory for all cargo imported through the Port of Mombasa to be transported through SGR. Nyali MP also wants the CS to be removed for gross misconduct and misuse of his office. Ali said that the CS has also violated Article 73 of the Constitution on leadership and integrity.He said the CS has been in office overseeing stalled projects worth Sh100 billion, including bridges, highways, seaports and airports despite the projects being routed as viral to the economy of the country. However, the notice has been dismissed by the ODM Minority Whip in the National Assembly Junet Mohamed. Junet said that the party does not support the motion and asked its members to desist from appending their signatures to it. "Kindly note that the party/coalition does not support this purported motion and members are urged to desist from appending signatures from the said motion," Junet said. Ali has further said that it was during the CS time in office when the Afya House scandal worth Sh5.2 billion was reported. He said the CS has been blamed for laxity in the fight against corruption under his watch.