Police officers should wear body cameras and full uniform whenever on duty as a way to curb enforced disappearances, Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Dorcas Oduor and LSK president Nelson Havi have said. They said police should be barred from using unmarked vehicles in their patrols as this provided avenues for committing the crimes. Oduor and Havi participated in a webinar convened by the International Commission of Jurists Kenyan Section and International Justice Mission. The webinar was held to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the abduction, disappearance and murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani alongside his client Josephat Mwendwa and their taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. The three were kidnapped after leaving the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016. Their bodies were retrieved a week later from Athi River near Donyo Sabuk police post, stashed in gunny bags. Police officers Fredrick ole Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Mwangi and alleged police informer Peter Ngugi have denied killing the three. The murder trial is ongoing. On Tuesday, Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said the organisation had recorded 18 enforced disappearances in the Coast so far this year. Missing Voice, a platform documenting extrajudicial police actions and enforced disappearances, shows 153 cases of such cases have come to their attention so far this year. Havi said it was easy for criminals posing as police officers to commit illegalities including arrests, extortion, kidnapping and extrajudicial executions unless the officers are barred from working in civilian clothing. “Most of these [enforced disappearance] cases involve officers in plainclothes and unmarked cars,” he said. “[This policy change] will ensure clarity…..distinguish officers from criminals,” he added. Noting that the country had an elaborate mechanism for criminal surveillance, Havi said it was time to extend such surveillance to the officers and other law enforcement organs to ensure accountability so officers do not abuse their powers. “Kenya has elaborate mechanisms for surveillance. Why is it hard to institute the same for officers?” he posed. Havi complained that courts were sometimes impeding reasonable actions to hold police accountable. Citing a suit the LSK brought against the police and the Inspector General of Police for the excesses when enforcing the curfew, Havi said it was regrettable that the court declined to hold IGP Hillary Mutyambai personally responsible for the abuses the police were alleged to have committed. Havi said it was imperative that superior officers be held responsible when their juniors are unable to produce those they have arrested even when compelled by the court. Oduor said besides having the officers wear body cameras while on duty, CCTV cameras should be installed in specific areas where officers patrol to ensure more accountability in a bid to reduce the abuses. "We need to install CCTV cameras in slum areas [where violations tend to be rife] so that once in a while the scenes can be picked so we see the violations with our naked eyes," Oduor explained. She added it was important that officers wear "clearly marked tags and travel in well marked service vehicles to ensure proper tracing and accountability "This is a matter i will take up with the DPP so we raise it to the IG for actions," she said. Edited by Henry Makori