A Kibera court on Wednesday declined to allow detectives seven more days to detain a city activist to complete their investigations. The detectives had earlier told the court that seven days were ideal for them to fully carry out their investigations. Kiama wa Mutemi, however, in a rejoinder refused to respond when called upon by the magistrate, claiming that his lawyers Soyinka Lempaa and Martha Karua were outside the court and were in a good position to do so. "Let them come in. Where are they?" said Kibera senior principal magistrate Boaz Ombewa. Lempaa termed the prosecution's application illegal and told court that it had been declined by the DPP. His sentiments were emphasized by Martha Karua who was also present in court. Mutemi was arrested on Tuesday by officers who raided his home and took him to Capitol Hill police station. Corporal Julio Mutembei from the DCI asked the court to allow him seven more days to detain the activist. The officer told the court that the activist had been communicating with cartels that are still at large through social media circulating false information. The officer told court that Mutemi had been re-editing books of known publishers and resent to readers. The detectives said the activist titled his book 'Uhuru Kenyatta, My Life My Crime'. They said genuine publishers and editors raised complaints, prompting investigations. They intended to charge Mutemi with publication of false data contrary to Section 22(1) of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act. Publication of false information contrary to Section 23 of Computer and Cybercrime Act, among other related charges after they complete their investigations. However, Martha Karua, a former Presidential candidate told court that detaining the activist was not the best solution to do as the application had already been declined at the Milimani court. Karua told court that the detectives have been playing hide and seek the whole day from the Milimani courts where they expected the activist to e charged. Ombewa released the activist on Sh50,000 personal bond and told the police to continue holding the electronics if they were still doing investigations. Edited by Henry Makori