@Yobramos4 Families of about 120 Kenyan students stranded in Sudan over the coronavirus have appealed to the government to bring them back home. The students, taking various courses mostly in the medical field, are at different universities in Sudan’s capital Khartoum. Most of them are from Mombasa, with a few from Lamu, Kilifi and Kwale counties. The majority are on scholarships. A viral video shared on the internet on Sunday showed the students appealing for help. "We inquired from our embassy here on whether we can get a flight back home. Alhamdulillah, we got a flight but the ticket prices are too high,” one of them said. They said a ticket was going for between USD530 and USD550 (about Sh56,000 and Sh58,000). “We have been here for the last three months with no classes. We are told the classes won’t resume any time soon. We are depressed here. We miss our families back home,” a female student says in the video. They say they have run out of food and money for upkeep and have decided to ration their meals to only one a day. On Tuesday, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said he had been in frequent communication with the students through their leaders and the Kenyan embassy in Sudan. “I have also talked to various airlines and so far the most affordable plane available was the Kenya Airways,” Nassir said in his office. He said private charter planes have been willing to get the learners home but their prices are way too high. “I am now trying to talk to the embassy to ensure the plane that brings them back flies straight to Mombasa because 90 per cent of the students are from Mombasa,” Nassir said. He appealed to well-wishers to come on board. “Sometimes things like these should not be left to the government only. These are children who will one day be standing with their communities and so the communities should stand with them now,” the lawmaker said. He said with help from his friends in Sudan, they have been able to raise Sh1 million for their evacuation. “They prefer that we pay directly to Kenya Airways,” Nassir said. He said the students will decide how to share the money based on their needs. Zena Ali, whose niece is stranded in Khartoum, said the food prices have hiked in Khartoum. “We have been sending them upkeep money but it is not sustainable. We, too, have run out of money back home,” Zena said. She appealed to the government to intervene. “We are meeting as a family to decide what to do. My niece has been in Khartoum doing a nursing course for three years now,” said Zena. Ruweida Salim, whose niece Sumeiya Salim is in Khartoum on a Lamu county government scholarship, said some students are depressed and crying most of the time. “They are there on scholarship because we could not afford to take them there,” Ruweida said. Ahmed Medo, a youth activist at the Coast, said other governments had already evacuated their students from Sudan, hence Kenya should follow suit. Medo said the government has been receiving billions of shillings because of the coronavirus pandemic and part of that money should be used to take care of Kenyans abroad. “We have been in touch with the student leaders in Khartoum and they tell us the Kenyans are suffering because they do not even have basic things. They cannot access shops to buy food,” Medo said. He said some parents have lost their jobs because of the Covid-19 crisis and cannot finance their children's return. “This is an emergency. They are part and parcel of the coronavirus package,” Medo said. MP Nassir said it is expensive for the students to continue staying in Sudan. He suggested that the students get tested for Covid-19 in Khartoum before being brought back home. “So that when they get back home, the county government should be able to recognise the Covid-19 certificate issued from Sudan,” Nassir said. Edited by F'Orieny