A section of Rift Valley political leaders has supported the installation of Deputy President William Ruto by Nandi elders as the Kalenjin spokesman and kingpin. They said Ruto is the undisputed leader of the community and deserved the blessings and prayers of elders as he vies for the presidency. “Ruto’s rise in politics is not an accident. He has travelled a long route to earn respect not only in Kalenjin land but also the entire country,” Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said. Sang, other governors, MPs and leaders accompanied Ruto to meet the Talai elders in Nandi early last Friday. They said the installation ceremony was godly and long overdue. They said it was futile to misinterpret and condemn what transpired as witchcraft. Ruto was also joined by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, MPs Caleb Kositany (Soy), Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and MCA Pius Sing’oei. Ruto is engaged in rivalry with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who is the Kanu leader, over control of politics in Rift Valley. Some leaders from Baringo also came out to support Ruto’s installation by the elders. “We highly respect Gideon Moi, as we did his father, but in terms of our community leadership Ruto is ahead and deserved the elders’ blessings,” Kibet Kogo of the Tugen Council of Elders said. The Talai elders in Nandi have denied using sacrifices or witchcraft to protect Ruto. Ruto’s visit to the revered Talai clan elders at Kapsisiywo sparked outrage especially on social media as some Kenyans discussed why the DP was so desperate that he attended a cultural event viewed by many people as unchristian. But the elders led by chairman of the Talai Council of Elders, Rev (Rtd) Canon James Basi of the ACK church, said the event was a mere blessing ceremony and  no superstitious rituals were performed. He said the council was highly religious and would not engage in ungodly acts. The ceremony took place at Rev Baasi’s home. He told journalists the brief prayer and blessing ceremony were conducted at 8am, not at night as largely believed. “I am a church leader as well as a clan elder. I was with five other church leaders along with fewer than 10 other elders. We blessed the DP, prayed for him and handed him some honey, a Bible and a book of hymns,” Rev Baasi said. He said the Bible symbolised that Ruto always had to rely on God, while the hymnal provided songs of praise he would sing to God. “The honey symbolises sweetness. He should always speak good words to unite all Kenyans,” Baasi said. Ruto was also handed leadership instruments, including a baton (nogirwet) and a traditional stick (siarit) said to have been used by legendary Nandi chief medicine man Orgoiyot-Kipnyolei arap Turgat. Sang said they participated in the prayers and wholeheartedly welcome the elders’ decision. “The elders do not create leaders. They just bless one who has emerged and we welcome their decision to bless and pray for Ruto after identifying him as a leader from this region,” Sang said. Youth led by Joseph Chumba said the Talai elders had blessed all national leaders, including first President Jomo Kenyatta, President Daniel Moi, President Uhuru Kenyatta and now Deputy President Ruto. “For youth in Rift Valley and many others nationally, DP Ruto is our role model and leader and what the elders did was right,” Chumba said. Rev Baasi said even in the Bible, Moses was handed leadership of the Israelites. “Leadership is derived from God and what we did was similar to what happened to Moses,” he said. Baasi said they expect the DP to run for President with the full blessings of the community elders. “We don’t practice witchcraft, sorcery or anything close to that. What we did is fully godly and it’s wrong to try and taint what we did,” Christopher Agui said. The elders, popularly known as Orkoik, included Lawrence Nganai and Stephen Tormoi. Rev Baasi said Ruto had emerged as the undisputed leader of the Kalenjins following the death of President Moi. (Edited by V. Graham) 