Some MPs have now petitioned Speaker Justin Muturi not to allow an impeachment motion against Transport CS James Macharia on the floor of the National Assembly, terming it “frivolous and malicious”. The motion, sponsored by Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, has run into headwinds with many MPs across the political divide denouncing it. On Sunday, Makadara MP George Aladwa, who is also the ODM Nairobi County branch chairman, rubbished the motion as an abuse of parliamentary process to intimidate state officers. “It's my hope that house speaker Justin Muturi will not approve the motion especially given that about 50 MPs who had early signed the petition have since withdrawn their signatures,” Aladwa, a former Nairobi Mayor, said in a statement to newsrooms. The lawmaker dismissed Ali as a political novice with no political muscle to impeach a CS. “As ODM MPs from Nairobi, we have and will continue expressing our confidence on the work of CS Macharia and the President's Big 4 Agenda in the spirit of Handshake,” he stated. Some lawmakers have claimed Ali used unorthodox means to get the signatures, with some claiming they were duped. Ali has strongly denied the allegations. Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi, for instance, claimed Ali duped him into signing the impeachment documents, which were presented to him as application for Sacco loan. In a surprise twist, even some MPs allied to Tangatanga faction of Jubilee are siding with Macharia. Among them are Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua. In his statement, Aladwa described Macharia as a competent technocrat whose work would define Uhuru’s enduring legacy. “CS Macharia is one of the public servants who have given their all to serve the country. We can’t reward him by unnecessary drama of baseless impeachment motions whose agenda is simply mudslinging. The character assassination by Hon. Ali couched as impeachment motion is in fact an attack on His Excellency the President,”Aladwa said. He said Macharia is the cornerstone of the over 8,000 kilometre of road network that Uhuru has delivered. The SGR project, he said, employs thousands and its direct benefits are evident even in his Makadara constituency where the rail snakes it way through. According to the MP, impeachment motions have in the past been brought to Parliament to either to serve interests of sponsors, who may not be members of parliament, or to blackmail public officers into towing a certain line. “Perhaps this one falls in that category. I am aware there are some disgruntled players within Jubilee party who maybe hell bent to bring down President Uhuru Kenyatta's development agenda,” Aladwa stated.