Former Sofapaka striker Umaru Kasumba has expressed interest in returning to the Kenyan Premier League and muscling for the 'Golden Boot' in two years time. Kasumba ditched Sofapaka for Zambian champions Zesco United  in July last year but found the going tough, thanks to the star-studded forward line at the Ndola-based club. The towering Ugandan forward was reduced to a free agent in January this year after Zesco, whom  he had signed a two-year long deal with, deemed him surplus to requirement hence returned to Kampala. With the new season beckoning, Kasumba revealed that he hopes to sign for a local club in future in a bid to wrestle for the top scorer's honours. The former SC Villa came close to clinching the boot in his final season in Kenya but the league body dished the individual accolade to Ulinzi Stars' talisman Enosh Ochieng, who scored a hat-rick in their final match against Mt Kenya United in a match that ended 4-0  in favour of the soldiers. Later, KPL annulled the Ulinzi win and consequently canceled Ochieng's hat-trick, leaving his tally to match that of Kasumba and Allan Wanga who had 17 goals. However, Ochieng who had been feted by the Sports Journalists Association of Kenya(SJAK) in the end of season awards kept the personalised trophy and cash award. "I like Kenyan league and I am looking forward to return in two years' time. I still have the drive to win the 'Golden Boot' in the Kenyan league and should an opportunity arise, then I will be back," he said in a telephone interview. Meanwhile, the former Uganda Police man is spoilt for choice as he has five offers lying on his table ahead of the opening of the transfer window. He disclosed that two South African-based clubs were chasing his signature but he had not made up his mind on his new home. "I cant wait to return to active football after months in the cold. I have been keeping fit back at home but I am certain I will have a new club soon. I have five offers from different countries including two clubs from South Africa. I haven't made a decision yet but when the window opens, I will sign a deal," he added.