ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has said he will not be cowed into joining political groupings and will instead remain focussed on his quest to run for the presidency in 2022. Mudavadi on Wednesday told the Star he was aware of "people in alliances of convenient commercial groups" that were being marketed with the tag of Luhya unity. The Luhya unity drive is being spearheaded by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. The two were selected to be the Luhya spokespersons at tasked with uniting the political voices from the larger Western region. They were handed the task at a meeting at Cotu boss Francis Atwoli's home in Kajiado county last month. The meeting was attended by governors and about 40 MPs from the region. Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula have denounced the meeting. "For those who think they will shepherd me into their alliances of convenient commercial groupings, I am not in and that is why I am not bothered by their noises," Mudavadi told the Star on the phone. He said he was focused on his presidential ambitions and that he knows the race needs support from other people. He said when the time to form political alliances comes, he will do so with the right politicians who will support his presidential plans. “I'm not alone in this. I have the backing of a cross-section of Kenyans and leaders,” Mudavadi said. The former vice president said he will only join alliances that back his presidential plans. Mudavadi said a few leaders from the region had been borrowed and were thinking they can isolate him from the people. “But their treachery is known and they will be isolated instead by the people once the rubber hits the road." He said the people of Western are united in what they want and that they don't require to be prompted. "Just do a simple survey and ask them what they want Musalia to do. Ask them what Musalia wants. There are no surprises. The answer will be unanimously clear. Any alternative will and must be defeated,” Mudavadi said. He said politicians should not take Luhya unity as a political tool for every election nearing cycle for their selfish gains. "Idlers have perfected the song (Luhya unity) branding it in all angles to lure the Luhya community. This time it’s not business as usual," Mudavadi said. Wetang’ula had blamed some Luhya leaders for being used to rattle the community unity. The Bungoma senator said the time Mulembe people to rise to the presidency has come and that they will do whatever it costs to ensure they clinch the top seat. "The recent events led by Eugene Wamalwa and Wycliffe Oparanya are a clear deception being used to confuse and destabilise the region so that its solid vote is divided," Wetang'ula said. Mudavadi said he does not have to join the government in order to support its policies that aim to uplift the lives of ordinary citizens. He said ANC has been consistently supporting government initiatives and providing alternative opinion where needed "I'm astonished at the mad rush to be seen to be in the ruling party. Just because someone has done something doesn't mean I should do the same thing," Mudavadi said. He was responding to the way forward in the Nasa coalition, with affiliates Wiper and Chama Cha Mashinani led by Kalonzo Musyoka and Isaac Rutto having formally signed a post-election deal with Jubilee. Mudavadi said it was up to those in Nasa who've joined the government to explain themselves and be taken to task to explain why they've one leg in the Opposition and another in the ruling party.  Edited by P.O