The Kisii government is targeting putting in place more than 400 Covid-19 isolation beds, according to Governor James Ongwae. Ongwae said the county has 450 quarantine beds. His administration plans to distribute one million masks to vulnerable people. “President Uhuru Kenyatta directed counties to have 300 isolation beds. However, in Kisii, we want to increase our capacity to 400 beds,” Ongwae said. The governor announced that the two people who tested positive for Covid-19 have been released after undergoing treatment at the county’s main isolation centre at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. “The two tested negative after multiple tests and have been released from the isolation centre. The two came into contact with 72 people who were traced and were quarantined for the mandatory 14 days. The 72 have also been released after testing negative,” he said. The two were a 38-year-old man who sneaked into Kisii from Morogoro in Tanzania through the Namanga border and a 34-year-old woman who travelled from Kilifi county. According to Kisii Health executive Sarah Omache, the man was released on Monday and the woman on Wednesday. She urged family members and the community to accept the two. "They have fully recovered from the coronavirus. They should not be discriminated or stigmatised,” Omache appealed. She hailed members of the rapid response teams and the public for being vigilant and reporting people suspected to have travelled from other counties or from outside the country, especially the coronavirus hotspot areas. “Members of the public are urged to remain vigilant and report any case of suspicious persons who could have travelled from outside the county,” she said in a statement. Nyamira county reported the first coronavirus case on Monday. Governor John Nyagarama said the man travelled from Nairobi to attend a funeral and did not go back. He was taken into quarantine where he was tested. He is undergoing treatment at the county’s isolation centre. A total of 15 contacts were traced and taken into quarantine at the Kenya Medical Training College in Nyamira town.  Edited by F'Orieny