Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o said on Thursday he would fire striking health workers who don't return to work on Friday morning. More than 3,000 health workers, including doctors, refused to call off their strike, however, until demands on promotions, payment of salaries and Covid-19 'hazard' allowances are met. The strike entered its third day on Thursday. Public health facilities were virtually deserted; patients continued to leave. However, the Covid-19 isolation centre at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital was staffed and fully operational, the county said. It has four patients. Two others were referred to Nairobi for treatment. Many residents said they did not know how to care properly for post-surgical and other discharged patients. They said without public hospitals they feared for their health and their lives as private hospitals are too expensive. Nyongo, the acting minister for health, said on Thursday the strike was frivolous, unjustified and meant to defeat justice and subject innocent citizens to unwarranted suffering. "I therefore declare the strike is baseless and in bad faith, contrary to the ethics and call of duty of health workers,” he said. "Any health worker who will not have reported to their work station [by Friday morning] as directed shall be deemed to have absconded duty and will be removed from payroll of the county government with immediate effect," Nyongo said. The Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Nyanza branch chairman Kevin Osuri said on Thursday they are awaiting implementation of their demands and threats will not force them back to work. He said the governor was free to fire them if agreements are not honoured. The Kenya National Union of Nurses counterpart branch secretary Maurice Opetu said, “Even if they call us now saying this has been done [demands met], we will immediately go to work but without that, we will continue staying at home," he told the Star. The governor said  through arbitration, both the county and the unions agreed 1,007 health workers had been promoted. In addition, the parties reached common understanding on other issues, he said. Nyong’o said redesignations had been done, salary delays explained and mitigation measures against future delays agreed upon to the satisfaction of all parties. It was agreed Covid-19 allowances are to be paid at the end of June once the national government remits funds to the counties. Nyong'o said a joint committee of the assembly’s Labour and Health committees and the health workers' unions was formed to monitor implementation of new salaries in May and June. It will also monitor the budget for all arrears in the 2020-21 budget, to be paid in full at the beginning of the next financial year by the county. The committee was instructed to report back to the assembly on Friday. Nyong'o said, “Despite all these efforts and a clear agreed roadmap, the union leadership proceeded to call members to strike, remaining insensitive to the needs of the people for healthcare at this time of the Covid-19 pandemic. Yet, there was absolutely no genuine reason to proceed on strike." Opetu said it was very unfortunate that people have to suffer. However, health workers also have families to feed, bills to pay and school fees to pay. “Nobody should take advantage of Covid-19 because it came when we had already tabled our demands, which have affected us since June 2019. We have exercised goodwill, offered room for dialogue until the county took us to court in December,” Opetu said. He said healthcare workers are on the frontline during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Kisumu branch chairman Vincent Owaa called upon the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate how the money to meet demands had been spent. (Edited by V. Graham)