Lawyers from South Nyanza on Wednesday lashed out at Attorney General Paul Kihara for backing impunity and disregard for the Constitution. They said Kihara had fast digressed from the call to national duty of protecting the law to misadvising the President on crucial matters of law. Group chair Wilkins Ochoki in a statement said already the judicial system was overwhelmed by a huge backlog of cases and there was a need for the Executive to recruit into service more judges, a matter that Kihara had already made a stance on. "Whereas case backlog is not novel to the Kenyan Judiciary, and that there are factors that may contribute to it, we note that the workload shouldered by the current judges could be greatly reduced by the President approving pending appointments," the lawyers said. The Law Society of Kenya branch said it would only be fair and prudent that the appointments be done soonest to help the cause of justice. "Case backlog does not only affect the right to a fair trial but also access justice. The President's inaction has made the Executive have a hand in the infringement of these basic rights, " Ochoki said. Speaking Tuesday in Nairobi, Kihara dismissed calls by CJ David Maraga for the recruitment of more judges, whom the President said had questionable backgrounds. But speaking in Kisii, the lawyers termed the statement unfortunate. Ochoki said there had been a blatant disregard for court orders by the Executive, setting a bad precedent for the country. He said the statement by Kihara about the government's failure to obey a court order in the Kariobangi demolitions smacked of hypocrisy and willful disregard for the Constitution. "This was a failed attempt to sanitise the illegal acts of the Executive. As a branch and practitioners who swore to uphold the rule of law,  we take great exception to continued disobedience of court orders," the lawyers said. The lawyers further said they were gravely concerned about the conduct of the President in light of the condemnation of the court. Ochoki said the President was elected under the Constitution but he appeared keen to "mutilate it through his conduct". Edited by Henry Makori