 Kenyans can now receive early diagnosis for prostate cancer and better treatment after the Aga Khan University Hospital started conducting the PET-CT Scan. This is the latest and most advanced scan for evaluation of patients with prostate cancer, and a significant development in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease in the region. The AKUH becomes the first hospital in Sub-Saharan Africa to conduct the Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA) PET CT Scan which has been available for only a few years and in the most advanced centres in the world. “This underscores the hospital’s reputation as a leading medical institution and teaching hospital in the region and beyond,” Dr Samuel Nguku said. He is the section head of PET CT at the AKUH in Nairobi. Nguku said the scan can identify sites of early prostate cancer spread before they are picked up by conventional imaging modalities. This allows for better treatment options of the disease at a very early stage, which has not been possible until now. This is bound to have a major impact on the successful outcomes of the treatment for those with prostate cancer. “Following advancement in our PET CT Scan technology and growth in the expertise of our radiology and laboratory department, AKUH is now able to produce the radioactive substance required for this scan as well as conduct the test,” he said. Compared to the presently established methods of imaging prostate cancer such as MRI and bone scan, PSMA PET CT Scan has a higher sensitivity for identification of sites of prostate cancer spread, be it in the bones or in any other organs such as lymph nodes, liver and lungs. Nguku said the technology can be used for this purpose at the initial diagnosis of the disease, during follow-up and when disease recurrence is suspected. “The capacity to conduct this test adds to the expertise of our PET CT Scan and Cyclotron, a technology we acquired in 2018 at a cost of Sh600 million, becoming the first hospital in the region to do so.” The state-of-the-art technology has improved the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, heart disease and other diseases as it enables physicians to study in extraordinary detail, allowing them to diagnose diseases early and plan the most effective course of treatment. According to the World Health Organisation, prostate cancer is among the most common cancers in Kenya with at least a 3.7 per cent chance of one getting it. Data shows a jump in new cases, more than doubling from 1,087 in 2008 to 2,864 in 2019. Edited by Henry Makori