A growing backlog of Covid-19 tests is compromising the government's plan to contain the epidemic, especially in Nairobi. The average turnaround time for many of the samples collected by government health workers is two to three weeks in Nairobi. Several health workers told the Star many of those who test positive are informed after two weeks. "Before that they are freely interacting with their families and the public and when some receive the positive results it is already too late," a nurse involved in sample collection said. The track and trace teams are also picking up some patients whose samples were collected for testing mid-May. "When you ask some of them, they tell you they were tested one month ago," said one health worker, who is part of the track and trace team. She said they felt frustrated because the long turnaround time means sick people stay with their communities for weeks, spreading the virus. Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache said Kenya was still finding it difficult to procure enough testing reagents due to a global shortage. “Early this year, the global supply and distribution chains had almost ground to a halt. The systems are slowly coming back to life but access to the much needed supplies is still very difficult,” the PS said on Friday when she received 17,000 testing kits from the Korean government. The PS  noted the cases reported this month have shot up due to growing community transmission. “This upward trend will be seen for a bit longer before the curve is flattened. In this regard, more resources are required to enable us to reverse the trend and reduce the positive cases due to a decline in transmission,” she said. University of Liverpool epidemiologist Dr Mark Nanyingi noted there was  growing defiance of the public health guidelines in Nairobi. "The people are getting impatient because of the lockdown. They get defiant. In Nairobi they are holding bashes and many nightclubs are now open," he said. According to a recent publication in the Lancet, the growing cases may also outstrip the government's capacity to test. The study says African health authorities are struggling to compete with richer, more powerful countries when it comes to procuring the scarce testing material on the global market. Even low-margin, low-tech items such as swabs to take samples are in short supply on the international market. The World Health Organization has always emphasised the importance of testing, with speed being of the essence. “You can’t fight a virus if you don’t know where it is. Find, isolate, test and treat every case to break the chains of transmission. Every case we find and treat limits the expansion of the disease,” WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said last week. Edited by Henry Makori