Stakeholders in the trade and tourism industries in Lamu have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to lift the dusk-dawn curfew in the region. Their argument is that the county has not recorded a single case of the coronavirus and hence should be treated as such. The nationwide 7pm-to-5am curfew has been in force since March 26 this year as a measure to prevent the spread of the virus. Uhuru on Saturday changed the hours to 9pm-4am. But led by the immediate former Lamu Tourism Association chairperson Ghalib Alwy, the players said the curfew was slowly stifling the sectors, which are major economic earners. The tourism sector has especially suffered immensely at the height of Shabaab terror attacks between 2014 and 2015 which brought the sector to its knees, with many western nations imposing travel advisories. Alwy says if the curfew is not lifted soon, the damage on the major income earning sectors will be irreparable. He termed it unfair to accord Lamu the same treatment accorded to counties that have already recorded Covid-19 cases. “We have seen this before the terror attacks, these sectors might not be able to recover. Our prayer is for the President to consider our plight,” Alwy said. The stakeholders also agreed that the cessation of movement in Kilifi and Mombasa counties was unfair for Lamu as the region is directly dependent on the two counties for survival. They urged the government to lift the directive and instead work towards intense screening of travellers between Lamu and Mombasa. Local investor Shaka Nasru proposed the establishment of numerous Covid-19 testing centres along the Lamu-Mombasa highway to ensure effective testing of people coming from Mombasa and Kilifi. The two counties are among the worst-hit by the pandemic. “All commodities sold in our county are sourced majorly from Mombasa and Kilifi. The cessation is making life impossible,” Nasru said. The stakeholders agreed that the relaxation of some of the Covid-19 regulations will not only boost Lamu’s economy but the entire country’s. The virus had by Sunday infected 2,767 people in the country. Edited by R.Wamochie