Health CS Mutahi Kagwe (pictured) has moved to clip the wings of troublemakers believed to be affiliated to cartels at Afya House. Sources whisper to Corridors the secretary for administration, instructed by the CS, has  written a memo to all heads of directorates informing them of the transfer of three officials. It was a diplomatic way of declaring them persona non grata. One of the officials targeted had refused to be transferred. He would play cat and mouse games, reporting at Afya House early in the morning, leaving and returning in the evening to dodge being seen. Kagwe recently blasted them and vowed to crash the cartels. Staff at the Ministry are happy and want the grand house cleaning to continue. Has a disgruntled Jubilee member gone under? It has emerged the MP who was at the forefront in pushing for changes in a National Assembly committee in which he harboured some interest has gone into hibernation. This is after it emerged his bid to chair the influential committee may not materialise despite his aggressive campaign to demonise the Tangatanga MPs and present himself as being holier than thou. Now his push to dislodge the current chair could have hit a snag after President Uhuru Kenyatta allegedly expressed confidence in the current chairman although allied to Tangatanga. Worse still, the MP had several times played host to some Kieleweke-allied MPs who had pledged to support him. The impeachment motion against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has turned into a hot political potato. The motion has now triggered a falling out among allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga. Some confidants have suggested saving Waiguru in the Senate, which will decide whether or not to uphold the county assembly's impeachment. Others are said to be wary of that approach. The widening divide has reportedly forced Raila to order his allies not to comment publicly. With either decision on Waiguru's motion by Raila's camp laden with far-reaching ramifications, the position is no small matter. The CEO of a Coast parastatal triggered a major scare in his office on Monday. The CEO, who was expected to report on duty, as usual, failed to show up following a coronavirus scare in the institution. Our mole confided to Corridors that the boss panicked after getting information that the Human Resource Officer who had been ailing for some time had tested positive for the disease. Upon learning of the transfer of the HR officer from his home town to an ICU centre, the CEO ordered that his office be immediately locked and has gone under, fearing contact tracing and eventual quarantine.         