Truck drivers who fail to show proof that they have been tested and are free of Covid-19 will no longer be allowed to access Busia. The ban took effect on Tuesday. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said police will mount roadblocks on all roads truckers use to access the county and only drivers with Covid-19 clearance certificates will be allowed entry. Borders with Bungoma, Kakamega and Siaya counties will have roadblocks. The ban was announced after Ojaamong met county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri in his Busia town office. “My government in consultation with the national government through the county commissioner, Joseph Kanyiri, has issued a ban order for trucks whose drivers continue to defy the Ministry of Health guidelines of obtaining Covid-19 negative certificates, 48 hours before departure from point of origin,” Ojaamong said. The move, the county chief said, was prompted by the alarming rate at which truck drivers who test positive are admitted to the Alupe Treatment and Isolation Centre. The truckers are among those returned to the country from Uganda, after testing positive for the virus. All Covid-19 patients at the Alupe health facility are truck drivers. “No more trucks will be allowed entry into the county through Malaba, Mayoni or Bumala routes whose drivers have not been tested to ascertain their status,” the county chief said. “The treatment facility [at Alupe] is overstretched and staff overwhelmed with no equipment to match the rising number of cases from the pandemic which we didn't anticipate.” He said with the high number of coronavirus positive truckers being bought back to Kenya from Uganda, his administration may be compelled to convert other hospitals into treatment centres to the detriment of the local community where the hospitals are located. “This, however, will need funding to equip such hospitals,” the former Amagoro MP said. To operationalise other health facilities to treat Covid-19, he appealed to the national government to fund the county's treatment of coronavirus patients. He said the coronavirus patients at the Alupe centre are from other counties. County commissioner Kanyiri said besides the ban on truckers, all cargo vehicles will also be required to be fumigated before being allowed entry into Busia. There have been rising concerns among Busia residents that the presence of truck drivers in the county may put at risk the lives of those who constantly interact with them. On Tuesday, Anglican Church of Kenya Katakwa Diocese Bishop John Okude urged the national government to carry out mass testing in Busia to establish whether the pandemic has infiltrated into the border community or not. Edited by A.N