Women deal with a lot of duties and the following apps will help them to have an easy time and allow them to have peace of mind. Clue is one of the apps that allows women to track their period cycle or predict their fertile window. It has the provision to track symptoms and lifestyle measures and based on the data you enter, the app’s predictions of your cycle and ovulation improves. It has the Clue Encyclopedia that helps one to learn more about their body and cycle and it also allows users to connect with people that they know. This app offers research-based blurbs about everything from the importance of measuring blood volume to an explanation behind the category named party which you log your intake of alcohol, cigarettes, and other substances. The benefits of using this app are that you will become an expert on your body, be kind to yourself when your cycle symptoms get you down, get curious about how sex drive and your cycle relate and gain a deeper understanding of how your body and mind are connected. For women who are adventurous and love to cook, Tasty app is your new cooking coach with over 2,000 tasty recipes. It provides a step by step instructions and keeps your phone’s screen awake while it does it. One will get the latest Tasty videos and it is also a customizable app. It has filters that allows you to search by gluten-free, vegan, low carb and more and the app will also send you personalized recommendations for your next meal. If you are a vegetarian, you can personalize the app to automatically hide all the recipes with meat. It gives you a breakdown of the equipment needed and the amount of ingredients required so that you can purchase the correct things at the store. For those women who do not feel safe being driven by male taxi drivers, there is a solution for you through the An Nisa taxi app. It is an all-female cab service that has been designed for women in Nairobi and other parts of the country. It has the mantra for women by women as it offers women peace of mind since the priority of the app is fulfilling the needs of women taxi clients. It offers services including taking you home after a night out, starting your day with a ride to work or picking up your children after school. This comes at a time when female clients and drivers are yet to be fully catered for by digital taxi services. This taxi service exclusivity offers a great employment opportunity to female drivers and safety to female passengers throughout their trips.