More than 100 businesswomen on Thursday took to the streets of Garissa town to protest what they termed "a crafted move by security officers to kill their businesses". Some traders claim police officers destroy their goods when they refuse to pay bribes. Last week, security officers seized a lorry ferrying over 500 bags of rice from Dadaab that was destined for Garissa and burnt the consignment. The women accused the security team of destroying the goods without involving the owners. They said they bought the cereals from refugees who sell them to get money to buy other items they don’t have, a business they said they have been conducting for decades now. Dahabo Abdi whose goods were destroyed, said it was not the first time they were doing this. She said several months ago, officers set ablaze her lorry that was ferrying genuine goods within the county. “We are here to demonstrate and air our grievances to the government. The officers have been frustrating us for a very long time. Unfortunately, they only resort to burning our goods when we refuse to cooperate by paying bribes,” Dahabo said. She said the women lost over Sh6 million from last week’s operation and pleaded with government officials to stop destroying goods without consulting the owners. Businesswoman Farhia Hassan said the officers should take the traders to court instead of destroying their goods. But speaking at his office, regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana said the women did not prove that the goods really came from the refugees. He said his team contacted officials from the UNHCR asking them to confirm in writing whether the consignment coming from Dadaab refugee complex was theirs, but declined to cooperate. Ndalana said they had every reason to believe that the rice was contraband. Last year, security officers in Dadaab burnt to ashes two lorries that were intercepted along Liboi-Dadaab road ferrying contraband goods that included, powder milk, sugar and rice. The goods were from Somalia. The action was widely condemned by local leaders led by MP Mohamed Dahiye, who called on the government to arrest and charge all those who were involved in the exercise.  Edited by A.N