The DCI on Sunday recovered 25,300 litres of expired Miltra Cooking oil in Changamwe,  Mombasa County. The consignment was packed in 1,265 twenty-litre Jerry cans ready to be sold to unsuspecting Kenyans. The multi-agency team led by sleuths from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and officers drawn from the Public Health, Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya Bureau of Standards also nabbed the owner of the goods. According to a statement by the DCI, the 50-year old suspect Deborah Taabu, was  planning to repackage the oil before selling. "The Intelligence led operation that was conducted at Denco Godown within Changamwe Sub-County also resulted in the arrest of a 50-year-old Deborah Taabu who is the owner of the consignment that was to be repackaged and sold to unsuspecting members of the public," the George Kinoti led directorate said. "The DCI once again warn those hell-bent on supplying products that are poisonous and unfit for human consumption out of sheer greed for money that no effort will be spared in tracking them down and subjecting them to the full force of the law. Suspect to be charged accordingly," he said. In November last year, two suspects were arrested and a consignment of wheat flour  seized while being repackaged in a house at Siranga, Dandora, Nairobi county. Joyce Nyambura and Samuel Kamau were found with several bales of expired Exe, Dola, and Golden wheat flours. The goods expired in July. There were fears some of the flour was already dispatched for sale to members of the public, raising questions on how the two obtained the packaging material. In September, Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) and public health officials seized expired cooking oil, rice, sugar and flour worth Sh20 million in Eldoret. Barely a month later, more than 50 tonnes of expired beans where nabbed in a National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) silo. The recovery followed in the wake of a countrywide crackdown on contraband, counterfeit, and substandard goods. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has maintained that  the war on illicit goods would continue until all the illegal dealerships are wiped out.