Just what is DP William Ruto and his allies plotting after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s purge that culminated in the removal of National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale? Well, moments after Duale’s removal on Monday, some Tangatanga MPs were heard talking about the need to "accelerate the process." One of them, a vocal DP supporter who was recently removed from the chairmanship of a powerful committee, said, "Enough is enough." It was not immediately clear what needed to be accelerated but those in the know say the plan is to form a new political outfit and ditch the ruling Jubilee Party. A first-term MCA from a county in Nyanza is on the run - literally. Reason? A tycoon in a neighbouring county has launched a manhunt after the ward legislator reportedly defrauded him of millions of shillings. The MCA is said to have fleeced the man of Sh5 million ostensibly to facilitate a multi-billion contract with the county government. The ward legislator had promised to link the tycoon with the governor to give him the contract. However, two years later, the meeting is yet to materialise and the MCA is not answering the man's phone calls. The tycoon has dispatched goons to trace the ward rep, promising to teach him a lesson he will never forget. A former governor is chest-thumping about how financially well off he is even after losing the seat in the last election. Claiming that he does not miss the seat, the former county chief boasts of an extravagant lifestyle and says he buys lots of flashy things that he does not really need. And for those who try to be like him, the former governor's advice to them is that they can never achieve what he has done in three years. The former county boss talks about owning a fleet of expensive cars and brags about how anyone's' devoted girlfriend will certainly fall for him when he comes around driving one of his posh vehicles. A Principal Secretary has set tongues wagging over her obsession with the operations of a top parastatal. Corridors understand the PS, who has a long association with the parastatal, has been going to any length to control the agency. A little bird whispers to Corridors that a few years back, the state officer was behind the hooligans who demonstrated outside the parastatal’s offices. The officer is also said to be behind the numerous court orders that stopped recruitment of the agency’s CEO. Concerned staff have now compiled an explosive dossier detailing the PS’s multitude of infractions and will soon petition higher authorities for her removal.