 Restaurants have been allowed to operate for two more hours and close at 7.30pm so workers get time to beat the 9pm curfew. Restaurants and hotels were among enterprises closed by the government to curb the spread of coronavirus. They were however allowed to reopen between 5am and 5pm. Their operating hours were on Tuesday extended by two and half hours. The decision was arrived at after consultation between restaurant owners and the National Emergency Response Committee on Covid-19. The extension of the hours is aimed at cushioning the owners economically and ensuring that Kenyans coming from work get something to eat. The operators will however be required to adhere to the protocols issued by the Health ministry on the prevention of Covid-19. They include having thermo guns for checking customer temperatures, ensuring hand washing facilities and ensuring social distancing. They are also expected to provide hand sanitisers in strategic places within the facility and ensuring use of face masks at all times by both the clients and food handlers. All restaurant workers must be tested prior to the opening of the restaurants. However, the protocols have been changed to ensure that once tested, the restaurant or hotel worker will not need another test after 14 days as had been earlier outlined. The tests will be required to be conducted after 14 days only if the restaurant does not follow the protocols put in place or if a person shows symptoms of the virus. “These guidelines must be strictly adhered to. Public health officials in their respective areas are required to ensure that these guidelines are complied with,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The public health officials will also be required to conduct regular inspections of the facilities and any operator found not to follow the guidelines will have their licences and certificates withdrawn permanently in accordance with Public Health Act. “We understand that the containment measures come at a cost. They impact our everyday lifestyles and even affect our economic activities leading to losses,” the CS noted. He added, “Lest there is abuse by anybody in the Ministry of Health, such actions as permanent revocation of a licence will be agreed with the director for public health and the director for public health directorate.” The ministry has also encouraged Covid-19 positive mothers to ensure they exclusively breastfeed their babies until the six months period as required. Director of Medical Services for Preventive and Promotive Health Pacifica Onyancha said such mothers should ensure they wear a mask and ensure minimal contact with the child. This means that if they are not breastfeeding, the child should be taken care of by somebody else to avoid infection. The ministry has also availed child friendly formulations for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia during this pandemic. “Infant mortality is at high in our country and we have ensured that healthcare workers have been given the capacity to manage the newborn unit to make sure that the outcome of the sick neonates is good,” Onyancha said. On the issue of use of face masks in children parents have been warned that children under two years are not to put on masks because they reduce the oxygen. “Children are very fragile and I want to say that during this Covid-19 period, the under five children in personal spaces such as cars and at home should not also wear masks to avoid suffocation because they may tend to sleep.” Data from the briefing shows the number of positive cases rose to 3,860 after 133 more cases were confirmed. They comprised 88 men and 45 women. The 133 were from 3,255 samples tested. The total number of tests conducted since the first case now stands at 121,956. Forty more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered to 1,326. Out of the total confirmed cases, 86 are from Nairobi while 27 are from Mombasa. Kiambu had seven, Busia five, Kilifi, Kajiado and Migori recorded two cases each while Machakos amd Murang'a had one case each. One more patient died, pushing the total number of fatalities  to 105.   Edited by P.O