The Coca-Cola Foundation and its bottling partners, Coca-Cola System has committed a total of over Sh530 million to support governments, communities and local economies in their urgent efforts to contain the spread and impact of the Coronavirus. Latest to this contribution is Sh170 million, with The Coca-Cola System committing Sh130 million and Sh130 million from Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (CCBA) to support Shining Hope for Communities (SHOFCO), Kenya Red Cross and AMREF Health Africa  bolster their efforts towards curbing the spread of the  virus in Kenya. The Coca-Cola system also donated to National Solidarity Funds in South Africa, Morocco and Djibouti and additional funds were allocated to boost awareness and mobilization to help stem infections in vulnerable communities across several countries. It has suspended all commercial advertising of its brands and deploying its marketing and trade assets, including social media channels, product labels and point-of-sale materials, to amplify COVID-19 messaging. It is also providing funding and other forms of support to help bolster the micro, small and medium enterprises in the retail, hospitality and recycling sectors, who have been among the hardest hit businesses across countries. This is in addition to $4 million (Sh400 million) by The Coca-Cola Foundation to international International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and Amref Health to procure and distribute personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other critical needs for frontline workers and to help fund ICU-enabled ambulances. In Kenya, Sh17 million sent to Amref has gone towards to supporting health workers in communities, setting up PPE manufacturing at Dagoretti centre and providing water to communities in need across the country. Another Sh10 million awarded to SHOFCO has been used to create awareness and provide hand washing points in the densely populated informal settlements of Kibera and Mukuru in Nairobi. According to Bruno Pietracci , Coca-Cola president for Africa and Middle East, they are leveraging on the experience and capabilities the Coca-Cola System has built in over 90 years of serving consumers and making a difference across Africa, in the planning and deployment of  resources to effectively support governments in the efforts to contain the spread, support vulnerable communities and get local economies back up and running. “The Coca-Cola system has been through many global crises during our 134 year’s history. Making a positive difference during times of crisis is in our DNA. We are in this together with our communities.  Going forward, supporting micro and small businesses who are the fabric of our communities and the backbone to Africa’s resilience, will be a key priority for us,” added Pietracci. 