It is common for professionals and entrepreneurs to get lost in the day to day activities of their jobs and lose sight of the importance and impact of what they do. With time, their work is viewed as normal – an expected adult requirement that pays the bills. Many professionals forget that their work matters. They have done it for long and hardly see how much help and joy that they bring to society. So, if no one has told you in a while, I want to remind you that: your work matters; you do important work. Here, the nature of your job is irrelevant; whatever work you do to add value to society, matters and I celebrate you. Well done. Your gifts matter. We are blessed to have someone like you who has the combination of gifts and talents that you do. Your abilities are amazing. The way you do your work adds much value to the systems in which you work – you make work easy and fun. Your skill level is a breath of fresh air. Your presence in the workplace brings much joy to those who encounter you. Your vision matters. You have no idea how fortunate we are that you have the perspective that you do. Your view of life reveals solutions that we would not have seen without you. This in turn helps us to apply innovative techniques to problem-solving. What you see and how you see is truly an awesome gift to society. Your perspective and ideas lead your team to breakthroughs and keep them winning. You are highly valuable. Your journey matters. We may not fully understand the path that has brought you this far, but it has made you the amazing professional that you are, and we are grateful. Due to your journey, you have grown in wisdom, skill, and leadership. You take us further in our journey because of where you have been. You lead so well and skillfully help us through life’s rough terrain. Your work matters. Thank you for the work that you do. Thank you for the value that you add to customers, colleagues, friends, family, and society. You are an excellent professional and the system works well because you are here. Thank you for serving people with a great attitude. Thank you for the skills that you graciously display daily. Thank you for being you. We see, we know, and we appreciate you. Please, never forget that, on a deep level: your work matters. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com