Eight North Rift counties failed to absorb more than Sh10 billion for development projects and recurrent activities because of disruption by flooding, locusts and the Covid-19 pandemic. During the 2019-20 financial year, counties approved budgets ranging between the lowest in Elgeyo Marakwet at Sh3.9 billion and the highest in Turkana at more than Sh13 billion. Preliminary estimates from most counties indicated they absorbed only about 60 per cent of their budgets. Most projects and activities stalled starting in February with the floods and in March with the coronavirus outbreak. Other budgets included Uasin Gishu with more than Sh7 billion, Nandi more than Sh6.5 billion, Trans Nzoia Sh6 billion, West Pokot Sh5.6 billion and Baringo Sh6 billion. The unspent funds usually are rolled over to the next financial year. “The effects of Covid-19, floods and other calamities like locusts have been devastating because much of our approved development plans approved by the assemblies stalled,” secretary general of the regional county assemblies Kipkurui Chepkwony said. He said the counties will now focus on economic recovery while continuing fighting Covid-19. The counties also missed revenue collection targets for 2019-20 by more than 50 per cent due to Covid-19 and the generally poor economic situation in the country. The counties had set annual collection targets but collections nearly collapsed as the focus shifted to Covid-19. MCAs have issued a red alert over possible collapse of internal revenue collections. “We did not raise even half of what we had projected and the downturn could continue  until we flatten the Covid-19 curve and then take time for recovery,” Uasin Gishu Assembly Chief Whip Gilbert Tenai said. He said the revenue fall will equally affect the national government and consequently counties are likely to get less money for this financial year. The MCAs from the region met in Eldoret where they expressed alarm over increasing problems caused by the effects of Covid-19. They included West Pokot Deputy Speaker Francis Kirop, his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Christopher Kimosong, Pokot MCA Robert Komoloi and Uasin Gishu MCA Tenai. Uasin Gishu was to collect internal revenue but could not achieve half. It is estimated counties will lose as much as Sh3 billion. Some counties diverted part of their finances to mitigate effects of flooding and the coronavirus. Uasin Gishu passed a supplementary budget of Sh767 million to help Governor Jackson Mandago’s administration handle Covid-19, flooding damage and roads repair Chairman of the budget committee Jonathan N’getich said the assembly had re-allocated funds from travel and non-priority projects so money could be spent in the health sector. Funds were to be spent to equip hospitals to treat Covid-19 and handle other emergencies. Most of the counties also diverted funds. Governor Jackson Mandago Uasin Gishu, who is chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), said residents must sustain the war against Covid-19 and work on economic recovery. He was touring water (Edited by V. Graham)  