Naivasha MP Jane Kihara has accused some Cabinet secretaries of breaching protocol by leaving out legislator during visits to constituencies. Kihara, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, said CSs do not involve MPs in development tours. Two weeks ago, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and his Environment counterpart Keriako Tobiko visited the constituency to check on flooding around Lake Naivasha. And on Tuesday, Transport CS James Macharia was in Naivasha to inspect the rehabilitation of roads. The MP’s office was locked out of both visits. Kihara said elected leaders have information on happenings on the ground, hence, the need to engage them. “We have seen a trend where Cabinet secretaries are now visiting constituencies without involving elected leaders and there is need for respect and consultation,” she said. The MP was addressing the press after distributing food to vulnerable families in Naivasha town, including a couple that gave birth to quadruplet a month ago. Kihara said they are in the dark over the distribution of relief food from the Covid-19 fund by the national government. She said hundreds of families are sleeping hungry as they wait for food from the national government. “The CS for Devolution Wamalwa was in Naivasha a couple of weeks ago and we are surprised that there was no food delivered to suffering families,” Kihara said. She urged the Nakuru government to hasten the distribution of relief food to struggling families. “The CDF office does not have a kitty to support those affected by the pandemic and we are calling on the county to start distributing the food it has in its stores,” Kihara said. The father of the quadruplets, Ezekiel Karuri, said it has been a major challenging taking care of the girls during the pandemic. He thanked Kihara for offering to pay their rent for the rest of the year. “We are grateful for the gift of the four lovely girls and the visit by the MP during this period when life is very challenging due to Covid-19,” Karuri said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya