President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to give new directions as the night curfew and partial lockdown expire while the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases rises. In the past week, Kenya has been recording three digit positive cases with the respiratory disease now confirmed in 34 out of the 47 counties. The President is expected to address the nation on the way forward on Saturday when the restrictions expire. They include curfew and sealing off hotspot areas. He is expected to address opening of the economy. The Star learnt that the National Security Council (NSC) chaired by the President will meet on Friday to weigh the options ahead of Saturday’s national address. Last month when he unveiled a Sh54 billion economic stimulus package, Uhuru hinted at easing the curfew and cessation of movement in select hotspots. The President urged personal responsibility when the restrictions are finally lifted, adding that Kenya could not be under lockdown forever. “I have told health officials and my ministers that they should start telling Kenyans that we cannot be under curfew or lockdown forever. We cannot keep on telling Kenyans to stay at home, or that they should not tend to their business or even go to work,” Uhuru said. The President also hinted at a partial reopening of schools, instructing the Education mMinistry to look at measures to enable candidates to gradually resume learning. Since schools were closed on March 15, the future of the candidates has been debated. In an indication the government may start easing some restrictions from Saturday, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho on Wednesday told a radio station of plans to roll out phased reopening of the country’s economy. Kenya imposed a nationwide dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 27. It was extended for a further 21 days on April 25. It was pushed forward another 21 days, which end on Saturday. On April 6, the government imposed travel restrictions on Nairobi, Kwale, Kilifi and Mombasa which were proving to be the virus hotspots. Mandera was added. Edited by Henry Makori