Kenyans were warned on Wednesday to beware of rapid Covid-19 tests that are flooding the market but do not reveal if one is still infected by active viruses. The Rapid Diagnostic Tests in question are antibody-based and tell the level of infection but do not tell whether the virus is still active. Tests can be used for community surveillance but not individual diagnosis. The Health ministry uses the real-time PCR test based on detection of the nucleic acid of the virus. It is the standard test recommended by the World Health Organization. “These RDTs are a concern because they have permeated the market and are being vendored out there and presented as a test for diagnosis of Covid-19,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said on Wednesday at the daily Covid-19 briefing. He said the WHO is yet to provide guidance on the test. He called it insufficiently sensitive for accurate diagnosis. “These tests cannot be used for diagnosis until further information is received about exactly how they perform and what they detect. That's why we say they are not a test for Covid-19." He added, "Kenyans, please don't take those results of an RTD test for now, giving comfort that you are Covid-19 negative or in some cases giving you the anguish that you are positive." The tests have only been authorised for use in telling the level of exposure in a community or population and for purposes of survillance and research. The ministry plans to do some population testing with it.  If you're told you'll be tested in 15 minutes with a prick to the fingertip, it's the wrong test, the CAS said. The country on Wednesday recorded the highest number of positive coronavirus cases at 184 as the ministry warned the numbers are expected to rise. The number of positive cases stands at 4,044. The 184 were from 2,518 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is 124,044. Twenty-seven more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total of recoveries to 1,353. “Numbers of positive cases are steadily rising, further confirming that community transmission is now established,” Aman said. The 184 new cases include 129 men and 53 women. Of the confirmed cases, 111 are from Nairobi while 19 are from Mombasa. Kajiado had 14 cases, Meru 13, Kimabu nine, Busia six, Nakuru four, Machakos three while Kwale, Kisumu, Garissa, Taita Taveta and Vihiga recorded one case each. Vihiga becomes the latest county to confirm a case, bringing the total number of counties with positive cases to 40. Two more patients have died, raising the number of fatalities to 107. “All indications show we are now entering the exponential phase of our curve which is the steep rise of our curve. And going forward we are likely to see larger numbers of positives every day," Aman said. (Edited by V. Graham)