The Kisumu County Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund Committee has been inaugurated. This follows the mobilisation of Sh200 million from expenditure cuts in the current budget and other sources. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o and his deputy Mathews Owili took a 30 per cent pay cut to raise funds for the kitty. County Executive Committee members, chief officers and directors had their salaries slashed by 20, 15, and 10 per cent respectively from April 1 for three months. Nyong’o said during the inauguration that the fund will cushion residents from the socioeconomic effects of the pandemic. He said the committee, created under Section 7 of the Kisumu County Covid -19 Emergency Response Fund Regulations, 2020,  was passed by the assembly. “The regulations are the legal instruments guiding the operationalisation of the fund in accordance with the Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, 2012,” the governor said. The 10-member committee comprises representatives from stakeholders and government officials. The chair is Bhire Chatthe, who is a member of the Kisumu Economic and Social Council (Kecosoc). The other members are county director special programme Ruth Odinga, Finance executive George Okong’o, Agriculture chief officer Paul Omanga, civil society representative Winnie Ogot and chief Finance officer Akaka Ramoya as the fund administrator. Also in the team are Caleb Opon as fund secretary, Jessica Ogombe, representing the civil society, and Health chief officer (in charge of partnerships and administration) Alphonse Ouya and Kecosoc member Walter Odede. Nyong’o said the committee will work closely with the Kecosoc to coordinate fundraising towards Covid-19 kitty. He appealed for concerted effort to raise funds to effectively deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee will provide timely interventions to address the effects of the pandemic. “We want to be able to provide food and supplies to those whose livelihoods have been adversely affected by this pandemic. This fund will receive cash donations for food purchases and supplies,” he said. Beyond financial contributions, he asked individuals and corporates to donate food, medical supplies, and other materials. The contributions should be channelled through Covid-19 Response Kisumu County, account number: 0152381376001, SBM Bank (K) Ltd Swift Code: Sbmkena Bank Code: 15, Branch Code: 015 Branch: Kisumu.  - mwaniki fm  