Flood victims in Lamu county are set to be permanently relocated and resettled by the national government to safe areas. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa made the promise at the weekend when he toured villages left in ruins by floods. Eugene said the victims will be relocated to uplands within the county. Their current homes are situated in areas prone to flooding. The CS said their goal is to prevent recurring disasters and the untold suffering that residents undergo every year. He addressed thousands of victims from Chalaluma, Dide Waride, Moa and Kitumbini in Lamu West. Once the resettlement is completed, the government will take over the flooded parcels. Eugene sought to assure the families of government support during the entire period of the crisis. Supplying victims with food year in, year out has proved unhelpful, hence the need for a permanent solution, he said. The relocation will also benefit flood victims in Tana River. “The first approach the government is taking to assist victims of flooding is ensuring they have food, but we understand that’s not a permanent solution to the floods. The government plans to change tack, including resettling the victims elsewhere and reclaiming the flood-prone lands,” Eugene said. He noted as dangerous, the failure by people to heed government directives to move to safe grounds to avert such disasters. Lamu was among the counties that have previously benefitted from the Sh1 billion housing project for flood victims. The CS said it was unfortunate that some houses in Chalaluma village had been submerged. “I am a bit saddened by the fact that some of the houses are among those that were swept away by the raging floods. That's why we must seek an alternative solution to all this,” he said. Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo called on the Kenya Electricity Power Generating Company PLC to compensate flood victims, accusing it of being directly responsible for the crisis. She dismissed claims that the villages have been prone to flooding, stressing that the current situation was only occasioned when KenGen allegedly released water from the Masinga Dam. The situation is believed to have in turn caused the Tana and Nyongoro rivers in the region to burst their banks, resulting in massive overflow. The victims are now seeking compensation for destroyed homes, crops and livestock. “KenGen is responsible for what these people are going through and the least they can do is pay them up and find them alternative settlements,” Obbo said. Edited by F'Orieny