Various industries players in the petroleum and energy industry are calling upon the government to hasten the LPG regulatory reforms such as enforcement of the LN100 , so as to have more Kenyans use LPG. The LN 100 governs the LPG industry and put an end to the mandatory interchange of one brand of gas cylinder for another as part of a vigorous move to end the illicit trade in LPG including the illegal refilling, rebranding, reselling, storage, and transporting of LPG. In a recent webinar hosted by the Petroleum Institute of East Africa, they noted various challenges in the industry and fronted various recommendations. According to Jeremiah Kamanda, LPG Retail Manager Hashi Energy Kenya, complying with the LN 100 will ensure all retailers and distributors are licensed thus reduce illegal refilling. He also noted that industry regulators such as the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) could alos work to seize cou ntrerfeit cylinders offered at a cheaper price. “We are facing various challenges with regards to LPG in the country and one such challenge us illegal refills and with the abolishing of exchange pools which bring a challenge of access in various areas,” said Jacob Musoka, LPG Manager, National Oil Corporation. Musoka noted that people in the rural areas also have a huge problem in accessing the gas due to the high cost. He recommended that the LPG providers could adopt a pay as you go option or establishing microfinance communities that could help with refills. The petroleum industry players also noted that some people conside LPG as a dangerous solution thus prefer other forms of coking. According to KNBS, 93.2 per cent of Kenyans use wood fuel. “We need to educate people on safety while using LPG and also it’s benefits,” Musoka said. With many Kenyans using wood fuel there have also been various challenges, as household air pollution has lady to above 5000 deaths in households. “As industry players we need to vchange the outlook of Kenyans on this issue and we could ease adoption by demystifying myths on LPG,” said Wanjiku Manyara, General Manager, Petroleum Institute of East Africa.