Elected Jubilee leaders who may have formed another outfit outside the party will be dewhipped and have their certificates withdrawn, Kieni MP Kanini Kega has warned. The warning comes after Deputy President William Ruto’s allies opened an office dubbed Jubilee Asili Centre. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the office is not a parallel office, but rather a meeting venue for those denied access to Jubilee's headquarters. Kega on Friday said if some have formed another outfit, then they must be prepared for the consequences. The MP said when leaders were nominated by the party, they had an undertaking that they will subscribe to the ideals of the party, warning that if one dishonours the oath, the law takes its course. “The recourse for individuals who have gone against the party is in the provisions in the Constitution that will be invoked and the choices will face the consequences,” he said. The law states that if one belongs to a certain political party and is seen to associate with a different outfit, that person ceases to be a member of the first party, Kega said. They will automatically lose their seats, Kega said. “We dewhipped a few members from the various committees and that was the first step in instilling discipline in the membership. There is more to come from the party.” If the party feels that one is not pushing its aspirations, it can write to the speaker and state that that person is no longer a member, he added. “There are people playing with fire either through ignorance or trying to dare but they will see the consequences by next week if there is credible information that they have formed an outfit.” He reminded those agitating for the formation of another party that the Jubilee government has a mandate of up to 2022 and every elected leader is bound by that. Kega said by coming up with a different office from the known one, they are outright sabotaging the work of the President. He warned that when it comes to dewhipping, it will not be a collective issue as “each member will carry their own cross”. “Heads will roll before the end of the month.” Edited by R.Wamochie