The doctors’ union has accused five counties of allegedly failing to pay health workers their May salaries. The Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union on Monday gave the counties until July 5 to pay May and June salaries or they take industrial action. The counties that are yet to pay May salaries include Mombasa, Trans Nzoia, Tharaka Nithi, Meru and Nandi. “Devolution took health from the ward into ICU. Salaries have been delayed; as we speak, there are counties that are yet to pay healthcare workers even as they battle Covid-19,” chairman Oroko Obegi said. “These are health workers who wake up everyday to go to hospital to attend to patients. Some don’t even have fare to go to work; they don’t have rent or money to take care of their families. It is saddening.” The union noted that over the past three months, doctors and other health workers have diligently served Kenyans in the public sector despite challenges at the workplace such as lack of adequate personal protective equipment, staff shortages and consistent salary delays. “Despite the health workers doing their part, the county governments have fallen short on their part. As has been evident during the Covid-19 pandemic health is fundamental to our national security,” secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. The SG noted that it is not right for health workers, who work hard to protect Kenyans from Covid-19 and other common ailments, to be in financial distress due to salary delays. They have further threatened to strike over reports of a plan to omit the clause requiring the formation of the Health Service Commission from the BBI report. Mwachonda said the challenges faced in management of human resources over the years, and especially in the devolved system of governance, can only be resolved through a centralised standardised and coordinated manner. “All healthcare workers in the country are ready, if you remove the clause, we will close all the hospitals in the country.” They noted that as the country embarks on constitutional reforms, the establishment of HSC as presented by the union and other health stakeholders to the BBI steering committee will go a long way in entrenching the right to health of all Kenyans. In addition, the union has urged all counties to implement all clauses of the collective bargaining agreements signed with all the 47 governments. The CBAs were in respect to the terms and conditions of work, promotions and health insurance. “The union has declared a dispute at the Labour ministry. We expect a speedy conclusion of this process,” Mwachonda said. Edited by R.Wamochie