 Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has asked the national government to fund the county's treatment of coronavirus patients, saying most of the victims are from other counties. Busia's coronavirus cases rose to 47 on Sunday with most cases those of truck drivers who have tested positive at the Busia and Malaba border points. Only two patients are residents of the county. Ojaamong said Busia has limited funds to cater for the treatment of all the patients. “Our resources, both human and financial have been overstretched and depleted. We seek urgent funding and support for Personal Protective Equipment and human resources,” Ojaamong said during a press briefing at the county headquarters on Sunday. “The national government should deploy additional laboratory staff to Busia to assist in mass testing. It should also support the operationalisation of 28 schools which were identified as quarantine centres and assist in the improvement of Alupe Isolation and Treatment Centre.” Truck drivers from Mombasa top the list of Covid-19 patients receiving treatment in Busia with 11 cases. Four of the patients are from Nairobi while Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Kitui, Makueni, Nakuru and Garissa counties have two cases each. Others are from Kakamega, Kajiado, Kisii, Mandera, Kilifi counties and the neighbouring countries of Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo. “The good news is that two drivers from Mombasa and Nakuru have turned negative and are set for discharge,” Ojaamong said. The county chief said while the national government has deployed additional officers to test truck drivers both in Malaba and Busia border points, the situation is getting worse with the number of those testing positive rising. “I request for additional equipment for Intensive Care at the treatment centres including ventilators," Ojaamong said. "The national government should prohibit entry of truck drivers who have not been tested at their point of origin and issued with Covid-19 certificates into Busia, as was recommended by the Ministry of Health." He asked Uganda to abide by the World Health Organisation protocols and guidelines that require Covid-19 patients to be treated at the site of diagnosis instead of transporting them to their respective countries. He said his administration was determined to ensuring Busia residents are protected from coronavirus. He encouraged locals to observe guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health. By Sunday, Busia had tested 4,489 people of whom 4,021 are truck drivers. Present during the press briefing were Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, Health chief officer Isaac Omeri, director of medical services Janerose Ambuchi and Covid-19 coordinator David Mukabi. Others were MCAs Nancy Okademi (nominated), James Ong’ole (Angorom) and John Obwogo (Nang'ina).  Edited by P.O