Narok county has recorded its first case of Covid-19. Governor Samuel Tunai said a 35-year-old man from Suswa Trading Centre in Narok East subcounty tested postive on Saturday. He was asymptomatic and remains so. “For some time, Narok has been among the few counties without a single confirmed case of the coronavirus. However, this changed when the first case was confirmed," Tunai told a press briefing at county headquarters. The county has launched tracing and put in place more measures to prevent further spread of Covid-19. Soon after results were confrimed, a multidisciplinary team was dispatched to trace and investigate, manage the situation and counsel the patient. He was transferred to the isolation unit at the Narok County Referral Hospital where he is reported to be doing well. “From our medical experts the patient was found to have no symptoms an still has none," Tunai said. Twenty-six contacts have been traced, line-listed and quarantined. Samples have been collected from 12 of the 26 contacts and sent to the Kenya Medical Research Institue for testing. The county boss said his administration has continued to strengthen preparedness.  The county has acquired 47 beds in addition to the existing 17 beds. A health summit agreed last Wedesday at least 300 beds would be set up in 30 days for solation and treatment of suspected and confirmed cases. Tunai said the county was  preparing the required 236 beds. He said the county was constructing an isolation facility in an existing health centre exclusively for Covid-19 isolation and treatment. The governor said home quarantine has been extremely successful. It has handled 65 case of suspected infections, which have all turned out negative, and relieved pressure on health facilities. More testing kits have been acquired. Screening has been enhanced at entry points into Narok. So far the county has sent 500 samples to Kemri and receieved 270 results. Testing has covered  health workers, food handlers and people in quarantine. The county intends to test frequent trnsporters of foodstuffs and livestock, security personnel and the general public. Community awarness is to be heightened, especially on precautions to take once the economy is reopened. "The fate of our county will depend more on what you do as an individual rather than what the county or national government does,” Tunai said. Narok county commissioner Samuel Kimiti said that security agencies will be on high alert. “Now  that we have a confirmed case, we will be more alert. Anyone who flouts the  regulations will be punished accordingly,” Kimiti said. (Edited by V. Graham) 