Taita Taveta and Kajiado counties have agreed to form a team to look into the boundary dispute at Rombo group ranch. The ranch which lies in both counties has been at the centre of a long-standing boundary conflict pitting the two devolved units. The team is expected to bring on board various stakeholders to settle the row. “Surveyors from both counties are expected to table a report of their findings in a week's time before county representatives from both regions,” Taita Taveta Lands executive Mwandawiro Mghanga revealed. Speaking during a consultative meeting between the two parties, Mghanga said resolving the disagreement would enhance service delivery by both counties to the communities living in Rombo. Taita Taveta also eyes taxes and levies in the agricultural-rich area. The former Wundanyi MP said communities in the area had enjoyed cordial relations over time, hence the need for an amicable settlement of the matter. “There has been good coexistence in the area, however proper boundary demarcations are vital to inform us where we can extend our services. Aligning boundaries will enable us to know our areas of jurisdiction therefore inform where we can impose taxes,” he added. Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation CEC Davis Mwangoma said residents living in Rombo ranch were willing to help solve the dispute. Mwangoma expressed urgency in the need to align the ranch with the ranch management policy of Taita Taveta county. “A resolution would mean improved agricultural and food security in our area. The ranch management shall also be assisted to boost livestock production,” he said during a meeting at Mata. Kajiado Lands CEC Hamilton Parsena noted that resolving the dispute through dialogue would set a precedent for other counties facing similar disputes. He reiterated that the two counties shall continue strengthening their working relationship, especially in agriculture and infrastructure. This comes days after Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja agreed to dialogue with his Kwale counterpart Salim Mvurya to resolve another boundary row at Macknoon Road township. Taita Taveta is also at loggerheads with Makueni county over ownership of Mtito Andei town. Edited by Henry Makori