Tough measures await learning institutions as they prepare for reopening in September. In measures to stem the coronavirus spread upon reopening, Education CS George Magoha on Monday hinted at a plan to split classes. He said classes would only accommodate a maximum of 20 learners, a plan whose viability is subject to debate. Schools will also need to acquire thermal guns for routine temperature checks. Teachers could also report two weeks prior to the reopening date for preparations on operating in the coronavirus era. Magoha spoke in Kitui where he supervised the production of masks to be distributed to schools upon the anticipated reopening. The measures have been received with divided opinion and as some remain pessimistic, other stakeholders propose options that could give Magoha’s plan a lifeline. Education consultant David Njegere said the proposal to limit the number of learners to 15 or 20 will ensure social distancing Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi said in ensuring the stipulated capacity, two ways could be considered - split classes or outdoor lessons. The proposal is a measure adopted by Denmark — the first country in Europe to reopen day care and primary schools after the strict coronavirus lockdown. "Schools with resources could also resort to makeshift structures as extra classes... We also hope that the allocation in the budget will avail some infrastructure and more teachers," Kahi said. However, he noted schools could again run into deeper teacher shortage woes due to dividing classes to achieve the ration. Kessha had earlier suggested phased reopening with KCPE and KCSE candidates marked as ideal to report back first. In what could see parents dig deeper into their pockets, the Education ministry could also consider involving parents in some development projects within the schools once they reopen. A circular by the ministry in March shows that institutions will need to justify, in writing, detailed reasons they seek to charge extra levies. They may or may not receive approval from the CS. Private sector Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers secretary general Akello Misori on Thursday told the Star that the union is keen on the plan to ensure teachers’ safety. “As unions, we were taken so much into account and we are consulting to look at how we can ensure our members’ safety is guaranteed upon reopening,” Misori said. However, the SG argues the strict reopening guidelines could give private institutions an edge as public schools suffer from poor development. Misori said the institutions have the financial muscle and have better standing infrastructure. "Private schools will have a headstart on this. Most public schools will have to learn outside and under trees. This is the time we shall know why we should have invested more in education," Misori said. However, Kenya Private School Association boss Peter Ndoro said despite the institutions having an edge over their public counterparts, coronavirus has hit hard their financial ability and could injure preparation to reopening. He also noted that splitting classes will mean more teachers and an extra operating cost for the institutions. “It is a tough balancing act but we need to look deeper and consider what we can do to get back up and running. We are in talks with the government and hope it will support the sector roar back to life,” Ndoro said. Private schools enjoy the pleasure of better infrastructure but also face a challenge in manpower. “Private institutions should also be considered in the supply of the essential products for ensuring safety, things like PPEs and disinfectants,” the CEO said. Kenya Parents Association chairperson Nicholas Maiyo said private schools depend on fees to meet their expenses. A public school classroom accommodates 60 or more learners. But the state has not built new classrooms or hired more teachers. Maiyo questions the practicality that by September, the school infrastructure will have changed - more classrooms, dining areas, dormitories, toilets and running water among others. “That is not possible. It’s not going to be possible to have social distancing with students,” Maiyo told the Star on Thursday. Edited by R.Wamochie