The number of hippos in Lake Naivasha has declined to about 700 over eight years while their attacks on humans have increased, a KWS scientist has said. The Kenya Wildlife Service said Tuesday more than 700 hippos lived in the lake last year, according to a census, down from 1,000 in 2012. But the boat owners’ association said more than 1,500 hippos live in the lake. Despite the reported lower numbers, the animals continue to kill foot-fishermen, boat fishermen and people on the shore. In fact, attacks are on the rise. Six cases were reported in two months. About 10 people have been killed this year. KWS researcher Timothy Ekimei said the current hippo numbers of about 700 are optimal for the lake. He attributed the increased attacks to human encroachment on the riparian land and a rise in the number of illegal fishermen on the lake. Many illegal fishermen are former flower farm workers near the lake who have lost their jobs and turned to fishing. Addressing a meeting at Hell’s Gate National Park, the scientist said the number of hippos was 705 in March last year and it could have increased slightly since then. But the chairman of the Lake Naivasha Boat Owners association David Kilo said more than 1,500 hippos live in the lake. Kilo, who is also an honorary warden, said a census by visiting scientists indicated the lake had one of the highest numbers of hippos among lakes in the region. “We are asking KWS to conduct a fresh census and establish the real number of hippos as visiting scientists said the numbers had doubled [to about 1,500],” Kilo said. He said the closure of wildlife corridors coupled by rising water levels had reduced grazing grounds for the animals, making them hostile. “The worst-affected persons from the hippo attacks are foot-fishermen who have invaded the shores of the lake and more than 10 have been killed since the year began,” he said. KWS assistant director in charge of Central Rift Dickson Ritan defended the current data on the number of hippos as being around 700. He admitted closure of the wildlife corridors had led to a rise in the cases of hippo attacks. Ritan said KWS would work with organisations and individuals to reopen the wildlife passages. “In the last two months we have lost six people to hippo attacks in the lake and cases of human-wildlife conflicts are also on the rise in the region,” Kilo said. (Edited by V. Graham)