Farmers who deliver their coffee to the new KPCU will get over Sh70 per kilogram. Acting managing director Joel Imitira said the organisation has got an American buyer willing to buy all coffee delivered to it by farmers. Imitira has confirmed that they have agreed on the trading modalities that will see the buyer pay before the coffee leaves the warehouse. The buyer has offered to pay $6.7 (about Sh67) for the highest coffee grade AA and and over $5 (Sh50) for the AB grade. The coffee will be exported in two consignments starting with the lower grade. The organisation is finalising export documents. Imitira said the buyer has already paid a 50 per cent deposit and will clear the balance before picking the coffee. “Immediately he clears through the port of Mombasa, he will pay a down payment for the remaining batch of coffee,” he said during a meeting with stakeholders at Kenol in Murang’a on Friday. He said new KPCU received coffee from farmers worth Sh90 million mainly from counties that are near Nairobi including Murang’a, Nyeri and Kiambu. Farmers delivered coffee as parchment for milling, warehousing and marketing to the Dandora KPCU mill, he said. After processing, the farmers will be paid based on cherry but more than Sh70 per kilogram. The acting MD said the money will be dispatched to farmers immediately it is received from the buyer. “We do not want to keep the money. We are organising a payment schedule so that farmers can be paid as soon as possible,” he added. He said a batch of the coffee worth Sh20 million was sold locally. Imitira further revealed that the new KPCU is planning to revive its Meru and Sagana mills to make it easier for farmers to deliver their coffee. “We don’t want farmers to deliver their coffee all the way from Meru to Nairobi, which is expensive,” he added. The farmers will have their coffee milled and stored as it awaits marketing. They will be able to apply for the Cherry Advance Revolving Fund to improve their farming. Mathare-ini, Nguku and Karia-ini factories in Murang’a delivered their coffee to the new KPCU, with members saying the organiasation was better placed to mill and market their coffee as it is not a profit-making entity. The farmers decried consistently poor prices they received from private millers but warned that they would abandon new KPCU if it did not sustainably pay well. Some cooperative societies pay as low as Sh15 per kilo, blamed on mismanagement and coffee theft. The organisation has invited farmers to sell coffee directly to it either individually or through their cooperative societies. It conducted a countrywide awareness campaign early in the year. Edited by Henry Makori