Mukhisa Kituyi can make a very good president. He is a worthy candidate for the top seat. As a Cabinet minister, in the Kibaki administration, and as the MP for Kimilili Constituency, Kituyi was a very effective leader. For him to represent the people of Kimilili for two terms, means he was up to the task. He was first elected to Parliament on a Ford-Kenya ticket in 1992, becoming the Opposition Chief Whip As MP, he was also minister for Trade from 2002 to 2007, which means he has the experience and skills needed to lead. Furthermore, during his period as Trade minister, Kituyi chaired, for two years, the Council of Ministers of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa and the African Trade Ministers' Council. Even after taking a break from politics, Kituyi still landed an international leadership position with the United Nations. He has been serving as Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD since September 2013. These roles show that he is able to perform and has an international profile. What Kenyans are looking for is somebody who can concentrate on development. Kenyans want someone who will reform the country. Many of the things that are worrying Kenyans are issues that can be resolved by the Executive. Kituyi is development conscious. Kenyans further need someone who is strong enough to forge ahead with what President Uhuru Kenyatta has started. We need someone who is capable of tackling corruption without fear. We must have somebody who will wipe out corruption. The number one problem for Kenya is corruption. Kituyi is someone who can be ruthless in the war against graft. Kenyans also want someone who will be focused on developing the nation. They do not want someone who will focus on amassing wealth.  They want a leader who will spend most of his time serving the public. That is what Kenyans are looking for and Kituyi fits the bill. Kituyi was also Chief Executive of the Kenya Institute of Governance and a consultant for the African Union. Judging from his history and what he has done in the offices he has held, Kituyi is a very good candidate for the top job. Former Cabinet Minister Burudi Nabwera spoke to the Star.