The Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri and the Diocese of Kitui have raised Sh38 million through the Hope4U initiative to feed needy families. The initiative was launched two months ago and the church hoped to raise over Sh120 million to feed over 10,000 needy households. Hope4U is a joint initiative of the Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri and the Diocese of Kitui. Of the Sh38 million raised, Brookside Dairy Limited donated Sh10 million on Saturday. While receiving the cheque from Brookside at Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Cathedral Church in Nyeri town, Archbishop Anthony Muheria of the Nyeri Catholic Archdiocese  said the initiative has assisted more than 5,200 needy households. Also launched alongside the initiative was a toll-free number – Good Shepherd Call Centre – to offer spiritual support and free counselling services. The Good shepherd Call Centre was meant to help address social problems such as depression, domestic violence, psychological difficulties and stress during the pandemic. Also receiving counselling are young people anxious about school, those who are dealing with drug addiction and people in quarantine. Muheria said the counselling centre has about 30 people, mostly priests who have volunteered, and a call centre with 30 lines. The centre has 10 professional psychologists to counsel people. Those seeking help can call through a toll free number 0800 723 555. “So far we may have received well over 2,000 calls, and we continue to receive them to give that support which is also human,” he said. Muheria urged people to follow guidelines given by the Ministry of Health, including observing social distance, washing hands and wearing masks. Apart from monetary assistance, the cleric said people have been donating foodstuffs. Emmanuel Kabaki, the general manager, milk procurement and extension services at Brookside Dairy, called on the Trustees of Hope4U initiative to  empower beneficiaries since the support given to them won't last forever. “The needy could be supported to start small income generating activities where they can earn money to improve their cash flows,” he said. The Hope4U initiative calls on well-wishers to donate either Sh200 a day, Sh1,500 a week or Sh6,000 in a month. Contributors can pay via M-Pesa paybill 4023131 to the account Hope or through Cooperative Bank account No. 01128991686700. Edited by A.N