The directive that long distance drivers from neighboring countries collect cargo from the Inland Container Depot in Naivasha could facilitate an increase in Covid-19 cases. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has said there is a need to take extra measures to prevent the disease from spreading like in Busia. While putting residents of Mai Mahiu and Naivasha on high alert, Kinyanjui noted that transport corridors are now the main source of the disease. “We welcome the move to open the ICD but with the high number of long distance drivers, we fear that this could be another source of the disease as has happened in Busia,” he said. Kinyanjui told residents to take caution while dealing with the drivers by observing the set guidelines for avoiding the pandemic. Speaking on Kihoto Estate in Naivasha after launching the Kazi Mtaani initiative, he said the lakeside town had now been categorised among the vulnerable towns in the country, citing the high number of persons who had lost their jobs in the flower and hospitality sector. “Due to the high number of job losses coupled by floods that displaced hundreds, Naivasha is placed among vulnerable communities meaning more support from the government,” he said. He praised the Kazi Mtaani initiative noting that it would assist hundreds of youths from informal settlements around the town. County commissioner Erastus Mbui said 2,000 youths from four settlements in the town could benefit from the initiative. The four, he said, include KCC, Kihoto, Karagita and Kamere estates with plans on to seek more youths from around the town. “This is a project supported by the World Bank and is meant to address hygiene and job opportunities at this time when many sectors have been affected by the pandemic,” he said. Viwandani MCA Eric Gichuki called for a process where the youth would work for one month before another lot is hired, for equal representation. “We thank the government for this chance where 2,000 youths have benefited but hundreds of others who are sleeping hungry have been left and deserve a chance,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie