Miraa farmers have asked the government to cushion them against hunger, saying they have lost both local and international markets owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The farmers say they are staring at starvation because they are no longer able to sell their produce. The Netherlands and the UK governments banned miraa sale five years ago and the coronavirus outbreak saw Somalia also ban international flights including cargo flights that ferried the stimulant to Mogadishu. In Kenya, the restriction of movement across counties has also hampered miraa trade. Tens of counties including Makueni, Isiolo, Kitui, Nyandarua, Wajir, Garissa and Mandera, have also banned miraa sale to limit overcrowding in their markets. Miraa is largely grown in Nyambene region of Meru county and parts of Tharaka Nithi county. Kimathi Munjuri, the Nyambene Miraa Traders Association chairman, said hunger among farmers has become inevitable. “Farmers who sold their produce to markets in Somalia have gone without money for the last four months. There is hunger and we ask the government to move with speed and assist farmers," Munjuri said. He said the fight against coronavirus should not be made to appear like a war on miraa trade. He was referring to counties where miraa sale has been banned. Miraa trade is worth billions of shillings but Munjuri said farmers remain the most exploited in the crop value chain. "Many farmers remain poor as middlemen and exporters exploit the sector," he said. An Intra-Africa horticulture trade survey in 2011 showed that the billions of shillings in the miraa trade had little impact on the farmer’s standards of living because most proceeds end up in the pockets of middlemen in Kenya and Somalia. The government of Somalia, the largest remaining international market for miraa farmers, suspended all international and local flights on March 19 to curb the spread of coronavirus. It took the interventions of President Uhuru Kenyatta and court for the counties to lift the ban they imposed on miraa trade. There has also been push and pull with accusations and and counter accusations between Meru leaders over the Sh1 billion the government allocated to cushion farmers. Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi and his South Imenti counterpart Kathuri Murungi recently urged Agriculture CS Peter Munya to expeditiously initiate an audit of the funding. “Miraa is a crop like coffee, tea and sugarcane which have parastatals to address their concerns. Miraa must get its own directorate following its ban in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands," Murungi said. But Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi early this year dismissed the MPs' concern on the Sh1 billion, saying the money was available. He was not specific in his address delivered at the Njuri Ncheke shrine in Nchiru. In 2018, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri announced that the ministry and Meru government had agreed to use part of the miraa bailout money to buy macadamia and avocado seedlings so that farmers can diversify. Kiraitu however distanced himself from Kiunjuri's claims, saying the county had not received any money from the miraa fund. Farmer Fredrick Mukaria asked Meru leaders to come to their rescue. They want the government to address necessary protocols for the resumption of miraa flights to Somalia.  Edited by P.O