Machakos TVET centres have begun production of 1.5 million face masks which will be distributed to the Machakos residents for free. Governor Alfred Mutua said the masks are being produced at a cost of Sh15 million to be fully financed by the county. This means one mask will be produced at Sh10. Mutua said the TVETs are producing a daily capacity of 50, 000 masks and projected a daily production capacity of 500,000 masks if needed. "We intend to scale up production so as to take advantage of economies of scale and also to make sure that our people get masks for free", he noted. While speaking at his office, Mutua said the masks will be given to each individual residing with the county for free to protect them from being infected with coronavirus. The governor received a donation of food stuff from various organisations which he handed some to the Machakos County Assembly Members. He noted that the MCA's will distribute the foodstuffs and sanitizers to the needy Kenyans within their respective wards. Among the donations were surgical masks, sanitizers, gloves, bleaches, Covid-19 sensitization posters, soap and waste bins. Others are disposable gowns, face shields, water tanks, food stuff such as maize and wheat Flour, rice, spaghetti, cooking oil among others. Capwell Industries LTD donated 550 bales of Maize flour, Dinlas Pharma EPZ Limited donated 3, 500 hospital blankets, Plan international donated 1, 500 surgical masks and 100 Covid posters while Shona Textiles donated Personal Protective Equipment. The Capwell Industries Limited head of admin and corporate affairs Obadiah Gitiye said the company has also donated 20 million to the National Covid response fund as part of their corporate social responsibility. Gitiye  indicated that they are targeting to donate a similar donations of 550 bales of Maize flour at a cost of sh 780, 000 to other 10 counties to benefit the vulnerable Kenyans. "This pandemic has really affected our people not only in Kenya but globally and so as part our social responsibility we are purposing to donate maize flour of 550 bales to other 10 counties which are adversely affected by this coronavirus pandemic", he said.