Persons living with sickle cell disease are at a higher risk of getting infected with Covid-19, Health CAS Rashid Aman has said. During a press briefing on Friday at Afya house, he said that these individuals are more likely to get severe illness if they get infected. This is due to their impaired immunity. Aman said they should therefore, strictly observe the precautionary preventive measures for Covid-19. "During this period of Coronavirus pandemic, persons living with sickle cell disease are advised, to ensure they keep a minimum of one-month supply of medication at all times. In addition, they should consult their healthcare providers should they experience Covid-19 symptoms, Aman said. The public has also been urged to come together to improve the lives of persons living with sickle cell disease and stop stigma on sickle cell disease. Friday marked World Sickle Cell Disease Day. It is commemorated on June 19 each year to raise awareness. The United Nations General Assembly established the World Sickle Cell Day in 2008. This year, the theme is “Break the silence: shine the light on sickle cell disease.” Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder where the red blood cells become hard and sticky and looks like a crescent shape similar to a sickle. Individuals with sickle cell disease are likely to experience chronic, debilitating pain, risk of recurrent infections, and other serious complications. At least 240,000 children in Africa, are born each year with sickle cell disease, while here in Kenya, it is estimated that 6,000 children are born with the disease. Sadly, between 50 to 80 per cent of these children die before their fifth birthday. Three-quarters of the world’s sickle cell disease patients live in sub-Saharan Africa. Approximately 1,000 children in Africa are born with sickle cell disease every day and more than half will die before they reach five. The signs and symptoms of sickle cell disease include; episodes of pain, frequent infections, anemia, vision problems, stroke, jaundice (yellowness of the white part of eyes), acute chest syndrome, priapism (persistent & painful erections) delayed growth and puberty and leg ulcers. Treatment of sickle cell disease includes pain-related medication and blood transfusion.