A 37-year-old widow might soon be homeless following an eviction notice from a foreigner who was her husband's co-worker. Leila Kerubo was the wife of Mustafa Sahin, a Turkish national, who co-owned New Design Construction Limited with Ibrahim Bayrakal and five other Turkish nationals. Kerubo and Sahin were married at Kilifi Kadhi’s Chambers on February 2, 2017, after a courtship that lasted nearly 10 years. New Design Construction developed an apartment block on a two-acre plot at Mtomondnoni Creek Road in Kilifi. Kerubo stayed in one of the apartments as the rest were being built. Her troubles started after Sahin's death on October 5, 2019.  Bayrakal attempted to evict Kerubo from the apartment, saying she was just Sahin’s girlfriend. He produced documents showing that Sahin had resigned as a director of the company on August 10, 2018. Other documents show Bayrakal also resigned on the same day and transferred his shares to Mariam Abdikadir, who was said to be his wife. However, a police forensic report made on November 27, 2019,  by criminal investigator Bernard Cheruiyot indicates that the documents were forged. Kerubo said a court ruling was made that she be evicted by the end of this month. “The ruling was made using the forged documents and in my absence. It is unfair,” Kerubo said. She lives with a brother and an adopted son. She had no child with her Turkish husband. On Thursday, Bayrakal denied he is trying to evict Kerubo from the apartment. “There is nothing like that,” he told the Star by phone. “That is the wrong information,” he said and hang up. Kilifi South DCIO Jacinta Mkui was unavailable for comment. However, the investigating officer said the probe is ongoing. Pan African Centre Foundation for Human Rights officer Jabes Oduor said the whole saga wreaks of illegal activity. “Someone forged documents and used them to obtain a court order in their favour,” Oduor said. He said the police discovered that the documents were forged but have not made those responsible to record a statement since November last year. Instead, the police are intimidating him, questioning his involvement in the matter. “I went to Mtwapa Police Station to follow up on the matter and instead, they asked me to record a statement on another completely unrelated case. This is an intimidation tactic that will not work on me,” Oduor said. He has, through Musing and Co Advocates, written the Director of Public Prosecutions seeking the prosecution of those behind the forged documents. Oduor also wants the immigration department to establish the citizenship status of Bayrakal.  - mwaniki fm