The Machakos High Court has dismissed a bid by a company director to quash criminal proceedings against him. He accused the Director of Public Prosecutions of violating his rights. In the petition, Prasul Jayantilala Shah of Megvel Cartons Limited claimed he was charged with false and baseless offences of forgery, forcible detainment and conspiracy to defraud. The charges were based on an earlier case at the Environment Court where a private company, Diesel Limited, sued Megvel cartons over land where the private company is located. In the ruling, the court nullified Megvel’s title deed to the property. He took his case to the Appeal Court and filed applications for a stay of execution of the nullification order pending determination of the appeal. The stay order was granted. Shah thus claimed that in disregard of the stay, Diesel Limited has continually harassed and intimidated him leading, to his arrest and arraignment. He further said police had cordoned off the property to detain him while thugs hired by Diesel Limited engaged in wanton destruction and theft of property. In the petition, Shah also sued the Police IG Hillary Mutyambai, the Athi River police station and Diesel Care Limited. On those grounds, he asked the court to declare the DPP had violated the Constitution as well as to his right to justice and a fair hearing. “The Honorable Court be pleased to hold and declare the proceedings (in the criminal case) are illegal, unconstitutional and in contravention of the human rights and fundamental freedoms under the Constitution and the laws of Kenya and is hence null, void and of no effect,” Shah said. Justice David Kemei ruled he did not find instances of harassment of Shah by the police but instead found they exercised their constitutional mandate. Dismissing the petition, Kemei concluded Shah had not proved his case. “I am not satisfied that the criminal proceedings are an abuse of the court process since there is a complaint duly lodged with the DPP,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)  The Machakos High Court has dismissed a bid by a company director to quash criminal proceedings against him. He accused the Director of Public Prosecutions of violating his rights. In the petition, Prasul Jayantilala Shah of Megvel Cartons Limited claimed he was charged with false and baseless offences of forgery, forcible detainment and conspiracy to defraud. The charges were based on an earlier case at the Environment Court where a private company, Diesel Limited, sued Megvel cartons over land where the private company is located. In the ruling, the court nullified Megvel’s title deed to the property. He took his case to the Appeal Court and filed applications for a stay of execution of the nullification order pending determination of the appeal. The stay order was granted. Shah thus claimed that in disregard of the stay, Diesel Limited has continually harassed and intimidated him leading, to his arrest and arraignment. He further said police had cordoned off the property to detain him while thugs hired by Diesel Limited engaged in wanton destruction and theft of property. In the petition, Shah also sued the Police IG Hillary Mutyambai, the Athi River police station and Diesel Care Limited. On those grounds, he asked the court to declare the DPP had violated the Constitution as well as to his right to justice and a fair hearing. “The Honorable Court be pleased to hold and declare the proceedings (in the criminal case) are illegal, unconstitutional and in contravention of the human rights and fundamental freedoms under the Constitution and the laws of Kenya and is hence null, void and of no effect,” Shah said. Justice David Kemei ruled he did not find instances of harassment of Shah by the police but instead found they exercised their constitutional mandate. Dismissing the petition, Kemei concluded Shah had not proved his case. “I am not satisfied that the criminal proceedings are an abuse of the court process since there is a complaint duly lodged with the DPP,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)  