The control of access roads around Lake Naivasha has taken a new twist, with the government closing one of the largest corridors near Sopa Lodge. The move comes a week after the government deregistered White Eagle, a Naivasha-based environmental CBO that forced the opening of the corridor. There are 18 corridors around the lake and only four are open for use by members of the public. Earlier, members of the organisation had blocked the Moi South Lake road for three days as they demanded the opening of the corridor. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mbogo Mathioya, however, accused the group of engaging in illegal activities, including illegal fishing in the lake. Speaking in his office on Monday, Mathioya said members of the group, after opening the corridor, started subdividing part of the land among themselves. “We've decided to block this corridor after learning that this group is involved in illegal activities and already their licence has been cancelled,” he said. The commissioner expressed concern that trespass on private land along the lake is on the rise. "We've received complaints from landowners over an upsurge in cases of trespassing and vandalism of structures around the lake and action will be taken against those arrested,” he said. Lucas Karobia, a White Eagle director, admitted that they had received a letter from the subcounty development officer deregistering their organisation. He, however, denied wrongdoing. He said they would be meeting to forge the way forward, adding that they were still in the dark as to the real cause of the cancellation. "The letter gives a blanket condemnation and we are not sure what exactly has constituted this new move but we shall engage the subcounty development officer for more information,” Karobia said. He said they will not be cowed into dropping their demands to have the corridor reopened for easy access by residents. Karobia said 75 per cent of the corridors around the lake had been blocked by investors, yet there were maps identifying them as access roads. “Three weeks ago, one of the main corridors leading to the lake was opened and this could be one of the reasons that our organisation has been deregistered,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny