Was a youthful MP who is a close ally of DP William Ruto ejected from the Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting held at State House last Tuesday? Well, a mole has whispered to corridors that the vocal legislator who is not a Jubilee member had attended the meeting on the premise that his party was in a coalition with the ruling party. The mole says the youthful lawmaker had taken his seat in the tent when the unexpected happened. He was ordered to immediately leave the meeting. He left the meeting, leaving his colleagues some of whom had encouraged him to attend, in utter shock and disbelief. A Coast-based parastatal is suffering the toxic micro-management of a Principal Secretary. For five years, the PS has put the parastatal and its board under a choke-hold and reportedly attends all general board committee meetings. There are grumbles that the officer, probably by advantage of being elevated to the post, micromanages and interferes with the entity’s operations, and is in constant fights with its CEOs. Disgruntled parties argue that the PS will not let the government achieve its objectives through the agency. The boss of a state agency at the Coast is in trouble. Details that show the official's goose is cooked indicate that he faces imminent arrest over graft related matters. After months of investigations over manipulation of tenders and award of such to his cronies, the file is now ready at the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission. Initially, the official had bragged that he was well connected and therefore would not face any investigations. He had one time also vowed that he was untouchable. A small bird at some corridors of justice intimated that the probe is complete with possible prosecution likely any time after the state okays arrest and arraignment. A political operative whom we told you used to operate along Harambee Avenue has now shifted base to a key ministry located at Upper Hill area. Corridors of Power understands that the politician has been troubling a CS with a lot of delegations of some people seeking tenders. In one such occasion, the operative arrived with two former MPs who want a multi-million tender for some works in Nyanza. To the shock of the minister, the two politicians confided in him that they had paid some facilitation fees to access an appointment to see him. After a lecture by the CS, the political operative with eyes on government tenders apologised profusely and refunded the money.