A former influential lawmaker has been crisscrossing a county in Rift Valley asking elders to prepare for a Senate by-election. The move has been interpreted by locals to mean the sitting senator could be handed a Cabinet position in a lucrative docket. There have been speculations that President Uhuru Kenyatta is planning a Cabinet shakeup. The Cabinet job is meant to give the senator some presence across the country as he launches numerous projects, which will be a good platform to aid his bigger political ambition. The crafters of the move are, however, not convinced that their preferred successor, a corporate honcho, meant to replace the incumbent senator can fit in the murky world of politics. **** Recently, we told you about a parastatal suffering the toxic micro-management of a principal secretary. A little bird whispered to Corridors that the same state officer has employed a similar management-by-interference style at another new parastatal, which was hived off a bigger one in efforts to make the mother agency more efficient. Industry players intimate the PS might have misled the government into creating the new parastatal. The entity is now facing mortal challenges and is yet to be operationalised, thereby causing friction with the mother agency. ** A Member of Parliament from a county in Western is a subject of heated discussion after refusing to dig drainage system in certain areas where he faces strong opposition. The locals had been promised the entire area that is always affected by floods will be fixed by digging drainage system, only for the lawmaker to instruct works to concentrate only on areas where he enjoys political support. The locals were last week up in arms over the development, but the politician is adamant about his decision. It is reported that his decision to abandon the area is because a local has declared interest to run for the seat come 2022. ** Thika Road, arguably Kenya's best superhighway, is slowly sliding into one of the country's most dangerous roads, some motorists believe. Why? The lanes are not clearly marked and the initial markings by the Chinese contractors have faded out. Some matatu drivers were heard complaining that the section around Jubilee headquarters in Pangani have no markings at all and has become a hotspot with frequent accidents. The other dangerous area is said to be around Fig Tree in Ngara, just after the overpass to the CBD. Over to you Kenya National Highways Authority.