Perennial flooding along River Nyando will soon be a thing of the past following the approval of Sh25 billion towards construction of Soin-Koru dam. National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority chairman Eric Okeyo said they will acquire about 2,500 acres for the dam. The dam will be located in Kisumu and Kericho counties, in Nyando and Ainamoi subcounties along River Nyando. About Sh2 billion will be spent on compensation. The proposed location is on the slopes of Got Alila Hill in Muhoroni and the slopes of Koitatui Hill in Soin. Okeyo said part of the money will be released by the National Treasury after the reading of the budget. He said the rest will come from the supplementary budget in October. “The construction will take about five years, including  compensation, but before we start we shall hold a public consultation in two weeks’ time,” he said. Okeyo added that the procurement is ongoing and is expected to be completed by end of July. The contractor will be introduced in the first week of August. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said the dam will provide a lasting solution to the floods that have wreaked havoc to the people of Kisumu. He said the floods led to massive destruction of crops and livestock amounting to Sh3 billion this year. Owili committed to supporting NWHSA to ensure that the project is completed on time. Kisumu county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro said the assembly will provide all the necessary support during construction of the dam. Soin-Koru Dam is among the Vision 2030 flagship projects. Others include Maruba Dam in Machakos and Siyoi-Muruny in West Pokot. The dam was started in 1982 by the Italian government and taken over by NWCPC in 2009. The need to control the floods caused by the river was arrived at after a study and writing of a proposal. Flooding on lower Kano plains displaces about 5,000 people annually. The dam will also supply water for domestic, commercial and institutional use. The city of Kisumu and the emerging towns of Ahero, Chemilil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Koru, Awasi, Koitaburot, Katito, Masogo and Ombeyi will be major beneficiaries. The current water supply for Kisumu and its satellite towns is approximately 18,000m3 per day against a demand of approximately 66,000m3. The dam is expected to provide additional water supply of approximately 71,279m3 a day to a population of 1,707,740 people. This will supplement existing schemes and be sufficient for the next 20 years according to the experts. The other benefits include expansion of irrigation schemes in and around Ahero and West Kano from 1,800 ha (4448 acres) to 5,370 ha (13,270 acres) and also power generation of approximately 2.5 MW. This would be used for pumping water to higher areas and provide electricity. Edited by Frank Obonyo