Priority will be given to children cases when Kiambu law courts resume operations next week, senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo said on Thursday. Atambo, who was meeting the court users' committee on the modalities of resumption of court business amid Covid-19, said hearings will be virtual. Another hearing priority category will be those in custody. “We need to upscale our operations since the public wants to know when the court will resume and also not keep on pushing dates further for those in police custody and need to take plea,” Atambo said. She said petty offenders' cases, more so those who flout the Covid-19 containment guidelines, will be heard at Kirigiti and Ndumberi stadiums to avoid congestion in court rooms. Traffic offences will be heard at police stations while appeals applications will be made virtually. "We are going to use video conferencing and zoom technology in cases which need mention to avoid them coming to court and also look at cases of petty offenders for solution at the police stations through bail,” Atambo said. She explained that the Judiciary preferred the alternative dispute resolution mechanism at police stations to avoid the pile-up of cases. “Where parties are in agreement we will find a way to deal with them,” she said. Nelius Muchoya, the deputy officer in charge of Kamiti Youth Collective Centre, said remandees cannot be brought to court due to the Covid-19 regulations. Their cases are attended to virtually. “The child appears on the screen and the magistrate does the mentioning to avoid contamination,” Muchoya said. Kiambu LSK chapter chairperson Beth Fundi said they will donate a television set to the regional remand prison for suspects to follow their cases virtually. “We are in agreement as a committee that in cases that can be done virtually it is necessary that people are not kept waiting for their cases to be mentioned or determined. Parties in agreement can confirm so virtually to avoid coming to court,” Fundi said. Kiambu has a High Court and seven lower courts. Ordinarily, each can hold 40 persons, but due to Covid-19 containment measures only a maximum 10 attend the proceedings. The chambers can accommodate two people.  -mwaniki fm