Lawmakers allied to the Tanga Tanga wing of the Jubilee Party have termed as hypocrisy the defence of impeached Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. On Wednesday, Public Service and Gender CS Margaret Kobia condemned the impeachment of Waiguru saying it is an 'indicator that some do not value strong women leadership.' The CS said Waiguru's impeachment during the Covid-19 global pandemic is a major injustice to women leadership. Kobia demanded justice and due process to be followed in Waiguru's impeachment. However, the Tanga Tanga group who are allied to Deputy President William Ruto viewed the act by the CS as practising double standards. Elgeyo Senator Kipchumba Murkomen wondered where the CS was during the removal of women leaders from House leadership posts such as Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who was axed from the Chief Whip post. Murkomen added that the CS did not utter a word during the removal of Cecily Mbarire as Deputy Whip in the National Assembly. "For you people to understand the magnitude of the hypocrisy that runs deep in the country, this lady sits in the Cabinet and she is the appointee of the President who is “fighting” corruption and who is In charge of the Senate. Is as simple as that. Now you know what next," Murkomen tweeted. The Senator asked the CS not to be used in her capacity to comment on every matter. “CS Kobia you don’t have to do everything to keep your job. Learn something from strong women like Susan and Cecily. He is misusing you,” Murkomen said. Kihika herself sarcastically asked whether she and Mbarire were also women despite them being ejected from their House leadership positions. "Wondering if a similar letter from @CSMargaretKobia 4 @CecilyMbarire & I got lost in the mail? Could the Ministry of Gender not be aware that we are women too?" she tweeted. Kericho Senator referred to Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja's impeachment where a similar order was in place against the assembly. "They impeached him still. The matter came to us. We still considered the matter. But I understand the season we live in," he said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany likened the situation to 'The Animal Farm". "All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. Jubilee and ODM Parties have been harassing women leaders and you were mute," he said in reference to the CS's statement. Gilgil MP termed Kobia's statement unfortunate if it was true. "If this is legitimate it's unfortunate for the open segregation on which women to support and which not to. Quite unfortunate," she tweeted.