The Kisumu administration is to begin taking views from the public on a draft physical and land use plans. The plans, which zone the city into four sections, will identify the development agenda and guide urban growth for the next 15 years. The zones include Urban Core (lake Front, CBD, Commercial, Auji), Urban Renewal and Regeneration (Slum Belt), Eastern Extension  (Nyamasaria, Kibos) and Northern Extension (Kisian Otonglo, Kiboswa, Wathorego and Gita). The governor's press unit director Aloice Ager said that the planning process is important to help investors know what to expect before investing in the city. He noted that the plan has been in place for the last year. The objective of the Local Physical Development Plan is to regulate use of land and ensure development conform to the ISUD guidelines. It will also guide and coordinate the development of infrastructure, provision of housing and public facilities, and steer Kisumu’s development in an integrated and coordinated manner to promote sustainable urban development. The plan will also transform and ensure redevelopment of the lakefront area and provide a framework for coordinating various sectoral agencies and interests. City manager Doris Ombara said in an advert on Thursday that the draft was already complete. Ombara further invited stakeholders to the validation of the drafts. “The city wishes to invite the public, civil society, faith and community-based organisations, interested persons and stakeholders to the validations of the draft LPLUDPs,” she said. The city manager, however, stated that due to the Covid-19 pandemic and in alignment to the issued Ministry of Health protocols on public gatherings and observance of physical distancing, the public participation exercise will be undertaken in different places and days. The public participation will be undertaken virtually on July 6 for Urban Core Zone, Urban Renewal and Regeneration Zone (July 7), Eastern Extension Zone (July 8) and Northern Extension Zone (July 9 and 10), she said. She said interactive virtual participation will be conducted through the city web and one of the local radio stations. “Written memoranda should also be forwarded to the city manager office or via email.” Edited by R.Wamochie