The country has about 518 Intensive Care Unit hospital beds spread across 25 counties, according to a report compiled by the Ministry of Health. Nearly half of these are in Nairobi County at 246. Kenyatta National Hospital has the largest number with 55 ICU beds followed by Kenyatta University Hospital with 44 beds. Chibanzi Mwachonda, the secretary general of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, said the figure may have changed because the report was compiled on March 31. Uasin Gishu follows with 55 ICU beds, 20 of them at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Mombasa County comes third with 36-bed capacity, then Kisumu at 21. Nakuru and Kiambu counties both have 19 ICU beds followed by Nyeri and Kisii at 14 and 13 respectively. Busia, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Nyamira, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Kitui, Tharaka Nithi, Kajiado, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, West Pokot, Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Tana River, Taita Taveta, Lamu and Kilifi do not have any ICU beds, according to KMPDU. Early this month, the government identified 50 health facilities across the country that will serve as Covid-19 hospitals. The hospitals were identified by the National Coordination Centre for Isolation and Quarantine Centres. The hospitals have 3,407 isolation beds and will have 193 intensive care unit beds. On Sunday recorded 167 new cases of Covid-19  bringing the total number to 2,767. The Ministry of Health expects the number to rise with Kenya reaching the peak in August or September. "KMPDC is continuing to identify more facilities that can be used as isolation centres throughout the country," KMPDC boss Daniel Yumbya said. Isolation centres are for patients already confirmed to be infected. Yumbya said by May 27, the council had recorded a total of 467 quarantine facilities including government institutions and hotels countrywide. "The centres have a bed capacity (for quarantine) of 157,850," he said. In Nairobi, there are 60 quarantine centres with a bed capacity of 4,378. Currently, more than 800 Covid-19 patients are admitted in at least 35 hospitals across the country, the majority of them in Nairobi and in Mombasa. Nairobi Metropolitan Services director for health services Josephine Kibaru-Mbae said they have included Mama Lucy Kibaki and South B Level 3 hospitals as isolation centres. Mbagathi Isolation Centre is currently full with about 90 patients.