Leaders from the Rendile community have criticised police for failing to arrest assailants who killed four students in Marsabit. The students Jessica Leado (23), George Obeille (27), Dan Lentare (17) and Chuchu Mosor (23) were attacked and shot by armed assailants while they were heading home in Songa location near Marsabit town on June 8. The community's elected leaders and members of the Rendile Professional Association on Saturday condemned the killings, saying their people had been targeted by neighbouring communities for a long time. The assailants shot nine bullets in Leado cutting short the life of the Catholic University of East Africa student. She was a third year student and and a leader at the university while Obeille was a student at Kenyatta University. A day after they were killed, residents held demonstrations to protest the killings. Two women were injured as police dispersed the crowds using live bullets. “It is an open secret that the neighbouring communities have schemed to dispose Rendile of their ancestral land because of their vulnerability,” Laisamis MP Musa Arbele said. He read the joint statement on behalf of the leaders at a press conference in Nairobi. They said no arrest had been made yet police dogs followed the trails of the attackers to a farm of a known prominent businessperson. “The community is already reeling from the impacts of coronavirus which is now exacerbated by senseless killings and illegal acquisition of their land.” “Do the lives of the minorities matter?” Arbele posed. The leaders claimed the Rendille community has been targeted for killing along Songa and Hula roads in Marsabit town. “From 1994 to date, 204 innocent people of which majority is women and children have been killed while either going or coming from Marsabit town to their homes." The leaders have asked police to investigate and arrest killers of the youths. They have also called for reinstatement of a police post in Songa that had been closed despite perennial waves of insecurity in the area.  Edited by P.O