President Uhuru Kenyatta has challenged the National Metropolitan Service to make Nairobi the model for post-coronavirus recovery strategy. Uhuru on Tuesday said the National Hygiene Programme dubbed “the Kazi Mtaani Initiative” will play a central part in that regard. Speaking after the NMS's 100 days in office, Uhuru said it has made progress in ensuring that the county is clean. "This is encouraging but much work remains. What NMS has demonstrated during this period, is that the task is achievable - that the aspirations of the people of Nairobi can and will become a reality," he said. Uhuru said going forward, the government must reach all the informal settlements across the city with the programme. " I am particularly gratified by the street families that have been working on the Grogan Road area. Today, those young people can afford to live away from the streets and give their children hope of a better tomorrow," he said. He asked the NMS to pay attention to the systemic challenges that face the city in the medium and long term. "Nairobi cannot truly take her place among the great cities of the world without staying true to consistently implementing our national and county development plans," he added. The president said focus must now shift to Urban Development Programme that will accelerate an integrated development model for an inclusive and modern city. "...and will deliver a world class efficient transport system complete with the full range of transport options," he said. The 100 days given to Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) ended on Monday with focus turning to achievements by the new office. NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi handed over a report to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday containing the achievements made. NMS was put into office on March 18, 2020, by the President nearly a month after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko handed over four key functions to the National Government. The transferred functions are county health services, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary services and county government planning and development. Earlier this month, Uhuru officially  placed NMS under the Executive Office of the President in an Executive Order For the past 100 days, Director-General has been hosting weekly meetings with his team and receiving updates on achievements based on the Presidential directives.