The 2020 Virgin Money London Marathon that was rescheduled in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic is still not certain to go on, according to a recent letter by the organisers. The blue ribbon marathon major is now scheduled for October 4 but organisers are still uncertain if the event will go ahead and how it will be executed. “We know that you would like certainty. We understand and acknowledge that you want to know if you should start serious training or restart your fund raising campaign. However, much as we would like to, we cannot offer you certainty,” a letter from the London Marathon organisers to athletes read in part. The cancellation was announced on March 13 which now seems a life-time ago and organisers were  confident they would be able to stage the 40th race on the new date of October 4. “This is a world where things are changing so rapidly on a day-to-day basis and that is now far from certain. The London Marathon Events team is working hard on many different possible scenarios and, as circumstances change, we come up with new ideas,” the letter continued. “We know we have a huge responsibility to you, our runners, but we know that responsibility goes much further. It extends to our charities which, through the sweat of a record 42,549 finishers, raised an incredible £66.4 million in 2019. It extends to our staff, our elite athletes, our volunteers, our medics, our communities and our city,” added the statement. The group said every decision they make will be in line with their values. Kenya’s world marathon record holder, Eliud Kipchoge is expected to defend London title with Ethiopian Kenenisa Bekele touted as his biggest opponent. Elsewhere, American sprinter Bobby Morrow, who won three gold medals at the 1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne, died on Saturday at the age of 84, World Athletics said. Morrow won gold in the 100 and 200 metres and anchored the U.S. to victory in the 4x100m relay, in which they set a world record. He is one four men to win these three events at a single Games, alongside Jesse Owens, Carl Lewis and Usain Bolt. He was named Sports Illustrated’s “Sportsman of the Year” in 1956 and set 11 ratified world records during his career. U.S. media reported that Morrow died of natural causes at his home in San Benito, Texas.