Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has come under attack for distributing relief food using a chopper. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa told the Star on Tuesday he does not understand why someone could hire a helicopter to distribute only 10 bags of rice. “Wamalwa is taking the Luhya nation for a ride. How can you hire a helicopter for several days only to come and distribute 10 bags of rice donated by the Chinese government?” Barasa posed. But Eugene told the Star he has distributed over 200 bags of rice and beans in every constituency visited, depending on the needs of the people. Barasa said what Eugene engaged in was an exercise in futility as many flood victims did not benefit from his “theatrics”. At the weekend, the CS distributed rice to residents of Khasoko in Bumula and Webuye. This was after meeting elders who endorsed Kakamega Governor Wyclife Oparanya and him as Luhya spokespersons. Barasa further accused Eugene of using government resources for political reasons. “We know who has sent Eugene. It's unfortunate that he's doing politics in total disregard of the government directives on Covid-19 that advises social distancing," Barasa said. The lawmaker challenged Eugene to tell Kenyans which projects he had initiated in the Western region in the years he has been the minister. “Eugene and Western region governors should stop fooling us. They are selling Raila Odinga’s BBI agenda in readiness for the 2022 election, yet they are cheating Luhyas that they are on development-driven meetings,” the Jubilee legislator said. The MP urged the government to stop such public meetings. “If President Uhuru Kenyatta won’t stop the ongoing meetings, we will think they have got his blessings and I will ask Kenyans to disregard the directives and return to their day-to-day businesses,” he warned. Eugene has however dismissed Barasa, saying he will not engage those interested in cheap propaganda. He said he had conducted his duties as the Devolution CS without favour across the country. Eugene told the Star on the phone that in all his meetings, he had encouraged and ensured people observed social distancing. “I don’t want to give non-starters authenticity by engaging them on non-issues. I will ignore and continue serving people in the entire country,” he said.  Edited by A.N