Slum dwellers in Bangladesh, Mombasa county, risk contracting Covid-19 for ignoring government safety measures. With or without corona life is the same, they say despite the high number of positive cases reported in Mombasa. Mercy Atieno, a trader at Bangladesh market, said residents had not embraced safety regulations because they believe that corona doesn’t exist. Masks are only worn when a person is going to town or to a neighbouring area. “In this area, people say they have heard of it but they have not seen it,” Atieno said. Despite having water tanks placed at different points including the entrance of the market, Atieno said the tanks do not have water. "We have organisations together with the county government who volunteered to give us water tanks and soap. Instead children play with it and now the tanks are dry," she said. Stephen Wambua, another resident, said access to water has been a challenge and they only buy water for home consumption. Muslim for Human Rights communications officer Cornel Ernest said controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Bangladesh could be next to impossible because the slum is congested, making it hard for people to keep social distance. “The challenge in Bangladesh slum and other slums is keeping social distance and availability of running water. They depend on water from vendors which is too expensive for them,” he said. He said the county government failed to provide preventive commodities to the residents living in slums. “We are staring at a possible crisis in Bangladesh. The county government should give the slums first priority in mass testing. All the donations purchased using public money and donors including test kits and food should be channelled to slums as the first point,” Ernest said. However, public health communication officer Richard Chacha said there are community health volunteers assigned to conduct awareness in all areas, including the slums. “We have also been doing sensitisation through radio programmes targeting people who cannot be reached,” Chacha said. Edited by Henry Makori