The Covid-19 crisis, floods and a locust invasion have stalled Sh2 billion projects financed by the Kerio Valley Development Authority in the last three months. KVDA boss Sammy Naporos said they have suspended many flagship projects funded by donors and sent workers home following the outbreak of Covid-19 and flooding. The projects are in KVDA operational regions of West Pokot, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet and parts of Samburu. Among the affected ventures are the Sh300 million phase three of Wei Weii Irrigation Project which covers 1,000 acres under maize crops in West Pokot county. Naporos said food security projects including the Loyapat and Napuu irrigation schemes had also been adversely affected. “We are still working with the national government to fight the locust invasion which has caused extensive damage to our sorghum and maize farms under irrigation,” Naporos said. Other affected projects include the Sh434 million Chepkum irrigation project in Arror area and the Lomut scheme in Sigor area which is to cost Sh59 million. The CEO said contractors who were working on some of the projects had been forced to abandon the sites due to floods and the Covid-19 regulations. “We were actually moving very fast with the implementation of the projects when the natural calamities affected us but we hope soon we will resume as we pray to God to continue protecting our country,” Naporos said. He said KVDA had been forced to scale down most of its operations. “At the moment we only have a skeleton and essential staff on duty while all the others are working from home as guided by the government,” he said. Naporos said the irrigation schemes is among other projects aimed at encouraging the pastoralists to diversify income by growing cash crops instead of relying on livestock rearing. The CEO said they were determined to ensure that the projects funded by the national government and donor countries are fully implemented. The implementation period may take longer than had been planned, he said. Naporos said that once completed, the projects would be handed over to respective communities. “The communities have for long relied on livestock rearing but the irrigation schemes will empower them and enable them to have adequate food,” he said. He said once the situation improves and the government announces the way forward, KVDA would move fast to complete the projects for the benefit of the communities. (edited by o. owino)