 Six leading local banks have committed Sh335 billion for home ownership mortgages under the Affordable Housing Programme. The strategic partners are Absa, Equity, KCB, NCBA, Housing Finance and Stanbic. They will finance potential homeowners registered in the Boma Yangu portal. State Department for Housing and Urban Development Principal Secretary Charles Hinga said the partnership was a demonstration of Public-Private Partnership model to promote home ownership in the country. “This partnership represents significant progress and will help potential homeowners, especially in the low and middle-income segments to overcome the financial hurdles to home ownership,” Hinga said on Wednesday. A total of 1,500 units are under construction in Pangani. Another 1,600 will be built in Jevanjee. Last January, the first 228 units out of 1,370 at Park Road in Ngara were handed over to the government. Home ownership in Park Road will be 40 per cent civil servants and 60 per cent non-civil servants, according to Hinga. The programme, which was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta, is one of the pillars under the Big Four agenda. It is intended to provide decent and affordable housing to low and middle-income households. Under the AHP, the private sector develops the houses and hands them to the  government. More than 300,000 Kenyans are registered with the AHP on the Boma Yangu portal. Over 25,000 are active contributors. They have so far contributed Sh253 million. Registered members who have contributed the minimum 10 per cent value of the houses they are interested in qualify for allocation. They also benefit directly from the partial credit guarantee to access mortgage finance from the six banks, subject to the respective bank credit approval process. The AHP offers a platform for potential home buyers, with the government offering 20 per cent credit guarantee of approved loans, according to Hinga. “The partial credit guarantee will de-risk potential home buyers and enable the self-employed, especially informal business owners, to access mortgages they typically wouldn’t access,” the PS said. First-time home owners are not required to pay stamp duty and and benefit from an affordable housing tax relief of up to Sh9,000 per month. The tenant purchase scheme arrangement also allows for multi-generational payment plans. Years to retirement are not considered as would be the case when applying for traditional mortgages. The programme offers developers a ready market through the thousands of registered members on the Boma Yangu portal saving towards owning a home. “Market risk is a key factor for banks when they are issuing construction financing to developers. "The availability of a ready market on the Boma Yangu portal addresses the market risk of the projects, enabling developers to easily acquire construction financing from the banks,” the PS said. Developers are also eligible for reduced corporate tax, provision of critical bulk infrastructure to the sites and fast-tracking of approvals. Further, they qualify for VAT exemption on construction inputs for the affordable housing projects, low-cost building technologies, and reduced customs levies and fees on imported inputs for the construction of houses under the affordable housing scheme. The AHP differs from previous housing schemes in Kenya as it is the first comprehensive programme in which the government uses private sector funding to facilitate the provision of homes to citizens. Apart from unlocking affordable mortgages for home buyers, the government is providing alternative accessible and affordable financing options for potential homeowners through a National Tenant Purchase Scheme under which users pay affordable monthly payments. Last week the government announced it will start allocating 1,370 housing units next month. Once a member has been allocated a unit, he/she will be removed from the AHP Purchase Allocation Waiting List, Hinga said. He said 26 counties had signed a deal with the national government for the construction of 2,000 units in each of them under the Boma Yangu initiative. “Kisumu, Homa Bay and Kisii counties are also ready to do their groundbreaking once the Covid-19 situation is over," he said. The PS noted that the number of those registered in the Boma Yangu portal had topped 300,000 after the policy changed from statutory to voluntary.  - mwaniki fm.