Ford Kenya and ANC are not on anybody’s political ventilators and we do not rely on oxygen tanks from any political party, Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula has said. Speaking on Citizen TV on Tuesday, Wetangula said the two parties are not hanging on NASA. "... the fluidity within NASA does not undermine and affect the independence of our parties. Myself and Musalia Mudavadi move along the lines that all politics are local first," he said. Last month, the meeting at Cotu boss Francis Atwoli's residence in Nairobi declared Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Atwoli as the Luhya spokesmen. Mudavadi whom Atwoli installed as the Luhya spokesman in December 2016 and Wetangula did not attend the meeting. "Western people will tell you who their leaders are and not these generic leaders that are invented in Nairobi and given helicopters to hop all over," Wetangula said. Wetangula said the organs of NASA have not held any meetings adding that one partner has taken themselves as the Alpha and Omega of the coalition. "The leaderships were agreed through organs of the party. The cheating started when the ANC slot in parliament was taken away. "Then it came to the senate. You know how I left the leadership. We have had a situation where the organs have not met at all. One partner party does not regard other parties." The senator said the removal of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa from his post is one example. Wamalwa was removed from the positions of National Assembly Deputy Minority Whip and was replaced by Tongaren MP Simiyu Eseli. "How the matter was done shows you how one member of the party made the pronouncement. They(ODM) speaks from both parts of their mouth when it suits them," Wetangula added. Wetangula said Eseli was rewarded with the seat in the National Assembly and was fronted by the ODM party. "Running down the party is the most awkward political deceit, when I became party leader, the party had one member, Eseli Simiyu," he said. "He was imposed by ODM, he was not our choice. It is immoral to grab seats from your juniors. It is not right."