If you live in Mombasa, you have a high risk of contracting coronavirus compared to someone in Nairobi. Data from the Health ministry has shown that Mombasa has the highest attack rate at 107 while Nairobi has an attack rate of 55. The news comes as the country surpassed the 5,000 mark after recording 254 new cases on Wednesday. This brings the total caseload to 5,206 from  151, 396 samples since the first case was reported on March 13. Despite being on partial lockdown, the two counties of Nairobi and Mombasa have continued to witness a growing rate of infection in the last few weeks. Nairobi leads with 2,428 cases while Mombasa has so far recorded 1,304. Other counties causing concern are Busia with 361 cases and Kajiado with 179 cases. The two counties have been experiencing an increase in infections due to cross-border truck drivers. Kiambu has 155 total cases, Uasin Gishu 66, Migori 59, Kilifi 52, Kwale 51 and Machakos 44. Forty counties out of 47 have recorded a case, accounting for 85 per cent. On Wednesday alone, Nairobi recorded 127 new cases out of the total 254 reported, followed by Mombasa with 36 new infections. Other counties that recorded new cases on Wednesday include Migori (29), Kajiado (22), Kiambu (12), Uasin Gishu (five), Murang’a (three), Machakos and Kilifi (two each) while Nakuru, Siaya, Taita Taveta, Garissa, Isiolo, Kakamega and Kisii had one case each. “These statistics are important because they tell us that the risk of transmission is higher in Mombasa compared to Nairobi. We are working to ensure we are able to define risk per county as we continue going forward,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. As the ministry rolls out the home-based care protocols, priority will be given to the high burden counties, particularly Nairobi and Mombasa, because of their high attack rates. “From all these statistics, it becomes less tenable to isolate confirmed Covid-19 patients in hospital-based treatment," Mwangangi said. Forty one more patients were discharged from various hospitals, bringing the total number of recoveries to 1,823. However, two more patients succumbed to the virus, one at the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital and another at the Avenue Hospital. The number of fatalities now stands at 130. “Of the 130 cases that we have reported dead, majority of these people have been people who are over 60 years and the majority of them have been people who have existing medical conditions,” acting director general of Health Patrick Amoth said. “Initially, especially in Mombasa in the early stages, we recorded a number of home-based deaths but with intensified interventions and behaviour change communication led by the Mombasa team we are recording fewer and fewer community-based deaths.” According to the CAS, the decision to launch home-based care was arrived at following consultations with various stakeholders to relieve pressure from the healthcare systems. Edited by Henry Makori