Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot has dismissed reports that the signatures he is collecting in a fresh drive to amend the Constitution are questionable. Aukot said the party has employed a transparent and verifiable process of collecting the signatures from Kenyans. “Why is it that when it is Aukot pushing a constitutional amendment, there is too much propaganda being peddled but when it is others doing it, nobody questions them?” he posed. He explained that the party is getting signatures from registered voters only, who get a receipt once they sign up. “The process is online and you cannot get to the stage of appending your signature if you are not a registered voter,” he explained. He termed as a white lie, reports that Thirdway Alliance could be colluding with officials of the electoral agency to get the signatures. “Last time, we hit the road and went to marketplaces and presented 1.4 million signatures to the IEBC and 1.2 million were verified. People went to court and we still beat them there,” he said. Thirdway Alliance’s first push for a constitutional referendum surprised many when it jumped a major hurdle after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission verified signatures of more than 1.2 million registered voters. A similar initiative in 2016 by the Opposition, dubbed Okoa Kenya, collapsed after the IEBC said the move had not been supported by at least one million registered voters. Aukot recently disclosed that Thirdway Alliance has so far collected more than 600,000 signatures in a fresh referendum drive named Punguza Mizigo Kenya. He insisted that the drive is being supported by ordinary Kenyans who are making their donations to the party. Videos emerged online last week saying Aukot managed to collect the signatures during the first drive but the verification was questionable. The videos claimed some of the signatures were repeated. The videos further claimed that political leaders who will be dissatisfied with the Building Bridges Initiative will be accommodated in the Punguza Mizigo Kenya drive. "Aukot’s Punguza Mizigo Kenya would be shaped to become a counter for the BBI,” it was said in one of the videos. Aukot further said he publishes the party’s books of accounts whenever he receives money from the public. “Our pay bill is out there and lots of Kenyans are supporting us,” he maintained. In February, Thirdway Alliance party leaders went to court, seeking to suspend his Punguza Mizigo Kenya and demanding to know the source of its funding. Deputy party leader Angela Nyalita, deputy secretary-general Phelister Wughanga and national women caucus chairperson Hilda Gachachi sued Aukot, their party and the office of the Registrar of Political Parties. They accused Aukot of failing to disclose the source of funding for the project. They further accused the office of the Registrar of Political Parties of failing to discharge its duty of ensuring publication of audited accounts. 