Kisumu county health workers on Tuesday began their strike and vowed not to relent until their grievances are met. At the county hospital, patients were issued with discharge letters and left the facility as others waited for their relatives. According to Lilian Atieno, her mother was admitted to the female ward after she fell sick, vomited and showed signs of dysentery. “Apart from blood transfusion, we have also been discharged without X-ray examination and treatment. We don't know what next to do because we cannot afford other facilities, which charge for medical attention," she said. Another patient identified as Fauzia Juma, who was admitted to the facility on Friday, told the Star that they are stranded. She urged the county government to adhere to the demands by the health workers. “At least I can manage to walk and my grandmother has come to take me home. What of the people who cannot even stand?” Juma posed. The health workers gave a strike notice on June 2. They demanded promotions, deployment, an end to chronic late payments of salaries and outstanding Covid-19 allowances. Led by Kisumu Kenya National Union of Nurses branch secretary Maurice Opetu, they advised their colleagues to stay at home and be safe as they wait for the county government to implement their demands in full. Opetu said the county government allocated Sh250 million in the current budget for promotion and an additional Sh38 million in the supplementary budget for the same but the money has not been paid out. "All this money was allocated but payments for promotions have not been effected and nobody is taking responsibility to explain the way about the funds,” he said. He said the county government mistreats health workers and it is insincere in addressing grievances. He added that health workers will stay away from work stations until all these demands are reflected on their payslips. “Our names cannot be used to embezzle public funds. They take money from the county coffers and it ends up in their pockets instead of giving it to the health workers during this pandemic” he said. Opetu noted that it was very unfortunate that people have to suffer. However, health workers also have families to feed, bills to pay and some of them have used their personal funds to pay for their school fees, so they will not work until they are paid. The health workers further told the county government not to hide behind the Covid-19 crisis as an excuse for disregarding their requests. “Nobody should take advantage of Covid-19 because it came when we had already tabled our demands which have affected us since June 2019.  We have exercised goodwill, offered room for dialogue until the county government took us to court in December,” Opetu said. He said amidst the challenges, they are one of the frontline workers during this pandemic. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Kisumu county branch chairman Vincent Owaa urged the county government to account for the money that was allocated for promotion of health workers in the previous budget. Owaa called upon the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to intervene and investigate how the money was expended. He said questions about the funds are arising, yet health workers are still waiting for promotion several months later. “We are wondering where the money that was approved for health workers’ promotions has disappeared. This is a matter that requires thorough investigations by relevant government agencies,” Owaa said. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o on Monday pleaded with the health workers not to go on strike, noting that it could jeopardise service delivery in the midst of biting Covid-19 impact. "I would like health workers to join hands in delivering healthcare to our people during this difficult time. It will be disastrous to our people to go on strike at this point of time for issues that have either been resolved or are rationally, systematically and mutually being dealt with by parties concerned," he said. The governor said his administration has already promoted 1,007 health workers, including doctors, nurses and clinical officers, and plans are underway to consider other groups of health staff. “We shall make sure the process of promotion is done properly to the satisfaction of all health workers backdated to July last year,” he added. Last week, the county assembly committees on Health and Labour held a meeting with the union and the county government in a meeting chaired by the speaker to help resolve the dispute. During the meeting, it was agreed that there was going to be a joint team of the assembly and the union to ensure the executive issues promotion letters to 144 health workers who were due for promotion but have not received their letters. All promoted workers will earn new salaries and arrears arising from the promotions because it was budgeted for in the financial year 2020/2021. Edited by Frank Obonyo