Sports and recreational facilities at Jomo Kenyatta Sports grounds in Kisumu are set for a major upgrade. Football, hockey, volleyball, basketball and netball pitches which have been run down will be rehabilitated in a partnership between Kisumu County Government and national government, according to Kisumu County’s Sports Minister, Achie Alai. she said the hockey pitch will come with an artificial turf. Two years ago, the county renovated the two basketball courts. “The facilities are in a dilapidated state. We have met Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed twice with her team and they have agreed to give the facilities a major facelift within the next six months. The facilities will be upgraded to international standards,” Alai said. On Thursday last week, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o and Alai held a meeting with Sports, Culture and Heritage Amina Mohamed, Sports PS Joe Okudo and CAS Hassan Noor at Moi Stadium, Kasarani as a follow up to discuss the upgrading of Jomo Kenyatta Sports ground. Amina visited Kisumu two weeks ago, where she announced their intention to upgrade the facilities. “We had fantastic deliberations with the CS and her team,” Alai hinted.  She further clarified that a stadium will not be built at the grounds. “We are not doing a stadium at Jomo Kenyatta Sports grounds. The current football pitch will be rehabilitated to host Ligi Ndogo matches. The pitch will have spectator stands and areas for technical bench and reserve players to sit,” added Alai. Other facilities to be built at Jomo Kenyatta include changing rooms, modern ablution blocs, sports and leisure gym, drip irrigation, children play areas, automated ticketing system and monuments to honour heroes. Alai also reiterated their plans to upgrade Moi Stadium to accommodate 20, 000 fans are still on. “We are done with public and stakeholder participation. The architectural designs are ready and the only problem is funding. We are in talks with the national government together with other partners to support this venture,” said the minister. She noted that the stadium will have a standard World Athletics running track besides the main football pitch. “All sports federations will have offices at the stadium. Other facilities will include a sports museum and shops. We want to do a modern facility not just for football games,” added the minister. She said they also intend to have a parking of more than 1, 000 cars as per requirements.