  Residents of Mwingi town in Kitui have protested the killing of a watchman on Monday morning during an attack on an M-Pesa shop. Residents said cases of insecurity have increased along the Mwingi section of the Thika-Garissa highway. A gang of three attacked a 65-year-old watchman and slashed him with machetes on the head. He later died from the injuries. Mwingi Central subcounty police commander Peter Mutuma said the attack happened on Monday morning at an M-Pesa within Mwingi town at around 4.30am. The watchman was guarding the shop. The gang then tried to break into the shop but other watchmen responded to the alarm raised forcing the attackers to flee. “We are still on their case and once arrested, they will be taken to court,” Mutuma said. Mutuma said the man died while receiving treatment at Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. He said his office has intensified patrols and was ready to work with the public through community policing. “I urge members of public to offer information to police officers in order to combat insecurity in the town,” he said. Most residents said they were living in fear of their lives. They said cases of robbery have risen. Mwendwa Mbevo, the son of the slain watchman, said the police should ensure residents have gone to their houses by 9pm when curfew starts. “I do not understand what police meant but because my father was killed by a gang of robbers, then it means Mwingi is insecure,” Mbevo said. Anton Musyoka, a businessman who owns a shop opposite the one that was attacked, said his electronics premise was broken into two weeks ago and some of his stock stolen. "We do not know who is next. These gangs of armed robbers have taken to ensuring there is no peace in Mwingi town,” Musyoka said. Another businessman Mutemi Mutunga said police were too preoccupied with ensuring people wear face masks instead of strengthening security. “When police find one outside past curfew hours, they are beaten up but when we go home, we find our shops broken into or our fathers murdered,” Mutemi said. Isaac Kisika said thieves were breaking into shops in the wee hours of the morning. He urged police to increase patrols. Kisika said he encountered thieves a few days ago who were armed with pangas, machetes, arrows and bows. “I was lucky to escape from the gang of six armed robbers and I urge the police to do more patrols as many shops in Mwingi town have been broken into and many people left injured by the robbers,” he said.  Edited by P.O