The staff of the Kerio Valley Development Authority has received salary increases in parastatal restricting after operations were disrupted by the Sh22 billion Arror and Kimwarer dams scandals. President Uhuru Kenyatta cancelled the Kimwarer Dam and ordered scaling back the Arror Dam. The total lost so far was at least Sh22 billion. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission approved the salary increments. CEO Sammy Naporos told the Star on Monday the increment will take effect this month. The lowest job group will get an increase of more than 30 per cent. The KVDA has retained about 200 staffers after 400 were allowed to take early retirement two years ago in a restructuring programme. Naporos was appointed early this year to replace CEO David Kimosop. Kimosop was among more than 30 senior staff at KVDA who were charged alongside former Treasury CS Henry Rotich and former PS Kamau Thugge over the dams scandals. Kimosop was sacked by the KVDA board. “We are going on well with our restructuring to ensure KVDA serves its purpose as a lead government development agency in the North Rift region,” Naporos said. The salary increments will eventually equalise the earnings for the KVDA workers with those of other regional authorities. Naporos says KVDA will later hire technical staff but for now, it has hired 30 contract staff after the exit of those facing court charges. “We are operating in line with government guidelines with all matters and procedures approved by the board,” he said. KVDA is implementing projects valued at Sh2 billion. The effects of Covid-19, floods and the locust invasion have caused projects to stall for three months. Naporos says they had been forced to suspend implementation of key flagship projects worth billions of shillings, including those funded through partnerships with donors. Many workers were sent away following the outbreak of Covid-19 and the onset of flooding. Locusts invaded some irrigation projects under construction. One hard-hit mega project is the Sh300 million Phase 3 of the Wei Wei irrigation project covering 1,000 acres of maize in West Pokot county Naporos said food security projects including the Loyapat and Napuu irrigation schemes had also been damaged by the locusts. “We are still working with the national government to fight the locust invasions that caused extensive damage to our sorghum and maize farms under irrigation,” Naporos said. The affected KVDA projects are in West Pokot, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet and parts of Samburu counties. Other affected projects include the Chepkum irrigation project in the Arror area, which was to cost Sh434 million, and the Sh59 million Lomut scheme in the Sigor area. Naporos said contractors on some projects had been forced to abandon the sites due to flooding and requirements to control the spread of the coronavirus. “We were actually moving very fast with implementation of the projects when the natural calamities affected us but we hope soon we will resume,” Naporos said. (Edited by V. Graham) 