The Attorney General has urged the High Court not to issue any orders directing him to publish in the Kenya gazette names of the 41 judges recommended for appointment by the Judicial Service Commission. Deputy Chief State Counsel Emmanuel Bita told the court to dismiss the case filed by lawyer Adrian Kimotho as the matter has already been determined. On February 6, a three-bench judge ruled that the delay by President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint the 41 judges was unconstitutional. Judges Lydia Achode, Chacha Mwita and James Makau said Uhuru was constitutionally bound by the recommendations of JSC on persons to be appointed. The court determined that the appointment of judges by the President should be immediate after the recommendations are forwarded to him by the JSC. The court further held that the reasonable time contemplated by the Constitution is 14 days from the date recommendations are forwarded. But since the High Court decision, no move was made by the President. Kimotho filed a new case asking the same bench to direct the AG to publish in the Kenya Gazette the names of the 41 Judges within three days. In the event of failure by the AG to publish, the names of the persons should be published by the JSC in any newspaper of nationwide circulation. Upon publication, Kamotho further sought to have the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi to administer the oath or affirmation of office on the judges within three day. He sought an order directing the Controller of Budget to approve withdrawal of funds from the Consolidated fund to facilitate their full and proper assumption of office. But the AG now says the court lacks the jurisdiction to hear the matter as the same issues were already determined. He asked the court to dismiss the application as the orders being sought by Kimotho were denied in the earlier case. “The petition cannot be reopened for further orders.  The court ought not to revisit its decision to give further orders that were sought but not granted,” he says. But Kimotho has denied claims that his fresh application seeks to reopen the petition for further orders. He says no part of his current application seeks or invites the court to reopen the case, which was determined in February. Edited by Henry Makori