A dispute over the boundary between Taita Taveta and Kwale counties took a new twist on Wednesday after three county revenue officers were arrested at Mackinnon Road town while on duty. The revenue director Simon Irina, revenue supervisor in charge of Maungu-Mackinnon Road Alloys Kiteto and Maungu enforcement officer Nelson Mombo were locked up at Taru police station for allegedly trespassing on the border town. The three were released on free bond. The row over Mackinnon town has been ongoing since 2013. The officers had visited the town to open a new county revenue office. Taita Taveta is gearing up for tax collection in Mackinnon and Mtito Andei towns. The county has not been collecting taxes in the two towns since inception of devolution owing to the protracted boundary dispute. Speaking while bailing out the officers, finance and economic planning executive Andrew Kubo asked the government to help resolve the boundary dispute between the two counties. "We call upon the IEBC and the Inter-Governmental Relations Council (IGRC) to expedite the process of finding an amicable solution to this border tussle. It is now threatening to paralyse service delivery to the people we serve,”Kubo said. He condemned the arrests, noting that they were aimed at undermining efforts to collect revenue in the town that lies in Taita Taveta county. He added that the county would not relent in pursuit of quality services to all residents. “This will not be attained if we will not tap all revenue avenues within the county borders," he said. Kwale county claims that its boundary with Taita Taveta is at Miasenyi, a few kilometres from Mackinnon Road town, while the latter holds that her boundaries extend to Landi ya Mwembeni near Taru town. Taita Taveta is also at loggerheads with Makueni county over the location of Mtito Andei town. Last week, a section of Taita Taveta leaders led by Lands and Environment executive Mwandawiro Mghanga pulled down a signboard at Tsavo River, hours after Makueni MCAs installed it to mark the disputed boundary. The Makueni ward reps led by Mtito Andei MCA Francis Mwania had installed the signboard on the bank of the river on the Mombasa-Nairobi highway, indicating that the spot is the border point between the two counties. “For many years after Independence, we collected revenue at the town and that is a clear indication that it belongs to our county,” the former Wundanyi MP said, further asking Makueni leaders to stop inciting residents of both counties who have coexisted peacefully. Edited by Henry Makori