As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, the Ministry of Health on Wednesday launched home-based care protocols for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. The move is aimed at decongesting healthcare facilities that are running out of space and in anticipation of a surge in cases as per the projections from experts. The country yesterday recorded the highest number of recoveries in a single day at 175, bringing hope that the virus is not a death sentence. This brings the number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 1,048. The country surpassed the 3,000 mark after 105 positive cases were recorded in a day, bringing the total tally to 3,094. The ministry has conducted 102,956 tests since the first positive case was reported in the country on March 13. “The WHO recognises that not all cases can be cared for in a health facility when numbers rise and that prioritisation and alternate care systems need to be considered," Health CAS Rashid Aman said. According to current data from the ministry, 78 per cent of the patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, hence can be managed at home, provided the procedures are strictly followed. “Community health volunteers will be involved in the daily assessment of the home-based patients and will be the key link between the healthcare workers and the households,” the CAS said. Aman said home-based care in slums where households share small spaces will require identification of institutions within the community that meet the recommendations for providing the care. “Nyumba Kumi initiative will play a key role in supporting the care in the community. To succeed, the ministry appeals to non-governmental organisations and well-wishers to partner with us in this fight against Covid-19,” he said. The CAS said that because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, it has become increasingly impossible to isolate all patients in health facilities for management and treatment. The new cases are aged between two and 77 years, comprising of 77 men and 28 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 43 are from Nairobi while 11 are from Mombasa. Busia recorded 18 cases, Turkana seven, Migori six, Kwale and Kiambu five, Kilifi, Machakos and Taita Taveta three, Kisumu two while Uasin Gishu, Siaya, Kajiado and Garissa recorded one case each. One patient succumbed to the virus, raising the number of fatalities in the country to 89. Truck drivers continue to be an issue of concern as the numbers being recorded in the last three weeks especially at border points are of truckers. In Busia, for instance, all the 18 cases recorded in the past one day were of truck drivers at the Malaba border point. In Turkana, all the seven cases were of truck drivers at the Nadapal point of entry. In Taita Taveta, all the three cases are of truckers at the Taveta border point. The two cases in Kisumu are of truck drivers in Kisumu Central, while in Uasin Gishu, the one case was a truck driver at Turbo. “The issue of truck drivers at various border points, particularly Busia, has remained of great concern to us. As a ministry, we are working very closely with the Busia county government to give the support necessary to address the situation,” Aman said. Edited by Henry Makori