Seventy-eight per cent of all Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and will be cared for at home, CAS Rashid Aman has said. This comes to about 2,400 patients. Speaking during the daily brief on Wednesday, Aman said the asymptomatic patients range from mild symptoms to none at all. "These patients can be managed at home, provided procedures are followed. MOH has just launched home-based care guidelines available on the Ministry of Health portal," he said. "It has been developed to provide a solution in the surge of coronavirus.. the guidelines dictate the procedures," he said. Aman said the guidelines range from expounding on eligibility, care of the patients, monitoring, criteria for recovery and community participation. "Implementation will be done under the community health volunteers who will be involved," he said. "These guideline will ensure that we will still maintain and contain these patients." He appealed to NGOs and well-wishers to partner with MoH for home-based care to be successful. Aman said the Home-based care in the informal settlements where households share small spaces will require identification of institutions within the community that meet the recommendations for providing such care. "Herein the Nyumba Kumi Initiative can play a role in supporting the care," he added. Aman said that there will be no need for specialised workers in provision of home-based care since the household members will care for the patients by following the guidelines. "It is dangerous to live in comfort of what we do not know. The asymptomatic patients can progress into serious conditions; all we need to do is be prepared for the worst," he said. Because of the nature of the disease, Aman said the ministry will decide those who qualify for home care based on them being of lowest risk. "It will be on a case by case basis," he said. Kenya on Wednesday recorded 105 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total number to 3,094. This is out of the 2,273 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the recoveries have risen to 1,048 with 175 discharges. A total of 102,696 tests have been conducted to date. The youngest new Covid-19 case is two years  while the oldest is 77 years. Nairobi has 43 cases, Busia 18, Mombasa 11, Turkana 7, Migori 6. All the Busia cases are of truck drivers.