A section of leaders from Nakuru county have condemned Deputy President William Ruto for unveiling a parallel Jubilee command structure, saying it undermines the President. Leaders who ran for Parliament in 2017 on the Jubilee ticket, led by Denis Koech and Brian Randich in Kuresoi South and North, respectively, want President Uhuru Kenyatta to expel all disobedient leaders during the party's Parliamentary Group meeting on Monday. "The move to open a separate office, Jubilee Asili, is an outright move by Ruto to undermine the President and this should be countered with full force," Koech said. The caucus of leaders who defected from Ruto's camp said claims by the Ruto-led rebels that they have been denied access to Jubilee offices in Pangani is a mere excuse, yet they started disrespecting the party leader two years ago. "They are the ones who chose to disobey the directives of the party leader by engaging in early campaigns when the President was busy uniting the country. So nobody kicked them out as they purport," Randich said. On Thursday, DP Ruto had lunch with MP allies who were recently kicked out of leadership positions in the House. They met at the Jubilee Asili Centre, the new Ruto command centre. Though Ruto's loyalists say the centre is just a meeting place for those denied access to Jubilee headquarters offices, there has been speculation the DP was ready to jump ship from Jubilee to his new political vehicle. At the same time, the 2017 candidates who support the Deputy President warned the team fighting the DP that they will be dealt with. The team, led by Gideon Kipsoi and Jeffier Rotich, said it was wrong for the President to sideline Ruto in party and government decisions just because of the 2022 succession. They said it was wrong for the President to bring in Opposition leader Raila Odinga and kick out Ruto who had helped him achieve his dreams. "Between 2013 and 2017, Uhuru promised to hand over power to Ruto, calling him my brother, and now that 2022 is drawing closer he made him an enemy, Kipsoi said. Rotich warned local leaders to stop hurling insults at Ruto, saying they would be dealt with. (Edited by V. Graham)   