Catholic bishops have opposed introduction of comprehensive sex education in schools and the Abortion Bill, currently before the Senate. The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops (KCCB) said sex education should be left to parents. They said parents have the God-given privilege and obligation to bring forth life and nurture every life they bring forth, especially in matters of virtues, values and character building, including age-appropriate human sexuality education. Speaking during the Sunday mass celebrations at the Holy Family Basilica, the Bishop of Nyahururu Diocese Joseph Mbatia, who is also the Chair of KCCB Commission for Health, said parents need to train and impart virtues in their children. “We appeal to all parents, guardians and other caregivers to prioritise their children’s wellness and safety even as they go about their daily activities in search of income for livelihoods,” said Bishop Mbatia. He added that bishops are opposed to abortion since children are a heritage from God and that the fruit of the womb is a reward from heaven. The prelate observed that during this time of Covid-19 pandemic, many children are exposed to numerous risks such as domestic violence, alcohol and substance abuse, defilement and lack of basic necessities of life, a need he said requires all Kenyans to take responsibility in safeguarding the children. He said strong family values and personal responsibility in nurturing and safeguarding children can eradicate child sexual exploitation and teenage pregnancies. Bishop Mbatia urged Kenyans to comply with the Ministry of Health Covid-19 containment measures, noting that the adherence was the only way individuals could protect themselves and their loves ones. “We thank the government, frontline workers and security personnel for all the efforts towards combating the pandemic,” he added. The bishops also congratulated the nation for the big win at the United Nations Security Council. At the same time, the clergy encouraged their faithful to embrace and join the Caritas Micro Finance Bank, which celebrates its 5th anniversary this year.