A majority of Minneapolis City Council has pledged to dismantle the local police department, a significant move amid nationwide protests sparked by George Floyd's death last month. Nine of the 13 councillors said a "new model of public safety" would be created in a city where law enforcement has been accused of racism. Mayor Jacob Frey earlier opposed the move, drawing boos from the crowds. Activists, who for years have defended such a step, called it a turning point. But commentators say Minneapolis can now expect a long and complex debate over policing. Mr Floyd's death in police custody triggered mass protests against racism and police brutality. Security measures across the country were lifted on Sunday as unrest started to ease. Thousands of people are expected to gather on Monday for a public viewing of Mr Floyd's body in Houston, his home city in Texas before he moved to Minneapolis, Minnesota. A private funeral will be held on Tuesday. A video of Mr Floyd, a 46-year-old African American, pinned to the floor with a white police officer kneeling on his neck for almost nine minutes sparked worldwide outrage. Officer Derek Chauvin has been dismissed and charged with second-degree murder. He will make his first court appearance later on Monday. Three other officers who were at the scene have also been sacked and charged with aiding and abetting. What did Minneapolis City Council members say? The nine councillors read a statement to hundreds of protesters on Sunday. "We are here because here in Minneapolis and in cities across the United States it is clear that our existing system of policing and public safety is not keeping our communities safe," City Council President Lisa Bender was quoted as saying. "Our efforts at incremental reform have failed. Period." Ms Bender said details of the overhaul plan needed to be discussed further, adding that she would try to shift police funding towards community based strategies. Meanwhile, councillor Alondra Cano tweeted that "a veto-proof majority" in the council had agreed that the city police department was "not reformable and that we're going to end the current policing system". Last week, Minnesota launched a civil rights investigation of the Minneapolis Police Department, with Governor Tim Walz saying he wanted to root out "systemic racism that is generations deep". The city council later voted for a number of policing changes, including the ban on chokeholds and neck restraints by police officers.