The Registrar of Political Parties has asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi for the party's elections timelines after the term of the current officeholders expired. In a June 23 letter to secretary general Barack Muluka, RPP Anne Nderitu wants the party to tell her office how it plans to comply with the party’s constitution. The party's laws require that officials hold office for not more than five years. The current officials were elected in June 2015. Nderitu’s letter comes soon after founding member Angela Wambura wrote to the Registrar complaining that Mudavadi was in office illegally. Wambura asked Nderitu to compel Mudavadi to conduct elections in line with the party constitution. Through Kisilu, Wandati and Co Advocates, Wambura said Mudavadi’s term in office ended two weeks ago and an election should follow to ensure the right people are in the offices in line with the ANC constitution. “In the circumstances, we are instructed to write to you and request you to order the party to conduct elections for all party offices in strict conformity with the party constitution, the Political Parties Act, the Constitution of Kenya and the party’s election rules and procedures as soon as it is practically possible,” Wambura said. On Tuesday, Nderitu told Mudavadi to respond to the concerns raised by Wambura. “The letter raised a number of concerns that need the attention of ANC party,” Nderitu says in the letter. The Registrar also wants Mudavadi to submit to her office the composition of NEC members. Wambura claimed that it is illegally constituted and promotes nepotism. She said that some members of the NEC are either related to Mudavadi or are his close allies. “You declare that currently, the party NEC is not properly constituted and there are vacancies in the NEC and all other party organs in view of the fact that the party has been unable to plan, organise and conduct party elections at all levels within the time stipulated in its constitution,” Wambura pleaded in the June 17 petition. (edited by o. owino)