Shivling Supermarket Limited has opened two outlets in Kisumu city paving way for stiff competition with existing retailers. The first outlet located in Kondele on the Kisumu-Kakamega Road was opened on March 25, 2020. The second one is moving in a space formerly occupied by Choppies supermarket at Reinsurance Plaza on Oginga Odinga Street. It is scheduled for opening this week. Retailer’s operations manager Sammy Wawire said they are 20 years old in the market. They have branches in Migori, Homa Bay, Kericho, Kisii, Nyamira, and Kisumu. “We are hoping to get into the market and take advantage of the positions left after choppies exit. It has left a big market which needs our services,” he said on Sunday. Wawire said despite financial constraints due to Covid-19 and slow economic growth, the retailer has seen it necessary to invest as per its expansion plans. He said the branches are in line with their strategic growth in the next five years. “We have realised that the market is vibrant as there is peace. We are focused to satisfied the needs of clients,” Wawire said. The local community, he said, stands to benefit most mainly with direct and indirect jobs, which includes supplies of fresh farm produce and cereals. The investment is also expected to boost the county’s economy. “We are going to employ 100 people directly and more than 200 indirectly. We are going to have supplies and our vehicles serviced by locals,” Wawire said. He said the retailer will offer payment platform such as “Lipa Pole Pole” that allows customers to pay for certain products at their convenience. Targeted market is the common mwananchi, management notes. “We are looking on the struggling mwanainchi who has some little money in their pocket that needs to be converted into an item or goods to improve their living standards,” said Wawire. A number of supermarkets have in the recent past expanded to Kisumu. They include Game Stores which opened its third outlet in Kenya at the Mega City Mall in Kisumu. The store replaces Nakumatt which was initially the mall’s anchor tenant. Tuskys, Chandarana Food plus, Naivas, Chandarana, Choppies, Khetias, and Tumaini are the other supermarkets in Kisumu. Tuskys, Khetias, Tumaini all have two outlets each and Lemigo Dala Supermarket owned and operated by former Nakumatt employees. Botswana retailer Choppies which had four outlets exits the market following financial challenges.