President Uhuru Kenyatta has invoked  the spirit of Tom Mboya as he pitches for Constitutional reforms to “improve the 2010 Constitution.” "...It is not a moment to replace it but to improve it. A moment that will correct what we did not get right in 2010," he said. He was speaking in State House during Madaraka day on June 1. "We need one that will bring an end to cycles of violence that we have witnessed since 1992. One that will deepen our democratic credentials and lead to an inclusive society," he said. Uhuru said that we cannot move on without changing political architecture. "If we have done great things. The. We must not be afraid to change the system if it does not help us do this," he said. He said that Tom Mboya cautioned the nation against Constitutional rigidity. "He argued that a Constitution cannot be useful to a country if it is an end to itself. A good Constitution must be responsive to the aspirations of a nation & be a means to a greater end," he said. Earlier, DP William Ruto told the president that Kenyans are praying for him and for the government even as he steers the country through the coronavirus pandemic. "In fact, the pandemic has made everybody realise our inadequacy and what God can do," he said. The amendment of the constitution will be done through the Building Bridges Initiative. Uhuru has given his unflinching support to the BBI team and sent a clear signal that he would support law change. “If there is anything wrong with the Constitution, or any other law, we need to sit down and see how best we can rectify it,” President Kenyatta said on August 24 during the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the CITAM Church. He went on, “You can’t just sit on your laurels and hope that manna will fall from heaven. If there are thorns in our Constitution or even our laws, let’s remove them because not all leaders will do as they say. Our only safeguard is a Constitution that stands and protects all the 45 million Kenyans. The only act of ingenuity that remains is for us to sit down and look at the laws and rectify them.”