More than 50,000 frontline healthcare workers dealing with coronavirus patients will receive training on case management, application and use of Personal Protective Equipment and on psychosocial support. The move is aimed at helping them cope with the daily challenges occasioned by their service in the fight against the virus in the country. The year-long intervention will ensure that healthcare workers across the country are well equipped to serve in the frontlines during the Covid-19 pandemic. The initiative has been financed by the Kenya Covid-19 Fund and Equity Group Foundation at a cost of Sh85 million. Kenya Medical Association will implement the programme together with the National Nurses Association of Kenya, Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union and the Kenya Psychiatric Association & Clinical Psychologists’ Association of Kenya. Other Associations that are part of this initiative include the Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya, Kenya Clinical Officers’ Association, Kenya Pharmaceutical Association and other healthcare professional associations. “As KMA, the health and well-being of our members has been a focus of our interventions. We welcome this initiative that will assist to scale and reach more members. Majority of our public hospitals in Kenya are strained in handling Covid-19 cases,” KMA CEO Elizabeth Gitau said. “Many frontline workers are ill-prepared to face a global health emergency. These factors can lead to anxiety, depression, insomnia, and a lessening of the professional demeaner and skill which our medical professionals need to care for the public.” The NNA chairman Alfred Obengo pointed out that in the course of delivering much needed services, healthcare workers are exposed to both physical and emotional challenges posing a threat to their welfare and the healthcare system. “As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact on Kenyans, the frontline workers will remain at the forefront supporting patients to ensure full recovery to health. We applaud all our partners who have come to our assistance at this critical time," Obengo said. The Kenya Covid-19 Fund Board chairperson Jane Karuku noted that the initiative is a worthwhile undertaking to support the healthcare workers so that they can remain effective in the joint response to the pandemic. The managing Director and CEO of Equity Group Holdings reiterated that they will continue to champion the mental wellness of healthcare workers as well as supporting them physically with the much-needed personal protective equipment and how to apply and use the same. “Health is not just a physical embodiment but one that you carry in your mind all the time. It may be hard to express what you are going through and feeling in such stressful circumstances as dealing with Covid-19, or any other medical conditions,” Mwangi said. To further support and strengthen the health system and frontline healthcare workers in adequately mitigating Covid-19, the coalition will be following Ministry of Health guidelines developed together with the Covid-19 Case Management Training Programme to ensure that this training is cascaded to all counties in the country. Case Management training and the psychosocial wellness program targets to reach 50,000 health workers of all cadres to boost confidence and enhance professional acumen in dealing with the Covid-19 health crisis.