The condescending attitude of the governor towards the County Assembly is uncalled for, the special senate committee probing her impeachment charges has said. In its recommendation on Friday, the committee noted that Waiguru's attitude does not inspire confidence and trust in the County Executive leadership. "The Governor appears to require to be reminded of the high calling of her office and the responsibilities of leadership," the report read. In the report, the 11-member committee led by senator Cleophas Malala said they were unimpressed by the governors attitude. "The Committee must express its reservations on the pattern of conduct of the Governor that it has perceived on the basis of the evidence adduced before it," they said. "While it is open to the Governor to indulge in less important activities, it is an uninspiring and disturbing picture when the governor cannot similarly find time to appear before the County Assembly to present the annual State of the County address. " Toxic relationship In the report, the committee observed that the proceedings before it has exposed 'acrimonious, contemptuous and cold' relationship between the MCAs and the governor. "That threatens to grind the County to a halt. It is inconceivable that in these circumstances the people of Kirinyaga County can be enjoying the benefits of devolved government," the report read. The senate committee said urgent measures should be taken to bring the two protagonists to the table to find an amicable solution. "The committee recommends that the Senate, through its relevant organs, immediately assumes jurisdiction and invites the County Assembly and the County Governor to a consultative process that will restore a functioning government to the people of Kirinyaga County," the report read. " The area senator should lead the various reconciliation measures to bring together the County executive and County Assembly and all other institutions in order to restore harmonious working relations in Kirinyaga County." On Friday, the governor has survived an impeachment motion against after the Senate dismissed the motion seeking to remove her from office on grounds of abuse of office and gross misconduct. The committee cleared her of all the charges stating in their report that they were not substantiated. During her defense in the senate committee, Waiguru dismissed as false and unfounded grounds advanced by the MCAs in her impeachment. The MCAs accused her of abuse of office and gross misconduct. Waiguru said the allegations are mere malice and innuendos meant to embarrass her and destabilise the county operations. "These MCAs are on a fishing expedition, their superficial evidence is unintelligible," she said.