Eloping and subsequent secret marriages in Lamu are among the leading causes of increased divorce rate in the region. The Lamu Council of Elders has said these unions are conducted by carefree and unauthorised religious leaders at the sound of money. It said all those intending to marry should follow due process, which includes going to their respective registered religious or government offices. Speaking in Lamu town on Thursday, chairman Sharif Kambaa said many people have ended up imprisoned in unhappy and frustrating unions by opting for shortcuts. Under the Islamic religion, any marriage ceremony requires the presence of witnesses from both sides, but Kambaa observed that recently, many young couples were defying the directive. In 2018, the council formed a special committee to vet all those intending to marry and either approve or disapprove the marriage and give its reasons. The objective was to curb soaring divorce rates and child marriages. During the vetting process, one must present to the committee a valid national ID as proof that he or she is over 18. “We are appealing to the police to help us arrest these unordained religious leaders who are marrying off people just for money. Otherwise, this current image is not good for the future,” Kambaa said. The elders insist that it’s against Islamic law for one to be married off by an unordained person. Senior resident Kadhi Swaleh Mohamed said 60 per cent of registered marriages in Lamu end up in divorce. The Kadhi’s courts are tasked in part with the registration and dissolution of marriages under the Muslim law. The Kadhi revealed that out of 10 marriage petitions received in his office monthly, at least six are seeking divorce. Divorces in Lamu are higher on Lamu Island, Faza, Pate and Kizingitini in Lamu East, he said. Mohamed appealed to all stakeholders, including political and religious leaders, to condemn divorce and help people learn how to make marriages work instead of fleeing at the slightest challenge. Edited by R.Wamochie