Counties have developed protocols on progressive reopening of the economy, places of worship and inter-county movement, the Council of Governors has said. Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya wants the national government to set up adequate testing centres in the border counties to expedite the process. Long queues of trucks have been experienced throughout the week at border counties leading to an increased number of cases. He urged counties to innovate ways of combating coronavirus, especially using technology for efficiency and accountability. “Nandi county has repurposed their call centre for Covid-19 response with a portal (*380*29#) to share information and for contact tracing,” he said. The governors lauded the state for employing 3,220 healthcare workers out of the 5,550 recruited in the first phase which has enhanced human resource capacity in handling the virus. Oparanya, however, expressed concerns on financial challenges counties are facing as they drown in pending bills. “Counties have cleared Sh37.9 billion pending bills with the Sh257 billion (81 per cent) of the total equitable share disbursed to counties. Sh59 billion is yet to be disbursed to the counties with only two weeks left to end of 2019-20,” he said. Oparanya appealed to Unicef to expedite the distribution of 226 500kg bags of alum to 13 selected counties. He said water service providers face challenges buying water treatment chemicals due to low revenue collection and shortage of the treatment chemicals in the country. To prevent further spread of the disease, Oparanya urged the Devolution ministry and ASALs to fast-track their efforts and support resettlement of families affected by floods. Some 316,482 people in Northeastern, Coast, North Rift and Western region remain displaced. County governments have set up 453 ICU beds in 187 hospitals to deal with coronavirus. Oparanya said they have 180 active quarantine facilities across the counties. He said five counties already have isolation facilities with a 300-bed capacity in line with the President’s directive. “I call upon the remaining 42 counties to prioritise this initiative to reach a target of 30,500 isolation bed facilities across the country,” he said. The Kakamega governor singled out Makueni as the only county that has opened a shelter for women and girls who are victims of domestic violence, which has increased rapidly during the pandemic. At the same time, Oparanya has called on Western MPs not to boycott a meeting scheduled for Thursday. Some MPs have said they will not attend the meeting citing that all the projects they proposed in the previous meetings have not been factored in the 2020-21 budget. Mumias East MP and former Majority Whip in the National Assembly Benjamin Washiali and Lugari MP Ayub Savula concurred saying “the meetings have become talk shows without meaningful outcome”. “We have sat in those meetings several times. We have listed all the projects which should be implemented in all the counties. Now we had done with the budget and none of these projects were factored. They now want us to go back to engage in endless talks and we are not ready for that,” Savula told the Star on phone. Washiali said some leaders from Western are planning to hijack the meetings to profile themselves politically. He said they have been pushing for the Sugar Task Force Report that was submitted to President Uhuru Kenyatta last year in February to be implemented. “We have attended those meetings uncountable times. All the people of Western want is the revival of sugar sector, more good roads. We will be foolish to go for tea meetings which does not translate into tangible results,” he said. But Oparanya said it was absurd for the MPs to boycott the meeting because it was called after the budget was read. “The aim of our meeting is to discuss the status of projects in western because so many of them have stalled. These projects have been factored in the budget but they are still stalled,” he said. He said Thursday’s meeting would not be political and the agenda would be strictly about development projects in Western. “We want projects in the region to be given priority. If you don’t want to come, it is up to you. Some people think we are playing politics but we are keen on helping the community” he said. Oparanya said governors from Western have all indicated that they will attend the meeting. “I am not a governor of one constituency. I am the governor of Kakamega. If anybody from Kakamega does not come and I am there, then things will be alright since his coming and not coming will irrelevant,” he added. Edited by R.Wamochie