In February 2018, Deputy President William Ruto went to Gatundu North and commissioned the construction of the Sh1.5 billion Gatukuyu-Kairi-Mataara road. The 30km road was to be completed in two years. Ruto said the project’s money had been ringfenced and there wouldn't be delays in completing the work. The road was to ease transportation of agricultural produce, including milk, tea, coffee and avocados. But since the commencement of works in February 2018, the contractor has only done 10km. Already, the tarmacked section is riddled with potholes. Igamba village residents on Saturday protested against the stalling of the road. They accused the government of failing to compel the contractor to complete the work. They also accused the contractor of doing substandard work. “We were told that there was enough money to complete the road on time. We were being taken for a ride and this is a disservice to Gatundu North residents. Just look at the state of the tarmacked section, it’s full of potholes," resident Joel Gitau said. They said failure by the government to monitor the progress of the road had led to substandard work. "We are going through untold suffering because of the condition of the road. We are forced to carry the sick on our backs, especially during the rainy season,” resident Phyllis Maina said. Matatu and boda boda riders also lamented that they have been incurring huge losses caused by the deplorable state of the road. MP Wanjiku Kibe wants the contractor blacklisted from doing government projects after he proved to be “a total disgrace and an embarrassment to the people of Kenya and Gatundu North”. Kibe said even after the government paid the contractor his dues for the work done, he failed to resume work. She said the contractor cannot now complete the project. “Currently the government doesn’t owe the contractor money for work done. We are aware that once he gets paid he diverts the money to other projects leaving the people of Gatundu North to suffer,” she said. Kibe called on the Kenya Rural Roads Authority and the Transport Ministry to cancel the contract and award it to another firm. Edited by A.N 