A group of Nyatike residents have accused the National Irrigation Authority of using their land without compensating them. They lashed out at the authority for encroachment as it implemented the multimillion-shilling Lower Kuja Irrigation project in Nyatike, Migori county. No survey was undertaken and no compensation made, the residents said. Four families, through Okongo, Wandago and Company Advocates, have petitioned the authority over what they claim is illegal acquisition of more than seven acres in Sagama area, Ageng’a sublocation, North Kadem ward. The residents claimed the project has also made their homes inhabitable because of frequent flooding caused by new waterways. “In 2019 around March, the National Irrigation Board [now authority] trespassed on each and every client’s parcel of land and started excavation works, without notice... or justification whatsoever, allegedly to create way leaves for irrigation infrastructure,” reads the residents' letter to the Lower Kuja Irrigation project manager. The project is also said to cause environmental degradation, destruction of houses and homes and forced displacements. “There was no notice, prior arrangement and/or negotiation at all with our clients; neither was his consent sought. We are made to understand that you introduced rice farming in the area, but without public participation," the advocates said. The residents want the authority to pay them Sh12.5 million as compensation within 14 days or they will move to court for legal redress. “The purpose of this letter, therefore, is to demand of you to remove the illegal canals, which you have put on our client’s land and to restore the land to its prior state, unless you are willing and ready to negotiate for the way leaves according to law and to compensate our client forthwith,” the legal firm says in the letter. “We also demand of you to pay both special, general and exemplary damages for violation of the right to property and the right to a clean and healthy environment, on terms acceptable to our client, to include costs of relocation and alternative home, which he proposes at a modest sum of Sh12,500,000.” However, contacted for comment, the authority denied claims that the project was being carried out without a feasibility study, clarifying instead that the study was carried out in 2012 by Gibb Africa and a report presented to them. “An environmental Social Impact Assessment for the canal wayleave acquisition plan was carried out by the same company in 2011. A review of the CWAP was carried out by Gedo Associates Ltd in 2012,” head of communications Daniel Nzonzo told the Star. Nzonzo, however, admitted that some affected persons are yet to be compensated, a situation he blamed on objections to the value, problems with land documentations, lack of identification, or parcels that were not accessible to the valuation team. “Compensation of 80 per cent of the canal way leave-affected persons was carried out in 2012. The remaining 20 per cent are those who objected to the valued figure,” he said. He added that they are working with the Lands ministry and the Migori government to settle the pending compensation cases. On flooding, Nzonzo dismissed as untrue claims the project has left homes and houses in ruins, insisting instead that it has reduced the intensity of floods as most of the drains have been de-silted, enabling them to evacuate floodwaters faster. “The flooding experienced in Nyatike was caused by River Kuja bursting its banks and rising lake levels. These were experienced at locations very far from the project area,” he said. (Edited by F.O.)