A medical agency has raised concern over a huge backlog of unprocessed samples due to shortages of reagents to do coronavirus tests. According to the Kenya Medical Association, the government‘s testing strategy has not able to keep up with the rate of transmission of the virus in the community. The association further said the supply of sample collection and testing kits is still erratic, making the testing programme look disorganised thus affecting public confidence. In addition, the association said it is clear the government lacks the capacity to conduct significant community-based testing that would help keep track of the transmission of Covid-19 in the country. KMA president Jacqueline Kitulu said it is high time the community testing strategy was reevaluated, possibly abandoned, due to the shortage of testing kits, adding that it might not be possible for the government to get the kits in sufficient quantities to track community transmission. They want the government to use the limited sample collection and test kits available distributed to health facilities with the capacity to collect samples and/or conduct tests across the country. “Specific Covid-19 treatment facilities should continue to be clearly designated and properly equipped and manned, leaving other facilities to continue offering other health services,” Kitulu said. She said the ministry should focus on testing health workers and patients admitted to health facilities, with a priority being given to those with respiratory signs and symptoms or requiring intensive care. She, however, said that periodic random sampling and testing should be conducted in nationally representative samples for purposes of tracking the pandemic. Statistics on health indicators - including attendance at health facilities countrywide, morbidity and mortality patterns - must be closely monitored and analysed to help with strategic deployment of resources. “Adequate numbers of health workers must be recruited and continuously trained on Covid-19 management in order to bolster the understaffed health workforce.” The association has always held the opinion that a robust community testing strategy is necessary to provide crucial information to guide appropriate interventions. As local transmission became established, the association had advised on massive testing in areas considered to be ‘hotspots’ aside from contact tracing and isolation of those testing positive. On Monday, the ministry admitted a backlog in testing samples, with truck drivers being the worst-hit by the problem. Nairobi and Mombasa have been identified to be affected by the backlog. Kenya’s capacity to conduct more Covid-19 tests continues to be hit by the dwindling supplies. “At the moment the backlog is minimal and we are still fighting with it. We have employed a lot of testing capacity in the western region where most of the truck drivers are stuck,” Public Health Director Francis Kuria said. This has led to a snarl-up at the various border points, especially at the Busia and Malaba border. This has sparked fear among local communities that the truckers could spread the virus in the villages near the border. Already, Busia county has seen a rise in the number of positive cases, the majority being truckers at the border. According to a publication by the Lancet, African health authorities are struggling to compete with richer, more powerful countries when it comes to procuring the scarce testing material on the global market. Even low-margin, low-tech items like swabs to take samples are in short supply on the international market. The World Health Organization has always emphasised the crucial importance of testing with speed being of the essence. “You can’t fight a virus if you don’t know where it is. Find, isolate, test and treat every case, to break the chains of transmission. Every case we find and treat limits the expansion of the disease,” WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. Edited by R.Wamochie