Some health workers serving areas though to have Covid-19 cases have been booked in two hotels in Nyeri town to curb the possible spread of the virus. They are not allowed to go home. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga said this was meant to protect their families and other people they may be interacting with in the course of their duties in case they have been infected. “Their life is normal except for going home, meaning they come from the medical facility, go to the hotel, have their meals, spend the night and the next morning they go back to work because they are not sick,” he said. The governor said the move was meant to reduce the risk of spread and ensure that the health workers do not walk from the county referral hospital and take the disease to their families. The measure was taken after some cases were confirmed at the county referral facility. Three health workers tested positive on Monday. The county has about 1,700 health workers. The governor spoke on Tuesday when he received Sh0.5 million from Britam. He thanked the company for the donation. Nyeri county had reported nine cases by Monday. The governor said out of all the nine cases only one had developed symptoms. “Everybody else is asymptomatic. They don’t show any signs. And this should be noted by Nyeri people that you do not need to be sick to prove that you have Covid-19,” he said. Though the governor ruled out mass testing saying the county, just like the country, had no capacity to do mass testing, he said they will do targeted testing and isolate those positive to stop spread. Governor Kahiga said his government was working hard to provide 300 or more beds in the event of a full-blown spike of the disease. He said currently Nyeri had 1,018 beds in all public hospitals. “So, in a way, we may say we are a little bit better. We will ensure that 300 of those beds are available,” he said. He added Nyeri would be releasing 124 people who had been in quarantine after testing negative. Britam’s principal executive director Strategy, Finance and operations Gladys Karuri said all people should come together and fight the disease. Edited by Henry Makori