A former acting director general at the Kenya Maritime Authority is among 12 officials to be charged in relation to the award of Sh1.8 billion tender for an office block. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Hajji approved the arrest of Cosmas Cherop and 11 others who sat in the evaluation committee. They have been accused of with failure to comply with procurement laws. The tender would allegedly have cost KMA more than Sh200 million in price variations. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission confirmed that Cherop and seven others have been arrested. EACC Lower Coast region boss Mutembei Nyaga said they had arrested Cherop, former procurement boss Edwin Momanyi, procurement officer Seth Arende, research and development officer Juma Ali and Jemimah Msinga, a data entry assistant. Others are public works engineers Dennis Ngeno and Jared Biwott, Mengi Designs (consultant for the project) and quantity surveyor Robinson Karigu. Cherop is currently the KMA corporate affairs manager in Lamu. "We have them in our custody and shall process them for charges. Cherop is on his way to Mombasa after being arrested by EACC officers," Nyaga said. The authority is also pursuing KMA Kisumu manager Joel Kiprono Bii, internal auditor Bakari Mwakuyu, ICT assistant Francis Oluoch and project coordinator for Mengi Designs Peter Kinyanjui. They will be charged at the Mombasa law courts Wednesday with offences related to failure to comply with procurement laws. The EACC received complaints on July 8 last year about the suspected malpractices in the tender during the 2016-17 financial year. Bii, Oluoch, Makuyu, and Karigu will face charges of willful failure to comply with procurement laws. The charge sheet says on January 1, 2017, in Mombasa, being members of the technical evaluation committee, they jointly corrected the tender sums on the bid documents relating to the tender for four companies — EPCO Builders Ltd, Probat Siyani Construction, China Zhongxing Construction Company Ltd, and Dinesh Construction Ltd. The EACC says EPCO Builders Ltd, which was dealing with main works, had been awarded more than Sh1.7 billion but later changed it to slightly more than Sh1.8 billion, showing a variation of more than Sh97 million. Another subcontracted firm, which was to receive Sh115 million, had the figure amended to Sh224 million, which added to a variation of Sh108 million-plus. The suspects will further face a charge of willfully failing to comply with procurement laws by recommending the award of the tender to a bidder who did not meet the mandatory requirements. Cherop will face a charge of failing to ensure procurement laws were followed by approving the tender on May 19, 2017. Momanyi will further face charges of giving a misleading document, professional opinion to KMA recommending the award of the tender, on May 19 last year at KMA. The DPP said although KMA had attempted to rectify the errors, the action of the tender evaluation committee, procurement head and the acting director general has caused KMA to be at risk of losing millions of shillings. (edited by o. owino)