An embattled Jubilee politician is said to be counting huge losses after splashing cash to secure a plum job but it appears things are not working out for him. The politico known for his deep pockets has been holding strategy meetings in the city with those he believes have the ears of President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured). He's trying to win a coveted seat that he has been eyeing for some time. The lawmaker said to have spent millions in his quest for the position is now regretting his decision after realising the President has made up his mind and none of his men will change the head of state's decision. A once-influential politician who landed a Cabinet slot is on the verge of being kicked out. The man who earned the President's trust and rose to a more lucrative portfolio is one of the Cabinet Secretaries likely to be kicked out in the looming purge. He has previously been fingered for skewed hiring and Corridors has learnt that it is a matter of time before he is shown the door. A chief executive officer in one of the government parastatals reportedly faked meeting minutes and bribed the entity’s board to have his expired contract renewed. Well, the man is said to have done this with a blessing of a senior state officer who is eyeing a governor's seat, with whom the CEO is close. Corridors is apprised that it was the officer who helped the man after his plot was nearly exposed following the latest Cabinet realignments by President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is said the man camped in Nairobi for a week to execute the mission of extending his stay at the water company’s helm. An ambitious female politician from the western part of Kenya is on the spot following a spat with the uncles of her mpango wa kando who happen to hold a prominent position in the region. The drama started when the elders without notice visited the man’s residence to have a talk with him over his clandestine ways, only to be welcomed by the woman leader who was only wrapped in a loose nightdress. The man was conspicuously missing for he had taken a nap elsewhere in his jurisdiction. Moles have told Corridors that the uncles were not only shocked and upset but also gave the woman a dressing-down, telling her to respect matrimonial homes. The man was not spared either. The uncles now demand that he either takes her as his second wife or stops the affair that is exposing the clan to ridicule.