Football Kenya Federation presidential candidate Lodvick Aduda has blasted the incumbents of double standards after two of their officials successfully secured  High Court orders,  temporarily barring the Sports Disputes Tribunal from hearing and determining cases touching on the body. The two officials Lilian Nadundu and FKF South Coast branch chairman Gabriel Mughendi had their prayers heard by the Mombasa High Court on Tuesday and Aduda believes the latest development is a recipe for chaos across all federations. The Gor Mahia chief executive officer, criticised Nick Mwendwa for using proxies to fight the tribunal which has been a thorn in his flesh recently. He condemned the two officials and their counterparts from Kericho and Murang'a for reverting to ordinary courts of law  to quash rulings delivered by the tribunal. He observed that should their prayers be heard, this would mean all rulings by the tribunal in the past including those which have favoured them would be rendered null and void. “When they came in office, they scored an early goal in the tribunal after their prayers to have the composition of the top flight increased from 16 to 18 were heard and upheld. "When their tenure ended in February, the tribunal ordered that the FKF constitution be upheld meaning that Nick would stay in office until a new team comes in or he gets another term. "When the ruling favours him, the tribunal is good but when they contrast with his wishes, then its bad. The tribunal is a product of the Sports Act just like FKF and he has to respect other institutions,” he said. Aduda further termed the incumbents actions as a move to block aggrieved parties and contestants from getting justice from the tribunal. He also expressed displeasure with them for disregarding institutions established to govern sports. “The federation doesn't have a tribunal to hear and solve sporting matters. Where will other parties get justice considering that CAS does not listen to domestic matters? "They are also aware that Fifa law prohibits taking football matters to ordinary courts of law. It is unfortunate that this is coming from FKF officials who are expected to respect the laws of the land, those of the offices they serve in and those prescribed from Zurich,” he noted.