Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has come under attack from some youth leaders from Ukambani who have declared his grip of the region's politics 'dead'. The leaders accused Kalonzo of failing to use the powerful positions he has held in government for close to three decades to transform lives of Akamba community people. The leaders, who addressed the press at a Nairobi Hotel, said instead, the former vice-president does not have the interest of the region at heart. The youthful leaders argued that it was high time the Akamba nation charted its own political destiny without Kalonzo. “The people of Ukambani have had enough of your political hoodwinking schemes. Your season is over and we will not let you be a political barometer for the region,” Vincent Munyau said. They claimed Kalonzo has, over the years, failed to show political autonomy and 'continues to stoop too low compared to his political peers'. “Gone are the days when politics of dictatorship would see the light of the day,” the group’s spokesman John Mwendo said. They accused Kalonzo of serially disrespecting other Ukambani leaders. They vowed not to support the Wiper party in the next polls and to rally behind the direction of independent leaders. The youths from Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties also attacked the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation terming it as a 'white elephant'. They claimed the foundation has over the years received funding from China and the United States for purposes of doing water, education and community support projects 'but has little to show on the ground'. However, the foundation refuted the allegations as "preposterous, a new low and undeserving of a response". In a statement, the foundation said it has been working hand in hand with the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund to alleviate the suffering of Kenyans. "The KMF secretariat would like to make it clear to all that Kalonzo Musyoka is not only the epitome of transparency, accountability and integrity but also demands the same of those who serve the foundations noble cause," it said in a statement. Kalonzo's aide Denis Kavisu said the youths were hired by a politician from the region whose "political conmanship" Kalonzo has rejected. Kavisu said the Wiper leader has made it clear that he will continue working with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Edited by R.Wamochie