A 30-year-old IT graduate suspected to lead a group that has been illegally sharing digital newspapers has been detained for seven days. John Muyai was brought under a miscellaneous application in which DCI officer Daniel Githiari asked the court for one week to conclude investigations. Milimani principal magistrate Daniel Ndungi was informed that the DCI is investigating a criminal offence of infringement of copyright works. The court heard that the matter against Muyai was reported by Dickson Mathenge on behalf of the National Media Group. Constable Githiari said in an affidavit that Muyai and his accomplices were offering the E-papers for sale to third parties without the company’s permission. “The police require more time to subject the suspect’s phone, laptop and desktop found in his possession to forensic examination before they can formally charge him at the court,” the affidavit reads in part. Githiari told the court that Muyai was arrested after evading several attempts by the police to apprehend him. The DCI also informed the court that the suspect has no known permanent place of abode and if he is released he might abscond. Muyai was arrested by Kenya Copyright Board enforcement officers in collaboration with DCI officers after lengthy investigations. Magistrate Ndungi allowed the application by the state and directed that Muyai be detained for seven days. The case will be mentioned on Monday next week when he is expected to be formally charged. Last month, KECOBO executive director Edward Sigei warned Kenyans against sharing copies of PDF newspapers on social media as it could land you in jail. Sigei said both the sender and the receiver of the PDF newspapers are committing an offence of being in possession of unauthorised digital copies. If found guilty, one faces up to 10 years in jail and repeat offenders could face up to ten times the market value of the copyright product that they have shared or Sh2,000 for each infringing copy. If you want to share a PDF newspaper, you must have the authority of the rights holder, in this case, the particular media house that owns the e-paper. The sharing of these e-papers by Kenyans online has led to a drop in income for some media houses as they are issued out at a cost to the subscribers. (edited by o. owino)