 ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula are getting increasingly isolated as other principals in the moribund Nasa coalition warm up to Jubilee. A move by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Chama Cha Mashinani's Isaac Rutto to sign a working deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee party on Tuesday appeared to alienate the two principals. The Wiper and CCM crossover followed ODM leader Raila Odinga's handshake deal which provided for a working framework with President Kenyatta under a nine-point agenda. With Nasa technically dead, Musalia and Wetang'ula could be forced to explore new alliances amid claims that they are working on a political union with Deputy President William Ruto. A ruthless political war by Uhuru has left Ruto badly wounded with his ambitions to succeed the head of state seriously punctured. Politicians and analysts suggest that with Ruto boxed out of the centre of power and his presidential prospects getting dim, an alliance with Musalia and Wetang'ula could be in the offing. This comes as it emerged that the two are planning an extensive tour of Western Kenya from next week in a charm offensive against Raila and Uhuru. On Thursday, Mudavadi dared Kalonzo and Rutto to put on paper their decision to quit Nasa "since it was now obvious they are part of Jubilee". “If you are unhappy with Nasa, why don't you cast the first stone. Some people want to do something but they want others to look bad. They want others to be seen as if they are the ones who betrayed the dream of Nasa,” he said. The ANC boss added, “If you enter into an agreement and break it at will, it will only be a matter of time before people realise that if you enter into any deal, they are in trouble because these people have a reputation of not honouring what they sign up for." There are certain people who want to have their cake and eat it, they don't want to exit because they want other parties to look like they are the ones that left, he added. Kalonzo had on Wednesday said he had made up his mind to sign a coalition agreement with Jubilee ahead of the 2022 polls claiming Nasa was no longer tenable. “The Nasa Summit has never sat since the election. If a summit cannot meet, let's be realistic with ourselves, even the Nasa Management Team has not met since,” Kalonzo said. The former Vice President said his party was determined to quit Nasa immediately the Covid-19 restrictions on movement are lifted. "Our intention is to conclude a coalition agreement with Jubilee. If it was not for this Covid-19 pandemic challenge, we would have our delegates okay the decision," he said. Kalonzo had in 2017 said, “I'd rather be a sweeper in Nasa than work with Jubilee.” With the Nasa coalition tethering on its graveyard, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna insisted that the outfit was buried during the swearing-in of Raila as the people's president. "Nasa died on January 31, 2018," he told the Star. He has argued that Nasa died when Mudavadi, Kalonzo, Wetang'ula failed to show up during the swearing-in ceremony at Uhuru Park. Sifuna wondered why Mudavadi was telling other Nasa affiliates to leave the coalition yet the alliance does not exist. However, while ODM has insisted that Nasa died, like other partners, the party is yet to write to the Registrar of Political Parties to formally pull out of the agreement. In what appears to be a battle for Western Kenya where Raila has been enjoying massive support, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have lined up a two-week tour. On Monday, ANC and Ford Kenya leaders held a strategy meeting at the Musalia Mudavadi Centre to plan the tour that will counter an onslaught from Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Eugene and Oparanya, who have the blessings of Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli, have been crisscrossing the region amid claims they have the support of Uhuru and Raila.  Edited by R.Wamochie