A senior politician from Ukambani region is under fire for assembling some university students to castigate Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. The politician, known to have deep pockets, assembled the students in the guise of representing youth leaders from the larger Ukambani region. There are reports that each of the students branded as youth leader, received Sh3,000 from the politician to fire salvos at Kalonzo during a meeting in Nairobi. The falling out between Kalonzo and the politician is said to have been engineered by the latter's push to have the Wiper leader ditch his current political affiliation for another quarter. Observers say the two are raring for a major showdown in the region.  Has a water project being put up in the Eastern region become a cash cow despite President Uhuru Kenyatta's efforts to fight graft? A small bird from the region aware of the multi-million water project hinted to corridors of power that some official charged with delivering the project are said to be forcing the contractor to divert some materials to a private firm along the corridor. It is alleged that some MPs from the region are aware of the plot aimed at benefiting a certain leader with interests in the farm neighbouring the dam. As to why the anti-graft agencies have not moved into action despite protests, is as mind-boggling as the brutal action of stealing from the public coffers.  Is Jubilee planning to recall a Northeastern MP from the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission? There are reports that a faction within the ruling party could be pushing to replace him at the influential commission. It is not clear why there is a push to oust him from the PSC panel but there are claims that the issue is linked to internal fights within the ruling party. The changing political dynamics within the ruling party are said to have informed the push to accommodate some other strategic interests that have emerged. We are told that it is a matter of time before the plot is rolled out although another faction is opposed to this move. Opposition Party ODM is also in the race to recall Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa from the commission.  A member of Parliament from Western Kenya has sent tongues wagging with his ambitious plan to build storey buildings in most primary schools across the constituency. Those taken aback at the project are surprised how the youthful MP has been able to fund the construction of the storey classrooms across the whole electoral area. The MP, a key Tanga Tanga member, is said to have connections from some development partners from the West who are said to be bankrolling some of his projects on top of the CDF-kitty. The MP is said to be targeting to spruce up schools infrastructure to boost morale and motivate both for students and teachers as well. His opponents now believe his re-election could be a walk in the park. Only time will tell.