The Nairobi Metropolitan Service has embarked on the rehabilitation of city roads in the county. In the Central Business District, major changes are expected to happen with some roads already undergoing rehabilitation. On Tuesday evening, NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi in the company of Director, Transport, Roads and Public Works Eng. Michael Ochieng inspected some of the ongoing works in the city undertaken by his team. This comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta inspected the ongoing Non –Motorized Transport work along Kenyatta Avenue and Wabera Street in the CBD. Eng. Michael Ochieng said that the Non –Motorized Transport is aimed at decongesting the CBD to reduce traffic snarl-ups. Contraction works along Kenyatta Avenue include the construction of pedestrian walkways and cycle track through developing an efficient non-motorized transport facility. “This is the Non – motorized transport network starting at Kenyatta Avenue and will go along Moi Avenue to Serena Hotel until the Integrity Centre. Another NMT will be from City hall up to the roundabout along University Way,” he said. Ochieng further said that the NMT construction commenced last month and in another 20 days Kenyans will have the opportunity to utilise them. Phase one of the NMT follows River Nairobi from Donholm to Westlands while Phase Two joins the city centre to Langata through Railway city. Phase Three starts from the CBD to Roysambu through Ngara. Ongoing Road works In downtown, NMS is recarpeting Kirinyaga Road with asphalt concrete overlay. Grogan Road is also undergoing complete rehabilitation and hand-packing for construction of road base. NMS is also receiving support from the National Youth Service. Park road public transport facility is also undergoing a complete rehabilitation of drainage and construction of culverts along the drains. Along the New Pumwani Road, there is marking of loading zones and maintenance of road furniture. In Muindi Mbingu Street, NMS is painting the paving slabs on the median along the street and also some maintenance of the road furniture. In Ruai Ward, there are the grading and opening up access roads within the Kamulu estate. Youth hired for labour NMS is also using hired labour, mostly from the youth in Mukuru Kwa Njenga on the road works which end up economically empowering them daily. The works on the mosque roads by youths involve hand-packing for construction of road base and complete rehabilitation of the road. “Works progressing well using equipment from some personnel from NYS. The ultimate aim of these ongoing works is the excavation and opening up of access roads within informal settlements as well as Road improvement within the informal settlement,” Ochieng said.