Twelve counties will get Sh100 million each to fund projects they identified during public hearings on the 2020-21 budget. They are Tana River, Garissa, Kitui, Murang'a, Turkana, Samburu, Kericho, Narok, Busia, Homa Bay, Kisii and Kwale. The Budget and Appropriations Committee has a tradition where 12 counties host public hearings each financial year. The committee now under the leadership of Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa hopes to reach all the counties with targeted projects by 2022. Nyamira and Vihiga also sent written memoranda – as meetings were impossible over Covid-19, but their requests will be considered next fiscal year. A number of counties fronted requests for infrastructure, water, health and vocational training. The proposals are contained in the report of the BAC for the financial year 2020-21 estimates set for debate in Parliament Tuesday. The report will form the basis for next year's budget allocations set to be read out by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani on Thursday. BAC has recommended funding for various roads in Tana River at Sh90 million and Sh10 million for Tana Delta flood control. Garissa residents will get Sh20 million for drilling water pans, Sh20 million for roads under Kerra and another Sh60 million for rural access roads. BAC has recommended to the Treasury to allocate Sh35 million for a technical and vocational training institute in Kitui Rural constituency and another in Kitui Central at Sh40 million. Kitui South has been allocated Sh15 million for two boreholes and a police post whereas Mwingi will get Sh10 million for a borehole. MPs have recommended to the Treasury to provide Murang’a with Sh20 million for equipping Bildad Kaggia Level 4 hospital. At least Sh70 million has been proposed for various access roads and Sh10 million for completion of Kenya Medical Training College campus in Kigumo. Turkana’s allocation will go to various road works in the county’s six constituencies of Turkana North, Turkana West, Turkana Central, Turkana South, Turkana East and Loima. For Samburu, the committee has proposed that Treasury allocates Sh40 million for a KMTC campus in Samburu West and Sh20 million for the Seiya Reteti crossing bridges and access roads. At least Sh20 million has been proposed for construction of dormitories, laboratories and classrooms in select schools in Samburu East constituency. Samburu North constituency is set to get Sh20 million for upgrading and operationalising Baragoi vocational training college. Kericho residents prioritised road works in their petitions to Parliament. Bureti is poised to get Sh40 million for roads. Sh20 million will go to roads in Kipkelion East and Sh10 million each for roads in Belgut, Kipkelion West, Sigowet and Ainamoi constituencies. Narok residents also prioritised roads and MPs have proposed Sh35 million for Narok North; Sh20 million for Ololunga KMTC in Narok South; with the rest being for roads in Narok East, Narok West, and Emurua Dikir constituencies. In Busia, reidents identified works at Sisenyi Secondary School in Budalang'i which has been allocated Sh16 million. Sh12 million has been proposed for Sidokho water project in Funyula and Sh12 million for works at Dibondo Primary School in Butula. BAC has also provided Sh10 million for a tuition block at Burumba Secondary School; Sh12 million for Kocholia KMTC; and various roads in Teso South and Nambale. Homa Bay also prioritised roads among them the Sindo-Nyandiwa-Kiabuya which will be funded at Sh30 million. Rusinga ring road has been allocated Sh28 million. Kisii county’s allocations will go to Nyakoe market at Sh40 million; Sh50 million for Matieko KMTC; Sh10 million for Moma-Nyandiwa and Suguta-Ochororo roads. Kwale also asked for roads straddling the county’s constituencies even as MPs said it was not possible to fund the Sh95 billion additional needs presented by various departmental committees. Edited by Henry Makori