Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis is facing surcharge over irregular reallocation of Sh102 million meant for development to pay staff salaries. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee on Monday threatened to recommend punishment of the county boss for violating the law when diverting the funds in 2017. Appearing before the powerful county oversight panel, the governor’s response failed to satisfy the nine-member committee chaired by Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi. According to the 2016-17 audit report on the financial statements of the Baringo county executive, Kiptis’s administration reallocated Sh102.5 million meant for implementation of 34 development projects to recurrent expenditure. The cash was channelled towards payment of salaries of medical staff. However, the report noted that the reallocation was done contrary to section 47 (1) (d) of the Public Finance Management Act (County Government) Regulations, 2015 that requires the MCAs’ approval. “No explanation has been given for reallocation of development funds to recurrent expenditure,” reads the report in part. Kiptis, who beat the Covid-19 restrictions to honour the committee’s summons, admitted moving the development cash, but said it was meant to implement a collective bargaining agreement signed with the doctors. “This was to finance doctors’ salaries increase which had not been provided in the budget. The financing was from development because all the recurrent lines operations and maintenance could not finance the whole amount,” the governor said. He added, “The CBA was out of our control and we had to pay the doctors and other medical staff who were already on strike hampering service delivery in our hospitals." Kiptis explained that due diligence was observed to ensure that the minimum expenditure on development was retained at 30 per cent. The same was captured in a supplementary budget, he said. However, the response fell short of the committee's expectations as he did not provide documents to prove the MCAs’ involvement. “Where is the supplementary budget and the Supplementary Appropriations Act for us to verify that indeed the reallocation were captured in the supplementary budget?"Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko posed. Wamatangi said the committee would recommend surcharging the governor and all the county officers involved in the ‘irregular’ reallocation. Kiptis was also put on the spot over unexplained county assets amounting to Sh740 million. According to the audit report, the county’s financial statement indicated assets worth Sh860.2 million. However, fixed assets register reflected assets worth Sh116.7 million leaving a balance of Sh743.8 million unexplained. The governor explained that Sh860 million was the value of assets and included amounts spent on construction of roads, civil works and research. The committee also pressed him to explain why he put taxpayers' money amounting to Sh400,000 at risk of loss in the acquisition of land. The county purchased the 0.902 hectares (approximately 2.2 acres) but failed to obtain a title deed to shield it from cartels. Wamatangi gave the governor seven days to provide relevant documents or his committee recommends the criminal offence of abuse of office. The county chief was put to task to explain an over expenditure of Sh11 million in the purchase of certified seeds and breeding stock. Kiptis was at pains to explain why his administration missed revenue collection target by more than Sh15.5 million during the year under review. Edited by Henry Makori