Nyeri expects to collect at least Sh650 million this financial year, more than 20 per cent less than the previous year’s Sh837 million. The county had targeted to collect Sh900 million in the 2019-20 budget but Finance CEC Robert Thuo blamed the drop on the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Thuo said in the financial year 2020-21, the county's target is Sh1 billion. “All efforts will be directed towards its attainment and possibly surpassing the same if the economic shocks will be manageable including the effects of Covid-19 -19 pandemic,” he said. “The revenue target is anticipated to be attained within the least possible variation of existing rates, fees and charges.” He said the county government will continue to broaden the current revenue base and ensure optimal administration cost by automating all revenue streams. To reduce the effects of possible underperformance in local revenue collection, the CEC said a raft of strategies will be explored without necessarily introducing new charges. The CEC read this year’s Sh7.5 billion budget at the county assembly on Thursday. Out of the budget Sh5 billion will go to recurrent expenditure, which is 67.8 percent of the total. “Out of this, the allocation for personal emolument is Sh3.3 billion representing 43 per cent of the total and Sh1.8 billion for operations and maintenance,” he said. Development expenditure was allocated Sh2.4 billion which is 32 per cent of the total budget. Infrastructure development and growth was allocated Sh856 million. Health received the lion’s share of Sh2.85 billion followed by Transport Public Works, Infrastructure and Energy at Sh930 million. Finance and Economic Planning received Sh593 million, Agriculture Sh554.6 million while Sh756 million was allocated to the county assembly. The Sh7.5 billion budget, will be financed with Sh5 billion equitable share from the national revenue, conditional grants of Sh1.4 billion and internally generated revenue estimated at Sh1 billion. The government, the CEC said, will not increase fees and charges to achieve the local revenue targets. The administration will instead intensify efforts to maximise the existing sources. 