After changing its leadership in the Senate, Jubilee Party is strengthening its control by reorganising committees. A letter from the Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang’ata to the chairman of House Business Committee contained a 'proposed' list of committee members. Jubilee members in the Senate Business Committee now are Samuel Poghisio (Majority Leader), Kang’ata, Fatuma Dullo, Johnson Sakaja, Charles Kibiru and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, the Kanu chairman. Senators Kipchumba Murkomen, Susan Kihika Kimani, Langat Christopher and Paul Githiomi have since been removed from the committee. Though Moi is a Kanu senator, his party entered into a coalition agreement with the ruling Jubilee Party.. The Independence party had been operating without a formal pre-election agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party since 2017. Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Kihika (Nakuru) were removed as Majority leader and Majority Whip, respectively, on May 12. The two, who are allies of Deputy President William Ruto, were kicked out during a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting at State House on May 11. The DP's allies and those of the President are engaged in a battle linked to 2022 succession. The Procedure and Rules Committee now comprises Senators Margaret Kamar (deputy speaker), Isaac Mwaura, Steve Lelegwe, Farhiya Haji and Beth Mugo. Former Deputy Speaker and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kindiki Kithure and Christopher Langat (Bomet) were removed from the committee. The Senate voted 54 to 7 to remove Kindiki as the Deputy Speaker with zero abstentions. A motion moved by Kanga’ta accused Prof Kindiki of violating  the Political Parties Act, the Constitution and the Jubilee Party Constitution. He was also accused of refusing to attend a meeting held at State House on May 11. The Committee on Finance and Budget now has members Charles Kibiru, Kimani Wamatangi, Aaron Cheruiyot, Farhiya Haji and Millicent Omanga. The Committee on Health comprises Michael Mbito, Anuar Oleititip, Beth Mugo, Iman Dekow and Millicent Omanga. The Committee on Information, Communications and Technology has Gideon Moi, Abshiro Halake John Kinyua, Anuar Oleititip and Susan Kihika. The Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs has Naomi Waqo, Fatuma Dullo, Irungu Kang’ata, Yusuf Haji and Johnson Sakaja. The Committee on Labour and Social Welfare has Sakaja, Alice Chepkorir Githiomi, Mwaura and Kihika. The Committee on County Public Accounts and Investments has Godana Hagura, Dullo, Samson Cherarkey, Kang’ata and Kibiru. Delegated Legislation has Oleititip, Poghisio, Michael Mbito, Mary Seneta and Abshiro Halake. The Committee on Roads and Transport has Wamatangi, Maalim Mohamed, Godana Hargura, and Christine Zawadi. The Tourism, Trade and Industrialisation Committee has Abdullahi Ibrahim, Farhiya Haji, Philip Mpayei, Langat and Juma Wario. The Committee on National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations is comprised of Yusuf Haji, Wario, Maalim Mahamud, Dulo and Mithika Linturi. The Committee on National Cohesion, Equal Opportunity and Regional Integration has Zawadi, Langat, Dekow, Lelegwe and Cherarkey. 