The Nyandarua county dream to have a national institution of higher learning will soon materialise with elevation of Nyandarua Institute of Science and Technology to a national polytechnic. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Saturday said the elevation will be done immediately as it is a direction from President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Since there is no university in Nyandarua, and as a policy from His Excellency the President, we will declare this a national polytechnic and work with it to maintain the requisite standards,” he said. Magoha spoke during an inspection tour of the Ol Joro Orok-based institution to assess its status and capacity ahead of the upgrade. He noted that the buildings are in excellent state, but some few things need to be done to “work to the level I want as a person". Areas highlighted for improvement included tiling and painting of some buildings. The CS said the institution has enough agricultural, electrical, building and construction equipment, among other facilities, in good condition. It has 100 acres. "We shall start immediately by ensuring the requisite faculty required to enrich the faculty already in place is employed. Those things requiring little or no money must also be done to ensure the students who come get the necessary skills instilled in them,” he said Magoha was accompanied by his Water counterpart Sicily Kariuki, Ol Joro Orok MP Michael Muchira, and Nyandarua Education executive Stephen Njoroge, among other national and county government officials. Kariuki said the elevation is a great milestone that confirms President Kenyatta’s commitment to the people of Nyandarua and the region at large. This, she said, means that Nyandarua will be able to participate in developing the skills required in the national labour market. "It is a desire that has always been expressed by his Excellency the President that we cultivate skills and self-employment mindset in our youth for them to set themselves up, not necessarily for white-colour jobs. The blue-colour job market is what the President has emphasised,” she said. Kariuki promised to work closely with Magoha to ensure enough water is provided to Nyandarua Institute and other institutions of higher learning with water scarcity to ensure they run as required. For MP Muchira, the elevation is a big plus to the economy of the region. He said the institution will admit students from all corners of the country, hence play a big role in cultural and national integration. Muchira urged the youth to enrol in polytechnics and other technical institutions to get practical skills, and stop regarding them as a place for academic failures. “The labour market is now shifting towards practical-based skills. We have even seen people qualified to join university deciding to enrol in national polytechnics,” he said.  Edited y F'Orieny