Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has asked a court to dismiss a case by three doctors he says are trying to dictate to the ministry where they should work. The CS says doctors Hezekiah Chepkwony, Pius Wanjala and George Wang’ang’a have objected to their deployment, saying it is a transfer. As a result, the doctors got orders from court stopping their transfer. But the CS says they were never transferred but deployed. They misinformed the court in order to get orders. In a replying affidavit, the CS says the judge erred in law and misdirected himself on the action of deploying the three doctors from National Quality Control Laboratory to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Kenya Medical Training College. The CS says there is a difference between deployment and transfer. The doctors were deployed and not transferred as they had claimed in their suit papers filed before the labour court. And as a result of non-disclosure on the part of the doctors, the court ended up giving orders stopping their deployment. The three doctors while on deployment are still on the payroll of the Health ministry, the CS says. He further explains that it is incorrect for the doctors to claim that they are employees of the National Quality Control Laboratory as they never resigned from their positions with Health ministry. “The petitioners still report to Ministry of Health by virtue of their employment and salaries,” Kagwe says in the affidavit. Wanjala had in his suit papers said he had young school children and his wife was recently diagnosed with a medical condition. But the minister says that was meant to draw the court’s sympathy as there was no evidence of such provided. “Again, he is deployed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital where the wife can get better attention. No medical report that it is only the second petitioner (Dr Wanjala) who can offer the best care to his wife,” the CS says. Their plea to have him cited for contempt of court is aimed at covering up their unaccountability and defiance, he says. “And the time is now for this court to discern the mischief and stop it altogether. The petitioners have placed themselves above the law and are directing the respondent where they should work.” Edited by Henry Makori