The National Land Commission has stepped in to resolve a land dispute between the National Police Service and the Kenya Medical Training College in Homa Bay. The dispute over 3.6 acres has delayed construction of a KMTC campus in Mbita town, Suba North constituency. The construction of the campus was launched by KMTC chairman Philip Kaloki and Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo in August last year. The institution was to be constructed using Sh25 million allocated by the Suba North NG-CDF. According the MP, the construction was expected to end before September this year. But the work has never kicked off due to the stalemate after it was reported that the land belongs to the National Police Service. The NPS reportedly said it wanted to construct houses for police officers on the land. On Wednesday, NLC officials led by commissioner Reginald Okumu, MP Millie, Homa Bay police commander Esther Seroney and county executive for Lands Roselyn Odhiambo toured the property on a fact finding mission. Speaking to journalists in Mbita town, Okumu said they were conducting surveys on the land before they hold a discussion with all stakeholders to end the row. The commissioner assured the public that they would reach an agreement to allow for the implementation of the projects. “We’re already talking with all stakeholders concerned with the land. I hope our discussion would be fruitful and come to a consensus before the projects begin being implemented,” Okumu said. Millie said her office had set aside Sh50 million for the KMTC campus, construction of the area Kenya Police Service division and CDF offices. “The money is there but we couldn’t spend it on the projects due to the stalemate. Our coming here together would help us get the way forward before we embark on the work,” Millie said. She urged the NLC to issue title deeds to every project upon agreement with stakeholders. “Land titles will enhance efficiency in implementation of the projects,” she said. Roselyn said the Homa Bay government is supporting the construction of KMTC campus. “KMTC is an institution which transforms healthcare systems of a society especially through the training it provides to people,” Roselyn said.  Edited by Henry Makori