Some Lamu parents push their daughters to sleep with men in exchange for money and other material benefits, an NGO report has shown. The men the young girls are encouraged to sleep with include boda boda operators, fishermen and Lapsset workers. The report by World Vision Lamu Area Development Programme was released at the NGO's Hindi office on Friday. It indicates at least 20 primary school girls have fallen pregnant in Hindi in the three months since schools closed over the coronavirus. Most of the girls are between the ages of 13 to 17. Project officer in charge of sponsorship Lilian Gwiyo said the perpetrators use money to lure the mostly poor girls. She said some girls admitted to sleeping with men in exchange for sanitary towels. “Girls as young as 13 are getting pregnant. Most are lured by money. Others are defiled. Hindi area is leading with over 20 pregnancies in four months alone," Gwiyo said. "Unfortunately, the curve keeps [rising]. We established that the culprits are boda boda men, labourers at the port and road workers.” World Vision Lamu ADP project officer in charge of education and child protection Schollar Mghoi said parents have failed to provide sex education to their children. She said a campaign has been launched to homeschool KCPE candidates in the affected areas to limit their movement and exposure to sex predators. Mghoi said the programme generally focuses on provision of learning resources and teacher support, as well as creating awareness on child safety and protection at the community and county level. The programme, which is funded through a grant from the United Nations, also intends to provide sanitary towels to at least 100 girls affected by violence during the Covid-19 period. “The programme will also strengthen reporting and referral mechanisms for incidences of violence against children, facilitate provision of psychosocial support by teachers, law enforcement agencies, community health volunteers, community health workers, volunteer children officers to children and families directly affected by abuse,” Mghoi said. “The cases in Hindi, for instance, could be more than what we captured in our report because we understand many are swept under the carpet." Hindi MCA Anab Haj, an ardent campaigner of the rights of the girlchild, urged the community to expose sex predators. “Many times, the community does not want to expose such people and that’s why we have a disturbing trend going on and on. Let us be a community that speaks up for our children,” she said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya