Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani on Thursday arrived at Parliament Buildings for the budget reading to a low-key reception following the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CS stepped out of his car – the famed Treasury’s Volkswagen Passat - with the symbolic budget briefcase at about 2.40pm. He was accompanied by officials, among them CAS Nelson Gaichuhie, PS Julius Muiya, PS Saitoti Torome and Principal Administrative Secretary Amos Kalesha. Yatani was received by House leaders Aden Duale (Leader of Majority and Garissa Township MP), John Mbadi (Minority Leader and Suba South MP), Budget committee chair Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu MP) and National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai. The CS had a brief photo session with the leaders before he was ushered into the chambers for the key business of the day – which lasted strictly one-and-half hours. This was Yatani’s first budget presentation since his appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta after Henry Rotich was suspended in July last year. Budget reading is normally a big day, save for this year which has been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike normal times when there is usually a near full house, only 79 members were allocated seats in the chamber. There were fewer dignitaries invited to Parliament and no cocktail was served unlike in the past. Speaker Justin Muturi relayed his regrets on this saying: “Following the Covid-19 situation, we are unable to offer the usual cocktail. Guests can leave at their pleasure.” The rest of the 245 members who registered for the day’s sittings followed the proceedings from the galleries and other designated sitting places. Yatani appeared jovial and in high spirits despite the weight of the issues in the budget briefcase as a battery of journalists jostled for clicks. He also tagged along his two sons and his wife. This year’s budget has been described as special, especially coming at a time the country is suffering adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the issues include alarming debt levels, floods and the locust invasion which have adversely distorted the country’s spending framework. Owing to Covid-19 movement restrictions, the usual cocktail grounds were deserted within minutes of the Treasury boss completing his task. In their reactions, lawmakers were split on whether the budget spoke to the needs of Kenyans. Duale hailed the Sh54 billion post-Covid-19 stimulus package, terming it a good to start towards rejuvenating the economy. “However, a lot more interventions may still be required depending on the depth and duration of the crisis,” the Garissa Township MP said. Minority Leader John Mbadi restated the place of economic stimulation in getting the country back on its feet. The MP said he was, however, apprehensive about the financing of this year’s budget in the face of the revenue shortfalls. Kitui Central’s Makali Mulu said the budget was pro-mwananchi as a lot of initiatives are targeted at cushioning the common man. “We need key monitoring of these assumptions so that we can make adjustments when necessary,” Mulu said. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali said, “I’m pleased that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has been given Sh3.2 billion to fight corruption and the DPP Sh3.2 million. Without money, we cannot deal with graft.” Edited by Henry Makori