 Plans to revive the Nzoia Sugar Factory are on track despite the miller's problems, board of directors chairman Joash Wamang'oli has said. He said revival efforts were ongoing. Wamang'oli lauded the Ministry of Agriculture for gazetting new rules and regulations in the sugar industry, saying the move will sanitise operations in the sector. Addressing the press at the company on Sunday, Wamang’oli said that for the past 20 years the sugar sector has suffered because of a lack of laws to protect farmers. Nzoia Sugar Company has thousands of contracted farmers with more than 7,000 acres of land. “This is the time farmers will benefit fully from the sugar sector. The industry has been running without laws," he said. The accused of spreading rumours those saying Nzoia Sugar Company is dead. "I take this moment to single out our Agriculture CS Peter Munya for praise for identifying problems facing the millers. I hope that this will make Nzoia shine again,’’ Wamang'oli said. He called on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s intervention to pump in some funds to sugar industries saying the sector supports millions of livelihoods. He urged the government to ban the importation of sugar, saying it's was hurting local farmers. "The government of Kenya should stop the importation of cheap sugar from Comesa countries. It makes our sugar not to fetch a higher price in the local and international market,’’ he said. Managing director Michael Wanjala Makokha assured farmers that the company was back on its feet. He said they will ensure farmers enjoy total profits from the raw materials they supply. ‘’The new laws and regulations that have been gazetted by the Ministry of Agriculture will greatly help farmers,”  Makokha said. He added that the company was working to find funds to pay farmers who have not been paid for a long. ‘’The company has paid little money to our farmers but will we have a road map to pay their remaining debts within a short period of time,’’ the MD said.  Edited by P.O