Some members of the ACK Maseno West Diocese have threatened to stop remittances to the diocesan headquarters. The members from Ng’iya archdeaconry want the diocese divided into three. They say they have been marginalised by the administration of Bishop John Mark Haung Godia. The members accuse Godia of nepotism and high-handedness. They said they have already instructed churches within the subcounty not to report to Godia. Addressing the media in Siaya town on Tuesday after a visit to the bishop’s office, the members led by former Siaya county council chairman Washington Ong’injo said they will not be in the same diocese as Godia. But the bishop said he has no problem with splitting the diocese. Godia said he only disagrees with how the members are going about it. He said there is a laid-down procedure for splitting a diocese. Godia said at the moment the Anglican church has suspended splitting of dioceses for 10 years. Canon Vitalis Okoyo, Francis Odhalo and former councilor Ouma Onyango said  their effort to meet the bishop to settle matters affecting the church have failed as the prelate has been avoiding them. But Godia said it is wrong to just walk into his office and demand he convene a synod meeting the next day to split a diocese. “Before we decide to create a diocese or declare a region a sub-diocese, there are things they check then send a commission to come up with recommendations before any decision is taken,” he said. Maseno West diocese has been dogged with wrangles since the retirement of Bishop Otieno Wasonga, who was succeeded by Godia last year. Godia’s election was hotly disputed by members from Gem, who have been fighting for their own diocese. Members from Ng’iya archdeaconry say they want to join their counterparts from Regea archdeaconry who have been calling for the creation of a new diocese in Gem constituency. Ong’injo said if the diocese is divided into three, the current Ng’iya archdeaconry will retain the name Maseno West, Regea will be renamed Maseno Central while Mudhiero archdeaconry will come up with a new name. The members accused the bishop of running down the diocese and failing to pay staff salaries for 10 months in his one year in office. They also accused him of offering top positions to his cronies from his Ugenya clan. “There is mismanagement characterised by high-handedness, regional marginalisation, threats, intimidations, malicious sackings, harassment, staff demotions and displacement, vulgar and crude language and vindictive actions,” they said in a statement. The members said out of 16 top positions, nine are held by people from Ugenya, four from Gem and one from Asembo while Alego, which hosts the diocesan headquarters, is not represented. But Godia said he has only appointed four deans. He said the claims are meant to sow discord. Edited by Frank Obonyo