Dear Felly, I think you are one called pastors wolves? I declare judgement of god on you now, in jesus name. Exodus 12;12 You will never write such nonsense again. May your writing career come to an end, in Jesus name now. Musila Dear Musila, Thank you for reading my article; Churches now playboy mansions. Let me start off by quoting a paragraph from that very article in response to the verse you have “I am sure the wolves in sheep’s clothing brigade are about to start throwing irrelevant Bible verses.” Yes, I called some pastors wolves. You should hear what I call them when I am not writing, you will damn me to hell. What you are attempting to do to me is exactly why your doctrine has no place in civilized society. If I remember what little I learned in Sunday school, God has not given us a spirit of fear. If you have something substantial to say, I think it can be said without antics meant to arouse fear. I am sure you read your bible beyond verses that you want to use to arouse fear, I have, “No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.” Away from the quotes, imagine if the world operated in the careless way you are portraying. You do not agree with someone, you call judgement or whatever bad things you can conjure up. This is where extremism in my opinion starts. Many wars have been fought, many lives lost, women raped and children displaced in the name of God and his servants. If God has a problem with something, He will fix it, and if someone decides to be his servant, He needs to remember he is a servant! Not a god on earth, here to enjoy body and other pleasures at the expense of sheep/ congregation. The world runs on principles. You cut trees, there will be no rain, no matter how many prayers you pray or quotes you recite. You do not cook meat, it is raw. Even if you cut yourself up and tear your clothes. The pastors cock up, it is just that. No matter what you feel about me. The pastors are not above me, neither are they below me. As a concerned citizen, I can call them out especially because they hold themselves to a higher standard (self imposed) while misleading their sheep. There is a reason we have brains, I intend to make full use of mine. I hope you decide to do so too.