Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has challenged clerics to intensify their prayers until the government removes the ban on church gatherings. The governor in a press address on Tuesday said that restaurant and eatery owners' cry was heard due to their being vocal. “We need to make heavy and weightier prayers for the government because from the look of things, those who drink and those who enjoy themselves were able to have their voice heard by the government… let us pray even more and harder in the coming week so that our church services can be allowed by the government,” Sang said. He also said the government needs more prayers which will only be successful if the same government allows churches to resume their operations. “We also want to tell the national government that you need prayers more than anybody else. Allow us to go to churches so that we can pray for this nation and the leadership of this country.” The governor asked the government to implement its measures imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus without bias. He said Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli was allowed to host a party in his home in Kajiado where Luhya leaders attended. “If you can allow Atwoli to have over hundred people at his place and break curfew regulations, allow them to cross the border to Kajiado just to go and do political games, why won’t you allow bishops and church leaders in this country to go and worship.” His remark comes even as the country prepares to reopen places of worship that were closed in March after the country recorded a virus outbreak. Sang is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto. The DP was known to use church functions to make statements and used to give hefty contributions. On Monday, another DP ally - Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi - said churches were not being opened because the government knows Ruto is popular at church functions. In the lead up to reopening churches, the government said that churches have prepared to observe the directives issued by the government to prevent further spread. The call comes as the country continues to record a high number of cases. On Tuesday, the government confirmed 127 new cases in the last 24 hours, totaling to 2,989. Also, the number of deaths reached 88 following the death of three more patients.