The government will kickstart agricultural activities stalled by the Covid-19 pandemic to avoid food shortages. Agriculture CAS Linah Jebii said many farming activities have been affected in the last three months, causing fears of possible food shortages. “We are sensitising our farmers in all areas to continue engaging in farming activities as they also adhere to all control measures for Covid-19,” she said. “The country needs sustained food production.” Jebii said farmers needed to be encouraged to remain active because the Covid-19 situation is a real threat to food production. She said efforts to have farmers in the North Rift diversify farming activities will be enhanced so they stop relying on maize only. Jebii said the government is reviving fish farming in Kerio Valley. The government intends to use secondary schools to encourage residents along the Kerio Valley to produce and consume fish., she said. Jebii spoke at Kerio Valley Secondary School in Elgeyo Marakwet where she noted that food insecurity was persistent and a threat to many residents. “We want the local communities to exploit the high potential in fish production for commercial purposes and also for consumption,” she said. The secondary will host a fish-farming project to be undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture. “Kerio Valley is suitable for various types of fish, including Nile tilapia, mudfish, African catfish, among other species,” Jebii said. The CAS said Kerio Valley has many streams and rivers, which can be diverted for fish farming through the construction of fishponds and dams. The perennial rivers, which are rich in fish, are Kerio, Arror and Embobut rivers. Other streams and rivers that can be utilised are Kimwarer, Torok, Kessup, Kilos, Embamon, Enou, Embolot and Chesegon. Jebii said there is a need to organise aquaculture educational meetings in Kerio Valley besides availing fish feed for those who adopt it. “The project to be initiated in this school will go a long way in helping the students replicate and popularise fish consumption.” Edited by R.Wamochie