There was a public uproar after Public Service and Gender CS Margaret Kobia condemned the impeachment of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. Kobia in her statement termed the impeachment as an 'indicator that some do not value strong women leadership.' The CS said Waiguru's impeachment during the Covid-19 global pandemic is a major injustice to women leadership. In a statement on Wednesday, Kobia demanded justice and due process to be followed in Waiguru's impeachment. But some Kenyans on Twitter were an unhappy lot asking her to stop mixing gender and alleged graft issues. @itskamaufrank said, "Margaret Kobia whipped for #WaiguruOuster during a pandemic but not for women who were illegally evicted from Ruai, Kariobangi in the midst of a pandemic, not for illegal removal of @susankihika and Cecily Mbarire who were fellow women replaced by men." @Mahuru_ said "CS Kobia really out here pulling the gender card. According to her, we should hold female leaders to a different standard because they are women." "Women and children were evicted at the middle of the night in Kariobangi and she/they Prof M Kobia/other women leader's kept silent, now she is here to defend a corrupt woman involved in corruption, big shame," @ThomasKiptoo8 said. @RobertAlai said "Ha ha ha. Ati Waiguru was impeached because she is a strong woman leader? Are you guys for real?" @vincent035115wrote,"It seems like @susankihika and @cecilmbarire have XY Chromosomes? "This stupidity. Margaret Kobia don't bring feminism here. What about the ouster of Susan Kihika @susankihika and Aisha Jumwa from their previous positions? Are they not women?? If waititu was impeached & he's in Jubilee why not Waiguru. Stop discrimination," @DukeMtambo said. @John19586wrote, "Let's not apply double standards. Why not comment when Susan kihika was shown the door @susankihika ,@WahomeHon,@MillicentOmanga." @iFortknox said "I agree with Prof. Margaret Kobia. Patriarchy holds women to unrealistic professional standards than it holds men. A little corruption here and there is no reason to impeach a strong woman. Men have been corrupt for millennia and they don't get punished." @NelsonHavi said "Good morning Prof. The distinguished Governor was elected by popular vote; not affirmative action. Elected leaders are evaluated on meritocracy and performance. If you are gender genuine, please issue a Memo to CJ Magara to dissolve Parliament for violating the 2/3 gender rule."