The national government has been urged to revive irrigation components of the stalled Sondu Miriu, Magwagwa and Koru-Soin dams for flood control. Former Kisumu Road executive Vincent Kodera said on Monday the government needs to harness the excess water for irrigation in the lower hills to help with food security. Kodera, who aspires to remove Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor, said the construction of the dams was the only way to tackle the perennial floods. He spoke when he distributed food to needy people in Nyakach subcounty who are suffering from the floods and effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kodera said the government should consider resettling people away from flood-prone areas. The Sh40 billion Koru-Soin dam stalled in 2016 shortly after the contract was awarded. Kodera said the Sh90 billion Magwagwa multi-purpose irrigation dam in Nyamira would enhance the growth of Homa Bay, Nyamira, Kisii, Migori, and Kisumu counties. The construction stopped more than 60 years ago. The first feasibility study was done in 1956 but work was never done. Kodera said the dam would help control flood and enable residents to get water for irrigation. He said it is time for the national and county governments to look at the flooding around Lake Victoria and provide a permanent solution. In the meantime, Kodera said, canals and dykes should be built in flood-prone areas as a stop-gap measure. The lives of thousands of people are continually interrupted and are they are unable to grow economically, subjecting them to perennial poverty, he said. “These people have had to depend on demeaning tokenism during the floods. This must stop,” he said while donating food in Nyakach. Sh489,000 food and supplies were donated. They included cooking oil, maize, bananas, blankets, face masks and bars of soap. “This is not enough and we still appeal to more people of goodwill to come forward and assist the less fortunate people,” he said. Kodera said many people were suffering in Nyakach. Friends of Engineer Kodera lobby group chairman Philip Marende said they aim to help 10,000 vulnerable families. So far, he said, they have reached 1,500 flood victims in Sango, Nyakoda and Obange, (Edited by V. Graham)  