Dumped foetuses are rapidly becoming a common sight in Mavoko, residents have lamented. Mavoko is in Machakos county, which was recently reported to have 4,000 pregnant school-going girls. Civil society organisations, local administrators and residents said since the report was made public tens of dumped foetuses have been found, especially in slums and middle-class estates. The most affected areas include Mlolongo town, Athi River, Joska, Kamulu, Kyumbi and Kinanie. Residents have blamed lack of stable sources of income. Some mothers in Joska said since the demolition of Joska market, they can no longer provide for their children. According to a report by the Children’s Department Technical Working Group, more than 3,800 girls above the age of 15 and 200 others under 14 fell pregnant between January and May. The report was released by Children's officer Salome Muthama during the Day of the African Child celebrations. Some leaders and stakeholders who spoke to the Star said the figures could be true going by the high abortion rates. “We have so far collected more than eight foetuses in my sublocation. I have today summoned a boda boda rider who is suspected to have impregnated an 18-year-old teenager but has failed to take responsibility,” said a government official who did not want to be named. He said the teenager was seen at a dumpsite and residents suspected she intended to dump her newborn after delivery. The residents took her to Athi River Level 3 Hospital for delivery and the man was made to take responsibility for the child. “I gave the elders Sh580 to buy her necessities as they took her to hospital. I also requested them to contribute some items and treat her as their own,” he said. Sources at Shalom Community Hospital said most of their patients are pregnant women. The county government sealed off the facility in Athi River on Friday after four Covid-19 patients at the facility. Athi River subcounty volunteer Elijah Mboya, who doubles as a traffic marshal, urged parents to be responsible. “It is the parents’ responsibility to raise their children. Let them take good care of the children,” he said. Mboya said falling pregnant is not the end of life and parents should not take their children for abortion. He said there are lots of foetuses being collected from dustbins in the subcounty. Edited by Frank Obonyo