Four Jubilee MCAs serving as interim leaders in the Nairobi County Assembly have been directed to immediately relinquish the positions or face the party’s wrath. Secretary General Raphael Tuju has warned the MCAs to vacant the seat for new officials designated by the party late last month. They are Charles Thuo (Dandora 3) and Millicent Mugadi (Ziwani) who are serving as interim Majority leader and Deputy Majority leader respectively since late last year. Others are June Ndegwa (nominated) and Hassan Mohamed who are holding the positions of Majority chief whip and Deputy Majority chief respectively. “This is to inform you that with effect from May 28, 2020, you have been discharged from your leadership positions on behalf of the Jubilee party in the county assembly of Nairobi,” reads a letter addressed to Thuo on Wednesday. The letter warns, “Any prevarication on your part to handover smoothly to the new office bearers will be considered as gross misconduct and may invite or disciplinary office from the party.” They were appointed by the party as a temporary measure to contain leadership wrangles that had rocked the county assembly. The four MCAs have been ordered to immediately handover to Matopeni/Spring Valley MCA Abdi Hassan Guyo (Majority leader) and Dandora 1 MCA Peter Wanyoike (Deputy Majority Leader). Mihango MCA Paul Kados has been designated as Majority Chief with his South B counterpart Waithera Chege appointed as his deputy. Tuju has also written to speaker Beatrice Elachi informing her of the party’s stand to change the leadership. “Please refer to our letter dated May 28, 2020 with regard to the leadership of Jubilee party in the county assembly.  The position of the jubilee party remains as stated in the letter,” it reads. Tuju had in April communicated changes to the Jubilee leadership in the county assembly but the speaker declined to effect saying that she would discuss the matter with the party leader, President Uhuru Kenyatta. This promoted the SG to write to the speaker last month wrote to the speaker, reaffirming the appointment of Guyo and his team as the new assembly officials. However, Elachi failed to effect the changes, an instead faulted Tuju for not following the assembly standing in making the changes. But in the Wednesday’s letter, the SG warned Elachi that her officer had no authority to determine the party leadership in the house. “Your office, as you know, has got no locus in determining the leadership of Jubilee in the house and therefore you will not be able to protect them from any action the party may decide to take against any of them who decide to defy the party,” Tuju said.