Mtito Andei and Mackinnon Road towns, whose ownership is disputed by neighbours Makueni and Kwale counties respectively, are in Taita Taveta county according to a report. While presenting the Taita Taveta County Boundary Task Force report to the county assembly in Wundanyi, task force chairman Wilson Mwang’ombe said the committee had collected and documented evidence pertaining to the two disputed boundaries. The team constituted on March 2015 by former Governor John Mruttu was tasked with investigating the exact demarcation of the county boundary. Mwang’ombe asked leaders to engage the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Ministry of Interior and National Land Commission among other agencies on the matter. He said the agencies should be compelled to redraft the disputed boundaries adding that the Mtito Andei boundary could easily be solved administratively by the two counties. He revealed that the task force report had pointed out a serious dispute with Kwale at Mackinnon Town. SGR compensation forms for Mackinnon Road, he said, were under Taita Taveta indicating that the area is not owned by Kwale. “In the maps obtained for 1918, 1958 and 1959 as well as 1962, voter registration for Taru, as reported by Christopher Dau who participated as a registration clerk and is currently a retired teacher, were under Taita Taveta,” he said. The report further cites Mbele Primary in Mackinnon which has fallen under the boundary discrepancy. “The school is registered in Voi subcounty under serial number 01514. It gets teachers from Teacher Service Commission Voi office and supervised by Voi District Education Officer,” the report states. Whereas Kwale claims its boundary with Taita Taveta is at Miasenyi - a few kilometers from Mackinnon Road town, the latter holds that her boundaries extend to Landi ya Mwembeni near Taru town. Landi ya Mwembeni is considered to be deep inside Kwale county. Mwang’ombe said ID cards issued from as early as 1990 to Taru residents read Mackinnon Sub-location of Kasighau location, Voi subcounty. The report recommends formation of two teams from both counties, comprising technocrats to look in to the matter and amicably solve the dispute. Meanwhile, some residents have asked Taita Taveta leaders to sue Kwale and Makueni counties to end the boundary rows. They urged the leaders to file a court injunction to stop revenue collection by either counties at the border towns of Mtito Andei and Mackinnon so as to force dialogue. “If we are unable to collect revenue in the disputed towns, then we can seek an injunction to stop the other counties from collecting. This will create an avenue for dialogue,” resident Joashi Mwangemi said. Taita Taveta’s efforts to start collecting taxes in the two towns was met with resistance last week after three revenue officers were arrested for trespassing while opening a revenue office at Mackinnon Road. They were locked up in Taru police station and later released on free police bond. Edited by R.Wamochie