Residents of Witeithie estate in Juja subcounty have had to sell their household items to buy food and pay rent as Covid-19 continues to hurt the economy. They have been selling their items, including beds, mattresses, chairs, tables and electronics like radios and TV sets to second-hand items’ vendors on the estate at throwaway prices. Those who spoke to journalists on Monday said they were unable to put food on the table because of the lack of jobs occasioned by the pandemic. Landlords have also not made things easier and are on their necks over delayed rent payments. A month ago, a landlord on the estate removed doors, disconnected water and electricity for tenants who had not cleared their rent arrears. He also threatened to remove roofing sheets if they failed to comply. Most residents of Witeithie are casual workers in hotels, bars and construction sites in Thika and parts of Murang’a county, sectors that have been severely hurt by the pandemic. Monica Wangui, a mother of four and a charcoal vendor, said she sold her bed last week to settle her rent dues after the landlord threatened to kick her out of her one-bedroom house. “I was on the verge of being kicked out of the house and I had to sell my bed to clear the arrears because I have no other source of income. My charcoal business is on its deathbed and cannot sustain my family. Things are tough,” Wangui said. She said most traders are also feeling the heat of the pandemic since no one has money to buy their wares. “Marketers and especially food traders have incurred huge losses. There’s no one to buy their products, and they are left to decay in the stores. Butchers have been disposing of rotten meat since most people can't afford to buy meat at this difficult time,” she said. Resident Grace Mbugua said family rows have increased on the estate. “Hardly a day goes by without hearing couples fighting. Stress levels are high because of the frustrations caused by the pandemic. People have young families and kids to look after and feeding them has become a hard task,” she said. John Murigi and Bernard Mwangi, who are vendors of second-hand items, said residents have been flocking to their shops to sell their household items. “Our stores are full. People are selling almost every furniture or electronics they have because they need to feed their families and pay bills,” Murigi said. Mwangi said their trade has also been severely hurt by the pandemic since their customers are mostly students. “Our customers are usually students and now that schools have been closed we have been incurring losses. We are still buying items from residents despite uncertainties in our business because we understand what they are going through,” Mwangi said. Residents appealed to the Kiambu government and well-wishers to assist them with relief food rations to assist them to cope with the pandemic. Edited by A.N