An Embu county official has expressed concern that some residents have relapsed to their traditional way of doing things, including hugging whenever they meet. Embu West deputy county commissioner Caroline Imaya on Monday said some residents had gone back to the risky tendency of embracing each other, which is against the Health ministry’s directive. She said they have also been violating other anti-Covid-19 regulations. Imaya wondered whether the residents are fed up with compliance or they no longer believe the contagion is real. She termed it shocking to find some residents breaking the regulations at will, despite the daily news on infection and deaths related to the virus and widespread awareness campaigns on prevention measures. “Please, observe the imposed regulations against Covid-19, not because of fear of arrest but to prevent infection and protect yourself, your family members and the other people,” Imaya pleaded. The administrator told residents to take extreme precautions in view of the fact that the county has now recorded a case of the disease, to avert spread. She also reprimanded some boda boda riders and traders who have not been keeping social distance nor wearing masks, warning that they risk spreading the virus. Imaya spoke in Kangaru village where she received more than thirty 3,000-litre water tanks, 1,200 bars of soap, 800 bottles of 500ml sanitiser, 600 containers of 400ml liquid soap , all meant to aid the war on the virus. The package was donated by the Water ministry through the National Irrigation Authority and was presented by CS Sicily Kariuki’s legal adviser Nderi Ndiani and NIA’s information and communication manager Daniel Nzonzo. Ndiani said the ministry is determined to help stem the virus, hence its support to communities. He said besides ensuring every citizen gets clean affordable drinking water and water for irrigation, the ministry is aware of the harm the virus is causing. The officers promised to disburse more than 5,000 reusable face masks to residents soon. They appealed to area leaders to ensure the items are protected and used the right way and urged water companies to supply water regularly. Edited by R.Wamochie