Hundreds of flood victims living along River Dauwa on the Kenya-Ethiopia border have called upon the county and national governments to support them with relief food and household items. The 7,539 families from Khalalio ward, whose houses were submerged, have lived in camps for a month but on Tuesday they lamented that little help has come their way since they were displaced. Mohamed Ahmed, one of the victims, said the situation worsened when their crops were washed away by raging floodwaters. “We appeal to the two governments, NGOs and other well-wishers to come to our aid because we have lived a life of suffering and loss of dignity,” he said. He added that most of them earn a living through farming, so when the floods swept away their crops on an expansive 5,000-acre parcel, they were reduced to beggars. "We call upon the government to give us unga and cooking oil because the constituency leadership has not helped us at all,” he said. Mumina Yussuf, another IDP, termed it difficult to live in camps with children, some as young as two months old. He said without basic commodities and proper hygiene, they risk contracting communicable diseases such as cholera, dysentery and diarrhoea. Area Governor Ali Roba last week said the department of disaster management would continue assisting the victims as they remain on standby to closely monitor the situation. The governor said they have no helicopters to evacuate those who are severely affected by the floods and appealed to the national government and NGOs to help in managing the situation. Roba added that they are overwhelmed by the effects of floods and Covid-19. The floods have further damaged the water supply system and paralysed 19 water intake points, consequently affecting more than 72,200 households. Khalalio MCA Abdinoor Dakane called on both the national and county governments to act as fast as possible and provide humanitarian assistance to affected families. He said residents will face hunger because crops were washed away. He added that they are likely to experience an outbreak of waterborne diseases and asked the Ministry of Health to supply mosquito nets. Edited by Frank Obonyo