Transport and Infrastructure CS James Macharia has received support from his backyard against an outer attempt by Nyali MP. A section of Murang’a leaders on Friday told off Mohamed Ali over his intentions to impeach CS Macharia, who hails from Murang'a. The leaders said Ali's attempts have no basis and will not sail through. MPs Sabina Chege (Murang'a County) Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Peter Kimari (Mathioya) said Macharia has been instrumental in the implementation of the Jubilee government’s legacy projects. Ali on Friday gave a notice of motion to impeach Macharia, claiming he has not been conducting public participation and engaging stakeholders in the implementation of government projects. Ali said the CS has violated the Constitution and that his actions have adversely affected his docket. But the leaders said the impeachment bid has no foundation and vowed to floor it in the National Assembly. Ndindi, on his part, said Macharia has ably represented the government and that his record can speak for itself. “The CS is responsible for the implementation of railways and major road projects in the country. We will not allow anyone to start working against him,” he said. The Kiharu legislator said Macharia works with all MPs regardless of their political affiliation as they all represent Kenyans. He pointed out that even though he manages one of the largest dockets, he has never been incriminated in any graft incidence. “Ali is my friend but I want to inform him that his background as a journalist does not warrant him to impeach such an efficient CS,” Ndindi added. Chege said Ali will not be allowed to disorient the CS. “We accompanied Macharia today to show our solidarity with Macharia and to let him know that the people of Murang’a are behind him,” she said at Mioro in Mathioya while accompanying the CS on a roads inspection tour. Chege said when the government embarked on the 540km Mau Mau Road, which will traverse the central region from Kiambu through Murang’a to Nyeri, officials conducted public participation forums where locals expressed their displeasure with its design. Locals said they wanted the road to follow the original route used by Mau Mau fighters to get in and out of the forest and the design was adjusted. Chege said the Jubilee government has only two years to accomplish its vision and they will not allow its officials to be derailed. “Macharia has implemented projects countrywide. What does Ali want him to do so that he can see his efforts? We will reject those signatures when they get to the National Assembly,” she said. Kimari said the government’s work through its officials can be seen through the numerous  projects implemented countrywide. He said Macharia should be allowed to continue working for Kenyans. Macharia said he is a foot soldier of the President and that will not be intimidated by attempts to impeach him. “We are developing the entire country. We are doing infrastructural projects from Mombasa, Nairobi to Malaba and connecting the Northern Corridor to the Lappset corridor,” he said. He said the roads the government has built will make it possible for counties to get connected economically. Edited by EKibii