Wiper officials in Mombasa on Saturday blasted former Machakos Senator Johntone Muthama, saying his move to join Deputy President William Ruto should not make him disrespect party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. They accused him of trying to spread propaganda against Kalonzo. The officials, including party national secretary for religious affairs Sheikh Twaha Omar, Women Democrats national secretary Millicent Odhiambo and NEC member Mohammed Zakir, said Kalonzo was the best placed candidate to lead the country and Muthama will not stop his presidential ambitions. “If people are bitter about our deal with Jubilee, it is important for them to realise that this is not yet a coalition but an agreement to work together towards shaping the destiny of Kenya at this time where critical issues are being discussed,” Odhiambo said. She said those who leave the party thinking it is to be wished away do not know what is coming. Sheikh Twaha said anyone trying to undermine the leadership of Kalonzo will have themselves to blame. “People think Wiper has been swallowed by Jubilee. That is not the case. We are still Wiper as a party and we have candidates for 2022 including Kalonzo Musyoka as the presidential candidate,” said Twaha. The leaders spoke at the Pembe za Ndovu along Moi Avenue on Saturday. Muthama declared his support for Ruto and intimated he would be joining Jubilee Asili, a Jubilee Party splinter outfit allegedly formed to house DP Ruto’s allies who are targeted for ouster in key parliamentary committees. On Thursday, Muthama said he left Wiper in 2017 and that he was surprised Wiper members were still on his case. “They should realise that I left the party in 2017,” said the wealthy businessman. Odhiambo said Wiper was not just about the Eastern region but about the whole country. “Wiper goes beyond the language of Kamba,” Odhiambo said. She said the SGR had destroyed the economy of Mombasa. “What amazes me today is that people try to correct God. It is God who brought the ocean to the Coast region,” Odhiambo said. “Today, if we want to not use the resources which God placed in a certain region for the benefit of the people around that region, we are going against the wish of God.” Edited by Henry Makori