Doctors have projected that at least 636 doctors, 1,000 nurses, 360 clinical officers and 572 laboratory personnel will be required to effectively run the 300-bed isolation wards to be set up in each county. The Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union on Monday said other than the infrastructural requirements, the human resource component is critical in containing the virus. President Uhuru Kenyatta during his eighth address on Saturday noted the state of unpreparedness in the counties to handle a surge in Covid-19 cases and directed that each county set up a 300-bed isolation facility. “We appeal to the summit as it convenes to consider budgetary allocations for the required personnel outlined above,” KMPDU secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. KMPDU has further expressed concern over the increasing rate of Covid-19 infections among healthcare workers. Data released by the union shows that as at Monday, 81 healthcare workers had been reported to be infected with Covid-19. According to the union, 60 per cent of health worker infections are workplace related, meaning they occurred in quarantine sites and contact with Covid-19 patients. “This highlights the need for continued provision of adequate and quality personal protective equipment,” Mwachonda said. “We thank the Kenya Covid-19 Fund board for prioritising procurement of PPEs to protect our health practitioners. However, we urge the two levels of government to equally prioritise and provide PPEs to health care workers.” Mombasa leads with the highest number of healthcare infections at 41, followed by Nairobi at 31. Kiambu has four infection cases while Kitui, Machakos, Laikipia and Kajiado have reported one case each. The doctors further said healthcare workers were yet to benefit from the Covid-19 welfare package and recommended that in lieu of the challenges human resource has faced in the devolved system, one of the constitutional amendments should be the establishment of the Health Service Commission as presented to the BBI  steering committee. KMPDU welcomed the directive by the government to allow NHIF extend its functions and operations to provide health insurance for all public servants across the two levels of government. They called on county governments to implement the CBA article 6 on health insurance, adding that all Kenyans deserve affordable and quality health insurance in line with UHC under the Big 4 Agenda. “The union advocates for a tax-funded, public-led public-driven social health insurance scheme. NHIF is well placed to undertake this function,” the SG said. KMPDU thanked the President for recognising the role healthcare workers are playing in the Covid-19 pandemic, in particular for recognizing the healthcare professionals with the Uzalendo Award. “We take this as an acknowledgement of the role of healthcare workers in supporting government efforts in fighting Covid-19,” Mwachonda said. Edited by Henry Makori