Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has faulted President Uhuru Kenyatta over the ongoing purge in the Jubilee Party targetting his deputy William Ruto's allies. The President has in the past week declared that he will not work with people who are distracting his agenda as he heads into the final stretch of his two-year term. During a recent interview, Uhuru said that there are many who were blinded by their future political ambitions instead of focusing on current development. The President defended the purge in his party insisting that it is aimed at safeguarding his agenda. However, Karua insisted the President's actions are not possible in a democracy arguing that divergence of views must be tolerated. "He can sack and appoint as he pleases in government but not the party," Karua tweeted. The Narc Kenya leader said a party does not belong to the leader but to its membership. "Decisions must emanate from the National Executive Committee NEC which may include those he does not agree with," she said. Some of the Ruto allies who have lost key leadership positions both in the Senate and National Assembly are Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Mithika Linturi (Meru) and Christopher Lang'at (Bomet). Others are MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Cecily Mbarire (Nominated). Last week, the newly-appointed Majority Chief Whip Emmanuel Wangwe wrote to 16 Jubilee MPs allied to Ruto, notifying them of plans to discharge them from key committees in the National Assembly. In letters dated June 3, Wangwe wrote to Moses Kuria (Transport committee), Kimani Ichung'wah (Budget committee chairman) and others, notifying them of the party's intention to discharge them should they fail to respond in seven days. “You are hereby given seven days to respond before you are discharged from the said committee,” a common line of the 16 letters read. Others facing the axe are Robert Pukose (Energy), Cornelly Serem (Trade) and Joyce Korir (Labour). The letters were copied to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and clerk Michael Sialai. The Ruto-axis wing of the Jubilee Party has remained defiant, openly criticising the President as they maintained that the law should be followed in removing any legislators from parliamentary positions.