The anti-graft agency has warned governors that they risk prosecution for branding items bought by public funds with their portraits to mislead the public. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said putting personal photographs on items or works funded through public coffers amounts to violating the integrity and leadership law. The commission says it is closely monitoring the illegal practices prevalent among governors and MPs. In an advisory to the Council of Governors, EACC chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak warned that county bosses are treading on dangerous grounds. The warning comes at a time when the government has heightened deployment of public resources for procurement of goods, works and services in the fight against the coronavirus. “The commission will be keenly monitoring the compliance with this advisory as regards branding not only during this Covid-19 [crisis] but going forward,” Mubarak said in a letter to CoG chief executive officer Jackeline Mogeni. The commission is empowered to enforce compliance by public entities of the leadership and integrity law. Governors and other county officials have been branding sanitiser bottles and water tanks, among other items purchased with public funds, with their portraits. Some MPs also brand CDF projects with their portraits, making it look like they used own funds. Last week Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga's portrait was seen in huge signage for the construction of a latrine in his county, triggering an uproar. “The reports received by the commission further indicate that such brandings are being used to advance personal interests whereas the items being branded are being purchased using public funds,” Mbarak said. The commission said that each county government should take measures to ensure that no one brands items bought public resources. For purposes of accountability and transparency, the EACC said it would be prudent for governors to make pronouncements to the public or alternatively place the names of the counties on the items. (edited by o. owino)