Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has urged the Jubilee Party to purge MCAs frustrating her development agenda. Waiguru expressed disappointment that some crucial developments for residents had stalled after ward reps removed the money allocated to them. She cited cash allocated for fueling of graders to rehabilitate roads in Gichugu area, which she said the assembly led by the budget and appropriation committee declined to approve. They also removed cash for upgrading of Karumandi market. Waiguru spoke in Gichugu on Friday when she distributed famine relief food to vulnerable residents to alleviate effects of coronavirus. She said the assembly badly needed to be streamlined to support her agenda which she described as also the party’s. “You have been told what happened about the Karumandi market. This year we have vowed that the market has to be constructed and if they remove the money again l shall not sign the whole budget. We had put in money for grading roads in Gichugu but it was removed,” Waiguru said. She asked the assembly’s Jubilee chief whip who is one of the ward reps supportive to her to look into how the assembly could be streamlined to enable the county carry out development smoothly without frustrations. “It’s  very frustrating that when I want to send out graders to rehabilitate roads in Gichugu it becomes impossible just because money meant for the same has not been approved and yet the person leading in this negative move is from  this area,” Waiguru said. Waiguru at the same time asked the area residents to apply pressure on their ward representatives to support her development programmes. She said she was fed up with Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho over his antics to oust her but she won’t allow it. “Although we have been told to shun politics for development there is a time that some people push you and you remain quiet, then they abuse you and you don’t answer but now it has reached a point where we have decided to ask people whether they want us to go home or remain,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori