What was supposed to be a career ending blow for Nzoia Sugar striker Jeremiah Wanjala has turned out to strengthen him in his quest to score his long term goal on the pitch. Wanjala was diagnosed with Lymphoma cancer(non hogdkin lympoma) in April after months of severe and unending stomach pains but the towering forward says despite his condition, he is far from throwing in the towel in his bid to don the Harambee Stars shirt. Wanjala, who is recuperating at his home in Ingotse Village in Kakamega county after stepping out of the hospital mid last month, revealed that the medics had assured him of full recovery— possibly by the end of the year. The 2017 September SJAK Player of the Month award recipient, said the deadly ailment was detected in its initial stage and the early chemotherapy cycles saved his life as well as his career. The former Kakamega Homeboyz player opened up on his recovery at home—disclosing that he was feeling much better and was comfortable in performing light tasks unlike before. "I am slowly regaining strength and the recovery is way quicker than the time the doctors had given me. The best news the doctor gave me was that I will be able to kick the ball again before the end of the year. They told me the disease was at a manageable stage and immediately began chemotherapy sessions. I have always had a dream of playing for the national team and I pray that I will beat the disease, resume training and continue fighting to achieve my goal," he said in a telephone interview. Wanjala, who counts himself lucky to be alive, thanked  his employers—Kenya Footballers Welfare Association (KEFWA), friends and well wishers for shouldering the hospital bill. He said the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) wasn't enough to cater for his treatment but had the football family behind him at the hour of need. "I was on the verge of giving up after exploring a number of medical options but through my club, Kefwa and friends, I was admitted at the Kakamega Hospital where the problem was detected and I was later transferred to a private hospital. Kefwa gave in excess of Sh 100 000 and I will forever be grateful to them and the rest of the people who stood with me," he said Despite the positive progress, the former Posta Rangers man is still appealing for financial aid to complete his chemotherapy sessions, which he said had drained his coffers. Wanjala said a visit to the hospital costs almost sh 30, 000 and is looking for means as he prepares for a date with the doctor on June 4. He pleaded  to well wishers to donate to his pay-bill number 8013087. "Treating cancer is expensive and requires often check ups. I humbly request the football family and Kenyans to help me raise funds to complement what NHIF is offering. I am bound for another chemotherapy in the course of the week and I am yet to raise the required money," he added.