President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration is targeting his deputy Willam Ruto’s property to crush his 2022 ambition, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has said. Sudi said the state has also lined up investigations against the DP's allies. “You have pushed DP Ruto to the wall in so many ways but now I am pleading with President Kenyatta that please do everything you want but spare his life and that of his family,” he said at a media briefing in Eldoret. The lawmaker said Ruto and his allies had worked hard for Uhuru but the President was handling the DP like dirt. “We know you have forcefully taken the Ruai land from Ruto. He has two houses in Nairobi which you can also take. You can even take his home in Sugoi and all his businesses but we plead that you spare his life,” Sudi said. He said the DP had opted to keep quiet amidst all kinds of intimidation and threats to his life. “Those frustrating Kenyans should not think they are above God and will live forever. If they are lucky they will only live for a maximum of 115 years,” Sudi said. The outspoken MP said all allies of the DP were under investigations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations over dubious claims. He said former Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen had been stripped of his security detail to expose him. Sudi claimed that during the recent Jubilee parliamentary group meeting at State House,Nairobi,  the President intimidated MPs and threatened them. "You even told us that someone had told you that you look like your father but you behave like your mother. You called us at State House and used all types of language to abuse us, including threats. We accepted that and for me, I will never go back to State House,” he said. Sudi said the recent purge of Ruto allies in Jubilee had been used to punish leaders who had not committed any crime in the party or government. He said ongoing efforts to remove National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale was being spearheaded by the President through proxies like Kieni MP Kanini Kega. The MP said Duale had fought hard for the Jubilee administration in and out of Parliament but was now being targeted because of being close to the DP. Sudi claimed that the war on the coronavirus was being used politically and that is why "bars can operate but not religious places." However, Uhuru ordered bars to remain closed for another 30 days in his address on Saturday. “They think if they open churches then Ruto will have a platform to speak. They can continue cheating us with fake Covid-19 numbers but in the end, they will have to open even the churches,” Sudi said. (edited by o. owino)