Like many other parents, Christine Kimoa has been forced to substitute as a 'teacher' during the nearly three months of schools' closure to contain the coronavirus. For more than two months, the mother of four has been receiving teaching material from the school two of her children attend and homeschooling them. “For most of us, the lessons we’re supposed to help deliver are a foreign language. No one has provided me with any training. I even don't know the expected learning goals are. We’re muddling along completely blind," Kimoa told the Star last week in an interview. The toughest part for Kimoa has been finding a routine for her nine- and six-year-olds, while she also cares for a preschooler and a baby. The home environment has made it more difficult to run an operational 'school-like' routine. But she is more terrified of what will become of her children after the extension of the lockdown on learning institution to September. The high hopes from parents about homeschooling their children has been replaced by the harsh reality and frustration that being a teacher is, well, hard. The Education ministry in May announced that it is working on modalities to involve parents in the learning of their children. Education CAS Mumina Bonaya said the ministry had received reports of parents struggling to ensure their children follow the out-of-class learning programmes. However, the radio and TV lessons the ministry rolled out have come under sharp criticism with parents questioning whether efforts were made to ensure they reach those in poor and marginalised parts of the country. Teresiah Mokaya, a Kenyatta University lecturer and early childhood education expert argues most kids aren’t self-regulated enough to work for a sustained period of time without constant supervision. Mokaya said that homeschooling requires a degree of preparation and focus that many parents simply lack currently. "That’s not possible for parents who are trying to balance work and childcare," she said told the Star on Monday. Tips Mokaya notes that becoming a teacher takes years of preparation, a string of tests and patience. However, she notes that this is not necessarily what is needed of parents but parental engagement is vital to help children in their academic excellence. Mokaya warns that younger learners are at higher risk of forgetting fundamental skills such as reading, writing and counting if they stop to practice. “We must remember that, the youngest children in pre-primary and Grades 1, 2 and 3 need some form of help when doing anything literally, from crossing the street or sitting down to a math problem,” Mokaya said. One of the best things parents can do with their kids at home is read together, ideally for 30 minutes a day, she advises. It’s about “reading with them, reading to them, letting them read to you,” she said. Mokaya also notes children playing with toys and activities that involve counting, modelling and board games help to develop them intellectually. But low-income parents and parents in high-need districts are much more concerned that their kids will fall behind. “‘Scaffolding’ is a term teacher’s use when they’re talking about how to help kids build the missing skills they need to succeed. Educators: If you’re going to make us your “co-teachers,” we need scaffolding, too,” Mokaya said.  (edited by o. owino)