DP William Ruto suffered yet another blow on Wednesday after three key allies switched allegiance, joining President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s camp. The three pro-Ruto visitors were Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro, Laikipia North MP Sarah Korere and Coast businessman Suleiman Shahbal. They trooped to Raila’s Capitol Hill office to pledge their allegiance and disassociated themselves from Tangatanga. The first to cross over to the Uhuru-Raila side on Tuesday was Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru. Korere was once a staunch DP ally and an unapologetic crusader against President Uhuru and Raila’s handshake that gave birth to the Building Bridges Initiative. The lawmaker, who was among the 16 Jubilee MPs to be axed from lucrative parliamentary committees, expressed support for the handshake and the BBI while meeting Raila. She was accompanied by Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina when she announced her defection from the Ruto-led Tangatanga team. The latest defections leave the Deputy President more isolated by the day. “Received Laikipia North MP Sarah Korere who expressed commitment to support the national programmes aimed at uniting our nation,” Raila tweeted moments after meeting the lawmaker. Since the Jubilee purge in Parliament in which a number of Ruto lieutenants were pushed out of key positions of leadership, a number of Tangatanga members are said to be contemplating realigning themselves to survive politically. The Star has established a number of pro-Ruto MPs, especially those earmarked for disciplinary action, are planning to meet the ODM boss in the coming weeks. Ruto has maintained a deafening silence over the purge targeted at his allies in the bicameral House. Senators Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Susan Kihika (Nakuru) and MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) and Cecily Mbarire (nominated) are among his allies who have been removed from leadership posts in the past month. Raila also met Coast politicians — CAS Mung'aro and Shahbal — to discuss what Raila, now the AU envoy for infrastructure, described as "a range of issues touching on the development of the Coast". Shabal, who challenged Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho in the 2017 election, has of late been working closely with the county chief amidst speculation he is the preferred candidate to take over the county reins in 2022. This friendship has since been extended to Raila who has hosted Shahbal at least twice in the past month. Shahbal has also hosted Raila twice at his home since August last year. Once a Ruto pointman in Mombasa, Shahbal has since endorsed the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. Mung’aro, a former Kilifi North MP, had been a Ruto diehard in the region and, as a result, he lost his bid for Kilifi governor to ODM's Amason Kingi. (Edited by V. Graham)