A woman has donated revision materials to KCPE candidates from public schools in Nyeri. Waithira Maruru said she began donating a booklet to pupils when she realised that many candidates were unable to follow classes on TV, radio, smartphones or computers. Many of them had stopped learning and turned to grazing cattle, among other household chores, throughout the day. “I was very concerned about the pupils who go to local primary schools whose parents cannot afford TV sets, smartphones, radios or computers and therefore are unable to follow classes electronically,” she said. Maruru said she consulted a group of teachers who came up with a revision booklet that will enable learners to revise for the exams. The KCPE revision guide is designed in a way that the pupils will not need a teacher present when using them, she said. “When you give a pupil this booklet, it’s like giving them a teacher. If they follow it properly, then they will be able to revise on their own and be ready for KCPE,” she added. Maruru said she intends to distribute the books to all the 420 primary schools in Nyeri county. By Wednesday, she had distributed the booklets to 100 schools reaching 3,921 pupils. She called on the Ministry of Education to look for ways of availing physical reading materials to pupils. More than 60 per cent of pupils come from families that cannot afford the electronic gadgets or access the internet, she said. “Very few have even access to radio and especially in rural areas. We may be talking about online learning or digital transformation but so many of our pupils have no access to the internet or any of these gadgets,” she said. Learners have been out of schools after learning institutions were shut down following the outbreak of the Covid-19. Maruru spoke when she donated the revision materials to Gititu Primary School in Tetu sub-location. The school headteacher Moses Kamonde thanked Maruru for the donation. Kamonde said that the materials will be distributed to the 24 learners in his school individually in their respective homes. “Internet connectivity is very poor in our locality. Most of the parents cannot even afford television sets and in that case, the best way to reach those pupils is getting physical materials that they can go through while at home,” he said. Victor Hezra, a co-creator of the booklet, said the content catered for all the six subjects tested during KCPE exams. It also guides learners on how they should answer questions in various subjects, he said. (edited by o. owino)