A dispute over the administrative boundary between Taita Taveta and Makueni counties on Saturday took a new twist in what seems like a show of might between the two devolved units. Some Taita Taveta leaders led by Lands executive Mwandawiro Mghanga demolished a signboard at Tsavo River hours after a Makueni MCAs installed it to mark the disputed border. The protracted dispute was renewed when Taita Taveta announced plans to start collecting taxes in Mtito Andei town, a move that Makueni had warned against. Tsavo River, which is about 65km from Mtito Andei Town, has been at the centre of the administrative boundary row for a long time. Taita Taveta leaders argue that the border between the two counties is in Mtito Andei, therefore, part of the town is Taita Taveta’s territory. But Makueni claims the boundary is at Man-Eaters near Tsavo River. The Makueni MCAs led by Mtito Andei’s Francis Mwania had installed the signboard on the bank of the river along the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway. Mwania said the MCAs had unanimously resolved to protect the county’s territory from encroachment. “We need respect and harmony from our neighbours but they cannot provoke us further than what they have done. Security organs should investigate this act of intrusion because there are no services offered by Taita Taveta government in Mtito Andei,” he said. But Mwandawiro said, “The border is at Mtito Andei and we must protect what is rightfully ours.” Revenue officers from Taita Taveta have already been assigned to Mtito Andei town and are expected to start collecting taxes from Monday. “For many years after Independence, we collected revenue at the town and that is a clear indication that it belongs to our county,” the former Wundanyi MP said, further asking Makueni leaders to stop inciting residents of both counties who have coexisted peacefully. Last week, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr warned Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja to halt the anticipated revenue collection and instead, talk with his Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana. In a statement, Kilonzo termed the move a direct provocation of Makueni and its residents. The Senate Minority Whip asked both counties to convene a meeting to sort out the misunderstanding, noting that Mtito Andei lies in Makueni county. This is not the first time Taita Taveta leaders are demolishing a signpost at the area. In August 2014, Taita Taveta MCAs led by Speaker Meshack Maghanga uprooted a signpost that had been erected by the Makueni government. The county is also not only at loggerheads with Makueni but also with Kwale over Mackinnon Road Town. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has since warned Taita Taveta against claiming ownership of the town. Edited by R.Wamochie