Keroche breweries has been ordered to pay Kenya Revenue Authority Sh 100 million as a condition to stop them from attaching its assets in a Sh 9.1 billion dispute. Court of appeal Judges William Ouko, Daniel Musinga and Patrick Kiage said the Naivasha based brewer has only 45 days to make the payment failure to which KRA will be free to raid its accounts. Keroche moved to the appellate court after it was unable to pay a Sh500 million condition set by High court Judge David Majanja. The firm said Majanja failed to consider its inability to raise the amount. The firm also argued that its appeal would be rendered useless if the agency notices issued by KRA to its bankers, are not lifted. The notices according to Keroche will ground the operations of the company to a halt. Making the ruling on Thursday, the appellate Judges lifted the agency notices issued on Equity Bank limited and Absa Bank of Kenya pending determination of the intended appeal by Keroche. The Judges said they took into consideration the challenging economic circumstances the Covid-19 pandemic has put the country and indeed the entire world. “It is evident that KRA has issued agency notices to Keroche’s bankers. Unless the orders sought are granted, the agency notices shall be effected and Keroches operations will be grounded, thus rendering the appeal nugatory,” the judges said. KRA was opposed to Keroche's application saying the earlier condition of Sh 500 million set by Justice Majanja was lenient. It urged the court to dismiss the application adding that it has previously extended an olive branch to Keroche as to the payment of taxes, including entering into alternative dispute resolution agreements for part payment of its tax dues but Keroche had reneged on the same. But Keroche maintained that it will be unable to repay a loan it took from Absa Bank whose monthly repayment is Sh57,000,000, in which event the Bank will call up the loan and liquidate its assets, which would lead to an automatic collapse of the company.