The delayed completion of MPs' multi-storey office block is due to the escalating costs, the Parliamentary Service Commission says. Trouble for the project started in 2012 with PSC’s evaluation committee and management tender committee disagreeing on the lowest evaluated bidder. The then tender committee terminated the process after China Jiangxi was awarded the offer on grounds that none of the bidders met the mandatory requirements. China Jiangxi challenged the decision at the procurement review board and was granted the tender. The PSC went to court in January 2013 but Justice George Odunga dismissed the case in June 2013, paving the way for contract signing three months later. PSC director general of Joint Services Clement Nyandiere said the increased cost stems from the delayed start and late payments for works. “We don’t pay for works not done. We started paying two years after the project started,” he said. PSC maintained the construction works began much later because of delayed excavation for the foundations – owing to proximity to Continental House. Considerable time was also lost in the relocation of water pipelines, sewers, power, and telephone cables. There were further delays in obtaining construction permits for some of the 14 sub-contractors building the block. Nyandiere spoke in the wake of the Budget and Appropriations Committee approving Sh400 million in additional funding for the project. This brings the total budgetary provision to Sh7.7 billion, against the project’s contract sum of Sh5.8 billion. The cost increase was blamed on delays. Sh1.5 billion was provided in the 2016-17 financial year; Sh1.9 billion in 2017-18; Sh1.7 billion in 2018-19; Sh1.5 billion in 2019-20; and Sh1.5 billion for 2020-21. Some Sh400 million was deducted from the office block’s allocations in the second Supplementary Estimates to raise funds for Covid-19. The office complex has four basement parking floors, reception floor, 24 committee rooms, 338 offices for MPs, health club, restaurant, open garden, and service floor. Out of the Sh400 million, Sh300 million was moved from construction of Centre for Parliamentary Studies (CPST) and Sh100 million from purchase of buildings. “The Budget committee approved that we move money from other projects to transfer to the office block,” Nyandiere said on Monday. “The expenditure is within budget of the building so we are not paying anything extra. There’s no additional money. Commission was informed and it was agreed that we prioritise office block completion,” he said. By the end of the 2019-20 financial year, a total of Sh4.2 billion will have been paid, being Sh3.8 billion so far and a pending certificate of Sh300 million. Nyandiere further explained that interior works are still on at the office block. The structural and external works are complete. “We are going on with the demarcation of the offices and cabling as well as other fittings to make them ready for occupancy,” the director general said. “We can only know the new cost after we finish the project. In the current financial year, we are on the last certificates for this financial year.” The director general disclosed that Sh370 million, which was the subject of an audit query in fiscal year 2016-17, was recovered. Auditors said taxpayers footed the extra millions in wrongful payment to China Jiangxi International Ltd. The overpayment was from tax variations, delayed payments, and currency fluctuations – the contract has 80 per cent component paid in US dollars. The Public Accounts Committee chaired Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja MP) warned against any further extension of the contract.  - mwaniki fm