Uasin Gishu has confirmed at least 44 Covid-19 cases as medical officials expressed alarm over community spread after cases were reported outside urban centers. On Sunday, Uasin Gishu recorded 10 more cases in the subcounties, with Soy reporting five cases, Turbo three, Kapseret and Kesses each reporting one case. “We now have to be more cautious because the virus seems to have taken a different trajectory of community spread in Uasin Gishu and other parts of our region,” Health executive Everlyne Rotich said. She said more than 30 cases were truck drivers and their contacts. Most cases were identified at market centers along the Eldoret-Bungoma-Malaba highway used for cargo transport from Mombasa to Uganda and beyond. “As constantly advised by the Health ministry and the county, we urge residents to fully adhere to Covid-19 control measures including social distancing, hand washing, use of masks and avoiding crowds,” Rotich said. In the North Rift, Turkana reported nine cases, while Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and Nandi had one case each. Most cases were linked to truck drivers. Governors in the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) this week will consult on improving preparations to handle increasing cases. President Kenyatta directed counties to prepare additional isolation facilities and enhance their capacity to handle the surging numbers. Every county should have at least 300 isolation beds, the President said. Uasin Gishu county is facing a crisis in identifying isolation centres for Covid-19 patients due to community resistance. Residents fear infection and stigma. Governor Jackson Mandago directed additional isolation units be located in each of the subcounty but health officials were turned away by angry residents.. MCAs protested the county was not involving residents in decisions on the Covid-19 that has stigmatised patients and their contacts. Mandago, who is chairman of Noreb, said governors were working to increase facilities. The Kamalel Isolation Centre with 35 beds was the first to open. It already has been filled. Counties in the region have set aside isolation units with a total bed capacity of 800, however, the President says each county must have at least 300 beds. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said his region had its isolation center at Nandi Hills with one confirmed case but said additional facilities would be identified. (Edited by V. Graham)