Machakos county has raised the alarm after 4,000 cases of teenage pregnancy were reported in four months. According to a report by the Children’s Department Technical Working Group 3,800 girls over 15 years and 200 others under 14 years became pregnant between January to May. The report was released on Tuesday by Machakos children's officer Salome Muthama during the Day of the African Child celebrations. However, the Machakos government has refuted claims that the county has recorded over 4, 000 cases of teenage pregnancy in four months. Machakos CEC for Education and social welfare Lazurus Kivuva on Wednesday said he disagrees with the given figures and opted to conduct a new report. Through a statement sent to the media, Kivuva said concerned stakeholders held talks over the matter and directed for more investigations to get the correct information. He said it was "impossible" for so many schoolgoing children to get pregnant in four months. "I would like to clarify that the numbers are yet to be confirmed, but my social welfare department has launched investigations upon the matter," he said. Kivuva added he will communicate once the correct data is confirmed. Athi River subcounty follows with 568 cases, 561 being 15-19 years and seven aged 10-14 years. Stakeholders were shocked at the high numbers of girls falling prey to sex pests. Muthama said the figures were collected from the county’s health facilities, noting there might be other cases which went unreported. The children's officer warned that unless urgent intervention was done, the future of girls in the county is bleak. Among factors that have been cited for the rising cases is a general breakdown of traditional morals in the society due to the influx of Western values thanks to the power of social media. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, parents are said to have little time for their children at home as learning institutions are closed. Muthama said schoolchildren were idle at home where they fall prey to men who lure them with cheap things and make them pregnant. Muthama expressed concern that half of the pregnant girls might not return to schools once they reopen, jeopardizing their studies. "Half of these girls if not well protected might not go back to school since some will be busy looking for jobs and others might even get married,"she noted. Addressing the press at Machakos Rescue Centre, Muthama said children were increasingly engaging in sexual encounters which often lead to pregnancy. The officer said they were partnering with chiefs and the police in their efforts to sensitise the public on child protection and how they can assist in the war against sexual abuse of children. “We need to keep up in relaying key messages to our listeners on what’s going on among our children. And these messages must be similar in all forums,” she emphasised. Muthama noted that sexual offences against minors had reached disturbing levels and portended a real threat for the overall growth of the country, including eradication of poverty She said there was a need for a deep discussion with parents, village opinion shapers and other stakeholders so as to arrest the trend. “Parents have abdicated their responsibility. They do not talk to their children, who end up learning from social media and other unsuitable places,” she said. Muthama said legal challenges had exacerbated the problem, saying the courts had delayed to handle such cases. The government has turned to preventive mechanisms to address the challenge. The officer said there was a need to engage the youth and equip them with life skills, decision-making skills and link them with government services for gainful employment. The children’s officer appealed to the county government, communities, companies and individuals near rescue centres to offer support, including counseling and material support, as part of social responsibility. Last year Machakos county recorded 12,409 underage pregnancies of girls below 20 years who gave birth between January 2018 and March 2019. Edited by Henry Makori