Saturday marked exactly three months since the first case was recorded in the country on March 13. Busia county has emerged as the third Covid-19 hot spot after Nairobi and Mombasa. Data released by the Health Ministry on Saturday showed that the county had so far recorded 308 Covid-19 positive cases, accounting for nine per cent of the infections. Nairobi leads with 1,546 cases, accounting for 44.7 per cent of the total cases, while Mombasa accounts for 30 per cent with 1,020 cases. Kajiado is accounting for three per cent with 106 cases. Data from the ministry further shows the disease is now firmly established in the community with community transmission cases accounting for 89 per cent of the cases. This means that out of the 3,457 so far recorded on three months, 3,106 are local transmission cases. Additionally, 38 out of 47 counties have reported at least a case of the virus. The number of fatalities hit 100 mark on Saturday after four more patients succumbed to the virus. On a positive note however, the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered from the virus in three months now stands at 1,221. Fifty seven more people were discharged from hospital on Saturday. The total cumulative number of tests conducted since the first case was recorded in March 13 is now 112,171. On Saturday alone, 152 people tested positive for the disease from 3,503 samples tested in a day. “This, as you can see, is only a matter of time before all counties are affected. This is a worrying trend that requires serious interventions at all levels,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. Last week President Uhuru Kenyatta directed that counties set up isolation facilities of at least 300 bed capacity in preparation for any surge in numbers, with experts projecting that the peak in infections is likely to be towards September. According to the ministry, a lot of work has been done to upscale the level of preparedness in the counties in an effort to create more isolation and dedicated treatment rooms for other non covid-19 cases to be managed in separate facilities. “The numbers of infections and those that have succumbed to the disease point to us the importance of observing the containment measures. This is the surest way of ensuring that we limit these numbers and contain the spread of the virus,” the CAS said. Kenya is still facing a possible threat from imports of cases, mostly from cross border truck drivers. Counties along the border especially Busia have witnessed an increase in cases as a result of truckers, who have been accused of failing to adhere to testing protocols. For instance, all the 16 cases recorded in Busia on Saturday alone were of truck drivers at the Malaba point of entry. All cross border truck drivers are required to get tested at least 48 hours before they commence their journey and acquire a valid Covid-19 free certificate. “This is to ease processing at the border points and ensure there is no congestion. I therefore urge all truck drivers and the owners of trucks to familiarize themselves with the protocols,” the CAS noted.