About 24 MCAs who have endorsed Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru impeachment spent Monday night in the county assembly. This was meant to avoid any coercion and intimidation before Waiguru slated impeachment today Tuesday at the Kirinyaga county assembly. The defiant MCAs further switched off their phone to ensure that their plans to impeach Waiguru went on as planned. The impeachment motion set to be debated today was filed by Mutira Ward MCA David Kinyua. The MCAs have accused Waiguru of gross violation of the Constitution, abuse of office and gross misconduct. Kinyua said today in an interview on a local TV station that their attempts to meet the governor and address the issues raised have failed. “We have already served Governor Waiguru with the notice on the motion on email and hard copy,” he said. Kinyua confirmed the MCAs spent the night in the assembly precincts. "We had a good night. We in Kirinyaga respect the rule of law and the court. The governor said she has an existing condition and we have a pandemic but we will proceed with the motion. We have consulted senior minds," he said. "Our governor has been involved in meetings in her house and traversing the country. The assembly has been observing Covid-19 pandemic. We sent an email to the governor and also sent a hard copy from the office of the speaker. The chances of success of the motion are 100 per cent. We only need a third and we have the numbers." The MCAs added that they have put in place measures to ensure everyone is safe especially following the Covid-19 outbreak. “The governor has deliberately refused, failed and/or neglected to deliver the same for the financial year 2018-19, which failure amounts to a gross violation of the Constitution and the County Government Act,” the Kinyua motion reads. “This action amounts to imprudent use of public resources, and in furtherance of the corrupt practices.” Kirinyaga has 33 Members of the county assembly and sources said that it was not clear how the remaining nine MCAs will vote in the county assembly on Tuesday. Kinyua also blamed Waiguru for running down the health docket under the county denying the people of Kirinyaga their rights. The assembly is expected to convene on Tuesday morning and members said that they will observe the social distancing rule and wear masks as required by the government Covid-19 directives. Waiguru said that the main concern the county was at the moment was the Covid-19 pandemic after the motion was filed in the assembly “With all our challenges, these facilities have never been better. Yet we are being asked to leave the health effort and concentrate on dealing with petty issues,” she said. However, the MCAs blamed Waiguru for undermining the authority of the county assembly alleging that she failed to submit the county plans, policies and county assembly an annual report for approval. “That the governor’s failure to comply with County Government Act 2012 not only undermines the power and the authority of the County assembly to offer oversight and approve various developmental plans but also greatly clogs the wheels of the Wanjiku’s oriented development in Kirinyaga County,” Kinyua said.