An average of 800 million women have their monthly period every day yet they continue to face mistreatment, inadequate access to sanitary products and information during their cycles. For the girls at Kithangari Girls High School in Meru, the lack of access to sanitary products such as pads, tampons or innerwear has pushed some of them to sell sex to get money for these products. Speaking during a flag-off ceremony to distribute sanitary products to the girls, Echo Network Africa Group CEO Jennifer Riria said after an assessment of the school and the community, they found that most girls would miss school days because of their period. "They lose one week every month from school and catching up is hard. The first thing the girls told us is that they need sanitary products," she said. The organisation through its donation will support 200 girls with four months' supply of menstrual hygiene products. The products include sanitary towels and panties. Riria narrated to the Star how an old man from the village in Meru said the increase in the number of unwanted pregnancies by the girls was because they were selling sex for money to buy sanitary towels. To date, ENA has distributed 2,388 packets of sanitary towels, 1,248 panties and 55 information guides to the 650 girls since last year. "We have dispersed 200 ENA dada packs and seven Totocare boxes for the teenage mothers to Red Cross Kenya for distribution in informal settlements in Meru since the girls are not in school," she said. The Totocare packages contained baby clothes, soap, a baby shawl and a packet of condoms to aid in family planning. According to UN Women, a lack of financial support or access to safe sanitary products prompts some girls to use newspapers, toilet paper, plastic bags, socks, clothes, or rags. "We embarked on finding a way to make sure the girls have sanitary towels as we were on it we were told if we gave them sanitary towels without panties, they would still miss school days," she said. "Therefore, the  Dada ENA pack we are donating today contains four cycles because we are dealing with a pandemic and two panties for them to be able to sustain themselves because we do not know when we will next be able to go to Meru." The average cost of a sanitary towel pack in Kenya ranges from Sh50 to Sh100 and the average time people menstruate during a cycle is between three and five days. People who menstruate spend an average of six years menstruating in their lifetime. Depending on their flow, people who menstruate are advised to change their sanitary products every eight hours so in a day, meaning an average of three changes a day. If a pack of sanitary towels contains 10 pads; and one person is able to use it for an average of three days depending on cycles. Riria also said the company also had to think about the hygiene of the girls during their menstrual flows. "It is so critical that as we go forward, we begin thinking about the girls' hygiene in the school because disposal is very difficult," she said. According to data from the Ministry of Education, a girl that is absent from school for four days in 28 days loses 13 learning days, equivalent to two weeks of learning in every school term. In an academic year of nine months, a girl loses 39 learning days, equivalent to six weeks of learning time. A schoolgirl between Grades 6 and 8 looses 18 learning weeks out of 108 learning weeks. "Within the four years of high school, a girl can lose 156 learning days equivalent to almost 24 weeks out of 144 weeks of learning," the data reads. Data from UN Women also shows that worldwide, 1.25 billion women and girls have no access to safe, private toilet facilities. The Wash joint monitoring programme report by WHO and Unicef found that only 59 per cent of Kenyans have access to basic water services and only 29 per cent to sanitary services. "Fear of stigmatisation along with limited access to menstrual hygiene supplies, water and disposal facilities and private clean bathrooms negatively impact girls' school attendance and performance," the UN Women said. The government by law is mandated to provide free sanitary towels to girls in public, primary and special needs schools through the Education ministry. Last October, however, the government said it lacked funds to provide pads. Education CS George Magoha said the Sh470 million provided for the free sanitary towels is only enough to purchase supplies for four months. "If you calculate the current allocation against a population of 1.4 million girls, then at best, we can provide sanitary towels for only four months. What happens for the rest of the year?" he asked. In January, 300,000 expired GOK sanitary pads were impounded at a construction site in Juja being repackaged for sale. Edited by R.Wamochie