Stakeholders around Lake Naivasha have raised concerns over an increase in the number of secondary school and college students involved in illegal fishing. They say the students comprise more than half of those involved in illegal fishing. The students are home because of the school closures due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Francis Muthui, chairman of the Friends of Lake Naivasha, noted that the high number of youths involved in illegal fishing was worrying. Muthui said that closure of schools and lack of employment had pushed the youths into fishing, leading to a major crisis for the fisheries sector. “We have done a survey which indicates that over 50 per cent of those involved in illegal fishing around the lake are students who are out to seek a meal for their families,” he said. Lake Naivasha Boat Owners Association chairman David Kilo said the majority of the learners were involved in hook and line fishing. He termed this as a new fishing method which was not captured in the fisheries law, making it hard for law enforcers to deal with those involved. “We have noticed an upsurge in the number of young people involved in hook and line fishing and there is need for the county to either legalise or ban it,” the honorary warden said. Speaking earlier after visiting Karagita landing beach in Naivasha, Agriculture CEC Immaculate Maina admitted that the lake was under high pressure from various quarters. Maina said that the governor would launch an independent task force within two weeks. The team would present its report within a month. “Currently Lake Naivasha has recorded so many challenges including over-fishing and we are considering fishing ban but we shall allow the task force to present its report,” she said. The CEC noted that there was unsustainable utilisation of the lake resources with fears it cannot sustain fishing in the coming months. “After the closure of hotels and flower farms in Naivasha, the workers flooded the lake leading to overfishing and hence the need for action,” she said. The CEC added that they had engaged the services of the Kenya Coast Guard Services to help deal with the poachers who had invaded the lake in the last two months. (edited by o. owino)