The Council of Governors has urged the National Treasury to release Sh63.6 billion outstanding equitable share revenue and devolution support programme cash to the counties. They say this will hasten operations and help in the fight against Covid 19. “We urge the national government to release the Sh59 billion outstanding equitable share revenue for the month of May and June this year and the Sh4.6 billion under the devolution support programme from the World Bank to fight Covid 19," CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said in Kakamega on Wednesday. He thanked the World Bank for the support. The Kakamega governor said that all the 47 county governments have finalised the budgeting process for financial year 2020/21.  The budgets are at various stages of approval by respective county assemblies. “In Kakamega, the county assembly has already approved the budget. I urge other county assemblies to expedite the approval of the budgets so that counties can continue responding effectively to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The governor regretted that the devolved units have encountered challenges in combating Covid-19. “As counties respond to the current surge in infections, we note that procurement of reagents and timely release of results remains a challenge, hence limiting the testing capacity in the country.” Oparanya asked the Ministry of Health to avail testing reagents and sample collection kits, and fast-track engagements with the border countries to agree on the testing protocols to avoid difference in test results. The governor said 10 counties have met the 300-bed capacity in their isolation centres as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. "The remaining counties are working towards achieving the 30- bed capacity in line with the last summit's agreement," he said. The CoG chair said that the county governments are working on a county social-economic re-engineering and recovery plan for the development of specific interventions to be implemented during the Covid-19 containment and recovery process. “This plan seeks to provide solutions aimed at boosting local manufacturing, job creation, cushioning the vulnerable and building strong emergency response systems between the national and county governments.”  - mwaniki fm