With the void of missing loved ones on one hand and the search and court process on another, families of victims of enforced disappearance live through emotional toll that is often ignored. In most cases, the families do not get to bury their loved ones, hence do not get closure for their grief. They find the decomposing bodies dumped in thickets by stark luck. With the fate of the missing individual unclear, the families go through untold anxiety and pain as they don’t know whether to expect them back. Rebecca Nyamohanga, whose husband Daniel Baru Nyamohanga was arrested on January 12, 2017, lives with the question from her three children why their father never made it back home from work. Nyamohanga was arrested in Kehancha alongside five others and produced in court the next day. The court released them as no charge was pressed but the police rearrested them at the steps of the courtroom. Three years later, Nyamohanga is still missing despite the other five being let free. Rebecca told the Missing Voice — a web platform that documents cases of enforced disappearance and extrajudicial police actions — that her children’s questions on the whereabouts of their father keep the wound of loss alive, even though she tries to get closure. “They ask why their dad has not come back home from looking for money. I told them he was arrested and is yet to be released… They ask me why wasn’t he released yet others who were arrested and later freed,” she recounted. "Only death should separate two people. I did not want any human being to separate me from my husband, only death," she said. "Even he used to tell me, 'Rebecca, you will come to bury me or I will bury you.’" The Kenya National Human Rights Commission and other civil society groups unsuccessfully filed habeas corpus applications at Migori High Court to compel Kehancha OCS Kpasaina Serem to produce Nyamohanga in court. The court later in 2018 found Serem in contempt and ordered the office of the Director of Public Prosecution to charge him for murder. The OCS is yet to be charged. Speaking during a webinar on enforced disappearance on Tuesday convened by the ICJ and the IJM, chief human rights officer Victor Kamau said the families of the victims are exposed to the raw emotional trench when they’re exposed to the reality that their relative may never come back. Like in this case, he said, the court’s pronouncement that OCS Serem should be charged with murder was made before the family who had not been prepared emotionally for that possibility. The webinar marked four years since the disappearance and murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani alongside his client Josephat Mwendwa and their taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. The three were kidnapped after leaving the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016. Their bodies were retrieved a week later from Athi River near Ol Donyo Sabuk police post, stashed in gunny bags. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said the victims’ families cling on to hope that their loved one is alive, “hence learning about their death abruptly is an underrated tragedy”. “They believe in rights organisations that follow up their cases and hope their loved ones are alive. The long search is always draining and they become emotional wrecks needing support,” he said. IJM director of system reforms Wamaitha Kimani said the families struggle to come to terms with what happened and trying to figure out who did it. "[The disappearance] puts the families into an ongoing violation, struggling with hope. Someone is unable to define whether they are a widow, give up hope or continue to be a hopeful wife," she said. Edited by R.Wamochie