Mombasa politician Suleiman Shahbal has called for sobriety amid a storm over the decision by some Mombasa MPs to oppose an impeachment motion against Transport CS James Macharia. The motion, tabled by Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, has divided Coast leaders. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo and Likoni’s Mishi Mboko on Friday found themselves on the receiving end over their vocal stand against Ali. However, Shahbal said it is time to reflect on issues of the Coast region’s economy. “Right now there is a lot of emotion. We need to take a step back and relook at issues from a fresh angle,” he said. Shahbal said a back and forth between leaders will not help address the Coast region’s dwindling economy. The career banker said it will be difficult to impeach CS Macharia because the government has managed to secure support for him. “The government has numbers in Parliament. It will be difficult to impeach the CS. We should now take a different route,” Shahbal said. Shahbal said though he fully supports and endorses the view that Macharia’s actions have caused traumatic damages to the economy of Mombasa, Ali’s move is likely to fail. Speaking to the Star on the phone Thursday, Shahbal said there is need for a workable alternative solution. His sentiments come after transporters, up in arms over what they termed as betrayal by Coast MPs, vowed to mobilise residents to recall all MPs from Mombasa who opposes the motion. The transport stakeholders faulted Mbogo and Mboko, both of who openly revolted against Ali saying he is only keen to cause trouble. Fahmi Ahmed, a transporter, labelled the two MPs as traitors, saying they are only interested in their stomachs. "We work at 35 per cent of our capacity because of the SGR and CS Macharia but our own MPs are loudest against MP Ali who is trying to fight for us. This is shameful,” said Ahmed. Miraj Abdillahi, a youth activist in Mombasa, said Mbogo and Mboko should be recalled because they no longer represent the people who voted for them. “Those who break a country are the citizens themselves. These two and many others that we know are not fit to represent anyone from the Coast. They should represent people from Central region,” Abdillahi said. Umoja Summit Party of Kenya chairman Matano Chengo said they are fully behind MP Ali. “We are surprised there are MPs from the Coast who can oppose a motion that helps the Coast people. Are these MPs from the Coast real?” Chengo posed. USPK secretary general Naomi Cidi said disunity among the Coast leaders is the region’s greatest undoing. “Those from Mt Kenya set aside their differences just to stand with one of their own. That cannot happen here at the Coast because our leaders only think about their stomachs,” Cidi said. Ali had warned that his motion will reveal the true character of Coast leaders. His motion is meant to achieve two things, according to one of his aides. “Apart from ousting the CS, Ali wants to expose the disunity among Coast MPs, especially in Mombasa. He wants to put them on the spot,” the aide said. Already, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has expressed concern about the effectiveness of the motion. The MP advised Ali to use a different approach instead. Shahbal, who on Tuesday publicly declared his interest in the 2022 Mombasa governor race, said a roundtable meeting of all Coast leaders to discuss the matter in depth is needed. The career banker has been vocal about the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone, which he said will likely counter the effects of the SGR, which has brought the economy of the region to its knees. “This will immediately create economic activity on the ground and create immediate jobs,” said Shahbal. He called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to set up an inter-ministerial committee for a meeting with coastal leaders to find workable alternative solutions “which should include fast-tracking of the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone”. “The President should also seriously consider allowing road transporters to carry some of the cargo while alternative options are given time to bear fruit,” Shahbal said. He noted that the collapse of the transport and logistics sector has seriously hurt Mombasa and Coast region’s economy. On Tuesday, Shahbal said he has been meeting with different Coastal leaders with a view to finding solutions that affect Mombasa, which in turn affect the entire Coast region. He met with former Mombasa Mayor Ahmed Mohdhar on Tuesday over issues affecting Mombasa and how to provide quick solutions. “I am going to call a meeting of Coast leaders to discuss this critical issue and agree with a unified position for discussion with the President. This is a common issue for all of us. I have already started these discussions with our key political leaders,” Shahbal said. He said once Mombasa suffers, the entire Coast region suffers. “When Mombasa enters a recession, the whole Coast province is affected. While we appreciate the importance of supporting the SGR which is a national project, we should not support one project at the cost of damaging an entire region and its people,” said the Jubilee politician. Edited by A.N