Siria and Uasin Gishu clan militias  fighting over boundary in Transmara West Friday surrendered more than 1,000 bows and arrows to security agencies. Already the groups  had given out 12 guns and 76 rounds of ammunition to the police units sent to quell violence in the area. The surrender of arms is part of the amnesty bargains  by the government and the warring groups. Deputy county commissioner Hassan Noor received the weapons at Enosaeini. However, he warned that more arms were in the wrong hands and extended the amnesty for one more week. “We have firm and credible intelligence that even with this exercise today, more guns could be still hidden in your homes. It is either you give them up or face the full force of the law," Noor warned. Noor said the government had long borne with the waywardness of the clans and it was determined to end the skirmishes once and for all. The militia from Siria and Uasin Gishu clans had been fighting along the Enorateet border contesting demarcation done by the government. Hundreds of youth have died since the conflict begun in 1976. Noor said security agencies will begin arresting and prosecuting anybody found loitering with arrows and bows along the contested areas. " We cannot sit here to talk of bringing peace if the youth are still walking around armed. From today if sighted you will be taken in," he said. Noor further told the clans that the government has begun processing title deeds for the original landowners in the area. Land has been cited among the reasons for the chaos in the region, the DCC said. “Those with land near the disputed border points can go ahead and till them. They will be escorted by police. There should be  no cause of alarm,” the administrator said. Noor was accompanied by the subcounty police boss James Kilonzo. Kilonzo said arrows have been profiled as dangerous weapons and warned the youth against carrying them. “We are aware each  homestead has them  and this is what we are asking you to surrender them to us as the amnesty closes,” he said. The security bosses also asked locals to continue adhering to curfew timelines. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya had imposed a 4pm to 7am to stem movements at night by the youth. Some residents have asked that the curfew is lifted to allow them to feed their animals further a field. “We plead that it be eased  as we are suffering,” said John Karam, a resident. (edited by o. owino)