The Jubilee Party has called all 66 Nairobi Jubilee MCAs for an urgent consultative meeting on Wednesday. This comes as the leadership wrangles persist at the assembly. In a letter dated June 8, party’s secretary general Raphel Tuju noted that various pertinent issues of concern to the Jubilee membership at the Assembly will be discussed. “This is to request you to attend a consultative meeting at the Jubilee Party Headquarters at 11:00 a.m. Please prioritise this meeting and be punctual,” read the letter. The meeting was set to be held on Tuesday, but was pushed to Wednesday. All MCAs - 46 elected and 20 nominated - will be expected to attend the meeting at the Jubilee Headquarters along the Pangani Interchange. The letter was copied to Jubilee’s party chairman Nelson Dzuya. All has not been well for Jubilee Party at the Nairobi county assembly as divided camps continue to fight over leadership. Last week on Tuesday, Speaker Beatrice Elachi failed to communicate changes in leadership on the floor of the House, despite confirming receiving a letter from the Jubilee Party. She said her office was reviewing the letter dated May 28, sent to her by Tuju communicating the changes. However, giving her ruling at the end of the sittings, Elachi said that the interim leadership will remain until Jubilee reviews the issue with the party leader. “Jubilee party has to sit down with the party leader to deal with this matter. Before that, this House remains with the same leadership and I will write to Jubilee and we shall deal with that matter next week,” Elachi said. Elachi ruled the interim leadership, which had Dandora Area 3 ward rep Charles Thuo as the Majority Leader, deputised by Ziwani MCA Millicent Mugadi, would remain. The Majority Whip position is held by Nominated MCA June Ndegwa, deputised by California MCA Hassan Abdikadir. However the SG termed Elachi's  remarks 'new', saying the party leader normally communicates any changes to the house leadership through the secretary general. “That is a new one. Normally communication comes from the secretary general. The party leader rarely writes to anybody,” Tuju said. He reiterated that even in his capacity as the President, Uhuru does not personally write to government agencies. He does so through head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. Tuju had earlier written a letter on April 16, 2020, stating that he ruling party had made changes to its leadership at the assembly, replacing the interim party leadership who had taken charge from November 12, 2019. The party reinstated Matopeni MCA Abdi Ibrahim Guyo as Majority Leader, to be deputised by Dandora Area 1 MCA Peter Wanyoike. Mihango MCA Paul Kados was picked as the Majority Whip and deputised by South B MCA Waithera Chege. To affirm the above letter, he wrote again on May 28, 2020, to Speaker Elachi confirming the changes and drew up the leadership line-up. “… for the avoidance of doubt, wishes to set out the majority party leadership in the Nairobi City County Assembly" read the letter. The Last time all the Jubilee MCAs were at the party’s headquarters was on October 16, 2019, following chaos and fracas witnessed in the assembly caused by the return of County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi.