The conversion of chunks of spaces into pedestrian walkways and cycling lanes by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) was cherished by city residents. The programme was expected to make it easy for residents to walk or cycle from home to their places of work in the CBD but motorists are already making it a nightmare. There is a struggle for parking space within the city centre as hundreds of parking slots have been replaced by the walkways. And because of the shortage, motorists are shamelessly parking along the beautiful walkways and inconveniencing pedestrians and cyclists.  The Kenya Urban Roads Authority has warned against parking on the walkways but NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi (pictured) should perhaps swing into action. We are told last week’s arrest and prosecution of a Coast-based parastatal's officers on allegation of procurement malfeasance is just the tip of the iceberg. A little bird whispered to Corridors about ongoing investigations into the "original sin" committed during the acquisition of the land hosting the parastatal’s new headquarters. It is alleged the government bought its own land from a private company in a crooked and bizarre deal that cost taxpayers millions. Corridors understand that the land still belongs to another State parastatal which had only leased it to the company. A senior state official who wilfully approved and oversaw the land procurement is reportedly sweating heavily as sleuths zero in. The social media bug appears to have bitten and taken over the central nerve system of even the learned and supposedly polished members of the society. A bunch of lawyers of a newly established law firm are the talk of town for living out loud and large on social media much to the chagrin of fellow advocates and potential clients. The trio has a queasy knack of responding to everything, anything and anyone including but not limited to the mundane on twitter while updating followers by the minute on what’s cutting in their lives. The ever woke Kenyans on Twitter are now questioning when the trio attend to clients because they’re on social media spurring and roving around tv stations spewing generalities. Did well-oiled tycoons snub a meeting called in Murang’a last week? Sources tell Corridors that the billionaires gave a wide berth the meet due to the egregiously bad business policies and outrageously grotesque political choices. The personalities with big purses and egos are said to have been incensed by arrogance and malicious crackdown of their businesses by certain individuals in the war against graft and counterfeits. It remains to be seen if they can be beaten to submission. 