@Yobramos4 Government projects at the Coast are slow in implementation because leaders are not aggressive in pushing for them, politician Suleiman Shahbal has said. Shahbal, who eyes Mombasa governorship in 2022, says the region should have been more developed with a more assertive crop of leaders. “The Dongo Kundu project is a case in point. I have been shouting about it for 10 years until people started thinking I have land there,” Shahbal said. The Kenya Trade Network Agency chairman told the Star on Sunday he has not had much support from the region’s leaders to champion for the project. The Dongo Kundu project is now underway. The economic free zone would have benefitted more than 10,000 residents through jobs and opened up the region for more investment, he said. “The project should have been complete by now. But since our leaders have not been pushing hard enough, others like those in Naivasha pushed for theirs and now they are enjoying the fruits,” Shahbal said. Shahbal said infrastructure projects are crucial to opening up of Mombasa and the Coast region. On Saturday, Shahbal met the Kenya National Highways Authority director general Peter Mundinia in his Nairobi office to inquire about infrastructure projects in Mombasa. Shahbal told the Star on Saturday he received complaints from residents living along Jomo Kenyatta Avenue where construction of the Saba Saba-Makupa-Changamwe road has been under construction for the last 18 months. “Malcom X said it is the hinge that squeaks that gets the oil. We have to squeak so that we can get the oil,” he said. The businessman said the big projects in Mombasa including the expected construction of a floating footbridge across the Likoni channel will make the city a vibrant economic hub. According to political analyst Philip Mbaji, Shahbal has established a good rapport with his former political nemesis in Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho because of his activism for coast projects. Mbaji said Shahbal knows how to press the right buttons and this has put him ahead of the others in the race to succeed Joho. “In Mombasa, it is almost given that once Joho endorses you, you are almost at the finish line,” the Rabai-based analyst said. The bromance that Shahbal has cultivated with Joho has surprised many, he noted. “There are no permanent friends and enemies in politics. The only permanent things are interests,” he said. As politics slowly returns to the centre stage, Shahbal is positioning himself as the most mindful of Mombasa residents. “He has been emboldened by the support he has from both Oppostion chief Raila Odinga and Joho. It is safe to say he will be returning to ODM officially soon,” Mbaji said. Shahbal has worked side by side with Joho to cushion Mombasa residents from the effects of the coronavirus. His Suleiman Shahbal Foundation helped put up disinfecting booths across the county. His businesses interests, including Gulf Bank, have also helped buy food and other items for Mombasa residents. “People want to see you do things before asking for their votes. This is what Shahbal is doing and he is not an elected leader. He has been using his own resources. Pressing the right buttons,” Mbaji said. (edited by o. owino)