President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Kenyans to continue staying safe during the Covid-19 period and hinted at soon revealing the government's next course of action. Moments after chairing a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting at the KICC, Uhuru was pressed on by journalists to address them before entering his official vehicle. However, the President was tight-lipped despite calls for him to address Kenyans only saying that he will inform citizens about the government's plans soon. “Watu wakae na usalama na upole na hivi karibuni tutakua tunakuja kusema yale ambayo tunayapanga tukienda hapo mbele (Let the people stay in peace, very soon, we'll come and inform them of our plans that we have as we go ahead),” Uhuru said. One of the journalists had urged the president to give them a sneak peek of what had transpired during the closed-door meeting, but Uhuru did not budge. The President only responded to the journalist by saying "wacha ujeuri wewe!" Kenyans are waiting for the next step from the President regarding the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi Metropolitan Area, Mombasa and Mandera counties. Earlier this month, Uhuru had extended the cessation of movement in and out of the three counties for a further 30 days. He had also announced an extension of the nationwide curfew by another 30 days. However, the President relaxed the curfew hours which will now be between 9 pm to 4 am from June 7, 2020. Also, Kenyans will anticipate what the president will say regarding the places of worship which are still closed since the virus was reported in the country. During Monday's Jubilee PG meeting, Garissa Town MP Aden Duale was replaced as the Majority Leader in the National Assembly. His position was taken by Kipipiri legislator Amos Kimunya. Kimunya had served as Trade and Finance Cabinet Minister under former President Mwai Kibaki. In the new changes, Kangema MP Muturi Kigano will now chair the Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee while Kieni's Kanini Kega will Chair Budget Committee replacing Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa. Eldas MP Adan Keynan was also picked as the Coalition Secretary.