Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa got a major relief after the court ordered the state to return his Toyota Range Rover and two guns that had been confiscated. Senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot allowed the application that Echesa filed early this year. The police had taken his car and guns when he was arrested in February and charged in connection with a Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal. In his ruling, the magistrate noted that the confiscation of his guns by the police was in contravention of the law. He said the firearms are not related with the charges Echesa is facing. “I find that the applicant is entitled to possess the firearm and he is also entitled to enjoy his motor vehicle,” Cheruiyot ruled. He ordered that Echesa’s pistols should be returned to him together with the Ceska magazine and ammunition. In his application, Echesa had told the court that he had been subjected to ridicule by being forced to use public transport because the state had taken his vehicle. “By continuing to illegally detain applicant’s only motor vehicle, the respondents have rendered him immobile, subjected him to embarrassment and loss of human dignity in that he is now forced to use public transport and sometimes walk...” the application reads. Last month, through his lawyers, Echesa pleaded with the court to release “his only car” saying in this pandemic, it was risky to use public transport as he could easily contract coronavirus. The former CS was also seeking the release of his P-Barreta FO 92 with serial number A022182Z and Ceska CZ with serial number 0641872, together with 9mm 104 calibre ammunition, one Ceska Magazine and three pistol holsters to him. Echesa had argued that from the particulars of the tender case charges, there is no indication that the vehicle or the firearms were used to commit the alleged crime nor will they be used as evidence. He further argued that confiscation of his guns has subjected him to serious security risks and challenges given his position as the immediate former Cabinet secretary. The former minister was charged with conspiracy to commit a felony by conspiring to make a document with intent to defraud. He was charged alongside three others with six counts of making a false document. Prosecution also alleged the accused obtained Sh11.5 million from Kozlowski Stanley Bruno by purporting that they would award him a tender to supply military equipment.  Edited by R.Wamochie