Olympic 1500m gold medalist Faith Kipyegon and Olympian Humphrey Kayange will virtually represent their counterparts in this year's International Olympic Day set for Tuesday. For the first time in recent years, the day will be celebrated in a work out done online rather than the traditional run. For Kayange this will form part of his efforts in appealing to athletes in view of the upcoming elections for a members’ position in the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Athletes' Commission. The IOC has brought together 23 Olympic athletes who will take part in a live Olympic Day workout video set to be streamed live on the IOC Instagram account @olympics at 11 am local time, in different time zones. This will be the largest 24-hour digital Olympic workout, escalating the efforts of over 5,000 olympians who have engaged over 243 million people online across 50 countries through campaigns dubbed as 'staystrong' , 'stayactive' and 'stayhealthy'. Meanwhile, NOC-K has established programs which will culminate in the celebrations of the Olympic Day. The committee's sports for all commission has been running an arts and essay competition around the theme “My Olympic Dream” from  June 10-20 as part of celebrations. The arts competition was reserved for the ages 13 and below, while the essay competition was reserved for the ages 14 – 18. This was aimed at promoting the ideals of Olympism to young and prospective Olympians. NOCK has partnered with Kenyatta University, Departments of Linguistics and Arts to judge the entries in the interest of ensuring fairness for all. Winners will be rewarded with shopping vouchers for educational materials where the winners in either genders will get Sh10,000. The first runners up will walk away with vouchers worth Sh5,000 while the second runners up will pocket Sh 2,500. Apart from the vouchers,there will be replica kits, an opportunity to visit and meet athletes who had secured tickets to Tokyo 2020 at their local training camps once the restrictions imposed to control the spread of coronavirus are lifted. At the same time, there will be a chance to meet an Olympian (current or retired) subject to his/her availability as well as an opportunity to establish an Olympic Club in their school — this will ensure access to Olympic materials and information in the school. Should participants fail to win from the collection of gifts and opportunities,they will have something to smile about as the organisers will issue a certificate of participation.