Jubilee MPs are set to gather at State House on Tuesday morning for the party’s long-awaited Parliamentary Group meeting. Leader of Majority Aden Duale on Monday sent out invites to MPs on behalf of party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Garissa Township MP said all Jubilee MPs have been invited to the 9am gathering. The agenda for the meeting has not been stated in the invite sent to the lawmakers moments after the Madaraka Day event at State House ended. “Mheshimiwa, I wish to invite you for a Jubilee coalition, National Assembly Parliamentary Group Meeting, at Statehouse Nairobi tomorrow, Tuesday 2nd June 2020 at 9am,” the notice signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta reads. Jubilee MPs have repeatedly called for a PG to discuss the turmoil in the party, especially after Kenyatta set about taking control by removing members of the party's National Management Committee members. It is anticipated that the party will vote to change the leadership of several committees in Parliament, largely affecting persons perceived to be rebellious of the President’s agenda. A precedent was set at the Senate with the removal of senators Kipchumba Murkomen as Majority leader; Nakuru’s Susan Kihika as Minority whip, and Kindiki Kithure as deputy speaker. This has caused jitters in the House, especially among allies of Deputy President William Ruto. Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali, his deputy Cecily Mbarire, and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa who chairs the Budget committee are set to know their fate. The trio has been touted as among a long list of lawmakers whom the party intends to discipline. Sources intimated to the Star that Duale may survive the purge even as members of committees that are key to the BBI initiative may not rest easy. The Budget, Constitutional Implementation and Oversight and the Justice and Legal Affairs committees are key to the BBI drive. Also restless are several chairmen and members with the events at the Senate laying bare the extent to which the party leadership can choose to go. Eyes are also on how the party would treat Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Boss Shollei who chairs the Delegated Legislation committee; Tinderet's Julius Melly (Education), and Kipkelion East's Joseph Limo (Finance). Tenures of Kandara's Alice Wahome as Vice-Chair JLAC, and Gatundu South's Moses Kuria (Vice-Chair Transport) are also on teetering on the brink. In a recent media interview, President Kenyatta was categorical that he would only work with those ready to help him seal his legacy. And reading from his tone in the Madaraka Day address, the President restated that a referendum to usher in a changed Constitution is inevitable. The remarks underly the importance of the activities of Tuesday’s State House meeting, part of which includes changes or realignment of the party’s top organs. Though Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju denied this, there is word that key posts are likely to be split to cut down the influence of officeholders. Many members, especially the targeted group, intimated to the Star that they will not be surprised if the posts are split – including that of deputy party leader. Deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany — who has been out fighting what they termed as illegalities in the party — said he would attend the meeting. “We will attend. The invite is not by the Jubilee coalition. Since the agenda is not set out, we will wait to see how it pans out,” the Soy MP said. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo said the party did well to call the meeting adding that he would also be part of the gathering. “Parliamentary group meetings are essential for building democracy and giving chance to ventilate their issues. This is the best way to go,” the JLAC chairman said. He added that since the agenda was not stated, “it would not be prudent for me to preempt what will be discussed.” House leaders and committee chairpersons are entitled to extra privileges and fringes that come with their offices. ODM and by extension, Nasa, set the ball rolling with the dewhipping Aisha Jumwa from the PSC and Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa as Minority whip.