Victims of flooding in Lamu have received free treatment and check-ups in medical camps set up by the county government. A team of medical workers led by Public Health executive Abdu Godane has pitched camp at Chalaluma village which is the worst-hit. The team including doctors, nurses and community health workers have attended to more than 200 families in the village. At least 600 families have been displaced by floods after rivers Tana and Nyongoro broke their banks due to heavy rains. The most affected are pastoralist communities in Chalaluma, Dide Waride and Moa villages in Witu division of Lamu West. Others are Mkunumbi, Hongwe, Marafa, Jericho, Jipendeni, Salama, Lumshi, Zebra, Juhudi, Sinambio, Mavuno and Amkeni among others. Most roads have been rendered impassable and the villages can only be accessed via boat or choppers. The medical team got there by canoe. Pregnant women and young children who cannot access health facilities for prenatal care and immunisation respectively were targeted. Hundreds of women were attended to and an equal number of children got vaccinated. Godane told victims on Sunday that the county government’s major focus was to ensure those affected access medical care and adequate anti-coronavirus gear to keep the pandemic at bay. Lamu is among counties yet to report a Covid-19 case and efforts are being made to maintain the status quo. Godane said the medical camps would be rotated to cover all the affected villages. He also assured the victims that the county government shall continue to help until the situation normalises. “We are aware of how dire the situation is for the flood victims. Roads are impassable and so people can’t go out to seek medical care, hence why we are providing the free medical camps. Our intention is to assist as much as we can,” Godane said. The team also distributed mosquito nets and water treatments to protect the victims from malaria and waterborne diseases from stagnant floodwater. Victims were also provided with face masks, sanitiser and handwashing detergents to combat coronavirus. Meanwhile, the Kenya Red Cross Society in Lamu has initiated campaigns aimed at combating disease outbreaks, especially waterborne, among flood victims by spreading awareness on the need for high levels of hygiene. No outbreak has been reported since the floods began a few weeks ago. Lamu Red Cross coordinator Kauthar Alwy said massive water treatment exercises are also ongoing in all the affected villages. Distribution of shelter materials to the victims starts this week. Edited by R.Wamochie