A 28-year-old man is fighting for his life at the Lamu King Fahd hospital in Lamu Island after he was allegedly beaten by police officers for flouting the curfew. Ephantus Wanjohi, a father of two, is currently admitted at the hospital in a coma. Doctors at the facility disclosed that Wanjohi is likely to have suffered internal injuries of the head and stomach from external trauma. He also sustained vicious bruising on the hands and is unable to speak or move at the moment. Wanjohi, a mechanic in Mpeketoni in Lamu West, was heading home from his garage a few minutes past 9pm when he was accosted by a group of police officers and allegedly beaten into a coma. His wife Lucy Muthoni said she received a call from her husband around 9pm informing her that he was on his way home. Shortly after, she received another call from one of the police officers at around 10pm informing her that they had arrested her husband for flouting the curfew. Muthoni, who just recently delivered their second born baby, says at around 11pm, an officer called her again and inquired whether her husband suffered from diabetes or epilepsy. “I told the officer my husband was a healthy man and that in the six years of our marriage, I had never seen him sick. The officer then asked me to go to Mpeketoni hospital as my husband was sick and had been taken there,” said Muthoni. She found her husband lying unresponsive in one of the wards and could not understand why. “He couldn’t talk or move. He just stared. That was not the man that left the house healthy that morning. He just called me a few minutes ago and said he was coming home. I beseech the police to tell me what they did to my husband because it’s obvious that whatever put him in this state is their fault or doing,” she said. The victim’s father, Richard Kariuki, appealed to the Independent Police Oversight Authority to probe the matter and grant justice for his son. The family is unable to raise money for a CT scan and X-Ray as requested by doctors at the hospital. “The doctors want some tests done and we don’t have a penny to pay for that. My son was okay and now look at him. How can the police be this heartless,” said Kariuki. The family says Kamau should have been arrested and charged accordingly instead of being beaten up. Residents have numerously accused the police of using brutal force to enforce the curfew and other Covid-19 precautionary measures leaving scores nursing wounds and injuries. In response, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said he wasn’t aware of the incident but promised to investigate. “I am not aware of the incident since there is no such report made to my office but I will follow up,”he said.