Mandera Governor Ali Roba suffered a major setback after the court halted his plans to establish the impugned Elwak Municipality. Roba issued a charter last month for the establishment of Elwak Municipality that was gazetted on May 15. However, the court has suspended the gazette notice issued by the county until the case filed by three residents is heard and determined. Justice Charles Kariuki gave temporary orders stopping the establishment of the municipality on Friday. “Temporary orders also issued suspending the consequential declaration of vacancies in the municipality as contained in the advertisement dated May 30,” the order reads. Muhumed Deisow, Abdi Mahamud Osman and Said Hajir Sheikh, who filed the case, have been directed to serve the petition to the respondents and appear in court on June 10 for hearing. Through lawyer Bryan Khaemba, the residents argue that there was no public participation prior to the establishment and eventual granting of the charter for the establishment of the municipality. Khaemba says under the Urban Areas and Cities, the governor is only mandated to confer the status of a municipality on an existing town as opposed to an unclassified mass of land as is the case. “There is no existence of a town committee for Elwak North and South towns, no such resolution was passed and no application was made to the county executive committee for the establishment of the municipality,” court documents read. Khaemba says Elwak town does not have the population limit to qualify for a municipality status. He claims his clients only got to know about the plans through an advert in the newspaper. The residents say that there has been no form of citizen forum organised for public participation prior to the proposed project. “In 15 days after granting of the charter for the establishment of Elwak Municipality, the County Public Service Board put up an advertisement inviting applications to fill various vacancies in the established municipality with June 12 as the deadline for submission” he added. In their argument, Elwak South and North, which were decided by the governor to form part of the municipality, is a bushy mass of grazing areas, with no urban unit to constitute an urban or peri-urban population quota to meet the required limit for consideration of a municipality status. Edited by R.Wamochie