A man who was arrested and held in police custody for 22 hours for allegedly having counterfeit goods has been awarded Sh100,000 as compensation for loss of liberty. High Court judge Weldon Korir ruled that the arrest of Stanley Magare, a car parts manager, was a violation of his constitutional rights and awarded him compensation. “His arrest violated his rights as protected by Article 29(a) of the Constitution. He is, therefore, entitled to relief,” the judge said on June 4. He declined, however, to give an award of Sh5 million sought by Magare. “It is noted the petitioner was held for less than a day. In my view, an award of Sh100,000 should be adequate compensation. That is the amount I award him as general damages for the unlawful loss of liberty." Magare had sued the anti-counterfeit agency, the OCS of the Central police station in Nairobi and the Inspector General of Police for violating his rights. Under the law, the police are not allowed to hold a Kenyan for more than 24 hours without taking him or her to court. In this case, Magare was arrested and released without being charged and he called that a gross gross violation of his rights. At the time of his arrest, Magare was a senior manager with Premier Motors Spares, a limited liability company incorporated in Kenya. The company sells vehicle spare parts in two shops along Kirinyaga Road in Nairobi’s Central Business District. All was well until the morning of December 20, 2017, at about 11am, when officers from the Anti-Counterfeit Agency stormed the premises wanting to conduct an inspection. The officers informed him they had received a complaint from a person that the shop was selling counterfeit silicone sealant. He was arrested and held for more than 22 hours but released without being charged. Magare told the court his unlawful arrest and detention resulted from the state officers’ misconstruing and abusing their powers under the Anti-Counterfeit Act as there were no reasonable grounds to warrant his arrest. His deposition said his release after being held for more than 24 hours without any charges being preferred is sufficient demonstration his arrest and detention were unlawful, grounded on pure malice and tantamount to detention without trial. Magare said the actions of the police caused a serious disruption to his business, causing heavy losses. But Chief Inspector Martin Luther explained to the court he and other officers were assigned to investigate allegations of intellectual property rights infringement. When they arrived at the premises, he introduced himself and his team and the purpose of their visit to Magare, who was the store manager. He said Magare responded aggressively and attempted to obstruct the inspection. Magare is said to have tried to lock them inside the premises and torn up the police identification card of one of the officers. This, he said, resulted in a physical altercation, necessitating the police officers to contain Magare by placing him under arrest. He was escorted to and booked at the Central police station at 1.50pm and released the next day, December 21, 2017, at 10.20am. He denied violating any rights saying the arrest was done on the suspicion of a crime having been committed. Magare denied he obstructed arrest, saying that claim was an afterthought by the police. The Occurrence Book showed that he was arrested for being in possession of counterfeit goods. In his decision, the judge said Magare established that he was unlawfully arrested and detained. (Edited by V. Graham)