Kisii will host this year's Mashujaa Day national celebrations, Governor James Ongwae has said. The county was to host Madaraka Day celebrations at Gusii Stadium but this was cancelled over the coronavirus pandemic. The celebrations were instead held at State House, Nairobi, with just a few people present “I wish to announce to you that the President has confirmed that he will keep his promise to honour you by hosting the next national celebrations in Kisii county," Ongwae said on Monday. "He will meet you and address the nation from this beautiful stadium which we had prepared for today’s celebrations.” National events have been held across the country on a rotational basis since 2015 and Kisii will host Mashujaa Day celebrations on October 20 since all the facilities are ready. Ongwae and county commissioner Stephen Kihara held a low-key Madaraka Day event at the Agriculture Training Centre in Kisii. The national government in partnership with the county gave Kisii town a major upgrade ahead of the fete. Some of the multimillion-shilling projects included construction of a State Lodge, tarmacking of 20km of road and increasing Gusii Stadium capacity to 10,000. Kenya Power installed 568 street lights at a cost of Sh58 million. “The installation of street lights will strengthen security and enable people to work overnight,” Ongwae said Suneka Airstrip is also being refurbished while construction of Daraja Mbili market is complete. In Kisii municipality, the county is working with the Kenya National Highways Authority to improve major bypasses and link roads to decongest the town. “These include Nyamataro-Daraja Moja road, Kisii-Egesa-Nyatieko road and the Industrial Area-Daraja Mbili road,” Ongwae said. He added that the construction of a dual carriageway along Nyamataro-Daraja Mbili junction-Kisii Hotel road will commence this month. “This stretch will incorporate an inter-change at Daraja Mbili junction and a flyover at Daraja Mbili market,” the governor said. Ongwae said with support from development partners, they have embarked on urban infrastructure development. “We have built and equipped a modern fire station, pedestrian walkways, constructed access roads and storm water drains,” he said. “Phase 1 of the Kisii bypass that stretches from Gudka to Nyanchwa through St Stephen is nearing completion. Once complete, this road will ease traffic congestion at Mashauri.” Edited by Frank Obonyo