Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said he will not join any political coalition soon. The governor dismissed the current coalitions saying they are just tribal groups. “Coalitions cannot put food on the table of Wanjiku. These are politics of personalities and not for development so we must have a radical shift so we can all benefit from this country,” he said. Mutua was addressing the press at his Mavoko office in Athi River on Sunday. The governor said his motivation is to positively change the lives of the poor Kenyans. He said his political party, Maendeleo Chap Chap, is not interested in joining any coalition not meant for development. “MCCP is not interested in joining any coalition that is not based on economic empowerment of our people. The coalitions must and should be able to show that Kenyans are benefiting before we join you,” Mutua said. Mutua said unemployment and poverty have grown since independence due divisive politics. “Life in Kenya is tough and will continue to be so for a while unless we change the way politics is managed in our country,” said Mutua. He called on leaders to refuse being controlled on tribal blocs. “I am, therefore, calling for a radical political shift that examines the potential of leaders based on their work and ability to change lives and not based on which tribe they happened to be born from,” he said. Mutua said growth is achievable if leaders stop forming of tribal affiliations. “I am concerned that the ability to change Kenya is in our hands but we are so ignorant and focused on myopic political manoeuvres and tribal affiliations that we cannot see that the solution to our problems is right in front of us. That is the proper political ideology and a radical shift from tribal blocs to proper leadership,” he noted. He added: “Our diversity is our strength as a nation but it should not control our politics and sharing of the national cake. Everyone is born alone and no one chooses to be born from a tribe with a huge population or low population.” Mutua said Kenyans need to force for radical shift, arguing that the country was managed unfairly and that poverty cannot define one’s ability for change. “Power lies in our hands Wananchi and the only reason we allow ourselves to be used and managed in tribal blocs is because we allow it. Kenya needs politics and political parties based on ideologies and not tribal affiliations."