Strict hygiene measures against Covid-19 have been heightened at the Nyali police station after at least 10 remandees tested positive for the disease The station houses 21 remandees and about 20 staff members. The positive cases were isolated at Shimo la Tewa Prison. More hand-washing facilities have been put in place and Health ministry directives are being enforced strictly. Although none of the police officers has tested positive for the virus, Nyali subcounty police commander Daniel Masaba said nothing is being left to chance. "We have to be extra careful at all times,” Masaba said on the phone on Sunday. Visitation has been restricted. Masks are worn, social distancing is being practiced as much as possible. Paper transactions have been minimised as the virus can survive on paper. Sanitisation of rails, metal bars and other surfaces has been increased to about once an hour. The cells of the Covid-19 positive persons and other spaces have been sanitised. Last Monday, two suspects who had been in a cell tested positive for Covid-19. That forced the rest of the cell occupants and police officers who had interacted with them to be tested. “Nobody else has been found positive. No police officer at the station has the virus. It’s not guaranteed that when you interact with a positive case, that you will be infected,” Masaba told the Star on the phone on Saturday. He said officers have been keen to protect themselves and their families by strictly adhering to Health ministry directives. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said on Sunday police officers are frontline workers who need to be taken care of. They put their health and lives at risk every day to protect lives and property, he said. The MP said he is ready to help should the police station request any assistance. “I appreciate what the police are doing in Nyali. They have been true to their duty to protect lives and property,” Ali told the Star on the phone. Earlier, Commission for Human Rights and Justice executive director Julius Ogogoh had demanded the police station be closed after the remandees were found to be positive for the novel coronavirus. He said the lives of police officers and suspects are at stake, adding that Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai must order the station closed. “Chief Justice David Maraga closed the Mombasa law courts when 11 of its officers tested positive for Covid-19. The police should follow suit and close the station down,” Ogogoh said. He said just like any other Kenyans, the suspects and police officers have rights that should be protected. “We demand all police officers in that station be tested to determine whether they are positive or not,” Ogogoh said. However, Masaba said all the police officers who interacted with the remandees are in self-isolation. “They have about four days left,” he said. Masaba said with care and strict adherence to the anti-Covid-19 directives, one can be protected from contracting the virus from a positive person. “We have been extra careful, strictly adhering to the Health ministry directives,” he said. Masaba said it is not easy to close the police station because that would probably cause a spike in crime. “I would be happy if the boss said to close down because it would mean a break for our hardworking officers to recharge,” he said. However, Masaba said they will have to be on duty to protect lives and property, and to maintain law and order. The police boss said contracting the virus is not a death sentence as many people fear. “This disease in most cases is mild,” Masaba said. (Edited by V. Graham)