Kenyans will be able to access home-based care guidelines for coronavirus patients in Kiswahili and other local languages in the near future. The Health ministry will be holding talks with governors later this week to discuss the way forward. The ministry launched the guideline in English less than two weeks ago. Cases are expected to rise exponentially in the coming weeks. The guidelines support safe home-based care for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms in an effort to decongest health facilities. The number of positive cases in the country as of Monday was 4,797, after 59 more were confirmed. The 59 were from 2,354 samples tested within 24 hours, bringing the total cumulative tests to 142,366. “This is to be done so that people can own these interventions because for home-based care to succeed, you require personal responsibility of that person,” health director general Patrick Amoth said. So far, 550 people have been taken for home-based care, and another 50 discharged. This week, counties will be expected to provide a status update in relation to the progress made in coming up with 300-bed isolation facilities and the extra support they might require to beat the deadline. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi yesterday said the ministry is looking at a possibility of revamping communication about the virus, noting that most Kenyans have relaxed and forgotten about the dangers it poses. “Behaviour change is very crucial and we firmly believe that each one of us is a social vaccine for the coronavirus, hence it becomes important to bear that personal responsibility,” the CAS said. “You will be seeing a revamped communication strategy in terms of trying to bring forward where we have successes and have more faces be champions for us in this fight.” The ministry, however, emphasised that community transmission remains a challenge in the country. “I am aware of some success stories where some families have actually gone through the approach and are doing well and testing negative, and we even have success stories where a community has come in to support the families undergoing quarantine in their homes,” Mwangangi noted. On a positive note, 73 more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 1,680. The new cases were aged between seven and 67, comprising 47 males and 12 females. Of the cases, 28 were from Nairobi, while 21 were from Mombasa. Kilifi had three cases, Machakos and Kiambu two cases each, while Kisii, Bungoma, Uasin Gishu recorded one case each. Two more patients succumbed to the virus, raising the total number of fatalities in the country to 125. The ministry also noted that the issue of truck drivers continues to be a concern, adding that huge piles of trucks at border points, especially Busia, continue to be witnessed. “This is caused by drivers violating our guidelines. As we have stated before, truck drivers must take a Covid-19 test at least 48 hours before they commence their journey.”