Kajiado county police boss Beatrice Gachago has defended her officers for a shooting in Mashuuru in which a woman was seriously wounded. Gachago said Wednesday that police were acting correctly on a reported case of watermelon theft when they shot a "runaway car" late Sunday afternoon. She told the Star the driver was arrested and arraigned for stealing watermelons. The passenger, who was injured during the confrontation, has also recorded a statement with police. Passenger Elizabeth Ndunge was shot in the leg and the stomach; the bullet shattered a kidney. She underwent emergency surgery to save her life. Ndunge said she had left a watermelon farm near Mashuuru town on Sunday afternoon after paying cash for the melons to three farmers. The car was stopped by police at a roadblock. "One officer stopped the car we had loaded with watermelons. The car's brakes appeared weak and it took a while to stop," Ndunge said, explaining the car did not intentionally run the roadblock. “Our officer acted on a report received from a complainant claiming his melons had been stolen and even provided the police with details of the motor vehicle used in the crime,” Gachago said on the phone. She said the media should also have interviewed police officers on the ground instead of only seeking comments from the wounded woman. “The media should also interview our own to balance their story. We feel intimidated in the eyes of the public if we are denied the right of reply,” Gachago said. She was reacting to claims officers manning a roadblock had chased and fired at a private car carrying a woman passenger and the driver. After the story was broken by the Star on Monday, Gachago clarified the vehicle she had earlier claimed had been reported stolen and was stopped at a roadblock had indeed been used in the theft of melons. She said the complainant Robert Muthiani from Oloosuyian Farm in Mashuuru had called the police and informed them watermelons had been stolen from his farm. Gachago said Muthiani, who is a farm manager, gave police the description of the car used by two people who allegedly stole the melons. She said police are always blamed when suspects are arrested or injured during an arrest. “If they were genuine people carrying legally acquired goods, why didn’t they stop?” the police commander asked. “Our officers, according to my findings, acted professionally by stopping that car. Had he [the officer]  not acted the way he did, someone could be blaming him for being compromised to let that vehicle go," Gachago said. The wounded woman, Ndunge, said, “It is true three police officers stopped us  passing through Mashuuru town and my driver stopped metres ahead of them. We waited for two minutes and none of them came to us." She spoke from her bed at Makindu Level 4 Hospital in Makueni. Ndunge said after deciding to continue driving to their destination in Emali, they saw a private car chasing them and they could not immediately stop. “On reaching Emali-Loitokitok road, the car behind us stalled and we saw three policemen running through bushes as they aimed to apprehend us from ahead after we had taken a long bend to reach the main road,” she said. The woman said after they came face to face with the officers one of them fired at the car. Even after she had been hit, her driver still drove towards Emali until they stopped at another manned roadblock a few kilometres ahead, she said. (Edited by V. Graham)