The government on Wednesday destroyed illicit goods worth over Sh27 million in Athi River, Machakos county. The goods included face masks, sanitiser, electronics, mobile phones, drinks, soaps, pencils, sugar, pipes, motor vehicle spare parts, assorted alcohol, tubes, pesticides, drugs, clothes and shoes, among others. The goods' destruction was done by the Anti-Counterfeit Authority alongside a multi-agency enforcement team against counterfeit and illicit trade at the Envirosafe EPZ Limited. The goods were seized from unscrupulous traders within Nairobi and its environs. Industrialisation CAS Lawrence Karanja said the government had seized and destroyed illicit goods worth Sh2 billion since 2018 when the multi-agency enforcement team was established. The agencies include KRA, Kebs, ACA, Weights and Measures, the National Environment Management Authority, Nacada, Pharmacists and Poisons Board, Public Health, the police and DCI. Karanja said the government is keen on fighting illicit goods,  both imported and locally manufactured. He said more illicit goods worth Sh100 million had been seized in Mombasa and are awaiting destruction. “Counterfeiters are thieves, they are killing our local manufacturers,” Karanja said. He spoke during the destruction attended by deputy Head of Public Service and Coordinator of the team Wanyama Musiambo, ACA executive director Elema Halake and chairperson Flora Mutahi. Karanja said those who deal in illicit goods, in general, haven’t invested in research and manufacturing. Some of the traders fund criminal gangs and terrorists in the country, he said. ACA’s Mutahi said the goods had been seized over a period of time. “It’s a long war. The goods being destroyed today include drinks that were counterfeited from East African Breweries brand. They were seized in 2012, the culprits took the government to court. We got the judgement in 2018 and we are destroying them now,” Mutahi said. She said 70 per cent of the goods were seized at Kenyan border points. The government has, however, sealed the borders, heightened its surveillance and invested on public awareness on counterfeits to rid the country of the illicit trade, Mutahi said. Musiambo said the Big Four agenda cannot be derailed by unscrupulous people who deal in counterfeit goods or those in possession of them. “This is a whole government approach. We want to promote manufacturing which is part of the Big Four agenda,” he said. “The President directed that this team works in a multi-agency setting so that when we sit and do what we do, we will avoid silos and working in cocoons,” Musiambo said. Anything illicit is corruption, he said. “We are fighting corruption and somebody is taking advantage of coronavirus to manufacture fake masks and sanitiser.” He said the government had directed that goods seized at border points, especially in Northeastern, to be destroyed instantly. “So many things are getting into the country including contraband sugar get through our porous borders. We shall not wait for court cases, any items found being smuggled into the country will be destroyed instantly.” Musiambo, however, said dragging court cases are slowing the fight against illicit goods. Edited by R.Wamochie