About 91 per cent of Covid-19 cases reported in the country are as a result of local transmission. Health CAS Dr Rashid Aman on Monday said as of Sunday, some 6,070 people had tested positive for the coronavirus out of which 5,538  had locally contracted the disease. Aman said it is evident that the pandemic has created economic havoc that has resulted  in massive job losses, putting many livelihoods off balance. The disease has left 9,962, 193 people infected globally with 498, 723 have succumbed. Aman said the situation is not unique to Kenya and thus containment measures cannot be slackened. "This is the greatest health crisis we are facing as a country but the never say die spirit will help us to overcome. The numbers are depressing and it is just a matter of time before all the counties report at least a case," he said. According to Aman, currently 41 out of the 47 counties have recorded Covid-19 cases, with Nairobi leading with 3,031 cases followed  by Mombasa with 1,445 cases and Busia county with 407. He said Busia has become a high risk county due to the cross border infection by  truck drivers. "Kajiado has similar incidences with 242 cases having originated at the Namanga  border point. Kiambu follows with 222 cases while the remaining 36 counties each have less than 100 cases," Aman said, "Mombasa and Nairobi bear the biggest case load with a high attack rate of  119.6  and 68.9 per 100,000 population compared to 12.8/100,000 population for the whole country," he said. The CAS said the country has drawn lessons from other disease outbreaks to accelerate its level of preparedness and facilitate care for those affected. "This should not make us panic but strengthen our resolve to adhere to containment measures put in place," he said. He said while relevant bodies are working round the clock to develop vaccines, the ministry has embarked on local characterisation of the disease to determine who has been affected, where and how to handle any further spread. He said this will go a long way in helping the government understand the disease spectrum before a report is released. "We are also looking at interventions implemented and level of success. Though the virus is new to us,  its transmission and management are not unique," he said. Aman added, "We have leveraged on successful interventions developed in containing other infectious diseases like HIV/Aids and TB". This comes as 120 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.