Kenya has witnessed a drastic reduction and change in disease patterns thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic. Fewer cases of flu, diarrhoea, common cold and pneumonia and other respiratory diseases are now being reported in health facilities in what has been attributed to high standards of hygiene. In efforts to contain the spread of the virus, several hygiene measures that include frequent washing of hands have been advocated worldwide. Hands are believed to be a breeding ground for germs that cause diseases and without frequent and thorough washing, it is easy to transmit it. “The numbers have come down because of change of habits,” Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Evanson Kamuri said on Thursday. “We have registered very few cases. Even pneumonia and diarrhoea in children have actually come down. We are hoping even after coronavirus, all Kenyans would continue having the same change of social behaviours.” As at Thursday, the country had registered 5,384 Covid-19 positive cases after 178 new cases were confirmed by the Health ministry on Thursday. The 178 comprised 123 men and 55 women aged between one and 76 years. Out of the number, three were foreign nationals. The number was from a sample of 3,918. Cumulatively, 155,314 tests have been conducted in the country since the first case was reported on March 13. “The 719 hotline continues to function. However, we have noticed a declining trend in terms of calls,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. “We appeal to Kenyans to make use of this line. The workers are there and are well trained.” Nairobi continues to lead with new infections. Out of the 178 new cases, 100 were from Nairobi, Kajiado had 21, Migori had 17 while Kiambu had 16. Busia had eight, Mombasa seven, Machakos four, Nakuru two, Uasin Gishu, Kericho and Taita Taveta one each. Thirty four more patients were discharged from various hospitals after successful treatment, bringing the total recoveries in the country to 1,857. However, two more patients succumbed to the virus, raising the number of fatalities to 132. On Thursday, the Konza Technopolis Development Authority launched a Covid-19 mitigation contact centre at KNH targeting frontline healthcare workers. The centre will act as a platform for healthcare workers to access information, exchange best practice, training, psychosocial support and keep track of disease incidence amongst themselves. The platform will also provide information for the public and act as a one-stop shop for virus-related queries for the public. The centre located at the National Nurses Association of Kenya headquarters at the KNH is in partnership with the association and other healthcare associations, Equity Group and the Kenya Covid-19 Fund. “The testing capacity has improved because even the ministry has continued investing on testing equipment. Today, we have received another testing machine in Kenyatta so we will actually double that capacity of testing and increase the turn-around time,” Kamuri said. Edited by R.Wamochie