Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya led Western leaders to a major meeting with Cabinet Secretaries and secured promises of development in the region by the national government. The meeting was loaded with political symbolism, coming days after Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa were anointed as Luhya spokesmen. The meeting was chaired by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who is also the chairman of the National Development Implementation Communication Cabinet Committee. Eugene and Oparanya are battling to control the Western region from ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula. After the meeting at Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Agriculture CS Peter Munya announced the government will lease a number of sugar companies to private investors in a bid to revive the sector. Munya said the government will also revive the coffee, cotton and tea sectors in Western Kenya to create jobs and business opportunities. “We have already reached out to the World Bank for more funding so that we can revive coffee in Western and the agriculture sector at large,” Munya told reporters. “We have already forwarded the legislation to Parliament so that we can have the right laws in place to govern the sugar sector.” Matiang'i assured residents of Western Kenya that the government will complete stalled projects and open up the region for trade. He added that the government intends to audit its development projects in Western after realising that some were ghost projects. “We know infrastructure is affecting agricultural production. We can also say that some of the projects, which have stalled, must be initiated afresh so that they serve the right purpose,” Matiang'i said. “And those contractors who are not completing their jobs will be arrested and prosecuted.” Oparanya said the Thursday meeting was not political but was meant to ensure people in Western Kenya access good services. “We have been assured that the granite and gold industries will be constructed soon. We also know that we have floods and the state has promised to allocate funds to those affected,” Oparanya said. Devolution CS Eugene said the meeting was the first of its kind to bring together the national government and leaders from Western Kenya. He added that they will host the government in Western to ensure that the region does not remain behind in the development agenda. “We had Matiang'i here in his capacity as the coordinator of government projects. He has assured us that in June we will be in Western to meet local leaders and supervise the projects,” he said. He added that the government will set up a Covid-19 border fund following increased cases on the Kenya-Uganda border to stop the spread of the virus. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe who spoke on behalf of the MPs thanked Oparanya for holding the meeting and assured them of full support.  Edited by Henry Makori