 Allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga are set to reap big from the fallout in the Jubilee party after it emerged that they will be rewarded with parliamentary leadership positions. Sources say President Uhuru Kenyatta will reward ODM and Wiper parties with Senate committee chair and vice-chair positions, seats that were previously occupied by allies of Deputy President William Ruto. Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kangata said they have firm instructions from the President to ensure they diffuse ‘diversity and inclusion’ in the leadership of the house committees in line with the spirit of the ‘handshake.’ “His Excellency wants handshake to be manifested not only among the people but leadership positions,” Kangata told the Star on Sunday. The Murang’a senator said that leaders from Western, Coast and Nyanza have been marginalised in the house for the eight years the Senate has been in existence. “The leaders have been excluded from heading committees for eight years now. This exclusion, marginalisation and discrimination has to be addressed,” Kangata said. According to the new line up, Nyamira Senator Okong'o Omogeni and his Homa Bay counterpart Moses Kajwang, both elected on ODM tickets, are set to be elected as chairpersons of Justice and Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee and Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations committee respectively. They two committees are among the six that will elect their chairpersons and vice-chairpersons on Monday. Mogeni will replace Nandi Senator Samson CherarGey, a DP confidant who was removed from the position in a Jubilee purge last month. Kajwang, on the other hand, will take over from Laikipia Senator John Kinyua, another Ruto ally who was also purged. On Tuesday and Wednesday, nominated ODM Senator Naomi Shiyonga and Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki will be installed as chairs of National Cohesion, Equal Opportunity and Regional Integration committee and Delegated Legislation Committee respectively. The cohesion team was previously chaired by Nominated Senator Naomi Waqo, a Ruto ally who is currently awaiting a ruling on her fate by Jubilee party disciplinary committee after she snubbed Uhuru’s meeting at State House last month. Already, Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri has been elected the chairman of the powerful County Public Accounts and Investment Committee. Those lined up for vice-chair positions are Migori’s Ochilo Ayacho who has already been elected Finance and Budget committee vice-chair and his nominated counterpart Sylvia Kasanga (Wiper) who is deputising Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi in the Roads and Transportation Committee. Taita Taveta Senator Johnes Mwaruma is set to deputise Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja in the Labour and Social Welfare committee in the elections set for Monday. ODM’s Fred Outa (Kisumu), Agnes Zani (Nominated) and Getrude Msuruve are lined up for the vice-chairpersons of Education, National Security, Defence and Foreign Affairs; and Tourism, Trade and Industrialization committees respectively. Wiper’s Enoch Wambua (Kitui) will deputise Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga in Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries committee while Chama Cha Mzalendo’s Boniface Kabaka (Machakos) will be the vice-chair of the Delegated Legislation Committee.  