The National Police Service has defended IG Hillary Mutyambai over attacks on his silence on extrajudicial killings. Through spokesman Charles Owino, it said it was unfair to allege that the IG has remained silent amid rising cases of police brutality and killings. While responding to an article published in one of the dailies, Owino said the article was an unfortunate attack on the IG. The article had asked why the IG has not come out to condemn the recent police brutality. The article on the Palaver section of the daily, quoted, “After witnessing so much atrocity in recent times,  has the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai gone underground? Is he in deep slumber or is he practicing the see - no - evil, speak- no- evil mantra?" The article further wondered why the IG has not come out to speak on the killings. “With so many extrajudicial killings and brutalities inflicted on wananchi by police officers, we have not seen or heard him address the matter. Is he so unmoved by complaints that he cannot offer any apology to the families of the bereaved or show any remorse,” read part of the article. But Owino in his response said, “As director in charge of Corporate Communication Affairs and Human Rights, I have been addressing a number of issues as alleged on extra judicial killings by Police on his behalf.” Owino said the IG is the chief spokesperson for the National Police Service but he  simply undertakes that responsibility on his behalf. He said last week the IG invited human rights groups to his office to address their grievances. On the same day, the IG accompanied Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, the Attorney General, Chairman  of the National Police Service Commission, Director of Public Prosecutions, IPOA Chairperson, and the two deputy Inspector Generals of Police to the Kenya School of Government to address grievances by members of civil society. “We have lately had cases where Police officers have been killed by civilians using machetes. The latest case being the killing of a 29-year-old police officer by civilians in Lamu yesterday,” Owino said, He added, “The officer was attacked without provoking or even attempting to arrest anyone. To our surprise no civil society has condemned this unfortunate incident as if it is a normal incident for a police officer to be killed”. According to Owino, such actions widen conflict between police and criminals and promote panic among police while using their firearms in the course of duty. “It is not in the nature of the IG to shout. He is organised and does his work quietly. The IG is working tirelessly to promote good working relations between the members of the public and police officers,” he said. Owino said a number of police officers have been relieved of their duty and arraigned before court after internal disciplinary mechanisms. “The National Police Service remains committed in discharging its mandate and we shall always work within the law,” he said.