Governor Alfred Mutua has directed the county inspectorate and state to ensure all truck drivers from Mombasa present Covid-19 certification before being allowed through Machakos to Nairobi. Mutua said no travellers will be allowed to station anywhere in the county due to the increasing cases of Covid-19.  He said this is one of the mitigative measures to protect Machakos residents from coronavirus. “Travellers passing through Machakos will soon begin to be checked for Covid-19 certification,” the governor said. Addressing the press at his office in Machakos, Mutua said the truckers will be given only 30 minutes to refuel their trucks. He also instructed all petrol stations along Mombasa Road within the county not to allow truckers to take longer, failure to which their work permit will be revoked. “As a precautionary measure, lorries passing through Machakos are only allowed to stop for refuelling so as to keep interaction with locals at a minimum.” However, Mutua emphasised that the cases reported in Machakos are linked to Nairobi and Mombasa. “Machakos has no coronavirus cases because they have been brought to us.” He lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for extending the lockdown and curfew. “The county fully supports the President's directive on extending the lockdown. The increased Covid-19 cases, especially in counties that previously did not have the virus, means that our borders are still porous and community spread is rampant,” he said. Mutua on Monday said his county is well prepared to fight the pandemic. It has put in place 10 ICU beds in all public hospitals and another five in private hospitals, he said. He said they will soon add 10 more beds in two months. The governor also claimed that the county has 350 isolation beds across all isolation centres. He, however, called upon leaders politicking on tribal lines to focus on development issues and how to contain Covid-19. “This is the time to revive the economy. It’s time for us to solve problems affecting our people like poverty. If we focus on development and turn that energy to provide employment for our youth it will lead to greater progress.” The current leadership struggles reported in some political parties are based on selfish interest and not for the betterment of this country, he said. He added that tribalism was at the heart of the tensions. Mutua told politicians in the country to stop engaging in factions and premature political campaigns and instead, focus on serving the electorate. “We cannot achieve our goals if we continue to embark on tribal politics,” he said The county chief noted some leaders in the country were “busy trying to come up with line-ups that will take over the county leadership in 2022”. Edited by R.Wamochie