Religious leaders in Lamu have raised concerns over an increased number of shuttles and buses transporting people to and from Covid-19-hit Kilifi county without complying with regulations. Lamu has yet to record a single case of the virus and there are concerns the uncontrolled movement of people to and from areas already hit by the disease could cause an outbreak. Recently, President Uhuru Kenyatta lifted the cessation of movement into and out of Kilifi county, allowing public service vehicles to resume operations on the Lamu-Mombasa road. The vehicles can, however, only go up to Mtwapa in Kilifi as the cessation of movement into and out of Mombasa remains active. The clerics have urged the government to set up Covid-19 testing booths along the Lamu-Mombasa road and ensure all persons coming into and out of Lamu are thoroughly screened for the disease. Imam Noordin Abdullahi of the Hindi Jamia Mosque said the situation is a ticking time bomb and proper mechanisms have to be put in place to guard against the importation of the disease. “The removal of the cessation of movement directive was well in order, but our concern is what the government is doing to ensure counties like Lamu remain Covid-19-free, even with people shuttling between hotspots like Kilifi,” he said. They have proposed that screening booths be stationed at Minjila junction, Gamba, Witu and Mokowe along the Lamu-Garsen road. The clerics also urged the government to conduct mass testing in Lamu to ascertain the real scope of the disease in the region. They said that without proper mechanisms to protect counties such as Lamu, it would be prudent for the government to return the ban on movement into and out of Kilifi county until it’s ready to guarantee the safety of those in neighbouring counties. “The number of people coming in from Kilifi is alarming. If the government can’t put in place mechanisms to keep Lamu safe, we would rather they re-impose the cessation of movement into and from Kilifi,” Abdullahi said.  Edited by F'Orieny