Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has continued his onslaught against President Uhuru Kenyatta. Murkomen on Monday lashed out at Uhuru for allegedly refusing to comply with court orders. He was responding to Chief Justice David Maraga's statement earlier when he said he had tried in vain to seek audience with Uhuru to discuss the appointment of 41 judges proposed by the Judicial Service Commission, a process which has hit a snag. Murkomen, who was recently dewhipped as the Senate Majority Leader, said a time has come for the President to be reminded that legacy  is not a coat he can just pick and wear. He said though Uhuru is concerned about leaving a legacy after his term, every leader, including the Chief Justice, political leaders, civil servants and other 'hustlers' too want to leave a good legacy. "Mr President, legacy is the sum total of what you do every day, not a coat you pick and wear at the end of your term. Obey court orders and rule of law," Murkomen wrote on Twitter. He added, "It’s not you alone who wants a good legacy; CJ, elected leaders, civil servants, hustlers all want a good legacy. Don’t make everything to be about yourself." Earlier, Maraga said Uhuru's refusal to swear in the 41 judges has contributed to the backlog of cases currently being experienced in the Judiciary. "You know I have respect for you as our President, you also know that I have unsuccessfully sought an appointment with you to sort out these issues but it has been futile leaving me with no option but to make this public," he said. Speaking on Monday at the Supreme Court, Maraga asked Uhuru to direct the AG to begin the process of satisfying the decrees issued by the courts. "The President's disregard of court orders doesn't bode well for our constitutional democracy and is potentially a recipe for anarchy," Maraga said. "I must remind you that you swore to defend the constitution and the laws of Kenya. The laws include court orders. Demonstrate that faith and respect the rule of law and comply with court orders." The Law Society of Kenya had threatened to take legal action against the President and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki for not swearing in the 41 judges. The society is expected to address the members of press later on in the day.