Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has warned county leaders against politicising food aid to the less fortunate and vulnerable in the county. Nyoro chided some politicians who have been taking advantage of the ongoing distribution of foodstuff to the needy by county administration to drive their political agenda. He said individuals with political ambitions have been discrediting the county government in its efforts to cushion residents from the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Those seeking political mileage by discrediting others who are helping the needy in the society should desist because this is not the time for political tantrums. Instead, we should all join efforts despite our political differences and ideologies to help our people during this difficult time,” Nyoro said. The governor, who was accompanied by his deputy Joyce Ngugi and MCAs, was speaking in Ruiru on Wednesday while giving out food rations to ward reps for distribution in their areas. Each MCA received 200kg of rice, sanitizer and reflector jackets to distribute in their wards. Some, however, said in confidence that the donation was too litle for the needy families. “We wonder who will get the food and who will miss out. This food is too little for the large number of needy families,” one MCA said, adding that it’s better to give the food to orphanages within the county. The administration has been under fire from bloggers - allegedly hired by individuals seeking political positions in the county - who accused the county leadership of donating too little. The county has also been accused of misappropriating cash donated by well-wishers and corporates as well as funds from the public coffers under the guise of fighting the pandemic. Nyoro said his administration has not spent a coin on food and other donations saying that everything being distributed to needy Kiambu families was donated by well-wishers. “Let them continue with their politicking because people seem to be preoccupied with politics. But we won’t be distracted from doing what is right. We have a clear food distribution programme,” the governor said. He said the current crisis calls for joint efforts by all leaders to assist the less privileged including orphans, the sick, disabled and needy single parents. “It’s ill-timed for those propagating political wars with the current situation. Time for politics will come. For now, let us all come together and stand with the needy with the little each one of us has,” he said. The governor said the county government has laid down a strategy to ensure all affected and needy families receive donations. He said the county was working with ward reps, the local administration and the Nyumba Kumi clusters in villages to identify and support needy families. A committee headed by former Cabinet Minister George Muhoho and chaired by Eddy Njoroge is coordinating donations of cash and foodstuff that will be spent to cushion Kiambu residents from the adverse effects of the pandemic.  Edited by R.Wamochie