 Civil society groups have warned the government against easing restrictions put in place to control the spread of coronavirus, saying it could be disastrous. The lobby groups say reopening the economy requires cascading the Covid-19 response to the grassroots. Under the banner of Civil Society Reference Group, the lobbies faulted the state for disproportionately investing in infomercials through expensive television, newspaper and radio adverts while doing little to engage the mwananchi in the villages who may not have access to the technology mediums. Ordinary folks still do not have an adequate appreciation of the danger posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and why they should take wearing masks, social distancing and hygiene seriously, they said. Kenyans are slowly reverting to their old habits with wearing masks, social distancing and sanitising of hands slowly being ignored. The lobbies said removing the containment measures to reopen economy as the government seems to be contemplating without changing tack in the way local communities and individual citizens will take charge of their own safety would be a recipe for disaster. "This could lead to a spike in Covid-19 infections that our health system may not have the capacity to cope with," the group said in a statement. They want the value of the  ICT-based campaigns audited to determine why they are not generating community and individual responsibility to prevent the spread of infections. "The Mutahi Kagwe-led National Emergency Response Committee on Coronavirus to evaluate the effectiveness of its ‘top-down’ approach to awareness-raising and advocacy on the pandemic.." and "adopt the more effective and tested ‘grassroots’ or ‘bottom-up’ approach." This will ensure local communities take charge of their own safety and protect themselves from the disease, they said. The group proposed that that local opinion and religious leaders and community organisers be empowered to deliver public health messages in a variety of ways and languages that people understand at the grassroots. They suggested that the more than 400 Covid-19 survivors be enlisted for the awareness campaigns. "Having contracted the disease and gone through harrowing experiences as they fought for their lives in different circumstances and environments, these survivors are potential agents of powerful messages that can deliver the much-needed turning point in flattening the Covid-19 curve."  Edited by P.O