All plastic bags used in the tree planting drive aimed at increasing the forest cover in the country will be accounted for. Environment PS Chris Kiptoo told the Star that structures have been put in place to deal with plastics arising from government’s efforts of increasing the cover from 7.2 per cent to 10 per cent by 2022. In the drive, 1.8 billion trees have to be planted in exercises that will gobble up Sh48 billion. Kenya banned the use of single-use plastics carrier bags in February 2017. The ban came into force on August 28 that year. Since then, the country has been grappling with how to handle poor-quality alternatives as the rising need for the non-woven bags resulted in manufacturers making low gauge, poor quality non-woven bags that cannot be reused. Alternatives for raising tree seedlings are yet to be found. This means the banned plastics are still being used to raise tree seedlings across the country. But what will happen to the banned plastics used to raise seedlings once the 1.8 billion seedlings are planted? Kiptoo said those using seedling tubes are expected to seek permission from the National Environment Management Authority and are issued with conditional licenses.  However, he said, there are exemptions. Under the exemptions, Kiptoo said, the manufacturer or user of the product must ensure that a plan is in place to mop up the waste generated under the extended Producer/User Responsibility and/or effective Take Back Schemes. Kiptoo said the bags must have legibly and permanently labelled marking indicating the name of the industry manufacturing the product, the end-user and physical addresses for ease of monitoring, traceability and, therefore, ease of enforcement intervention. All the inventory must be kept with the aim of implementing the take-back scheme. “Hence, there is no cause for alarm about the use of 1.8 billion bags to plant the seedlings since the users of these bags are already committed to an extended producer responsibility and take-back scheme,” Kiptoo said. He said no tree seedling tubes are being sold in the supermarket and retail shops. “Seedling dealers are expected to place an order from manufacturers and this is only accepted after presenting a Nema approval,” he said. The PS said these conditions ensure there will be no polythene bags lying in the environment since it is easy to initiate enforcement action as the owners of the bags are indicated clearly in the labels. The ban applied to all plastics carrier bags and flat bags used for commercial and household packaging. A plastic carrier bag is single-use with handles and may have a gusset or not. A flat bag is a plastic and without handles and may have a gusset or not. Before the ban on single-use plastic in the country, environmentalists had already sounded an alarm that seas will have more plastic than fish by 2050 if poor disposal of the items is not checked. Those found with plastics in Kenya are fined between Sh2 million and Sh4 million or a jail term of one to two years or both. The government has also banned single-use plastic in any of Kenya’s protected areas. This means plastic water bottles, plastic plates, cups, spoons and forks; are not allowed in beaches, forests or national parks. The ban on plastics in the protected areas was announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta when he addressed the opening plenary of Day Three of Women Deliver 2019 Conference in Vancouver, Canada. The ban on single-use plastics in protected areas came into force on June 5. Edited by R.Wamochie