The Luhya community have a weak voice in government affairs because they did not invest in the Jubilee administration, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has said. "We must know the reality of politics. When you call for appointments in the government of the day, it directly relates to what you invested in it," Wamalwa said. He told Luhyas to be wise in 2022 and cast their ballots with care lest they find themselves in the cold again. He spoke on Sunday at Ebunangwe resort during a meeting with elders from Bunyore, Tiriki and Maragoli communities of the Luhya. The CS was with governors Oparanya (Kakamega), Sospeter Ojamong (Busia) and Wilber Ottichilo of Vihiga. Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi, National Assembly Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe and Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi were also present. Eugene said politics is about numbers and once you have them you will be consulted for every move and will "place us in a better position for our people." He said they will only be able to fight for healthy bonuses for tea, coffee and maize farmers with a huge number of their people in government. “To be honest, how will you request dividends in a company that you are not a shareholder, has it ever happened even before? We don’t qualify for any bonus from it because we invested nothing at all,” The CS said. He said Luhyas were able to negotiate for their people in the Kibaki government because of "our political investment." The CS urged the Luhya community to invest wisely in politics to ensure they are in the next government. "Once we are in, we will be able to fight for our economic recovery. Our industries are down, we need to revive them. Mumias Sugar, cotton factories in Busia and we want to fight for more factories in Western to up our economy." “To be honest, I'm lonely. I can’t fight for my people. I lack back up,” Wamalwa said. The CS dismissed claims of discussing personalities, saying he has no issues with individuals. “We should do away with political differences that have no business with us and sub-tribe wars that will not help us at all," he said.  Edited by P.O