Jubilee deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany has threatened to sue the party leadership over changes made to its top organ. Kositany said new members were put on the National Management Committee of the party through a decision of an "illegal panel". In a letter addressed to secretary general Raphael Tuju, copied to the Registrar of Political Parties and the party chairman, Kositany said Tuju's office has "stretched impunity and illegalities in every action despite an existence of an ambiguous lawful procedures". Kositany disputes an independent panel having been formed to look into the complaints made by him and another 350 MPs opposed to the changes to the NMC. The party in April made changes to one of its top decision-making organs. The ruling political outfit forwarded five new names to the powerful National Management Committee following the exit of three others. The committee currently has 13 members appointed by the party leader, President Uhuru Kenyatta. The team is in charge of the day-to-day management of the party and sits more frequently than the National Executive Committee or the National Delegates Conference to make urgent and pressing decisions. Former Secretary-General Veronica Maina, Fatuma Shukri and Pamela Mutua have resigned after securing jobs in government. Those who joined the committee are Lucy Macharia, Prof Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso and James Waweru. National Advisory Council, an organ comprising leaders of the defunct parties later supported the changes. “We appreciate and fully support our party leader in his recent reorganisation of the party and wish to welcome the reconstituted party national management committee," they said in a statement signed by Nyaundi. They said the party formed under 'the able leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta as leader' is alive and perfectly on course with its programmes. But the move has however attracted protests from some of the party's MPs who argue that there has been no formal meeting to ratify the decision. Letters seen by the Star from various MPs to the Registrar of Political Parties were demanding that the Gazette Notice announcing the changes be cancelled. Kositany who doubles as Soy MP in his protest letter said over 350 MP s who objected the changes have not been given an audience or officially notified at all about the hearings and considerations of their objections. He said Tuju has not communicated to him any decision by a panel to the said objections. Kositany said Tuju wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties to communicate the decision without informing those who objected. "I reiterate the misgivings raised in my objection to your office as well as the reminders on the manner and style your office has orchestrated the illegalities, purporting to appoint members to the NMC with blatant disregard to the party constitution and procedures laid down," read the letter in part, "The letter serves an appeal against the decision allegedly made by an illegal panel, if indeed any was set up to dismiss the petitions filed without following the rules and procedures and in contravention of rules of natural justice," he added. According to Kositany, the said nominees to the NMC should not assume office or purport to act in any manner as members of the NMC until such a time when the NEC properly constituted convenes. "Take note that any action taken involving the unlawfully nominated persons is null and void and shall be challenged in court should you insist on proceeding with the illegalities," he said.