Deputy President William Ruto’s Tangatanga camp was dealt a blow on Tuesday after Laikipia MP Catherine Waruguru jumped ship. The woman representative pledged allegiance to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The fiery legislator had been unapologetic about her support for the DP but on Tuesday met Raila at his Capitol Hill offices where she expressed her support to the cooperation between the ODM leader and Uhuru. She also pledged to work with the two leaders on issues of national interest. The Tangatanga camp is a group of Jubilee politicians backing Ruto's presidential ambitions and have pledged loyalty to the DP. In Central Kenya, Waruguru was among the Ruto diehards, a position which saw her join the list of 16 allies of Ruto facing the axe from their plum positions in National Assembly committees in the ongoing Jubilee purge against perceived rebels. Waruguru’s change of heart comes barely weeks after some senators allied to the DP abandoned him and voted along pro-Uhuru lawmakers during the ouster of Kithure Kindiki as Senate deputy speaker. At Raila’s office, the lawmaker expressed support for the ongoing constitutional reforms under the Building Bridges Initiative. “She conveyed her commitment to working with Raila and Uhuru on critical national issues including constitutional reforms and ensuring the unity of the nation and fighting coronavirus,” Raila’s spokesperson said in a statement to newsrooms. “Raila welcomed Waruguru’s commitment, emphasising the need for leaders to work together particularly because of the difficulties the country is going through with Covid-19 and the economic meltdown.” The lawmaker was accompanied by National Assembly Minority whip Junet Mohamed. Raila is said to have commended the MP for being courageous and urged her to bring on board her colleagues to embrace the BBI. He described the initiative as a good reform agenda for the country. “At this moment in our history, it is critical that we approach our search for solutions not as members of this or that party or tribe but as Kenyans. The President needs support and the country requires unity,” Raila said. He called on women leaders to take a leading role in helping Kenyans fight Covid-19. Edited by R.Wamochie