Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior has said Governor Anne Waiguru's impeachment raises "serious fundamental questions of the law". Mutula said there is a likelihood the Kirinyaga County Assembly acted in contempt of the High Court by proceeding to impeach Waiguru. Waiguru was dramatically impeached on Tuesday morning after 23 out of the 33 Members of the County Assembly voted for the motion, accusing her of gross-misconduct and abuse of office. Four of the ward reps abstained from the voting while six members were absent. The impeachment motion was filed by Mutira Ward MCA David Kinyua. Kinyua had said that their attempts to meet the governor and address the issues raised have failed. Over 20 MCAs who had endorsed Waiguru's ouster spent Monday night in the county assembly. This was meant to avoid any coercion and intimidation before Waiguru's slated impeachment. The defiant MCAs further switched off their phones to ensure that their plans to impeach Waiguru went on as planned. But Mutula said, "The question whether the County Assembly of Kirinyaga acted in contempt of the High Court order by proceeding to impeach Governor Anne Waiguru raises serious fundamental questions of law . We await the proceedings!". Waiguru, while terming the impeachment a waste of time, said she will not be bullied by those seeking to achieve "nefarious and personalised political objectives". In a statement, she said the issues raised in the motion are baseless ad a waste of valuable time that would be better spent handling the serious issues impacting the county. Waiguru said the impeachment holds no ground because she had obtained an order from the High Court stopping any proceedings by the County Assembly on her impeachment until the numerous issues that were raised by the court were determined. "These matters remain undetermined and the injunction remains in place," she said. She said for some inexplicable reason, the members pushing the motion believe or have been led to believe that they are above the law. Waiguru claimed their allegiance seems to be to a master pulling and pushing the levers from outside the assembly and not the rule of law. "If the assembly proceeds with the violation of the subsiding court orders, I shall see such orders for contempt against the speaker and all participating members as are available under the law," Waiguru said.