I can reveal that Frank Lampard had set his heart on signing Timo Werner before the coronavirus turned football upside down. The whisper around the Cobham training ground has been that the German would be coming but the deal was difficult to put together so there was no certainty the Blues could pull it off. COVID-19 had put everything on hold. Lampard and Petr Cech travelled to Germany in February and spent time with Werner. The trip was approved by Chelsea’s director Marina Granovskaia. Both Lampard and Cech have won three Premier League titles and the Champions League and that fact alone impressed Werner who wants to play against the elite in Europe and the Premier League which he considers the best in the world. Both Werner, his family and his representatives were completely won over. Lampard and Cech were equally impressed by the modest, humble and very likeable Werner, his agent and father. Cech was influential since speaks fluent German, which helped Werner’s agent and father because their English is not good. Following that get-together, Lampard then phoned Werner every day and they built up a strong relationship. Werner, I can now reveal, is a loyal footballer and refused to leave RB Leipzig in the middle of a season and wanted to give his best until a mutually convenient time to transfer.  The situation is intriguing because the RB Leipzig chief Oliver Mintzlaff denied this week that Chelsea have held discussions with the German club. However it is thought that this is simply a delaying tactic. Both Liverpool and Manchester United had shown interest but it was always Chelsea who were going to win that battle, such is Lampard and Cech’s status. In fact, it was Cech who was negotiating with Werner long before anyone knew what was happening and that dates back to just after last Christmas. The link between Lampard and Cech is paying huge dividends for Chelsea and the two are close friends. Liverpool ended their interest when they learned that RB Leipzig wanted £53million and Werner’s agent was talking of a £200k-a-week salary. Liverpool stepped back but Chelsea’s director Marina Granovskaia and owner Roman Abramovich told Lampard and Cech to go ahead. Now we will welcome one of the very top strikers in the world to the Premier League. Abramovich has renewed enthusiasm in re-building the Blues under Lampard and has promised millions from his vast fortune to buy the best players. While the Werner deal is going through, Chelsea have also talked with German club Bayer Leverkusen about signing highly-rated winger Kai Havertz. He is  a quick, direct forward who also has Manchester United, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid circling and it looks like a four-way fight to gain his signature.  Behind closed doors at United training Manchester United players arrived for training a few days ago and found that manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer had arranged an 11-a-side training match. The game was of course secret and behind closed doors but my contacts have described to me exactly what happened. The teams took part in a warm-up with several trainers putting the players through an exercise programme. The teams then took to the field with midfielders Scott McTominay and Fred working as ‘floaters’. That indicated a belief on the part of the manager that the pair could play an important role when real games begin. Both teams wore numbers 1 to 11. However, Andreas Pereira wore his usual number 15 shirt. Regrettably for Pereira, this indicates that the manager isn’t going to use the Brazilian in his first team this season as a starting choice and he will probably play a secondary role in the reserves and even then he is not guaranteed a start. The 24-year-old is under contract at United until 2023. The teams drew 4-4 with Luke Shaw and Marcus Rashford scoring two and Ighalo Odion also scoring two. Bruno Fernandes and Daniel James, scored one each. At the end of the 90 minute match, the players went through a shooting drill with Rashford, Mason Greenwood and Anthony Martial being joined by Fred, Fernandes, McTominay and Juan Mata. Interestingly, Fernandes wore Rashford’s No 10 shirt which lead some observers to think the manager might be switching Marcus to the iconic No 7 shirt currently held by Alexis Sanchez who is away on loan and has no immediate future at United.  Ceballos likely to leave Gunners I understand that Danni Ceballos is probably not going to return to Arsenal next season. The on-loan Real Madrid midfielder has another three years on his Real contract and was looking for another season with the Gunners. However, after 24 games and only one goal, Arsenal are looking at Real Betis midfielder Nabil Fekir. Ceballos is on record as saying that he wants to play in the Euros and the 2020 Olympic Games.  Kane might not tick all the boxes I was speaking with some of the Tottenham staff this week and a few of the fans online. One thing is for sure: Supporters and manager Jose Mourinho must not rely on Harry Kane to hit the ground running and pin all their hopes on him firing in goals every match. Harry has not played for six months and the Spur’s trainers admit that he will not be fully ready to strike full power until after two or three games. Spurs have nine games in six weeks and despite Harry’s personal training programme, worked out by the club, he is fit but not 100 per cent for so many demanding games in such a short time. Kane’s video clips, released by the club, indicate to me that his body shape might have changed slightly. He could be heavier compared with his weight before injury and lockdown. Kane’s loyalty to the club will also be tested if Mourinho cannot get Spurs into the Champion’s League. Kane went on record to say: “I love Spurs, I’ll always love Spurs but I’ve always said if I don’t feel we’re progressing as a team or going in the right direction, I’m not someone to stay here for the sake of it.”  Get ready for kick-off Are you ready? Are you steady? Then let’s go… Next Friday, Tottenham kick off the restart to the season against Manchester United in what is a six-pointer because both are challenging for a Champions League place. The match begins at 8pm UK time and is being shown live on Sky Sports. TV stations have suggested improving the game for viewers by installing cameras in the dressing rooms and half-time interviews with players and managers. My information is that these ideas will be turned down. However, there is likely to be a camera stationed in the tunnel as players walk out onto the pitch. To help against players sustaining possible injuries because of the lack of match fitness, there will be five substitutes allowed instead of the usual three.  New bid possible for Newcastle The UK government are looking at the Saudi takeover of Newcastle despite saying they would not get involved. The government have to give approval for foreign investors to take over any club but there has been a huge wave of protests from sporting authorities throughout the world. The Culture, Media and Sport Minister said: “We have reports of continuing infringements of intellectual property rights in the Middle East. We will continue to pursue those with the relevant authorities.” Trade Minister Graham Stuart also said: “This matter is being raised with the Saudi Arabian government.” The Premier League itself has been protesting to the Saudi government for three years about them being involved in the illegal broadcasting of matches. In case the Saudi takeover of Newcastle fails, American entrepreneur Henry Mauriss has a team standing by to launch their own bid. Contracts are signed with Saudi company PCP but if the Premier League and the government do not give formal approval things will change and the contracts will become invalid.  Lallana’s plans on hold The end of the current season is becoming more and more complicated. June 30 is the usual date for contracts to end and this means that 57 elite players will see their current deals end. Liverpool’s Adam Lallana is such a case and he hoped to finish the season with a Premier League title winning medal and then follow up with a move to Leicester who are keen to sign him. He has now agreed to extend his contract and therefore will be available for the remaining nine Premier League games. He said this week: “I am really pleased to have the chance to finish this season — it means a lot to me and my family. I will now get to say goodbye to the people who mean so much to me in the right way.”  Wolves determined to keep squad Despite the loss of revenue during the coronavirus, Watford have told manager Nuno Espirito Santo that his star players are not going to be sold to help the bank balance. The Premier League’s big clubs are circling around Adamana Traore and Raul Jimenez who are rated at £60million and £50million respectively. Manchester United, Juventus and Tottenham have shown interest in Jimenez and Liverpool have eyes on Traore. Wolves have also said that midfielders Joao Moutinho, Ruben Neves and Conor Coady will remain with the club.