Wazee Pamoja Premier League side, Cruz Lounge is determined to help their youthful side Friends Zone to punch above their weight in the Nairobi County League. Cruz Lounge, founded in 2009 as a club of social buddies, has been attracting rave reviews for their actions off the field of play. Lounge, who train in Tena estate, has over the years committed themselves in helping the needy in the society. Last year, their junior side had a solid run in the FKF Cup, losing in the last sixteen a feat that encouraged them to invest more in the football club. “We have assured our junior side that we will walk with them in their progression. We know the talent they have and their performances in the recent seasons gives us a clear indication of where they are heading. As individuals, we will commit to support them through the two welfare groups we have formed,” said team manager Simon Munai. Cruz Lounge went out of their way last weekend and donated foodstuffs worth thousand of shillings to their affected players and vulnerable members of the community. Vincent Omollo, one of the organisers of the food relief distribution, said it was essential for people to share the little they have with their neighbours during this difficult times. “We thought we could share the little we have as a club with our players and the needy in the community during this hard times. We can’t help in everything but whatever little we had we are glad to share,” said Omollo. The club chairman Stephen Oluoch cited the number of people who are affected by Covid-19 as a reason they decided to come up with the initiative. “It’s a difficult time for everyone including us as business people. Many are working without pay or with reduced income yet they have kids and expenses to take care of. We decided to involve the club leadership and our friends to help as little as we can given that we don’t know how long this situation may last,” noted Oluoch.  Upper Savannah MCA Stanley ‘Stazo’ Omungala, a former official of AFC Leopards lauded the Cruz Lounge team for aiding the needy in the society and promised to join them in their next invitation.