National Super League outfit Coast Stima are set to lose two key players who were on loan from Kenya Premier League side, Bandari. He said centre back Idd Hassan and midfielder Dennis Magige will return to their parent club when the new season resumes. “It is a big blow to us but we have no choice. They are Bandari players and the club want them,” said Coast stima coach Paul Ogai. He said Bandari coach Ken Odhiambo wants the duo to be part of his team next season. "He is happy with the progress they have made so far. They have improved tremendously and he sees them as key players,” Ogai added. He, however, said captain Joshua Oyoo also on loan from Bandari will remain in the team next season. He also hopes to keep NSL top scorer Eric Ombija who is on loan from KPL champions Gor Mahia. “At the beginning of the season, he was injured. When he returned from injury, he was prolific in front of goal. We pray that he is not recalled,” Ogai added. He praised the four loanees, saying they were key to the team’s fourth place finish by the time the league was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. “The players came on loan from KPL but they remained disciplined and worked hard to earn their places in the team,” asserted the youthful tactician. Ogai was, however, coy on whether he will go to the market in the transfer window. “It is 50-50. Already, the two players have gone to their club. I don’t know if any other player wants to leave but you never know. However, I will sit down with the technical bench to discuss these issues before we start our pre-season when the coronavirus has been contained,” Ogai added. The experienced tactician who has coached the defunct Palos, Kisumu All Stars and Western Stima further added that his target next season will be to guide the team to the Kenya Premier League. “This season, we were targeting a play off place because we didn’t start the season well. However, the season was cancelled with the team sitting fourth on the log,” he noted.