The government can manage biomedical waste generated during the pandemic, Environment PS Chris Kiptoo has said. Kiptoo told the Star that the National Environment Management Authority has provided guidelines to the Health ministry on how to handle the waste. The PS said the ministry has issued protocols on management of personal protective equipment such as masks and gloves. “The number of people seeking medical attention could have increased during the pandemic but there are enough waste management facilities to handle all medical waste,” Kiptoo said. The United Nations Environment Programme had warned against poor handling of waste during Covid-19, saying it risks having secondary impacts on health and the environment. UNEP said during such an outbreak, hazardous waste is generated including infected masks, gloves and other protective equipment. Kiptoo said waste from health centres do not pose any problem as is traditionally carried away by Nema-licensed handlers to designated treatment facilities in line with the Waste Management Regulations, 2006. “Medical waste is disposed of or treated through incineration, autoclaving or microwaving,” he said. According to Public Health Rules, 2020, every person in a public place must use a proper mask that covers their mouth and nose. This law has led to increased use of masks which are regarded by health professionals as infectious waste that requires careful handling. Kiptoo admits there is a challenge in the handling of masks within public places and residential areas. “Individual responsibility is paramount to prevent littering. The ministry and Nema are at the forefront in the enforcement of the protocols.” Kiptoo said people in rural areas are expected to dispose of masks into pit latrines or if not available, dig a pit, bury them and cover with soil immediately. He said at bus stops, recreation and public places and urban commercial buildings, county leadership or facility management are expected to provide bins labelled ‘biohazard waste’, with leak-proof yellow liner bags. “People will dispose of used masks in the bags. This waste will be collected daily under contracted services using Nema-licensed vehicles to designated facilities,” the PS said. Such bins are, however, not available in most public spaces. In urban residential areas, used masks will be stored in the yellow bags which are to be tied tightly when three-quarters full to avoid spillage. “The filled bags are to be dropped at the nearest health centre or at a designated point where Nema vehicles will carry them.” On April 23, the Environment ministry gave out equipment worth Sh12 million to handle medical waste generated during the pandemic. Thirteen health facilities in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Kisumu counties benefited. The equipment comprised colour-coded bins, liners, weighing scales, safety boxes, aprons, overalls, gloves and gumboots, eye-protective gear, helmets and surgical masks. More than 200 health workers were trained on the best technologies and practices of biomedical waste disposal to ensure safety in line with the World Health Organization guidelines. Kiptoo said medical institutions and facilities must take the lead in waste management. Edited by R.Wamochie