Emotions ran high during preparations for Ohangla musician Bernard Obonyo's, popularly known as Abenny Jachiga's, burial on Friday at Kadiju village in Chiga within Kisumu county. At his home, a grave that had already been dug where he was set to be laid to rest was refilled by angry mourners who buried a wheelbarrow and tree branches claiming they were not ready to allow the musician to be hurriedly laid to rest. The standoff ensued while the deceased was still en-route to his village in a convoy from town. “We cannot allow Abenny just to be buried within a day after passing. This is our son and he must be given a decent burial,” shouted the locals as they refilled the grave, with others throwing branches inside the dug grave. However, the grave was cleared. Earlier, police had a hard time controlling the crowd which defied social distance directives with most not wearing their face masks as they escorted the deceased from the Port Florence mortuary. Mourners trekked as other vehicles in a convoy including boda boda operators  escorted the body to Chiga in Kadiju village with police officers following them closely. At some point, the officers threw teargas canisters to pave way for the body to pass to access Kajidu Primary School, where mourners were allowed to view the body. On Thursday following his death, fans drove while others trekked and ran to the facility to view the body of the musician in large numbers, prompting the hospital administration to lock the gates and later police were in place to control them. However, this did not go well with the fans who ended up chasing after officers along the Kisumu- Busia Road that saw a section of the perimeter wall at the hospital facility morgue brought down. Governor Anyang Nyong'o condoled with the family of the musician, saying he was an extremely talented musician who spent a lot of time mentoring young upcoming musicians. "The performing arts community has lost a real resource and by extension the County entertainment family. On behalf of the people of Kisumu County, the performing arts community, the people of Kolwa East, my family and on my own behalf, I send my heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of the departed," he said in a statement. He added, "May the Almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace". On Thursday residents woke up to a rude shock following his death. According to his brother Austine Omondi who acted as the family's spokesperson, he said his brother started feeling unwell on June 3 when he was in Nairobi and decided to travel back home on June 6 for treatment. Omondi said the deceased was admitted at St Elizabeth Hospital in Chiga, Kisumu East-sub county upon arriving home as he was in bad condition. He was diagnosed with chicken pox and stomach pain, though his condition later improved andhe  was discharged. On Wednesday however, his health deteriorated and he was rushed to the Aga Khan Hospital where he was diagnosed with kidney problems. "When we took him to Aha Khan Hospital, the medics directed that he be taken to West Kenya for an x-ray to be conducted, "said Omondi. Omondi further noted that when they took his results back, the doctors referred them to St Jairus hospital where he succumbed at around 2am while undergoing treatment. The 33-year-old was born in 1987 in Kawese village, Chiga  within Kisumu east-sub county. He started his musical career at the age of 21 as an instrumentalist and would perform in several clubs and live bands within the town. He was mentored by the likes of Lady Maureen before he started his own band which for several years played at the former Gwara Gwara club in Kondele. He became popular in mid 2018 after the release of his hit song " mano kasinde" (that's her cousin) which trended for along period of time. He later went to Nairobi with his band in search of a greener pastures. He equally mentored several artists and instrumentalists like Lawy Jakabonyo , Boss wuod Nyasembo, Awilo Jakatolo among others. His songs included anaye kupenda pendana naye, usidharau mwenzio, osiepe, fitina mingi, penzi ni kama yai among others. He was known for being a person with taste and when it came to fashion, a person who loved good things. His friends eulogised him on social media as a down to earth man who had the heart of helping and a sociable one too. His death was a blow to the family,friends and fans as he was working on his latest album to be released early next year. 