MPs on Thursday expressed mixed reactions to the Sh2.7 trillion budget unveiled by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani. Some praised it as a good prescription for the pandemic-ravaged economy, others said it fell short in responding to the daily challenges facing Kenyans. Wajir East MP Rashid Amin said Yatani’s budget failed to address the agricultural sector which is the backbone of the country’s economy. Amin dismissed as trifling the Sh52 billion given to the sector. He said the country’s food security is likely to suffer in the 2020-21 fiscal year. Further, he said despite the 2020-21 budget being fashioned to stimulate the economy, it does not do so especially in arid and semi-arid areas that constitute 80 per cent of the country’s land mass. “Agriculture is the main economic backbone of the country. The Sh52 billion apportioned to it is a drop in the ocean. This budget did not resonate very well with ASAL areas,” Amin said. “It was meant to maintain citizens of the country so there is no civil unrest.” Embakasi South MP Julius Mawathe however praised the budget highlights saying they would benefit Kenyans, citing the Sh5 billion for rehabilitation of roads. “The budget is positive, I am grateful to His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta for the roads allocation which will help many areas," Mawathe said. The Sh5 billion allocation is to rehabilitate road networks across the country that were damaged by heavy rains. “The rehabilitation of access roads and footbridges will optimise the use of local labour and materials, thereby generating short term employment for thousands of youth,” Yatani said. But according to John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Yatani’s budget is overly ambitious given the effects of the pandemic on the country’s economy. The MP said it will be a hard nut for Kenya Revenue Authority to crack in collecting taxes as projected in the budget, especially as the economy is struggling with the pandemic. “When you look at the debt we are servicing, which is about Sh900 billion, most of the monies we are going to collect will go to service our facilities,” Kiarie said. “I would give the budget a 5.5 score out of a maximum 10.” (Edited by V. Graham)