Fifty-four people recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from various hospitals Wednesday — the highest number ever in a day. Some 553 patients have now recovered. “This demonstrates that with good management, this disease, when clinically manifested, is curable and hence, not a death sentence,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. However, a 12-year-old boy was among three more patients who died with the virus on Wednesday, taking the fatalities to 74. Two of them were from Nairobi while one was from Nyeri. The boy, Aman said, tested positive posthumously. The other two patients were aged 41 and 71. Meanwhile, some entertainment joints are on the government’s radar after it emerged that they had gone back to full business. Video clips doing rounds on social media shone a spotlight on a popular joint filled with revellers in total disregard to social distancing. The National Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee has condemned revellers who ignored social distancing rules and opted to party at the joint in Lang’ata. The committee led by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe criticised the 'greedy' club owner who put money before lives. "No one should be surprised why we have cases rising in Lang’ata. Our young people have decided not to follow the government guidelines," he said. "And obviously, a greedy Kenyan who does not care whether people contract the disease." Aman, during the daily briefing, termed the incident as unacceptable, adding that it creates a perfect environment for infection. “We must not allow ourselves to quickly recede to the old ways,” Aman said. The number of positive cases is 2,216 after 123 more cases were confirmed by the ministry in a day. The 123 were from 2,112 samples tested. Kenya has tested 85,058 samples since the first case. The new cases are aged between eight and 84 years, comprising 90 men and 33 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 44 are from Nairobi while 34 are from Mombasa, Busia had 20 cases and 12 in Uasin Gishu. Ten of the 44 were from Kibera, an area that has now become a great concern to the ministry. Kiambu, Kajiado and Nyeri had three cases each, Kilifi had two while Garissa and Laikipia recorded one case each. The 20 cases in Busia are all truck drivers at the Malaba border while the 12 cases in Uasin Gishu are also truck drivers at Turbo. Similarly, the three cases in Kajiado were of truck drivers. Truckers have been accused of failing to adhere to the Covid-19 protocols that require them to undertake tests at least 48 hours before they commence their journey. This has brought about a truck snarl-up and congestion at various border points as the drivers have to be held longer for the samples to be collected and the results relayed. “The majority of truck drivers arrive at our borders without the valid document, expecting to be tested at the border. This has caused unnecessary snarl-ups and delays that can easily be avoided,” the CAS said. “These are scenarios that can easily be avoided. All truck drivers are, therefore, reminded to adhere to the protocols to avoid inconveniencing other road users,” he said. Already, two mobile laboratories have been deployed at the Namanga border and one at Mai Mahiu to address the backlog. Edited by R.Wamochie