Entrepreneurs who will survive and thrive post Covid-19 must understand how commitment works. Why? It is because, in crisis, trust is rare and therefore, precious. People gravitate towards places, products, people, and circumstances that would give them hope and stability. So, if you are good at keeping your commitments, you become attractive to customers. It is time to know how commitment works and here are four keys to help you. Have a Strong WHY: Before Covid-19, the autopilot was a common form of existence. For many people, there was little or no time to stop and deeply think about why they made certain decisions. This is one reason people would easily back out of a commitment. To commit to a goal, you must have a clear, compelling reason for doing it. So that when times get tough, you have staying power. Your WHY must be meaningful enough to keep you committed to the end. Focus on Core Activities: Normally, commitment wanes because people get overwhelmed by the many activities that must be done to achieve the goal. When a goal has many activities attached to it, people tend to leave the project. However, committed entrepreneurs approach this challenge differently; they focus on the core activities required to achieve a goal. When you identify the core actions that concern your goal and operate with this focus, your commitment is sustained. To sustain commitment, it helps to focus on what is important. Count the Costs: Commitment will require that you make sacrifices. You must be prepared to give up somethings to achieve your goal. There is a cost to your goal. You should be aware of the costs before you commit to a goal. That way, you will not be shocked when it is time to pay the price. If you are not willing to pay the price of your commitment, your goal is unlikely. But if you pay the price, your goal is likely. Do Commitment, Not Feelings: I write daily. I am committed to writing. Some days, I do not feel like it; I am not in the mood to write. But I still write. I act on my commitment, not my feelings. There will be many times when you will not feel like doing the core activities to make your goal happen, but do not give in to that feeling. Get the job gone. The best do the work regardless of how they feel and that is one reason they are the best. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 