A Kiambu court has ordered the DCI to release former Sports CS Rashid Echesa’s three vehicles seized from his home four months ago. Senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo ruled that she only allowed the DCI officers to impound three cars but they instead took more that were not in the search warrant. Atambo noted that since February 26 when she issued the warrant, police have yet to file any progress report of the investigations. “The DCI has not filed any inventory and progress report after the execution of the search warrants granted on February 26, despite the file being cause-listed six times for mentions and other directions,” Atambo said. The magistrate further ruled that the search warrants expressly provided for specific vehicles that were under investigations and the DPP, through the investigating officer, should have filed back an inventory or a status report on what was seized. “I hereby allow the notice of motion application dated March 24 to the extent of Toyota Lexus, Mercedes Benz E350 and Ford Ranger to be released to the applicant,” she ruled. Atambo further directed the DCI to file, in two weeks, a status report of the three other vehicles — Toyota V8, Passat and Toyota Mark X. She said if any item or property was seized at that time, the DPP was obligated to come back to court to seek further orders to seize what had earlier not been enumerated in the initial application. He should have immediately filed an inventory to confirm what had been seized and further regularise that which had been stated, Atambo said. “The role of the investigation is to gather evidence and charge, in absence of the status report, it is not clear how far the investigations have progressed,” the court held. In his case, Echesa had told the court that the police had seized all his cars “subjecting him to humiliation by using public transport”. He told the court that most of the cars that were seized had no relation to the case that was being investigated. In their response, the prosecution had argued that the DCI, upon execution of the search warrant, was of the opinion that the investigation officer had probable cause of seizing the vehicles found on the premises. When they raided the home in Karen, Nairobi, they took away nine vehicles and later returned three. Last week, a Milimani court also ordered the DCI to return Echesa’s Range Rover to him. Edited by R.Wamochie