Busia Governor Sopspeter Ojaamomg has made cabinet changes in which three county executives have been moved to new offices. Six chief officers were also moved in the reshuffle. Janet Manyasi was moved from Public Service Management to the Sports, Culture and Social Services. Her place has been taken over by John Mwami who was until his redeployment the CEC for Education and Vocational Training. Mwami will also be acting executive for Lands, Housing and Urban Development. Grephas Opata who was Lands, Housing and Urban Development executive will now be in charge of Education. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi remains acting Health executive, with Phaustine Barasa remaining acting Finance CEC. Bernard Yaite will serve as Lands CEC while Leonard Obimbira will be in Finance. Allan Omachar is the chief officer for Finance as Evelyn Omasaja will deputise Nicodemus Mulaku in the County Secretary’s office. Sebastian Okiring' remains the Chief of Staff. Yaite, Omachar, Obimbira and Ojaamong are expected to appear in court alongside five others in a graft case in which they were charged in 2018 with conspiracy to commit an economic crime. Ojaamong is separately charged with engaging in a project without prior planning and abuse of office while others are accused of fraudulent acquisition of property and failure to pay taxes amongst other charges. Others to be tried are Samwel Oseko, Edan Odoo, Renish Omullo, Sebasian Hallensben and Madam R Enterprises (MRE). According to the prosecution's case,  the county chief on April 1, 2014 traveled to Germany in the company of officials from the county on a fact-finding mission to study new technologies on solid waste management. The trip was fully funded by MRE but the various plans on waste management were not by MRE and its directors Renish and Sebasian. The prosecution in its written submissions indicated that seven days after, Ojaamong executed an MoU between MRE Ltd and the county government of Busia, whereby the county was to pay Sh8 million to MRE for a feasibility study on solid waste management. However, at the time of signing the MoU, MRE was not in existence as the same had not been incorporated. The company came into existence on July 8, 2014. A witness who testified against the governor said he signed an MoU with a non-existent company. Edited by Henry Makori