Former presidential candidate Musalia Mudavadi’s ANI is not entitled to one shilligg of the Sh4.5 billion political parties’ cash awarded to Raila Odinga's ODM, the opposition party has said. ODM national chairman John Mbadi told the Start the Sh4.5 billion was a court award for the 2013-17 period during which they had no coalition agreement with ANC. The Minority leader was responding to Mudavadi’s claims linking the cash to the infighting in Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula’s party and ANC. The ANC boss had accused ODM of being reluctant to share the cash in total disregard of an agreement spelling out how the cash was to be shared among the partner parties. On Sunday, Mbadi fired back at Mudavadi saying he should be last person to lay claim to the billions adding he was not part of the deal. He said Mudavadi should not expect to reap where he did not sow and that ODM is not a charity. “We took the matter in court in 2015, we won the case around 2016 before Nasa came into being., ANC was not part of our coalition in 2013 to 2017. Mudavadi has zero claims. "How could he get money based on the 2013 presidential election? In 2013, Mudavadi and we were in competition, he was running in UDF,” Mbadi told the Star on the phone. “In that  period we were only with Ford Kenya and Wiper under the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord). His (Mudavadi’s) stature does not allow him to peddle clear misinformation and lies.” The Suba South MP further added that none of the Nasa affiliates deserves a share of the cash that is yet to be paid to the party as directed by the Court. “When we took this matter to court, the government was paying us less than what the law provides. We took this matter to court and invited Wiper and Ford Kenya to join us and they declined. So we took the matter to court alone as ODM and we won the case.” Mbadi also denied any ODM interference with the internal affairs of both Ford Kenya and ANC, saying they have no reason to sponsor a coup to topple the leadership of the two parties. Speaking to Star on phone, Ford Kenya secretary general Eseli Simiyu also confirmed t there is no external hand in their quest to remove Wetang’ula from the helm of the party leadership. He stated the Bungoma senator is being pushed out by disgruntled members who cannot tolerate his inept leadership. “The issues in Ford Kenya have nothing to do with the money, they are  about party leadership,” Eseli said. (Edited by V. Graham) 