Olympic champion and world marathon record holder, Eliud Kipchoge and Malkia Strikers’ setter Janet Wanja take the centre stage this evening as they enlighten the Kenyan sporting fraternity on how to manage success. The two will feature in the final webinar conference of the first season organised by the National Olympic Committee of Kenya. NOC-K acting secretary general, Francis Mutuku, observed the two who are celebrated in their respective disciplines, will help athletes realise the significance of leading a professional lifestyle. “It is important that we encourage the holistic growth and development of athletes by imparting skills, attributes and values that will assist them to achieve success in life, regardless of the level of success they achieve in sport. These webinars are a first step towards achieving that,” he said. He added: “We are particularly excited to have these two great servants of Kenyan sport on our platform to share more insights about success and longevity in their respective disciplines over the years. They will definitely have great tips to share with upcoming athletes and the public in general.” He also gave his assessment on the webinars, saying, “It has been an eye-opening experience for everyone involved. We have been able to bring together industry experts and athletes to lead conversations that we never get to have in normal circumstances. Thanks to the online platform, we have attracted audiences and input beyond our borders, a testament to the fact that sports is indeed a universal language.” NOC-K has capitalised on the coronavirus break to address several issues by engaging with the local sports fraternity through a series of webinars which have attracted experts from various fields and some of Kenyan sports’ leading lights. They include 1988 Olympic 5,000m champion and five-time world cross country champion John Ngugi, Harambee Stars legend Musa Otieno, reigning World 5000m champion Hellen Obiri, the one time top try scorer in World Rugby Series, Collins Injera among others. 