Telecommunication firms in Kenya could be required to reveal customers’ data to the government in a proposed law that may raise concerns about privacy rights. In a new Bill tabled before the National Assembly, the government is seeking powers to allow the Cabinet Secretary in charge of Interior Security to ask for customer data. According to the proposed amendments to the Official Secret Act, such data would be required if the CS is convinced it is in the public interest. “Where it appears to the Cabinet Secretary that it is in the public interest to do so, the CS may by warrant under his hand, require any person who owns or controls any telecommunication apparatus used for sending or receipt of any data to or from any place outside Kenya, to produce to the Cabinet Secretary or any person named in the warrant, the original or transcripts of all such data and all other documents related to such data,” the proposed amendments state. Any person who fails to comply with the request is guilty of an offence and liable to imprisonment of a term not exceeding one year. The proposed changes are contained in the Statute law (Miscellaneous Amendment) Bill, 2020. In the same Bill, the government seek to amend the Evidence Act to allow for the use of electronic evidence such as pictures in criminal trials. The changes appear to be targeted at al Shabaab militants who leveraged on technology to carry out several terror attacks in Kenya. The militants also use mobile money transfer to finance terror activities. In 2017, Privacy International, a UK-based human rights watchdog claimed that Kenya’s security and counter-terrorism agencies pressure telecommunication companies to gain access to customer data and use it to commit gross human rights abuses. In its report, the agency said Kenya’s intelligence agencies place enforcement agents within the facilities of the telecom, circumvent the law and protocol to access information and directly intercept communications among private citizens. Kenya’s telcos, including Safaricom and Airtel, denied the claims.   