Senators on Tuesday heaped praises on newly elected Senate Deputy Speaker Margaret Kamar , describing her as an experienced and distinguished professor. The Uasin Gishu senator was elected unopposed to succeed Tharaka Senator Kithure Kindiki, who was voted out on May 22. Speaking moments after she took oath of office, the senators lauded Kamar as a competent and experienced legislator. “I want to congratulate the new deputy speaker of the Senate Prof Margaret Kamar. We want to thank her for what she has been in this House. And not only in this House, but in her political life,” Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio said. Poghisio said Kamar has earned the trust of the members and wished her all the best in her new assignment. Minority leader James Orengo said Kamar is a distinguished professor who does not suffer from ‘grand major’ instincts. He said that despite Kamar being a professor, she has been operating from the back-bench, a character that has distinguished her from other politicians. “She comes to this office with a wealth of experience and knowledge. She is a distinguished professor. She has taught many people and employed many people. She has been a Cabinet minister, a member of the National assembly, a senator now and a member of the speaker’s panel,” he said. He added, “If you are going to be a drum major, be a drum major for peace, be a drum major for justice, be a drum major righteousness.” Orengo congratulated the four senators who withdrew their candidatures for Kamar, saying the act speaks volumes about her ability and capability. Senators Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga), Steward Madzayo (Kilifi) and Judith Pareno (nominated) withdrew from the race at the last minute. On his part, Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kangata reckoned that Kamar’s election was a testament that the Senate believed in gender equality. “What the Senate has done is support the concept called gender equality. We do support women. She is the only female deputy speaker both in the senate and the National Assembly,” Kangata said. He added, “To me, today, and the women out there who are supporting us... the millions of girls in high school, primary school, they do have a role model in Margaret Kamar. The celebrations will also be because that she has not been elected by one, two or three senators, but it is because she has been elected by all the 67 senators” Citing Kamar’s CV, the Murang'a senator said his Uasin Gishu counterpart is qualified and has had tremendous impact on the well-being of  the community and the country at large. “You have never gotten a position by tokenism, it is by sheer hard work,” he said. Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said, “Senator Kamar has distinguished herself as s leader. If you look for something in her that can divide this country or house, there is none that has been attributed to her.” Mutula said it was an opportunity for speaker and deputy speaker to get the bearing of the Senate back to where it was, following the removal of Kindiki and other house leaders.