Homa Bay government has been urged to stop collecting revenue from traders who lost their property to fire at Oyugis market, Kasipul constituency. More than 150 traders operating different businesses suffered losses after fires burnt down their properties in a section of the market last week. Kasipul MP Ongondo Were and county National Government Affirmative Action Fund chairperson Caroline Owidhi said suspension of revenue collection would make it easy for traders to restart their businesses. They proposed to the county government should suspend taxing the affected traders for five months. The fire burnt down at least 50 stalls including grocery shops, retail stores, a garage, and hardware shops among others. The MP said taxing the traders at this time would add more burden to them as many of them depend on financial aid to resume operations. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, through NGAAF, donated Sh100,000 and face masks to the affected traders. “Tax payment is obligatory to every trader. But we appeal to Homa Bay government to spare the traders for now to enable them gain strength,” Were said. Traders pay an average of Sh50 daily as tax to the government. They also pay at least Sh5,000 annual fee for licences. Speaking when they visited the affected traders on Saturday, the MP said all the payments should be temporarily suspended until the trades become stable in their businesses. “Many of the traders are still coming to terms of what happened. It’s important for them to start paying out taxes when normalcy returns,” he added. Owidhi said their assessment revealed that some traders took loans, adding that the fire worsened their situation. “They depend on well-wishers to help them restart their businesses. Let’s not make life harder for the traders,” Owidhi said. The MP, who issued out Sh50,000 to the affected traders, assured them they would not be evicted. He argued that relocation of traders would encourage land grabbing. Were also donated maize and beans to more than 500 needy people. “No trader will be relocated. Let every trader built stalls on their places to avoid land and space conflicts,” he added.