Kwale residents expressed mixed reactions to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s lifting the cessation of movement in Kilifi and Kwale counties but not in Mombasa, still a Covid-19 hotspot. Most people appreciated the shortened curfew hours, now from 9pm to 5am, instead of from 7pm to 4am. But many business owners said it won't help them. Business owners were especially disappointed when the cessation of movement was extended by another 30 days in Mombasa, Nairobi and Mandera. The President’s speech in May had sparked that directives would be lifted or lessened. In Matuga constituency, Kwale, matatu drivers and conductors crowded to air their views, saying that the government had tricked them. "Lifting the cessation of movement in Kilifi and Kwale and locking Mombasa has no impact because we largely depend on the Likoni Ferry Crossing channel,” Kwale matatu chairman Mwamyuga Mwatoa said. He said Mombasa plays a major role in driving Kwale county's economy. The matatu sector will continue to deteriorate as most passengers are daily commuters from Mombasa county. He said he had expected Uhuru would open up the economy a bit. "We knew Saturday was the day because we had properly serviced our vehicles, just waiting for the grand day to hit the road again," he said. Matatu crews said the extension to 30 days from the previous 21 is also a problem. Kwale matatu chief of security Suleiman Mwachoa said the government could have returned the situation to ‘normal’, while requiring people to observe public health directives. He said extending the curfew hours hasn’t helped "Our clients come from Mombasa, which is closed, meaning no one will come apart from the few people we have, so adding more working hours is a waste of time and fuel," he said. Mwachoa said the government should have considered the matatu industry and offered incentives or cushioning. Boda boda operator Jeilan Juma said he appreciates the government measures but more could have been done to invigorate the economy. He said Kwale depends on tourism and the hotel industry, adding that affirmative action was needed in the two sectors. "With beaches, even we boda boda riders have a place to eat but opening up the county while its sources of livelihood lie dormant means zero work,” Juma said. Residents of other subcounties were not happy. Athman Maziko said President Kenyatta could have combined the three counties of Kilifi, Kwala and Mombasa, saying they depend on each other. He said people should have been left to interact among the three counties but restricted from moving elsewhere. "We still have a big problem. How can we reach Kilifi if the city neighbouring us is restricted? Our President should have let us mingle for business purposes.” Other residents praised the government's efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. They said it was too soon for the state to resume normal operations while the number of infections was surging. By June 6, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Kenya was 2,600. Baraka Julo said a few countries that had begun to reopen had to close again because cases rose. Kenya has no capacity to fight mass infections and the President was right to try to keep Kenyans safe, he said. Vegetable seller Ummy Kulthum said she was relieved the curfew hours were shortened and she can work longer hours. She said despite the transportation problems, life is more important. Kulthum said people should support the President’s efforts in fighting the virus instead of criticising him. (Edited by V. Graham) 