The 2007 world 800m champion Janeth Jepkosgei has urged the government to allow athletes to start training in small groups ahead of the Diamond Leagues series set to start in September. Jepkosgei, who runs Kapchemoywo Training camp in Nandi County, said majority of the athletes are targeting to start their season but without good training, they might struggle for good results. She added that with the dates for the 2020 Tokyo  Olympic Games already out, the athletes will need to train for a considerable duration of time to ensure they are at their peak come July 2021. Jepkosgei was speaking when Athletics Kenya, in partnership with the Ministry of Sports, distributed food to World Under 20 Championships probables at Namgoi Mixed Secondary School over the weekend. She said the sports world is slowly opening up in other countries and Kenya should not be left behind if the athletes are to successfully compete at international events once the coronavirus pandemic has been contained. “Europe is slowly opening to sports and as a country, the government should consider giving athletes an opportunity to train in small groups as a way of keeping fit ahead of scheduled races, both locally and internationally,” said Jepkosgei. “I have young and talented runners who are ready to compete at the highest level but their training is wanting. We urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider us. We are the most disciplined sport in the country and we will adhere to the laid down rules,” added Jepkeosgei. In addition, she thanked Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed for facilitating the distribution of food and cash stipends to sportsmen and women especially the junior runners who are currently stressed up due to the closure of schools and training camps. “I have been following up on most of these young athletes and I can attest that they are facing serious problems. We, the senior athletes, are always trying to help but the resources we manage to raise is never enough,” she added. Athletics Kenya Youth Development Committee chairman Barnaba Korir said: “We were to have a camp in April for all the athletes keen on making Team Kenya to the now postponed World Under 20 Championships. But with sports activities currently on hold, we decided to share the money that had already been released by the ministry by providing food rations and cash stipends to the enlisted athletes and support staff to enable them continue with their training although, away from the camps." “I must thank CS Amina, who has been in the forefront to ensure that athletes across the country are given some little assistance during these tough times," added Korir.