Kenya on Sunday recorded 259 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total number to 6,070, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said. This is out of 2,718 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. The cumulative number of tests conducted so far is now 165,196. All the cases are Kenyans except three who are foreigners, The youngest is 8 month old infant while the oldest is 92-years-old. As for recoveries, the country has witnessed 35 recoveries, with the total number of recoveries totaling to 1,971. However, the country has lost two more people bringing the total number of deaths to 143. The 259 positive cases are distributed in counties of Nairobi with 127 cases, Mombasa 39, Kiambu 22, Machakos 16, Busia 11, Makueni, Nakuru and Uasin Gishu with nine cases each, Kilifi five, Kajiado three, Kisumu, Lamu,  Garissa and Marsabit with two cases each and Kwale has one case. Lamu is the latest county to report a case, bringing the total number of counties with COVID-19 cases to 41. In sub-counties, the cases are distributed as follows; in Nairobi, the 127 cases are from; Westlands with 31 cases, Dagoretti North 22, Makadara 12, Embakasi East and Langata with 11 cases each. Other cases are in Starehe with seven cases, Roysambu six, Kasarani five, Embakasi South, Kamukunji, and Kibra with four cases each, Embakasi West three, Embakasi Central, Embakasi North and  Mathare two cases each and Dagoretti South with one case. In Mombasa, the 39 cases are from Likoni 13, Mvita eight, Changamwe seven, Jomvu six, Nyali four and Kisauni one case each. In Kiambu, the 22 cases are from Thika eight, Kiambaa six, Kiambu Town four, Juja, Kabete, Lari and Ruiru with one case each. In Machakos, the 16 cases are from Athi River 15 and Machakos Town one case. In Busia all the 11, cases are from Teso North, while the nine cases in Makueni, are from Kibwezi West with seven cases and Kibwezi East with two cases. In Nakuru, the nine cases are from Naivasha with four cases, Nakuru East three and Rongai two cases. In Uasin Gishu, the nine cases are from Ainabkoi three, Kapseret and Turbo two cases each, while Moiben and Soy have one case each. In Kilifi, the five cases are from, Kaloleni and Kilifi South two cases each and Malindi one case. In Kajiado, the cases are in Kajiado North with tow cases and Kajiado Central one case. The cases in Kisumu are all from Kisumu Central, while the two cases in Lamu are from Lamu West. In Garissa, the cases are from Garissa Town, while in Marsabit, the cases are from Saku and the case in Kwale is from Msambweni.