@alalmaurice The national and Kisumu county governments plan to expand the Western Kenya Gender-Based Violence Centre to handle rising cases. The centre based at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (JOOTRH) in Kisumu has been handling cases of GBV in the region and providing medical and psychological support for victims. Youth and Gender Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh said there are increased GBV cases that require expanded facilities to effectively tackle. Shebesh said the number of cases in the region has increased as several families struggle to survive with the mental stress the vice unleashes on families. “We are looking to expand the centre. We have seen the rising cases of GBV and it needs urgent action,” Shebesh said. Most victims, she said, were not willing to open up and have been struggling on their own. “GBV is a mental issue and must be looked at by experts. We must find ways to enable victims to open up and talk on issues affecting them,” Shebesh said on Wednesday in Kisumu. Statistics by police in the region show that several cases of GBV are reported in Kisumu and its environs. The most affected areas include informal settlements where cases of defilement are often reported. Last week, Kisumu Central subcounty commander Martha Ngetich said more than 30 cases were reported in the city's three slums in May. Ngetich attributed the vice to failure by parents and guardians to take full responsibility and protect their children, especially when they are at home. “Most of the suspects are close relatives, friends, neighbours, and people well known and trusted by the victims,” Ngetich said. Kisumu West police boss Edward Kawangara said defilement cases have been on the rise since the schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Between April and May, Kawangara said, 20 cases were reported compared to an average of eight to 10 cases in the months when children are in school. Governor Anyang Nyong’o called for a collective responsibility to address the rising GBV cases in the region. He noted most people were suffering as they have been hard hit by the current economic situation due to the effects of the virus. The governor called on well-wishers to donate food to support needy people. Meanwhile, Nyong’o on Thursday received food and other items donated by Khetias supermarkets to help vulnerable families. The donations included cooking oil, maize flour, bar soaps, hand washing tanks among others worth more than Sh150,000. Khetias Supermarket marketing manager Fred Ochieng said they have supported the needy across the country. “We are continuing with donations to ensure we reach many people,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)