Gor Mahia head coach Steven Polack is appealing to the club management to retain senior and influential players who are reportedly on the verge of leaving. Last week, the club chairman Ambrose Rachier publicly admitted that the players had gone for five months without pay, opening the possibility of them exiting as free agents. While conceding  that the situation at the club was tough, Polack reached out to his bosses to hold on to his best arsenal for him to achieve his target in the Caf Champions League. Should the status quo remain, Gor will represent the country in the continental's elite show courtesy of finishing top in the first leg of the 2019-2020 KPL season. Polack revealed that he was pursuing to have 25 quality players to better the results he posted at the continental scene. Gor were bundled out the Confederations Cup after bowing 3-2 on aggregate to DC Motema Pembe at the playoff stage, where the winner books a place in the group stages. "For the club to achieve better results in the Champions League,the club has to retain their players by all means and add a few. "Last season, many were disappointed after falling short of the expectations. This was largely contributed by the exodus of senior players before the season began and the high number of signings we had. "It took them long to gel hence we were tossed out. If we can hold on the ones we have and bring just a few, then we will roar again. At least 25 players comprised of three shot stoppers, eight defenders, ten midfielders and four strikers is all  we need to achieve our plan,"' he said. The former Asante Kotoko tactician said he was keen to introduce individual counselling sessions to assess the extend in which they had been affected by the delay in payments and the coronavirus. "Majority of the players solely depend on football to make a living and I know things are not easy at the moment.O+ nce we resume training, I would like to sit with each player with an intention of knowing how much they have been affected and weather they will be in the right frame of mind to serve the club. The pandemic has also affected us all but we will counsel them and prepare them accordingly," he noted. Asked on his future at the club, Polack said he had not received offers elsewhere but did not rule out the possibility of parting ways should he get better package in another club. "I don't know what tomorrow brings neither do I know weather I will be with Gor or I will sign with another club. I have a good relationship with the club, players and fans and I still have a contract with them. I started preparing for the new season five weeks ago and I am looking forward to get back to the touchline,"he added.