Ijara MP Sophia Abdinoor on Thursday urged Kenyans and political leaders to stop attacking the President, saying he deserves respect. Sophia said it is unfortunate that politics has all of a sudden taken centre stage. On Tuesday, Chief Justice David Maraga accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of failing to appoint 41 judges and defiance of court orders. Ousted Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen immediately took to his Twitter handle to lash out at Uhuru. “Mr. President, legacy is the sum total of what you do every day. It is not a coat you pick and wear till the end of term. Obey court orders and rule of law. It is not you alone who wants a good legacy, CJ, elected leader, civil servants, hustlers all want good legacy. Do not make everything to be about yourself,” tweeted Murkomen. In another tweet he wrote: “The 2010 constitution did not anticipate that one man can be the president, deputy president, CIC, independent commissions, DPP, IG, DCI, Chief Justice, Judge, magistrate, speaker senate and NA, MP, governor, Governor Nairobi and Kiambu, media owner, editor for all media houses all in one.” Abdinoor, who was elected on the PDR ticket—the first woman to be elected in a constituency in Northern Kenya—said the attacks on the President are not good for the country. She said they could derail important matters, including the BBI. “Right now we are in the middle of fighting an enemy in the name of Covid-19. This is the reason why we should unite to confront the virus, which is threatening to bring down the economy,” Abdinoor said. She was speaking in Masalani town on Thursday during an inspection of CDF projects and the Masalani-Wema road, which is being tarmacked by the national government. Abdinoor urged leaders from Northeastern not to be dragged into the current politics and instead remain focused on BBI. “This is the highest office in the land and deserves unity. We might have personal differences but let us respect institutions,” she said. Abdinoor said the region stands to benefit more if the Constitution is amended. “As residents of Northeastern, we are grateful that the 2010 Constitution, which brought devolution, has improved development in the region, which was neglected by previous regimes," she said. "We can only hope and pray that once the counties are given more allocations, then we will realise even more development.” Edited by Frank Obonyo