Twenty-five MPs have rallied behind National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale even as it emerged on Thursday that a fresh push to oust him may have hit a snag. Most of the lawmakers are from the North. The Garissa Township MP is under siege from the Kieleweke wing of Jubilee, disillusioned that President Uhuru Kenyatta had retained him as leader of Majority. Duale was retained during Tuesday's Jubilee coalition Parliamentary Group Meeting at State House chaired by President Kenyatta. The Kieleweke faction was unhappy with his retention at the coveted parliamentary perch where it expected one of its own to occupy after the much anticipated purge. Yesterday, Northeastern politicians led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, who also chairs the Building Bridges Initiative, supported Duale and thanked the President for retaining him. They unequivocally pledged their loyalty to the President and asked him for forgiveness if they had backslided politically in the past. "We are grateful that the President has decided to retain Duale to continue to be the Majority leader. We want to assure you (Uhuru) that we have always been loyal and we will continue to be loyal. We will obey and fulfill any instruction given by the party," Haji said after a meeting at a Nairobi hotel. He added, "We have a saying that when you lose your road during the dark, you can re-trace it at day time. If for any reason there is a feeling that we have gone wrong, we did not intend to do so but our intention is to work with you through thick and thin." The meeting was attended by Mandera Senator Mohammed Mahmud and his Wajir counterpart Abdullahi Ali, MPs Sophia Abdi (Ijara), Anab Mohammed (Garissa Woman Rep) and Dekow Imana (nominated senator). The rest were MPs Nasri Ibrahim (nominated), Dahir Mohammed (Daabab), Mohammed Sheikh (Wajir South), Rashid Amin (Wajir East), Mohammed Bashir (Mandera North), Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West) and Yussuf Adan Haji (Mandera West). They said that the position of National Assembly Majority leader was given to Duale as an appreciation of the region's support for Jubilee government in the last elections and vowed to continue supporting the President's agenda. "We will not allow Duale to let you down. We pledge our loyalty to you...,"Haji said adding, "We will try and ask him (Uhuru) to believe in us because we have been with him for a long time.” Duale yesterday formally communicated the Jubilee party changes in which Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe was named Majority Whip and Igembe North legislator Maoka Maore deputy Majority Whip. This was a clear indication that his position had not been officially contested and he continues to enjoy the support of the Jubilee party as Majority leader. The Northeastern support came as a major boost for Duale. It was a demonstration of the sway he holds as the region's senior politician. Mohamud said Duale has done a great job and had tried to drive the agenda of  Jubilee successfully. "We will assure him that Duale will be able to do this. We want to thank Uhuru for retaining him," he said at the press conference at Lenana Towers. There have been intrigues following the Kieleweke faction's signing up of coalition members to endorse a no-confidence petition against Duale. While the proponents of the petition led by Kieni MP Kanini Kega had claimed on Wednesday that they had garnered 117 signatures against Duale, no signatories were disclosed. There were claims of extortion, blackmail, intimidation and demand for favours in exchange of signatures. Duale has accused Kega of trying to lie to his colleagues that he would help remove him from office through another process, not the Parliamentary Group Meeting. “I am also aware that Hon. Kanini Kega may be also shedding tears of loss and nursing a disappointment having believed in his mind that he was to be the next Majority leader. Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting, however, made his dreams end in a bang,” Duale said. The Star has learnt that the impending reorganisation of the National Assembly committees following a purge of Deputy President William Ruto's allies had clouded the Duale ouster push. There is a vicious battle for the chair and vice-chair slots in the committees following the purge with the Kieleweke faction battling to take control. Some in the faction are angling for leadership of the powerful Budget and Appropriations Committee, the Transport and Infrastructure panel as well as the Justice and Legal Affairs committees. The scramble for the slots has triggered a falling out even among the Kieleweke team that had initially appeared united in the push for the radical changes in the leadership of the National Assembly. - mwaniki fm