Mombasa politician Suleiman Shahbal has called on health workers to be a little more patient as the county addresses their grievances. Shahbal, who has formed a strong partnership with Mombasa county government, said Mombasa and Kenya is experiencing tough challenges because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are in a war situation. This is not the time to criticise a lot. It is time to fight the pandemic as a united front,” said Shahbal at the Technical University of Mombasa Covid-19 isolation centre on Saturday. On Friday, nurses in Mombasa issued a seven-day ultimatum to the county government to pay their May salaries and Covid-19 allowances, failure to which they would down their tools. The nurses complained of delayed salaries and lack of personal protective equipment. They said they were exposed to the coronavirus. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda on Saturday told the Star on phone that 41 health workers in Mombasa had been infected with Covid-19. “In the whole country, the number stands at 84,” Mwachonda said. However, there was good news for the health workers in Mombasa after Shahbal donated 1,050 pieces of full body PPE. Shahbal said the PPE were inspected and approved by health experts. Each set has a safety goggle, head cup, shoe cover, full body cover, surgical mask, gloves, waste band, sanitiser pouch cover, heavy duty gumboots and costs Sh20,000. Shahbal said Mombasa had been setting the pace for other counties in the Covid-19 response and he would like to ensure all health workers are given the extra attention they deserve. “That is why we are begging the health workers to bear with the county for a little bit longer as we sort their issues out,” Shahbal said. With 969 positive cases of Covid-19 out of the 15,695 tests done, Mombasa has recorded the second highest number of infections after Nairobi. County chief health officer Khadija Shikely said they had discharged 170 patients so far and that Mombasa had recorded 46 Covid-19 fatalities. She said the curve was continuing to rise and that they expected the peak to be in September before the curve starts to flatten. “Expect more cases,” she said. She said Shahbal’s contribution was priceless because the PPE prices continued to rise. Shahbal said health workers deserve better because they had put their lives on the line. “These are our frontline soldiers. Only God can pay them what they deserve. We are only human and we try to help whenever we can,” he said. The career banker has been in the forefront helping the county fight the pandemic and is seen as the private sector face of the fight in Mombasa. Edited by Henry Makori