Casual workers, suppliers and contractors will this week be paid by the County Government of Nairobi after MCAs passed the Supplementary Appropriations bill. A total of Sh3.6 billion has been allocated to settle the county’s pending bills, with Sh1.7 billion going to the suppliers and contractors owed by City Hall. Development contractors will get Sh.859 million while Sh2.825 billion goes towards settling the recurrent pending bills to different suppliers. A sum of Sh120 million will go towards the payment of 850 casual workers who had not been paid their dues for months. Last month, the workers drawn from the 85 wards, demonstrated who had been contracted to engage in the unclogging of drainage, beautification programme and garbage collection held protests over the unpaid salaries. Governor Mike Sonko, through his Spokesman Ben Mulwa, had pledged to pay the casual workers once the assembly passed the appropriation bill. The Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) was allocated Sh3.5 billion which includes Sh1.25 billion for development and Sh2.25 billion for recurrent expenditure. Last month, NMS Director General Major Mohammed Badi had noted that his team lacked funds to run the four core transferred county functions. He pointed that the tussle over the approval of the budget between the county assembly and the county government of Nairobi had delayed the access of funds. However, with this new allocation, NMS can now be able to use the funds for Covid-19 interventions before the financial year ends this month. A sum of Sh 50 million has been allocated to the County’s emergency fund and the Education Department has been given Sh.50 million for bursaries which will benefit the needy children in the capital. The Education department has been allocated an additional Sh.50 million in bursaries to assist bright and needy children across the city while another Sh.50 million has been allocated to the county’s emergency Fund. Governor Sonko signed the bill which subsequently was published as the Nairobi County Supplementary Appropriations Act, 2020