Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula's grip on Ford Kenya appears shaky after a rival faction published contested changes to the party's leadership. The group that toppled Wetang'ula as Ford-K leader has notified party members of the changes. The public notice was signed by Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, who was installed as the new secretary general on May 31. “The public [is] invited to submit presentations through the party contact and physical address,” reads the notice. In it, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi is the new party leader, taking over from Wetang'ula, while Joseph Maungu is the new organising secretary. Chris Mandu, Wetang'ula's key ally, has been the organising secretary. Wetang'ula has the option of petitioning the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal, but only if the Registrar of Political Parties upholds the changes. If Wetang'ula loses the position it will be a case of what goes around comes around. The Bungoma senator seized the party after toppling rival Musikari Kombo in a 'coup' in 2012. Earlier on Friday, Eseli said Wetang'ula was no longer the Ford-K leader but was free to wait for the delegates' conference to contest the position if still interested. “We haven’t expelled him from the party. If he is still interested in the position, let him respond to the accusations before contesting again. He should be cleared before running for any post,” he said. Wetang'ula has insisted he still is the party leader, saying his removal was illegally orchestrated. He suspended Eseli and Wamunyinyi from the positions of party secretary general and member of the National Assembly Agriculture and Livestock committee. However, the Registrar of Political Parties on Thursday declined to endorse Wetang'ula's changes, saying the National Executive Committee was not properly constituted. On Thursday, Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu also wrote to Eseli declining to approve the leadership changes saying Form PP7 was not properly signed as required by the Political Parties Act. “The statutory Form PP7 was not properly signed by the authorised officials as per the records held by this office,” reads her letter. The Eseli team refiled the form on Friday and the registrar is expected to give her ruling in two days. Eseli, Wamunyinyi and other party officials said they had rectified the mistake and were confident that they will carry the day. “We are hopeful now that we have fulfilled all the requirements to enable the changes and this is to be done soonest,” Wamunyinyi said. Wetang'ula has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of orchestrating his removal and imposing new leaders, claims the former Prime Minister's lieutenants have dismissed. The Eseli team has accused the Wetang’ula camp of intimidating NEC members who approved the leadership changes. Speaking after submitting Form PP7 at the registrar’s office in Westlands on Friday, Eseli said they will lodge a formal complaint with the police over the threats. Wamunyinyi said, "Members who supported the changes are being intimidated. We are telling them to stop intimidation of the NEC members." Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, who was picked by the Bungoma senator's wing as the new secretary general, did not pick up his calls or respond to SMSs for comment. Wamunyinyi urged party members to remain calm, adding that they will accommodate everyone including those left out due to poor leadership.