Wrangling between the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions has delayed the arraignment of two senior regional Unesco officials over forgery. The DCI insists there is sufficient evidence to sustain a criminal charge against Catherine Nyaboke Nyang’au and David Gerishom Otiato, but the DPP maintains that the suit should be substituted with a civil one. Nyaboke is the chief accountant and Otiato the director of corporate support services at the Kenya National Commission for United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation offices in Nairobi. They are alleged to have conspired to defraud Unesco of Sh10 million in form of salaries between August 2018 and March 2020. So vicious is the wrangling that the DCI, after receiving the DPP's instructions to review the case, wrote back maintaining that the police have a watertight criminal case against the suspects. “There is sufficient evidence to sustain a charge of forgery contrary to Section 349 of the Penal Code,” wrote the DCI through Kasarani Criminal Investigations officer Charles Kanyuira on May 19. In the same letter, Kanyuira requested that the case be transferred from Makadara court to any other court “for expeditious disposal of justice since our officer has faced serious obstacles in the handling of the matter.” Nyaboke is also accused of forging documents related to her employment background check. The recommendation letter was purportedly from Avic Shantui Construction Company, her previous employer. However, the company, through general manager Andrew Mambo and legal adviser Dennis Muchiri denied authoring the letter. The investigation file was submitted to Makadara office of the DPP for direction on April 30.  Evangeline Wanjiru Njoka, Nicholas Kirwa and Walter Omwenga are listed as witnesses. Assistant director of public prosecutions Christine Nanjala responded on May 15 on behalf of DPP Noordin Haji, arguing that the investigation file did not contain evidence of the purported forged letter of appointment. As such, it would be difficult to prove the charge of uttering false documents because the second suspect would be expected to testify against the first suspect. “Considering they are both accused, doesn’t this create an absurdity?” asked the DPP. “It is our considered opinion that this matter falls within the purview of employment and labour laws. It is for this reason that I have been directed to advise that it would be unsafe to charge the suspects based on the insufficiency of the evidence provided in this file,” Nanjala wrote and advised that it be a civil case prosecution. The DCI protested, arguing that its officers are being frustrated and insisted that what was allegedly forged was the letter containing the background check and not the letter of (job) offer.  - mwaniki fm