A Homa Bay anti-corruption court has lifted a warrant of arrest against former Karachuonyo MP James Rege who is accused of misappropriation of Sh909,398. Senior principal magistrate Thomas Obutu on Friday issued a warrant of arrest against Rege over misappropriation of the funds between 2011 and November 28, 2013. Rege was Karachuonyo MP then. Obutu issued the warrant because Rege did not appear in court that day. But on Monday, Rege who is the chairperson of the Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (KETRACO) got a reprieve after the court lifted the warrant. His lawyer Ishmael Nyaribo said Rege had not appeared in court due to illness. In his application, Nyaribo argued that Rege had been admitted to Karen Hospital in Nairobi where he is being treated after he fell ill. Nyaribo produced a letter signed by a doctor from the hospital indicating Rege is unwell. “I inform this court that my client was already in hospital at the time he was expected to appear in court on Friday,” Nyaribo said. “His doctor has informed me that he is sick. He is undergoing medication in Karen Hospital, hence unable to attend court.” Nyaribo added that Rege never received any summons from police that he was required to appear in court. “Your honour, Rege is a law-abiding citizen who cannot decline to appear in court when he is required to do so. He failed to appear because of unavoidable circumstances,” Nyaribo said. He requested the court to lift the arrest warrant on condition that Rege cannot defy court orders. Obutu lifted the warrant on grounds that Rege was unable to appear in court. “Through evidence adduced by the lawyer, the court has concluded that the accused person could not attend court proceeding because he has been sick. The arrest warrant is hereby lifted,” Obutu said. Obutu ordered that Rege appear in court on July 14. The second accused in the case Kennedy Ochieng’ will be charged alongside Rege on the same date. Rege is among six people who have been accused of loss of NGCDF money. Other suspects Michael Ocholla, Pacifica Kobe and Samuel Okuta were arraigned on Friday. The suspects were released on Sh1 million bond with a surety of a similar amount or Sh700,000 bail. Edited by Henry Makori