The Law Society of Kenya, South Eastern branch, has joined lawyers countrywide in calling for President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint the 41 JSC-approved judges. They were recommended by the Judicial Service Commission and the President is required by law to appoint them. But he has delayed for six months, saying some have integrity issues. The LSK South Eastern branch on Tuesday urged the President to swiftly appoint them, saying it was in the public interest to do so and show respect for the rule of law. “We state the expression of the Chief Justice [David Maraga] on the pending appointment of judges and respect for court orders is an expression of the frustration we experience,” LSK South Eastern Branch chair Justus Mutia said. He and other lawyers addressed the press in Machakos town on Tuesday. “We wish to state the challenges facing the Judiciary are well documented. … Key among the challenges are limited allocation of resources and acute staff shortage, which have led to an excessive workload,” Mutia said. The lawyers said CJ Maraga was primarily accountable to Kenyans as the head of the third arm of the government. When all other avenues are closed, he is within his rights to inform the public. “We add our voice to the ongoing debate on pending appointment of the 41 judges,” Mutia said. He said on February 8, the CJ  issued a public statement deploring the President’s failure to appoint 11 judges to the Court of Appeal, 20 to the Environment and Land Court and 10 the Employment and Labour Relations Court after receiving JSC recommendations. He said the Court of Appeal and the two specialised courts are not working at all due to shortage of judges. Early this year, all Appeal Court judges working outside Nairobi had to be recalled to the capital because otherwise it would not be possible to empanel three-judge benches. This has undermined the handling of appeals in Nyeri, Kisumu, Mombasa and other stations. Parliament must ensure the Judiciary receives requisite resources, Mutia said. “We urge both advocates and litigants to continue observing health protocols as they access court premises. They need to wear a face mask, wash their hands, have their temperature taken and maintain social distancing,” Mutia said. (Edited by V. Graham)  