Migori residents have complained that young people are taking advantage of popular morning jogs to have drug-fuelled sex orgies and mug others. Since the government announced the curfew directives meant to contain the coronavirus and urged people to stay at home, many dwellers of Rongo, Awendo and Migori towns have been running in the morning to keep fit and avoid boredom. Married couples, including the old, have made it a habit, and even students and pupils have been following in tow. But other residents now say the early morning runs are no longer achieving the original goal, at least from a general view. They say some people, especially the youth, have taken advantage of the Sh512 million infrastructure projects in the towns to engage in illicit sex. Mugging incidents have also been sighted. The World Bank is financing tarmacking of roads, upgrade of markets and street-lighting in the towns. In Migori, some projects are underway on Ombo estate, where several roads have been tarmacked and streets lit. This makes it easy for those waking up early to exercise. In Rongo, the main bus park has been upgraded. Awendo now has a recreational centre, complete with tarmacked roads and streetlights. These, too, have encouraged similar jogs. However, those with ill motives are out to spoil the party for those with good intentions. Residents have demanded action. George Ochieng, a parent and a resident of Ombo, complained that “only 20 per cent of morning joggers are interested in keeping fit. "The rest are in for sex and bhang smoking. They have turned into vagabonds,” he said. Basil Okoth told the Star, “It had been safer to engage in morning runs after government orders to control social distancing and the closure of gyms took us on the roads.” Okoth and his wife Norma are among those who have been exercising in the morning. On Thursday morning, some joggers were forced to flee to safety and were helped by boda boda riders as a gang of teenagers engaged in a fight over girls and a spot for orgies near Ombo market. “The truth is that at dawn, teenagers now engage in sex, abuse of drugs and taking selfies instead of jogging. It is alarming. Some do it openly in the streetlight. This is scary,” Norma said. Henry Ooko, also a jogger, said, "I was chased by the group, most schoolchildren who were armed with crude weapons and were smoking bhang, a group of boda boda riders came to our aid.” Several students, most from high school, were rounded up. Migori Town Boda Boda Association chairman Elvis Omondi said they have been treated to orgies in the morning in Migori town, especially around the unfinished Ombo market and near an uncompleted stadium. “We want parents and those jogging in the morning to control their orgies, what we see in the name of exercise and being fit in the name of fighting the coronavirus is not morally right,” Omondi said. Recalling the Thursday incident, he said a commotion started at 4 am as youths fought over girls and the best spots for the “morning glory". "We recovered several stolen items like phone and radios.” Omondi warned that they will have no option but to stop all jogs in Migori town at dawn until police patrols are done on the streets.