Kenya Harlequins head coach Dominique Habimana will have to re-apply afresh for his job after the position was declared vacant over the weekend. Harlequins chairman, Michael Wanjala, said the club released Habimana a month ago but has the option of re-applying for the job if still interested. Habimana, who has had a long serving stint with the Kenya Simbas and also guided Nakuru to consecutive Kenya Cup titles in 2013 and 2014, had a disappointing season with the Ngong Road outfit,  finishing ninth and missing playoffs. He had alluded that the club did not have a proper pre-season, hence found themselves in dire straits during the campaign. “ This coupled with financial challenges the team faced this season made it difficult for us,” he said. Wanjala said they are looking at ways of revamping the technical bench and have also advertised roles of strength and conditioning coach as well as an academy coach. He added that a technical committee will have the final say on who gets the positions. Interested parties have been asked to send their application by tomorrow. Wanjala said they hope to make a decision on the appointments by June 20. The club boss said he was cognisant of the challenges the team faced last season, adding that successful head coach will be given all the necessary requirements needed to turn around their fortunes next season. “We had a difficult campaign but the building blocks for our next season are already in place to ensure we have a solid head coach who can inspire and guide the team,” added Wanjala. He said the club, which has produced several Internationals across Shujaa, Simbas and Chipu would like to tap into their experience. “We are a club that takes pride in having our players play for the various national sides. We, therefore, want to tap into them and make our club better in the years to come,” he noted. To that effect, Harlequins have already started planning for the next season by signing speedster Mark Wandetto from Homeboyz and Leroy Mbugua (Blak Blad) to bolster their playing unit. Wanjala expressed confidence that with good preparation, they will qualify for the play-offs. “We have a group of talented players—young and some very experienced— and I believe if everything comes together, we will be in the top six,” noted Wanjala. The Quins boss was hopeful of also getting sponsorship for the side in the next couple of months.