The Covid-19 crisis has halted peace talks at the border between Kenya and Uganda, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has said. Nanok decried the disruption of peaceful coexistence of communities living along the border after a wave of bandit attacks. Last week, Turkana herders allegedly attacked a Ugandan army camp and drove away an unknown number of cattle. Turkana West subcounty police commander Suiyanka Cunningham could not confirm the incident when reached by phone. Nanok said since the outbreak of Covid-19, they have been unable to conduct peace talks because of disruptions of movement. He said that peaceful coexistence of communities at the Uganda border was achieved after years of cross-border efforts. It had benefited pastoralists who would cross over to Uganda for pasture and contributed to an increase in cross-border movement and trade, he said. The governor pleaded for the return of livestock stolen from the camp and warned that a recent attack of a Ugandan army post was a grave crime. “I am calling on those who took part in the raid to return livestock stolen as a way to solve the conflict because if this is not done, we will have no power to stop possible decisions that may come out of discussions between Kenya and Uganda," he said. Nanok spoke n Kakuma when he condoled with the family of Turkana West MP Daniel Epuyo who lost his wife Doris Akal Epuyo after a battle with cancer. He said the governments of Kenya and Uganda had been requested to set protocols to allow movement of peace actors to engage communities and address threats to peaceful coexistence. The county chief told residents to expect a reduction in donor-funded projects as benefactors concentrate on the recovery of the economies devastated by the coronavirus. "The support that came from the UN, NGOs and donors will reduce. It is going to be difficult to get new commitments from donors because they are focusing resources on the internal affairs of their countries," he said. He announced plans for relief food distribution by the county government which will be complemented by the National Government’s cash transfer programme. (edited by o. owino)