The World Health Organisation has asked the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States to focus on solidarity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the current pandemic has exposed serious global cracks where instead of the world pulling together, it is pulling apart. Tedros said with the current trend, the pandemic will likely exploit the cracks and continue to wreak havoc across the nations. Tedros was speaking during first virtual Extraordinary Inter-Sessional Summit of OACPS Heads of State and Government, convened by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I want to appeal to all of you to quarantine Covid politics and work together towards defeating it, otherwise the virus will stay with us longer than we anticipate. Let your voice bring the world together,” Tedros said. He said the world can draw lessons learned from the eradication of small pox and purpose to eradicate Covid-19. “At that time, the world moved together and joined hands in fighting small pox; with Covid-19 the situation is different where the world seems to be divided,” he said. The DG further asked the member states to ensure that while more focus is given towards defeating the virus, countries sustain the provision of other essential health services. “You must be cognisant of the fact that resurgence of the virus poses more risks to our people and develop a comprehensive approach towards its eradication," he said. Tedros said a time has come for the OACPS member states to strengthen their health systems that are affordable and accessible to all of its citizens. “We have to rethink how we have been doing things and focus on our health workers, green technology, water and sanitation,” Tedros said. He added, “The impact of this disease on lives and the economy is a brutal reminder that time to ready ourselves before pandemics is now. Preparedness is not a cost but an investment”. According to Tedros, though the OACPS states have cumulatively reported less than 500,000 cases, the risk of infection remains high. He said 38 out of the 79 member states have reported positive cases, while 22 states are yet to report a single case. “Currently, we have no high case load and it is worth noting that most of these states have done well, bearing in mind their long experience in dealing with disease outbreaks,” he said. He said there is need for timely access to diagnosis, which will play a key role in management of the disease. Using technology alone is not enough, we must strive to find, test, isolate and care for every case. As we quarantine those who test positive, contact tracing should also be fast-tracked,” Tedros said. President Uhuru, in his remarks, said the disease has pressed many African countries into a corner with a heavy debt burden. “The countries need between $50 to 60 billion for them to meet their international debt obligation,” Uhuru said. He said the invasion by desert locusts, floods and the rising ocean water as a result of climate change has made things worse for many countries. Themed, ‘Transcending the Covid-19 Pandemic: Building Resilience through Global Solidarity’, the virtual summit brought together Heads of State of the OACPS’ six regions to present the key issues facing the regions as a result of the pandemic.