Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has challenged a ruling by Justice Mumbi Ngugi that allowed the anti-graft agency to search his properties for unexplained Sh9 billion wealth. Kidero says Mumbi was biased against him and presumed him guilty of criminal activities when no such determination has been made against him. Judge Mumbi ruled on June 4 that the search warrants issued to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission against Kidero in September 2018 did not breach the law. She said the warrant authorised the EACC to investigate assets owned by Kidero and must require the assessment of the value of the properties. In the appeal filed by lawyer Tom Ojienda, Kidero says Mumbi failed to find that the search warrant was vague and could be abused by the EACC. The former governor also said the judge did not consider that the warrant only related to him, hence was not applicable to his wife Susan Mboya, Paul Aol and their properties. “Mumbi failed to consider that not only was his wife not named in the search warrant dated September 19, but there was also already a previous and subsisting order made on March 1 in a different case restraining searches and seizures of Susan's properties and documents,” court papers read. Kidero has further accused the judge of demeaning his wife and women in general. Mumbi had said that while the rights of women, whether within marriage or outside must be guarded, they can be complicit in hiding corruptly acquired public assets. “Investigations of their assets in such circumstances is in the public interest and cannot be deemed a violation of their rights,” she said. Kidero says such an observation demonstrated preconceived bias “with a broad stereotypical brush". The former county chief argues that the judge erred in failing to rule that the valuation by EACC on his properties was illegal because it was done without a court order and by an unregistered value. The EACC has been investigating Kidero for alleged embezzlement of public funds while at the helm of Nairobi county and Mumias Sugar Company. It obtained search warrants which Kidero says are illegal. He also says the agency has no power to investigate him over the affairs of Mumias Sugar Company, a private firm. In court documents, Kidero says that his properties are valued at Sh645 million and not Sh9 billion as alluded by the EACC. He says the commission maliciously assigned exaggerated values to the properties without any professional valuation reports. (edited by o. owino)