Kakamega High School is set to put up a modern sports complex with a capacity of  10,000 fans ahead of the East African Schools Championship later this year . The project will be done into three phases and will commence in the next  few weeks at the cost of Sh120m. The upper field will be fenced with an outside perimeter wall in a bid to secure of the playing surface and athletics track alongside the changing rooms and washrooms. The project will be funded by the school's alumni, the community and well-wishers. Green Commandos' chairman Isaac Kwoba said they are keen to put up a unique complex that will benefit the entire western region and also generate some income for the team. “We will commence the project by fencing the upper field. This will be followed by security lights before putting up standard dressing rooms for the home and away teams. The fitting work on the the stands is also ongoing." He added: “By the end of this program, we hope to have a basketball court, swimming pool and also improve on other facilities inside the school. We therefore, appeal for the support from the county government and other partners of goodwill." He said the sustainability of Green Commandos depends on the project.  “Once everything is complete, we will  be assure of the team's sustainability. We have done everything in terms of development and nurturing talents but we feel we need to establish structures that will be used for generations to come," said Kwoba. He said with these kind of structures, the dream of the school and the community to have a team in the top tier league will easily be realised. He called for support as Kakamega fights to make a mark ahead of other schools courtesy of the complex. “The burden to realise the project can not be left to the school alone. We need other partners and well-wishers, both local and across the borders because this is a costly exercise,” Kwoba appealed. Green commandos are currently featuring in Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Division One League as they struggle to meet the demands at this level.