A bid to impeach Governor Salim Mvurya has brewed more political tension as Matuga residents accuse Kwale assembly speaker Sammy Ruwa of being behind the plot. The residents said Ruwa was applying the divide-and-rule policy, tearing the house into two to secure himself smooth sailing in the 2022 gubernatorial election. Ruwa, however, denied the allegations, saying he doesn't have powers to force MCAs to pass a motion or bill. He said his work was to document and give guidance on what the house decided. "I don't contribute anything in the assembly. Whatever the ward reps agree is what I file," he said, adding that the governor should try to establish a good rapport with MCAs. He said the blame game won't solve anything and if Mvurya needed assistance he should communicate through proper channels. In the 2017 General Election Ruwa was among the aspirants who lost to Mvurya. Politicians who have shown interest in the governorship include Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani and former KNUT chairman Mudzo Nzili. The locals said MCAs led by Ruwa had deviated from their constitutional duty to self-interest. "The work of the assembly is to serve the interest of the electorate and make sure they give the necessary feedback, which is not the case, " said George Khaleb, a Tiwi ward resident. Khaleb said they had faith in Mvurya's government and they had not sent any MCA to file an impeachment motion. They said the ward reps were being misled by the speaker. "Why would we do away with the government that stands for us: bursaries and crucial projects? Whatever they are planning is meant to benefit themselves not us," said Khaleb. The locals want the supplementary bill to be re-tabled for the money to be reallocated to buying food for starving Kwale residents. Nuri Beta said the locals were seeking solutions to unemployment and hunger issues, not an impeachment. He told Ruwa and his allies to use alternative means of gaining political mileage but not the governor's name. "If you are looking for votes, we are very sorry this isn't the time. Recollect yourselves and we meet in 2022," Beta said. Mebakari Mwapishi warned the county reps against misrepresenting the interest of citizens. She claimed the majority of MCAs were not fully involved in community affairs. The locals advised leaders to engage in constructive politics, not causing division. Majority leader Raia Mkungu said they were not attacking the governor politically but simply performing their mandate of oversight, legislation and representing the communities. Edited by Henry Makori