Doctors in Kisumu have threatened to strike if their complaints are not resolved in seven days. They want promotions and pay arrears dating back to July 1, 2019. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Doctors Union Nyanza secretary Lameck Omweri said the county has failed to issue promotion letters to doctors interviewed by the Public Service Board. He said some have been on probation for more than three years. “We issue a seven-day notice within which period we hope you will be honourable enough to keep your word. Failure to do so will lead KMPDU to commence a total strike with effect from June 9, 2020,” Omweri said. The notice was addressed to the county secretary through the Health chief officer. The doctors join other health workers who had earlier issued a seven-day strike notice over allowances, promotions and unresolved issues. Residents fear for their lives if the workers boycott work in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. Resident Davis Mark said they need the health workers now more than ever. They urged the county government to meet health workers and sort out the differences before the seven days lapse. The last time the workers went on strike, the healthcare system shut down, hospitals were deserted with no one to take care of patients. The strike lasted more than two months. The strike notice comes amid rising Covid-19 cases. The county recorded its fifth case last week. The Health department has faced numerous challenges and had been without a substantive head for many months. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o recently appointed Boaz Nyunya to head the department. Nyunya's nomination was approved by the county assembly last week. Local leaders and residents have been agitating for the governor's impeachment or resignation over of the sector's numerous challenges. A recent report by an ad hoc assembly committee paints a grim picture of the county’s health status. The issues include inadequate human resource, debt, accountability and lack of water, among others. Edited by Frank Obonyo