Majority leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale has been replaced by Amos Kimunya. This follows a decision made by the party's Parliamentary Group meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday at the KICC. Amos Kimunya is the Member of Parliament for Kipipiri constituency. He also served as Trade and Finance Cabinet Minister under former President Mwai Kibaki. In the new changes, Kangema MP Muturi Kigano will now chair the Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee while Kieni's Kanini Kega will Chair Budget Committee replacing Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa. Eldas MP Adan Keynan was also picked as the Coalition Secretary. Uhuru is said to have entered the meeting room at KICC waved at people and before sitting, a prayer was made. Tuju took over the programme and read the agenda before inviting the President who told the MPs about the changes being made. He then repeated that he was creating harmony in the party and wanted to work with those supporting him. He then left the room. The meeting lasted for only 22 minutes. A statement from State House said the PG meeting was attended by Deputy President William Ruto, Tuju and a total of 174 Jubilee Coalition Members of the National Assembly. "The Party Leader said the Coalition, through the new Leader of Government Business and Majority Chief Whip, will communicate changes in the composition of House Committees to the Speaker of the National Assembly by Thursday, 25th June 2020," State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena said. "The Head of State reminded the legislators to focus on the Coalition's development agenda and advised them against engaging in divisive politics." The latest purge comes amid a widening rift between Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto. Earlier this month, 16 MPs allied to Ruto were axed from their plum positions in National Assembly committees. The MPs who served as chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of various committees were served with seven-day notices of imminent removal. Four chairpersons and 12 members – most of them holding vice-chair posts, will lose their lucrative positions. The President has orchestrated a  ruthless purge targeting Ruto's allies whom the President has accused of insulting him and undermining his leadership. Apart from Ichung'wa, vocal Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was also last removed from the Transport committee where he served as vice-chairman. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo has removed from the chairmanship of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. Also chopped is Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei who chaired the Delegated Legislation Committee. Mandera South MP Adan Haji was removed as chairman of the Agriculture committee while Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka lost the chairmanship of the Sports committee. Last week DP Ruto hosted a meeting with legislators who have been dewhipped from various house leaderships in both National Assembly and the Senate. After a meeting, Ruto posted a new logo with 'Jubilee Asili, Sote Pamoja' which is different from Jubilee's 'Tuko Pamoja'.