Kenya has crossed the 2,000 mark in terms of Covid-19 cases following 59 results turning positive in the last 24 hours. In a statement on Monday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the country now has 2,021 cases. The cases are from 1,518 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. The total samples tested to date is 80,054. Eight more patients have been discharged, raising the total recoveries to 482. However, another five patients have died, raising the death toll to 69. "Our condolences and sympathies to the bereaved families and friends... We continue to appeal to Kenyans to keep holding  each other's hand in this fight, because we must walk together if victory is to be realised," Kagwe said. The patients are between 10 and 76 years, with 24 being female, and 35 male. The cases are distributed in the counties as follows;   Nairobi (29),   Mombasa (14),  Turkana (6),  Busia (4),  Taita Taveta (2),  Kajiado (2),  Kiambu and Kilifi, one case each. In Nairobi, the cases are distributed  as follows;  in  Nairobi; Ruaraka (8),  all of which are from mandatory quarantine facilities,  Westlands (6), Dagoretti North (4), Langata ( 4), Kibra (3),  Embakasi East, Karasani, Kamkunji and Makadara, all have one case each. In Mombasa, the 14 cases are distributed in the following  estates; Mvita (6),  Kisauni, Nyali, Jomvu and Changamwe, two  cases each. In Turkana, all the six  are at Nadapal Point of Entry. The cases in Busia are from; Malaba POE (3), and Alupe quarantine (1), while the two cases in Taita Taveta are from Mwatate. In Kajiado, the two cases are from Kajiado East; in Kiambu, the one case is from Thika and finally Rabai in Kilifi with one  case. Kagwe reiterated that Kenyans are not living in normal times. "As we celebrate our 57th Madaraka Day as a nation, it is important  to recognise that, unlike any other time in  the past, this year's event has  been celebrated in a unique way," he said. "For the  first time,  Kenyans understandingly   followed  the proceedings of the day from their homes. This is because we are not in normal times."