Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has warned contractors to hasten the delayed Sh170 million Kapsabet town upgrade and avoid shoddy work following complaints from residents. Fifteen senior county officials have been questioned by the county assembly over delays in the project funded by the World Bank. The Sang project involves improvement in the drainage system of the town, widening roads, building footpaths and making other improvements. “The project has been delayed mainly due to heavy rains but we have given new timelines to the contractors to complete the job and ensure it’s done well,” Sang said. The assembly has appointed an ad hoc committee to probe alleged problems with the project, including financial irregularities. “We have received many complaints concerning the project and we are already grilling the officials involved, then we will come up with a report within the next two weeks,” chairman Kiprurui Chepkwony said. Some MCAs complained the Executive was interfering with the implementation of the project and was preventing the Kapsabet Municipal Board from overseeing the project. There were also claims of irregular payments to the contractors and bias in tendering. “We don’t interfere but we manage to ensure proper and timely delivery of the programme. The tendering process was done in absolute adherence to the law. No issue has been raised about the tendering process,” Sang said. The county boss said the municipal board that he appointed was not executive and members of the board oversee all municipal programmes including the town upgrade. “I am not aware of any complaints from the board. In any case, three board members are actually members of the Executive,” Sang said. He said project payments are made after certificates are issued for completed parts of the project. “This is perfectly in accordance with the contract signed and the regulations provided by the National Treasury and World Bank. “Any irregularities would already have been picked up by auditors and World Bank assessment teams who always carry out periodic assessments,” he said. Sang said he welcomed oversight from the county assembly that was also free to summon and question officers linked to the implementation of the project. (Edited by V. Graham)  