The National Treasury is projected to raise Sh38.5 billion in new tax measures stipulated in the Finance Bill 2020. Enacting the Bill would increase Kenyans’ burden through increased prices of basic commodities by the end of this month. Prices of bread, LPG cooking gas, flour, animal products, maize seeds, and car batteries are expected to go up. The Bill — first read on May 6, is before the National Assembly Finance committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo. Treasury boss Ukur Yatani seeks to raise additional Sh3 billion with the removal of seven allowable deductions from the income tax law. Targeted are entrance fees or annual subscription to a trade association; expenditure on legal costs; NSE listing; club subscriptions paid by the employer; school contractors; and mortgages. About Sh1.5 billion is expected from the removal of tax incentives on mortgages, NSSF income as well as bonus, overtime, and retirement benefits. Treasury also seeks to net Sh4 billion in taxes earned from items which are set to be removed from the VAT exemption list. Helicopters of less than two tonnes; tractors; aeroplane tyres; clean cooking stoves; cookers and barbeques; plastic recyclers; and chopper hires are targeted. Yatani further seeks to net more income in the reduction of alcohol strength threshold from 10 to eight per cent. “This implies that more alcoholic drinks of these categories will be covered, thereby expanding the tax base and raising additional revenue,” PBO said. This is even as tax and budget experts picked holes on the frequency with which tax proposals change, arbitrarily. Economist Kwame Owino said that the country’s tax code is getting more complex owing to the pressure on KRA to net more income. “When laws related to commercial activity are changed this often, then it is clear Kenya lacks a coherent policy and the only aim of tax,” he said in an opinion piece published in the Daily Nation. Owino regretted that Parliament has ceded its tax definition role to the Treasury CS and the KRA director general. He cited Yatani’s recent proposal to increase excise tax remission affecting Keg and other beers made from locally produced raw materials. “This will free up resources and time for KRA to invest in collecting taxes as set by the laws and not have to be creative to meet arbitrary revenue targets,” Owino said. The Parliamentary Budget Office, in its analysis of the Finance Bill, 2020, says it would be prudent to have tax measures operate for three financial years. It says that while this will ensure certainty, hence allow businesses to plan their investments and also for concerned agencies to assess impact. “This will guard against constant policy reversals that have become common in recent times, thus, occasioning unpredictability in the taxation system,” the PBO said. There is doubt on whether the additional funds would impact on the country’s budget hole of Sh840 billion. PBO argues that this can be cured if the estimates of revenue and expenditure are presented alongside the tax proposals. “This, alongside credible borrowing estimates, will help ensure that the budget estimates are approved without a financing gap,” the experts said. The budget office also lamented that the country’s budget deficit has been a moving target, having shifted by Sh252 billion more in less than two months. The Budget Policy Statement 2020 projected the budget deficit at Sh571.2 billion, with PBO saying that an increase from the new measures will depend on enforcement. More tax earnings are expected in the introduced minimum tax to be charged at 1 per cent of a business’ gross turnover. “This will occasion an expansion of the tax base as businesses will pay the higher of either minimum tax or instalment tax,” PBO report reads. The experts sought further clarity on the digital services tax – to be charged at 1.5 per cent, on non-residents without a permanent establishment in Kenya. “It is a considered view that the base of tax should be clarified as to whether it is charged on fees for the service or the gross transaction value.” The experts further expressed discomfort with the exemption of goods imported for use by the Kenya Defence Forces and the National Police Service. “The goods imported for official use by the said security organs may be addressed through expenditure provisions rather that distort the tax expenditure.” PBO is equally uneasy with the new proposal requiring taxpayers to ensure their suppliers declare their invoices in the tax return for VAT claims. Much as the measure is likely to enhance compliance, PBO holds that it may be cumbersome for taxpayers due to logistics and the associated cost – now borne by KRA. (edited by o. owino)