The Kenya Dairy Board on Monday donated products worth Sh6.2 million to Kenyatta National Hospital to boost the fight against the coronavirus. The donations from the board and Devyani Foods will be used by frontline workers and recovering patients at the facility. Livestock PS Harry Kimtai said milk and dairy products were among ways of building immunity in the body. “Milk is one of the super foods which are important during this period when the country is battling the spread of Covid-19 that has disrupted the normal way of life,” Kimtai said at KNH. The dairy board's MD Margaret Kibogy urged Kenyans to drink more milk saying it is a highly nutritious product that is good for health especially during this season of Covid-19. She said the dairy industry has grown to become a major economic activity and that production of milk is now at 5.2 billion litres which supports millions of households including the 1.8 million small scale dairy farmers. Kibogy said as a regulator whose interest is safety of milk products, they are working with all stakeholders to ensure quality standards are met. “We fully appreciate and are committed to sustainable development of the dairy industry in the interest of consumer safety and environmental protection,” she said. KDB chairman Anthony Mutugi said consumption of milk and milk products in urban centres during this pandemic has dropped by 40 per cent due to lack of disposable incomes. He said some participants in the survey said milk had become almost like a luxury product due to the effect of Covid-19 on the economy. Mutugi said the dairy industry in partnership with his department and other players were working together in mitigating and reducing the challenges posed by the pandemic. Devyani Foods MD Vijay Singh said they were touched by the good job the frontline workers are doing and hence their decision to join with Kenya Dairy Board to make the donations and express their appreciation. “Today we stand in solidarity with our frontline workers for the sacrifice and the risks they are taking to protect everybody else. We are here to appreciate their work and put a smile on their face,” Singh said. KNH board chairman George Opondo said the donations would be put into good use and would be distributed to KNH and its satellite centres.  Edited by P.O