A national government official in Machakos has said the 4,000 teenage pregnancies reported by the Children’s Department are correct despite objection by the county government. Speaking in her office on Wednesday, county commissioner Esther Maina said  even though the number was alarming, the data was correct. This comes a day after the county government released its own report on the number of teenage pregnancies on record. According to a letter seen by the Star, this year, the numbers were lower than 2019’s January-May report. It indicated that the county recorded 4,710 cases last year and 3,963 this year contrary to what was announced on Tuesday. The letter, which was addressed to the Children’s Department, read, “The figures you have given are portraying the wrong picture regarding teenage pregnancies in Machakos county”. The county, through Health CEC Ancent Kituku, said the department might have miscounted and wanted it to reverse the “negative trend”. However, the report from the department shows it had recorded 3,964 cases as of May. Children’s officer Salome Muthama on Tuesday said the numbers ranged around 4,000. On Wednesday, Maina said even though the figures are correct, they differed with police records. She said police had recorded fewer numbers since parents do not report defilement and rape. Parents are said to be solving the cases traditionally or through kangaroo courts. Maina urged the community not conceal information and perpetrators. “For instance, if the crime is committed by the father, the mother will prefer to preserve her marriage than report the husband and the child is denied justice,” she said. Maina vowed to follow up on reported cases until justice is served. She said cases were fewer before the coronavirus pandemic since the administration was conducting public awareness. Maina warned perpetrators and parents against abetting the vice, saying parents who will be found negotiating with suspects will be jailed. She warned chiefs and their assistants found concealing crucial information that they risk losing their jobs besides facing criminal charges. “Let me get any chief doing kangaroo courts on any crime case. You will be sacked and jailed. Let’s be responsible and solve these matters through the right procedure,” Maina said. The official said the administration will collaborate with hospitals to get the data without interfering with the victims’ privacy. Police commander Karanja Muiruri said the police had recorded few rape and defilement cases – “around 40” – and faulted society for hiding cases. “Across all the eight subcounties, no single case of defilement and rape on teenagers was reported since March. So parents, take up your responsibilities,” he said. Muiruri said the police will follow up on the matter and all the perpetrators will be brought to book. “If all these cases were reported, it would have been easier to capture the perpetrators but the parents chose to solve them the Kangaroo way,” he said. Muiruri warned lodgings and bar owners against accommodating children, saying they risk being jailed and their establishments closed down. Edited by R.Wamochie