Meru MCAs want hospitals in the county equipped with drugs and more health workers deployed to meet the needs of residents. In a motion tabled in the assembly, the MCAs said many patients were being referred to Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital with minor illnesses. The illnesses, they said, can be handled at the ward or subcounty level if the health facilities were upgraded to required standards. The ward reps petitioned Governor Kiraitu Murungi to review and reclassify health facilities to aid the fight against Covid-19. Akithi MCA David Kaithia who tabled the motion Wednesday said health services should be brought near wananchi to cater for their needs. “Today, (Wednesday) there were protests at Mweronkanga health centre because a child could not get personnel to attend to them. The highest-ranked staffer there is a clinical officer. The child had to die because there was no professional to handle the case,” he said. If the hospital was equipped and relevant professionals deployed, the child could have survived, he said. Nominated MCA Karimi Njeru said the county has the fifth largest population in the country, thus the need for better health facilities. “Things can’t remain the same 10 years after devolution. The review will allow investments in medicines, personnel and equipment to all facilities for effective, efficient and proper services,” she said. Kithinji Ethaiba of Nkomo ward said most health facilities in Meru are in deplorable condition. Nkomo said three dispensaries in his ward were without electricity and water.  Each of the dispensaries has only one nurse and cannot operate for 24 hours. “The coronavirus has taught us the hardest way. It is treating the rich and poor equally and time is now to uplift health facilities in the wards to discourage trips abroad for medication and treatment,” Ethaiba said. Maua MCA George Muthuri said that there is no male ward in the whole of Nyambene region. Priscilla Karauki and Makena Muthaura said some of the facilities are like school sick bays which offer only painkillers. (edited by o. owino)