The Ministry of Lands is in the limelight after the Senate launched investigations into arbitrary closures and claims of poor administration of land registries. The Senate Lands committee has swung into action following a petition by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) on shutdowns and poor service in land offices. Kepsa CEO Carole Kariuki said the arbitrary closures reportedly to allow for audits and digitisation of records, coupled with inadequacies at the registries, are hurting business. There is also a risk of documents being tampered with, she said. She said the shutdown of Central and Nairobi registries would result in an enormous negative impact on the economy. “The closure of the registries not only has an enormous impact on the economy due to the many transactions and processes that are delayed, but when done in an arbitrary manner, it will undo the profound progress we have made on matters land reforms whose ripple effect will be far-reaching,” Kariuki said in the petition read out by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Tuesday. The Speaker directed the team chaired by Nyandarua Senator Mwangi Githiomi to immediately probe the allegations and table a report within 60 days. The ministry has been closing registries to digitise and audit records that are said to have been tampered with by wayward officials over the years. Kariuki said inadequate and poorly trained staff and lack of a file tracking system, have complicated matters. “Due to inadequate and poorly trained staff at the lands registry, there are some cases where wrong stamp duty values are embossed on instruments,” Kariuki said. Cases of misplaced files are also on the rise owing to lack of a tracking system, the CEO said. “There is a huge challenge in getting access to registrars resulting in inefficient and slow resolution of issues and long transactional periods,” the petition reads. In some instances, Kariuki noted, the lands registrar requires the production of court proceedings to recognise court orders, leading to delays in some transactions that have already been settled by the court. Kepsa further faulted the continued implementation of the Land Information Management System despite the annulment of the Land Registration (Electronic Land Transactions) Regulations 2019 by both Parliament and the High Court. "That following the annulment of the regulations, the ministry has continued to unlawfully implement the Land Information Management System without the proper statutory backing," Kariuki said.  Edited by A.N