Hiram Kahiro is headed back to the national government after Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia relieved him of his county secretary and head of public service duties. “Time has come for me to go back to the national government to be assigned some other duties,” Kahiro said on Wednesday while handing over to Education, Culture, Gender and Social Services executive Stephen Njoroge, who will be acting in the position until a substantive replacement is appointed. Kahiro was seconded to Nyandarua two and half years ago from Kwale where he was the acting deputy county commissioner. He was to serve for three years. His tenure was to end on November 14. The administrator told the Star he was leaving Nyandarua prematurely after Kimemia released him for unknown reasons. “You know I was serving at the pleasure of the governor. The governor told me he has released me to go back to the national government. "I don't know the reason. That is the discretion of the appointing authority. I cannot speculate. I think he is the only one who can answer that,” Kahiro said. He said he had no bad blood or poor working relationship with Kimemia. "We  worked closely and spoke every day," he said. When contacted on Thursday, the governor said that was a minor issue. “Why not deal with a bigger issue, Ndichu? This is a good officer. Give him peace,” read his response to a text message by this writer. Kahiro said he was leaving with his head high, noting that Nyandarua had achieved much growth in his tenure as County Secretary and Chief of Staff. He thanked Kimemia for his "unwavering support and trust he accorded him in the two and a half years tour of duty. He was also the leader of the World Bank-funded Kenya Devolution Support Programme. Under the programme, Nyandarua was ranked first nationwide in 2018 and 2019. “It was a worthwhile experience because I have grown my administration career. I worked as an administrator for one of the busiest ministries in Kenya. I then went to the field and worked as an assistant county commissioner, deputy county commissioner, acting county commissioner, and then came here. "It has added to my experience and I am very grateful for the opportunity the governor gave me to work in his government,” he said. Kahiro commended Kimemia for prioritising the welfare of county government staff, noting that salaries are paid by the 25th of every month, with the statutory and other deductions remitted accordingly." Njoroge thanked Kahiro for his exemplary service and wished him well at the Office of the President. He described him as passionate, hardworking and excellent thinker. “I can’t say I have any experience in this office, but with God’s help and blessings we shall continue working as directed by the governor. Our business here is to support the governor in serving the people of Nyandarua and you have done it so well," he said.  - mwaniki fm