The government has directed that all cargo from Mombasa be transported through the SGR to cut coronavirus transmission by 50 per cent. Transport CS James Macharia said on Tuesday their investigations had established that transport corridors had emerged as the leading transmission point for the coronavirus. He said truck drivers accounted for a high percentage of those who have tested positive for Covid-19, hence the measures to address this. “All cargo from Mombasa to Mai Mahiu Inland Depot Container will be ferried through the SGR. This will reduce transmission of Covid-19 in our transport corridors by 50 per cent,” the CS said. Speaking after touring the just completed Sh6.9 billion facility in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, the CS defended the cost of transportation noting that transporters would save up to $450 by using the modern railway. He said he had engaged his Ugandan counterpart and all concerns, including parking spaces, accommodation for drivers and clearance, had been addressed. “Under the SGR, we have reduced the distance from Mombasa to Malaba by 600km while it will take 10 hours from 48 hours for cargo to arrive to the ICD in Mai Mahiu,” he said. Macharia noted that Sh3.5 billion had been set aside to upgrade the old railway line from Naivasha to Malaba – it will be completed in 12 months. “Once the upgrading is complete, all cargo to neighbouring countries will be ferried using trains as we shift from trailers which have caused tens of accidents along our roads,” he said. On the Namanga border, Macharia said Kenya and Tanzania had agreed to construct mobile laboratories on both sides to address the delays truck drivers were facing. However, some drivers in Mai Mahiu expressed concerns over the delay in clearing and collecting of cargo since the depot started operations. One of the drivers, Ali Issa, said the government should address the frequent harassment of drivers by Uganda authorities and residents. Driver Nicholas Wamalwa said parking and sanitation have remained a challenge. Edited by A.N