About 4,443 Standard 8 pupils from Kiharu constituency have benefited from free revision materials from the Consituency Development Fund. MP Ndindi Nyoro said each of the pupils will get a revision book that encompasses all five subjects. The books will help pupils prepare for the national examinations as they contain questions that come up most frequently in KCPE exams. He said the e-learning programme being implemented by the national government has left out a majority of the pupils in the constituency who come from poor backgrounds. “Schools will re-open and exams will be done so we had to find a way to help them prepare. The books will help the pupils to learn at home,” Ndindi said. The books have been simplified to help pupils learn by themselves under the supervision of their parents. “The books are targeting public primary pupils but if we identify seriously challenged pupils from private schools, they will also be assisted,” he said. Ndindi said a similar plan to provide revision materials to Form 4 candidates is being worked on in consultation with principals. He urged parents to take up the role of supervising children seriously in the absence of teachers. “Teachers are at home because of the pandemic and that cannot change. We want Kiharu to continue performing well even in this year’s examinations,” the MP said, adding that there is no better bridge from poverty than education. Kahuro subcounty education director Peter Kavurya said the project will supplement the learning materials pupils took home from school. Kavurya said the books will help candidates revise all subjects, reiterating that they are easy to study. “I am asking pupils to take advantage of the books and revise seriously, and parents to ensure they guide them,” she added. Murang’a East Head Teachers Association chairperson James Mugo lauded the MP for his efforts to assist pupils. He said 80 per cent of pupils in the subcounty do not have accessibility to internet and were missing out from e-learning. He said he will liase with head teachers to ensure the books reach all pupils from 54 primary schools in a few days. His Kahuro counterpart Charles Kiragu said his area has 60 public schools, most of them in rural areas. “A few children have been trying to access e-learning but they have been experiencing challenges. Now each pupil will have revision books and revise in the comfort of their homes,” he said. He asked parents to stop giving the candidates too much chores to give them enough time to study and create timetables to schedule their studies. Edited by R.Wamochie