MPs have recommended creating more administrative units and other measures to end perennial tribal clashes between the Kipsigis and the Maasai in Narok South subcounty. Vice chairman John Waluke of the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security said members would ensure the issues raised by the communities are addressed to end the violence. “If establishing more locations and sublocations will bring peace and stability, then we are fully supporting it,” Waluke said on Monday. Maasais blame the Kipsigis for taking and buying huge chunks of their land, diminishing their property and political power. There are frequent attacks and revenge attacks. The Sirisia MP was responding to petitions submitted to the committee by the two tribes after they toured the clash-hit areas in Oleshapani and Olpusimoru of Narok county on Monday. Earlier, they toured Transmara West subcounty where they received petitions from members of Siria and Uasin Gishu clans of the Maasai community after recent skirmishes between them. In attendance were Narok county commissioner Samuel Kimiti, MPs Korei Lemein (Narok South), Marselino Malimo (Laisamis), Oka Kaunya (Teso North), Abdi Omar Shurie (Balambala) and Ololulunga MCA Jafferson Langat. Waluke said they will take the matters seriously because if not addressed they will lead to more bloodshed. “As your servants, we will fight for these issues to be implemented by the government to find lasting solutions to the problems afflicting you," he said. The legislator urged the two communities to shun tribalism, which has been overtaken by time. "Tribalism will not add value to life and we need to preach peace and reconciliation because it will spur development and improve living standards,” Waluke said. The MP warned security officers to maintain peace and avoid taking sides. Lemein said the issue of new administrative units are at an advanced stage, adding he was waiting for the government to gazette them. Kimiti said it was illegal for the two tribes to carry bows, arrows and spears in public. Those who s will be arrested and charged, he said. Eric Chepkwony, a Kipsigis representative, said the imbalance in governance has led to constant conflicts between communities. “Despite this area being cosmopolitan, the administrators and the leaders are drawn from one community in a situation that causes tension and suspicion among locals whenever a dispute arises,” Chepkwony said. Jackson Kamoye, representing the Maasai community, said land issues, evictions of Mau evictees and incitement by politicians have led to frequent violence. (Edited by V. Graham)