The government has announced a plan to channel Sh1 billion to the National Blood Transfusion Services. Through the Ministry of Health, the government said the amount from World Bank will play a key role in ensuring the service has enough blood as required by the World Health Organisation. Health CAS Dr Rashid Aman said the amount will also be part of the national blood donations campaigns to be launched on Sunday to commemorate International Blood Donor day. "The government has made additional investment to this agency with an aim of boosting its capacity in blood collection," Aman said. He said the government is reviewing the governance structure of the entity and changes might be implemented in a few months to come. "We have so far had an additional 22 members of staff to reinforce the human resource. The amount from World blank will also boost blood collection to our satellite sites across the country including purchasing of blood bags, right equipment and reagents to ensure the blood that is donated is properly handled and is safe for the patients," Aman said. He said the world at large is experiencing between 70 and 80 per cent drop in blood donation, a situation attributed to the current Covid-19 pandemic. We have a population of about 50 million people and as per the WHO requirements, we need to have an annual blood bank of at least one percent of the population. This translates to 500,000 pints of blood," he said. Aman said this means that he NBTS agency ought to collect 1,370 pints of blood every day for Kenya to have sufficient stock in a year. "This is not however the case. We have had challenges in blood collection and we have only been managing about 450 pints in a day. This is evidently way below WHO's requirements," he said. He added, "As Covid-19 disrupts most activities, our collection has further dropped from 450 pints a day to 250 pints". "This is why we intend to capacity build the agency to become semi-autonomous so that it can operate with some level of autonomy for effectiveness and proficiency," Aman said. He said the government has partnered with Facebook and Datasasa systems to help in online blood donation campaigns. Currently, over 12,779 people have sent out reminders on their Facebook and 1,522 have already booked to donate in some of the 33 centres across the country, he said.