Police in Kakamega on Saturday teargassed six MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto in in Malava Constituency. The MPs Ben Washiali, Didimus Barasa Mwambu Nabonga, Justus Murunga and Ferdinand Wanyonyi had gathered at their colleague Malulu Injendi to discuss issues affecting the Western region. The MPs had to run for their safety, some hiding in maize plantation after police broke up their meeting. This comes a day after police dispersed crowds with teargas during Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula's meet the people tour of Bungoma county. Wetang'ula's convoy was cut short by police officers who dispersed crowds with teargas and barricaded all roads he was to pass through to greet his supporters. Barasa, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga, Wanyonyi, Sakwa Bunyansi, Alfred Agoi, Mabongah and a host of MCA's and local leaders. In Malava, police arrived at the legislator's home and ordered the MPs who were seated in tents and members of the public to leave for violating the Covid-19 protocol on gatherings. Barasa and a section of MCAs engaged police in arguments, some hurling abuses at the officers. It was this point that Malava subcounty police commander Peter Mwanzo ordered officers to lob teargas at the groupings in the MP's home. Mabongah described police action as barbaric in present times. "Why should police throw tear at us when we meet to discuss issues affecting our people? This is intimidation and we will not succumb to this," he said Washiali said that it was unacceptable that police can teargas six MPs meeting to talk to each other but provide security to Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya and devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa host hundreds of people under the pretext of distributing food. But Mwanzo said that police acted on orders from above. Wetang’ula condemned the harassment by police saying that he had notified them that he was going to tour the county after which he was given a go head "We heard informed the county commisoner Abdi Hassan that I would be touring the county as I greet my electorates by passing, as I was very much aware of the Covid-19 ministry of health directives," he said. The senator further said that there was no wrongdoing to warrant such a huge number of antiriot police on the roads and harassment. The senator who was accompanied by other leaders was forced to cut short his trip and walked for about three kilometers from Nalondo to his Kanduyi home. Women selling groceries and Boda Boda riders were not left out in the scuffle as some had to flee from the police tear gas living their valuables behind. Wetangula however blamed his harrasement on political vendettas. "We are responsible leaders and we know how to protect ourselves and our people from covid and this is just political malice," he said The senator further warned leaders who were out to divide Mulembe Nation due selfish interests that they will not succeed. He said that he is a seasoned politician who will ensure those who want to divide western by dissolving FK and Amani party will not succeed.