Harambee Stars centre Musa Mohammed is looking for a new club after running out his two-year long contract with 12-time Zambian champions Nkana last month. Musa revealed that he is currently a free agent  and he is hopeful of signing a new deal.  The hard-tackling defender had in April hinted of having five offers from different clubs lying on his table but believes the pandemic has slowed down the negotiations as clubs are reluctant to spend. Among the clubs who were reported to be muscling for Musa's signature are record Tanzanian champions Yanga. "I haven't heard from them a in the recent past despite having contacted my agent earlier," he said. “My contract with Nkana ended last month but I hope I will get a lucrative deal once the virus is behind us. Clubs who were interested have seemingly slowed negotiations as the pandemic is still with us and has had a major impact on them financially. It is also uncertain on when football will resume normally but I believe the dust will settle and I will get a club,” he opened up. With sporting activities and public gatherings still suspended, the former Gor Mahia skipper counts himself lucky considering he can still access the Ligi Ndogo grounds, where he carries out individual training. The 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge winning skipper with Stars said no local club had capitalised on his availability to contacted him or his agent for probable deal. “I try as much as I can to keep fit at Ligi Ndogo grounds while observing the health guidelines given by the government through the Ministry of Health. Apart from the five offers, no other club has expressed interest both locally and internationally,” he added The former FK Tirana man, meanwhile,  hopes the Fifa proposal on contracts which ended while football leagues in different countries were on suspension, will favour him. Fifa proposed to clubs to retain and continue paying players who had run out of contracts during this period or renew their terms for a few months until normalcy returns. “The season in Zambia is still suspended but its yet to conclude and I hope Nkana will implement the proposal from Zurich,” he said.