Two years to the next general election, at least 22 governors whose terms end in 2022 have begun scheming for survival. The second-term county chiefs, now accustomed to the trappings of power, attention and huge budgets, are exploring options that will keep them in the limelight. The incumbents, it would appear, have limited options for their next course of action in the run-up to the 2022 elections. The only 'superior' seat to the one they currently hold is the presidency. Like the President, the Constitution stipulates that a governor can only hold office for two terms. A handful is toying with going for the presidency or being the running mates of big names. Some are planning to retire, while many others hope to get plum state appointments. Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) are amongst those who have declared their interest in the presidency. Governors Ali Roba (Mandera) and Salim Mvurya (Kwale) are also serving their last terms. Murang'a Governor Mwngi Wa Iria and Embu's Martin Wambora — the two governors who secured their second terms in Mt Kenya region — have not publicly declared their 2022 ambitions. But recently Wambora, the man with nine lives, told the Star his 15-year stint in politics is long enough and he will gladly hang up his political boots for what he says would be one of the most exciting times of his life. He first joined politics as MP for Runyenjes. The others from the region were swept out of their plum positions in the 2017 General Election. Oparanya, who is also the chairman of the influential Council of Governors, is said to be plotting a presidential run after he completes his two terms, and so are Mutua and Kibwana. Joho, who is also a deputy leader of the ODM party just like Oparanya, has hinted that he could throw his hat in the presidential ring in 2022. On Thursday, Oparanya who is credited with an impeccable development record in Kakamega, told the Star he is going for nothing short of the presidency. “For now, I am concentrating on concluding the projects that I promised my people. I have done my best and my record speaks for itself. I want to ask Kenyans to give me a mandate to lead them,” he said. Oparanya wants ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula to support his State House bid. “I can’t be helping people every day. It’s time they also helped me. As they have been unable to clinch the seat, let them leave this thing and pave the way for me,” he said. The county chief is said to be laying firm groundwork for a presidential run and he has previously asked other heavyweights from the region to back his bid. He already received a boost last week after the Teso community endorsed his ambitions. While some governors have publicly made their 2022 political ambitions clear, some, especially those from Nyanza region serving their last terms, are keeping everyone guessing. This is because ODM leader Raila Odinga, the region's political kingpin who enjoys near fanatical support, is also said to be eyeing the country's top seat. He is yet to declare publicly. Those from Nyanza not clear about their next steps include James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), Okoth Obado (Migori) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay). But Siaya's Cornel Rasanga has previously stated that he would run for the Senate in 2022 after he was successfully voted in twice. “I see myself playing a big role in the country’s political arena, first by becoming the county senator in 2022 and thereafter considering running for the presidency,” Rasanga was quoted saying. Analysts say with Raila still in the 2022 presidential contest, governors from his backyard will not express their ambitions for the top seat as that would be seen as undermining the opposition chief in his own backyard. Political analyst Felix Odhiambo said governors completing their two terms in 2022 must strategise well to remain relevant. “That is why we had seen many of them rally behind the Building Bridges Initiative to expand the Executive so they can be accommodated,” he said. He added, “Going forward, we will definitely see them vigorously supporting constitutional changes which seek to create more seats in the Executive.” The BBI juggernaut was halted by the coronavirus pandemic but it is likely to resume when the restrictions on public gatherings are lifted. Joho, who has styled himself as the kingpin of Coast politics, says he will run for president in 2022. “If I didn’t have national political ambitions, I’d have retired at age 50. It’s only that I am running for president,” Joho said in November when asked if he had higher ambitions. However, governors from Deputy President William Ruto's Rift Valley backyard have remained tight-lipped about their next step. Some have been ardent supporters of Ruto, who is facing a big political test following his falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Outspoken Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Turkana boss Josphat Nanok and their Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos are among those serving second terms in the Rift Valley. Tolgos is allied to an anti-Ruto axis led by Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. Others from the region include Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and Narok's Samuel Tunai. Governors with presidential ambitions are assembling political war chests and acquiring the requisite wherewithal in readiness for the bruising battle. The Star has established that those not keen on contesting the presidency plan to align themselves with the political force they consider likely to win. Governors could be pushing for constitutional changes to restructure the national Executive to introduce more seats at the helm in hopes they would be beneficiaries of the new dispensation. There is agitation to reintroduce the position of prime minister and two deputies to neutralise the influence of the presidency and provide opportunities for heavyweight governors. After the 2017 polls, some of the governors who were defeated were appointed to the Cabinet as a soft landing. Former Council of Governors chairman and ex-Meru Governor Peter Munya is the Agriculture Cabinet Secretary, while Ukur Yatani (Marsabit) is the CS for Treasury. Others are former West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin, who is serving as Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Mining. Hussein Dado, who was Tana River governor, is tInterior CAS. Former Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka was elected Senate Speaker after Jubilee rode to power following his defeat at the gubernatorial polls. Ex-Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua is the State House Comptroller.