Championship leaders Strathmore Leos intend to sign five players in a bid to bolster their squad ahead of next season. Speaking yesterday, head coach Louis Kisia said they have identified players from championship clubs and were awaiting the transfer window. “As the technical bench has already identified players we want to sign and we are looking at strengthening the forwards, which has been our main problem. We will have a couple of reinforcements to bolster that position,” noted Kisia. The Leos have amassed 76 points out of a possible 80 and Kisia credits fitness, mental strength, teamwork and coordination between the backs and forwards as reasons for the team’s success. “I’m delighted with the way we have played this season. The desire and hunger shown by the players to bounce back after being relegated has been key in our comeback,” noted Kisia. The varsity outfit are  on a 16-match unbeaten run in the championship. The former Mwamba player and coach said planning for next season had started despite the uncertainty surrounding the present campaign. “We are looking ahead to next season and hopefully, if we go up, we must strengthen all our departments to ensure we stay in the top tier. Kisia said the suspension of the league in March has not stopped their clamour for promotion to the Kenya Cup. “We were on a good trajectory and naturally you will feel disappointed. However, we have not lost our focus and we know our target is to be back among the elite. We hope the league will return soon,” added Kisia. The Kenya Cup and other leagues were suspended by the union following the coronavirus pandemic. The union has formed a committee with clubs to come up with a solution on how the league will conclude. The Leos were slated to play the winner of the Northern Suburbs v United States International University in the semis. Elsewhere,  Mwamba have announced Samurai sportswear as the club’s official technical partner for the 2020-21 season. The partnership will see the club playing and coaching unit don Samurai jerseys moving from previous sponsor BLK which was used for the 2019-20 season. The club has also unveiled replica jerseys and a new range of supporters leisure wear and accessories available in all sizes including children sizes.