Matatu operators from Murang’a county have asked the government to ease the coronavirus restrictions to save their livelihoods. Managers of the Murang’a Shuttle Sacco said they have lost on average Sh9 million every month due to the ban on travel into and out of the Nairobi metropolitan area. The sacco’s director Martin Wairimu said most of its matatu operators ply the Murang’a-Thika-Nairobi route and are currently out of work. The travel ban has rendered most of the sacco's workers jobless and occasioned huge losses to the owners. Wairimu appealed to the government to ease operational measures for matatu operators to help them resume work. “We have been out of work for three months now and have used up most of our savings. Imposing directives that are too strict and which may require huge sums of money to implement will only aggravate our situation,” Wairimu said. He opposed suggestions that matatu seats be fitted afresh to ensure they only ferry the right number of passengers at a time. Wairimu said fitting matatu seats cost an average of Sh40,000 and many owners may not afford the cost now. “If the President gives us a chance to go back to work, we are ready to follow the given guidelines,” Wairimu said. Their intention is not to make profits but to ensure the workers resume work, he said. The director noted that the sacco has a set of strict rules that helps to control matatu operators. They will conduct road inspections to ensure the government’s guidelines are followed, he said. Sacco treasurer Peter Kabore said most of the matatu owners acquire their vehicles on credit and need to resume work so that they can service their loans. “This means so many other institutions are suffering because we have parked our matatus,” he said. Every matatu makes about Sh4,000 a day, which is now being lost, Kabore said. The sacco has about 200 workers including drivers, touts and staffers who were sent home when the restrictions were imposed. “Overall, we have lost about Sh30 million since March. We are asking the government to consider the matatu sector as it eases the lockdown,” he said. Roy Waweru, another director, said so many people rely on the matatu sector to survive including mechanics and car wash workers and that they were suffering. “When we were told to carry only eight passengers, we complied. Even now, we are willing to follow the directives given to the letter,” Waweru said. (edited by o. owino)