Health ministry officials will travel to Havana at the end of the year to renegotiate and have the Cuban health specialists work in Kenya longer. Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe says the government intends to extend the deal for more years. The country has spent nearly Sh900 million on the programme since it was initiated in 2018. It was to expire this month, but the Health CS extended it for six months. "We are planning to do it for more years. We are waiting for the Covid-19 pandemic cases to be reduced so we can travel to Cuba to have a conversation with the government," Kagwe said. If the exchange programme is extended, the 50 Kenyan doctors, who have been in Cuba for two years at a cost of Sh215 million to the government, are expected to be replaced by an expanded cohort that will include nurses and clinical officers. On Tuesday, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya welcomed the extension. “It will help a lot, especially now that counties are registering high numbers of Covid-19 cases," he said. However, the Kenya Medical Association, a doctors' lobby, opposed the extension, saying the programme is not serving the health needs of Kenya. “One would expect the government to evaluate the programme to assess its usefulness to justify the extension. To the best of my knowledge, no such assessment was done,” KMA vice president Lukoye Atwoli said. “And listening to our members, the impact is zero. It might have other political justifications, but there is no health justification.” Prof Atwoli accused the government of taking advantage of young doctors desperate to advance their careers and sending them to Cuba for specialist training in family medicine. “When they return, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council will have a difficult time registering them,” he said. Prof Atwoli said the family medicine training in Cuba is not recognised outside that country. “The training does not meet Cap 253 of our laws on who can be considered a specialist. They are just wasting the time of these young doctors,” he said. But county Health executives said the non-family health specialists from Cuba were making an impact. "Without them, our ICU in Makueni would not be operational. There are similar stories in all the counties where they are deployed. The added value of family physicians has not been documented but with primary healthcare being a pillar to the attainment of the UHC, there is definitely a value in having them," Makueni Health executive Andrew Mulwa told the Star. Mulwa also chairs the caucus of all county health executives in Kenya. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers' secretary general George Gibore said there were some gains. “When the Cubans came, we had very high expectations of them, and the ministry should give us an update on what they have contributed,” he said. Gibore said the Kenya Medical Training College benefitted through the introduction of family health training in its programmes. “Some counties also got surgeons where the local surgeon is never present.” Although 100 Cuban doctors came to Kenya in 2018, there are about 97 left after al Shabaab kidnapped Assel Herrera and Landy Rodriguez in Mandera on April 12 last year. They remain captive in Somalia. The militants reportedly asked for $1.5 million (about Sh150 million) ransom, which both the Kenyan and Cuban governments said they will not pay. One other Cuban doctor attached to the Nyeri Referral Hospital, Dr Eisy Cabrera, returned to her country in 2018 after it was discovered that she had a brain tumour.  Edited by F'Orieny