@Yobramos4 "I have been tested for coronavirus four times, the last on May 26, but I am yet to know the results," Allan Njoroge said on Monday. He's among the 170 distressed Covid-19 patients put in isolation at the Technical University of Mombasa (TUM). Njoroge was taken into isolation immediately after his wife's death. The death was attributed to coronavirus. That was early last month. He was whisked into isolation alongside his two children after they tested positive for Covid-19. “At Port Reitz, when I was told my wife died of corona, we were tested the first time,” Njoroge told Muslim for Human Rights. According to Mombasa public health chief officer Khadija Shikely, the TUM Covid-19 Isolation Centre takes care of asymptomatic patients. Muhuri visited the centre on Monday following chaos caused by distressed patients protesting delay in releasing of results. Njoroge said he has adhered to all the regulations since his isolation. “I took all the medicine they gave me. I even put water in the medicine bottle to ensure I took the last drop of the medicine. But still the doctors told me to stay put,” the casual labourer said. One of his sons, who is seven years, was discharged five days ago but he has nowhere to go since his father is still detained. “My son has been allowed to leave. But where will he go? His mother is no more. The other children who he can play with are here. My other children who were not brought here are staying with neighbours. They are too young,” Njoroge said. His frustrations resonate with the other patients at the centre. Moses Afande said he lost his job when SGR halted their services due to the coronavirus pandemic. He had already taken a test on May 15 when his bosses insisted all of them had to be tested. With no job any more, Afande said he resorted to being a porter, carrying people’s luggage for pay. He tested positive on Ma 15 and was isolated at TUM. His family was tested and found negative. “I am the breadwinner and I have not worked for 15 days which I have spent here. I have been tested once here and my results are yet to come out,” Afande said. His woes continue to mount. “On Sunday, I was given a three-day eviction notice because I have not paid rent for two months,” he said. He criticised their handling in isolation, saying it was to blame for their frustrations and distress. “The doctors should be explaining to us what the problems are and what they are doing about them. Making us wait forever for results is killing us,” Afande said. “It is better for them to come and explain to us why the results are not out or why they delay. That way we will know that at least someone cares.” Sule Shaaban has been at the facility for 16 days. He was tested five days after arrival but the results are yet to be disclosed to him. Shaaban said he was given three-day dose and later another two-day dose. He and his two children were picked from their house in Nyali after a test they had taken in the community returned positive results. He said he was last tested on May 27. The results are yet to be known. He is supposed to be looking after his sick mother who went to Tanzania for treatment. She is stuck there. “Yesterday (Sunday) I spoke to madam (Shikely) and she told me my records show that I have not been tested and that I will have to be tested again,” Shaaban said on Monday. Shikely said the patients will have to be tested again on the 14th day. “So, I was informing him that he has not been tested for the 14th day,” Shikely told the Star. Christine, another patient who only identified herself by one name, was admitted on May 8. She has been tested five times. “Every time I get tested, I have to disturb them with calls for them to give me my results, which have all turned positive,” she said. Christine said some patients got her there and have already been released. She was last tested on May 26 and was found to be positive. She said her children, who were also taken to some quarantine facilities, were set to be released on Tuesday. “I’m told they have tested negative. I don’t know what will happen because I live with them in a single-room house for which I have not paid rent for three months,” Christine said. Her husband lost his job immediately the virus outbreak spread to Kenya. “The landlord wants his money. I don’t know what I will do,” she said. Celine Nekesa was admitted on May 18 after she was picked from her workplace. “This is my 14th day here. I have gone through all manner of frustrations from being denied a bedsheet to being given bad food,” Nekesa said. A lady she was admitted with was released after eight days, she said. Nekesa was last tested on May 22 and is yet to receive the results. “I left my children aged 10 and four with my neighbour. Here, we do not get soap and sanitary pads,” Nekesa said. Shikely said the delay in the release of the results is beyond their control. The Coast General Hospital testing lab, which was the fastest in the release of results ran out of control chemicals, which are yet to be delivered. The national government is responsible for the supply of the control chemicals. Shikely said the test samples are now being taken to Kemri laboratories in Kilifi and Nairobi. “Two of the 14 lab technicians at Coast General Hospital were infected and all the other 12 had to be quarantined. This affected the timely release of the results,” the chief officer said. “We have a backlog of more than 1,000 tests whose results we are waiting for.” She said for the last five days, there have been no controls. “We don’t buy these things. We get them from Nairobi. Don’t blame us,” she told those in isolation. Shikely said they received some results from Kenyatta National Hospital Monday morning. “We are pushing them to give more results from our samples,” she said. She said those that were released after a few days was because their companies, including Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Ferry Services, requested for their release from TUM. “They were not released from here to go home. They were taken to other private facilities where their companies can afford to pay,” Shikley said. She said she received two names of patients who had requested to have food taken to their families at home. The county, through the relief programme, will take food to the families. Christine said samples have been taken to Nairobi for further analysis after all the five tests were found positive, the official said. “We have spoken with Nairobi officials and we are waiting for the results to know if the virus is still infectious or not. We will get the results this week and we can then release you,” Christine was told. There are about five similar cases at Coast General Hospital where patients have stayed for over a month. Shikely said 90-95 per cent of coronavirus patients are asymptomatic and might not even know they have the virus. “Some present the symptoms that can be managed. Only two per cent of the patients are severe cases and may need ventilators,” she said. "However, those with the virus can easily spread it to those who are vulnerable, hence the need for quarantine." Muslims for Human Rights chairman Khelef Khalifa said the national government should take responsibility and pay rent for those who have been quarantined and cannot pay. “That should be the responsibility of the central government,” Khalifa said.  Edited by P.O