ODM leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday hailed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Madaraka Day address to the nation saying it was ‘fit the occasion’. The AU envoy said it was a good thing that the Head of State reminded Kenyans of the country’s journey since the 1963 independence. Raila said the conciliatory tone struck by the President was a reflection of what they discussed when laying basis for the March 2018 handshake. “This is a reflection of what we discussed with him. This is generally the basis of the BBI and he has confirmed in his speech that he wants to leave a legacy of a united county; which I share with him,” the ODM boss said. He added: “Whoever did the speech did good research and fits this occasion. The sentiment takes us down the memory lane, the challenges and the up and downs and the way forward.” On the referendum issue, Raila urged Kenyans to shun perceptions that the vote is meant to serve a certain group of interests. “We have said several times that what we want to do is not for selfish interests. We have a duty as citizens to bequeath the future generation a better country for our people,” the ODM leader said. “This is what we want. This calls for sacrifices on behalf of everybody,” he appealed, ostensibly targeting those with 2022 presidential ambitions. In his speech, President Kenyatta underscored the need for the country to base its future decisions on the lessons learned so far. He reiterated the place of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) as the cure to country’s cancer of post-poll disputes. “The constitutional moment I discern is one that will bring an end to the senseless cycles of violence we have experienced in every election since 1992,” the President said. He said Kenyans cannot reimagine their nationhood without changing the country’s political architecture. “And we cannot change this architecture without re-engineering our constitution,” the President said, signalling the inevitability of a referendum. “…the greater things that remain to be done have to do with our governance system.  And we must not be afraid of changing this system if it does not serve our present purposes,” he added. The President said the country’s needs “political leaders totally committed to promoting not self but what will transform the lives of our people.” ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and DP William Ruto have been among top voices raising concerns on the place of the BBI process. Before the Covid-19 pandemic ground the initiative’s activities to a temporary halt, the DP hailed the movement as one set to stop his 2022 bid. Raila appealed to leaders that it was time they “must shun self and look at the country as a whole and become more patriotic in what they want to do.” “It is not a job for a boy but taking cognisance of our past, the challenges we have faced and how we intend to take,” the ODM leader said. DP Ruto, in his speech, steered clear of politics only reminding Kenyans that they have over time made tough decisions when faced with any challenge. “Kenyans are praying. Many spiritual leaders are praying. The Covid19 has exposed our inadequacy and what God can do,” the DP said in his first public statement since the upheavals in the Jubilee party began. (edited by o. owino)