After missing out on the promotion basket to the Kenyan Premier League following the controversial conclusion of the 2019-2020 season, Ushuru head coach James 'Odijo' Omondi is certain that their four- year stay in the second tier will end next season. Omondi was elevated to the rank of head coach in July last year but says the move by Football Kenya Federation to conclude the season blew their chance to gain promotion, a target he had set before the campaign served off. The former Muhoroni Youth tactician, who disclosed that he had been at the touchline for the last 29 years, said the unprecedented turn of events did not only affect Ushuru but other teams who were also pursuing promotion and battling to beat the drop. He, however, said the break will not dampen his quest to spearhead the club back to the top league as well as restoring their lost glory. "I am proud of the run we had last season although we did not attain our target due to the virus which engineered the premature ending of the season. The ultimate goal for the last four years has been to reclaim our position in the elite league—a feat which my predecessor did not meet. I am looking forward to making the dream come true once football resumes," he said With the resumption of sporting activities still uncertain,the former KCB coach called on his players to double their efforts in training at home. He said this will give them an edge over the rest should the new season kick off by the end of August as stipulated. KPL top eight tournament winner with Muhoroni in 2016, predicted a short pre-season, saying training rigorously at home would make his work easier once football resumes. "We haven't lost track and the players know that our time in the second tier is over. I keep on reminding them that despite the break, they have to prepare themselves for the task ahead of us.The players know that the pre-season is likely to be short and should not relent in their push to keep fit at home. They have adapted to my philosophy and i expect us to meet our goal," he added.