Behind their surgical masks, in line with Covid-19 regulations, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto shared animated light moments at State House on Monday. In spite of the two men being at the centre of the ruling party's wars, they lit up the occasion with acts that were mostly seen during their first term. Many have been left guessing what the two men - said not to be seeing eye to eye in the recent past - were so excited about. Uhuru's and Ruto's almost matching red ties reminded many Kenyans of their first days in office in 2013 as they unveiled their initial Cabinet. Was it a genuine conversation between two old friends or public show in the midst of a political storm? When Ruto got to State House in the morning, he and Uhuru were seen using their elbows to greet each other amidst laughter muzzled by their blue masks. As Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya gave his speech, the two were caught again on camera in an animated conversation. This time, Uhuru wrote something on a notebook which he passed on to Ruto, who could be seen bursting into laughter. Ruto then wrote on the notebook and handed it over to the President who also laughed before they composed themselves to listen to Oparanya. They were seen talking to each other behind their masks despite the distance between them in line with anti-Covid-19 protocols. Only Uhuru, Ruto, the Chief of Defence Forces, the President's ADC and State House chief of Protocol sat at the main section at the centre of the podium. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and the DP's wife Rachel Ruto followed the proceedings from one of the balconies overlooking the front lawns of State House. After the last national anthem, Uhuru, with Ruto in tow, walked to the left side of the podium where political leaders were seated. They included Speaker Justin Muturi, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The two walked towards the centre of the podium offering the namaste greetings to the scattered occupants. They then went to the left where they did the same with military and police heads as well as religious leaders who were seated on that side. The two then exited and headed to the entrance of State House, where they offered the same greeting to their wives. They chatted with their wives for a moment from the balcony with Margaret appearing to gesture that they would meet inside the house. Uhuru and Ruto then stood next to the wall and after glancing at their watches, engaged each other in an animated conversation that only they know the details of. The two are set to meet face to face again on Tuesday, when Uhuru chairs a Parliamentary Group meeting of their fractured political party.