Equity Bank in West Pokot has bought solar panels and radios to help students follow programmes and study at home while schools are closed due to Covid-19. Branch manager James Biwot said the bank, under the Wings to Fly programme, has also given cash to some beneficiaries. He urged the students to make use of the items so they are not left behind when schools resumes. “We want to ensure students we support under Wings to Fly continue learning," Biwott said. He said the bank has been unable to locate some students because they live in remote interior areas. “We are unable to dispatch the items to some students due to distance," he said. Residents of West Pokot expressed concern over home learning for students in marginalised areas. The residents said the areas lack electricity, television and have poor or no internet that hampers online learning as students are forced to stay home. “Most parents don't have smart phones. How do you expect them to compete with others nationally?" parent Mary Ng’etich asked. She said the government should come up with directives to favour all children and not disadvantage some. “Don't come up with laws favouring children in your localities. Before coming up with anything, please make sure you understand the terrain and the challenges,” she said. “Class 8 and Form 4 candidates are having a rough time at home preparing for the final exams,” the mother said. The economy has slowed and is unstable, so most parents consider online learning secondary to basic livelihood. “I cannot sacrifice what I have earned from manual jobs during the day to buy bundles to enable my two sons to study while the whole family is sleeping hungry,” she said. She said he only had learned of online learning through the media and doesn’t know what it means since she never went to school. “My parents were unable to educate me since they had no funds. I want the best for my girl who is sitting her Form 4 exam this year but due to lack of connection she cannot get online,: she said. Concerned parents have also cast doubt on the integrity of national exams if candidates only can rely on online learning material. MP Peter Lochakapong has said the prolonged schools closure since March will hurt education in remote areas. (Edited by V. Graham)  