Firms in Thika and the larger Mt Kenya region are relieved following the expected return of cargo trains that halted operations 10 years ago. This follows the ongoing Sh3 billion rehabilitation of the 178km Thika-Nanyuki railway by the Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC). The rehabilitation is 80 per cent complete, KRC manager in charge of operations  James Siele said. Already, six trains that will ply the route have been procured. Two will be commuter trains while four will haul cargo. The corporation has also embarked on the revival of all stations in Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri and Laikipia counties to spur economic development in Central region. Firms that transport their products in bulk have received a major boost as the railway is set to drastically reduce operating costs and spur growth. More than 15 firms that deal in agricultural, marketing, fuel and vegetable oil manufacturing in the region have expressed interest in using the railway to transport their products. Fruit processor Del Monte Kenya Ltd is already hauling its goods via the railway. Firm production director Wayne Cook told journalists on Friday the company has been transporting 2,400 tonnes to Mombasa port via the railway every week. “Railway transport has proved to be economical because we can transport large volumes of cargo over great distances and at a considerable cost,” he said. Cook said the railway has saved the company time in hauling cargo and reduced the risk of products being tampered with while on transit. “We are elated on the return of cargo trains because we have been suffering while transporting our goods through the Thika-Nairobi-Mombasa road. Road transport is good but there are qualms over traffic and cargo being tampered with. These trains are saving us time and cost of transport, thereby assuring an increase in profits,” Cook said. He, however, called for continuous improvement of rail infrastructure and processing of goods from customs. “At the moment the rail goes on the meter gauge to Nairobi Inland Container Depot after which it is transferred to the standard gauge. If we can speed up this whole process and get the containers to the port faster, it will greatly ease our way of doing business and speed up economic growth in the country,” he said. KRC's Siele said the corporation is determined to open the Mt Kenya region to markets in an economical and cost-effective way. “Resumption of the cargo trains will open up the region to more investment opportunities and ease the cost of doing business for our investors,” he said. Siele said the corporation has embarked on intensive marketing, volume discounts, promotional rates and provision of various incentives to encourage more firms to use railway transport. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina said the revival of railway transport in the region would help Thika regain its nickname "the Birmingham of Kenya". “Industrial growth in Thika will be significant, and we expect more investments to open up here. Investors always look at a convenient place to do business with an expedient mode of transport,” Wainaina said. Edited by A.N