The Employment court has declared unconstitutional the demotion of Nyando's former assistant land registrar Silvanus Lukoko Were to a clerical officer. The court also ruled that Were’s transfer to four different stations in quick succession was haphazard and disruptive to his life. He was employed as an assistant land registrar in 1981. Were was promoted to a senior assistant land registrar and was regularly transferred from Kajiado to Nyando, Kisii, Busia and Vihiga. On his transfer to Vihiga in February 2019, Were found another registrar in charge of the station and was directed to handle clerical work, pending communication from the Ministry of Lands. Two months later, the ministry asked Were to surrender his unique stamp, which bears his official number and name. Aggrieved by the changes, he moved to court seeking a declaration that the transfer and demotion were unfair. He also sought an order for punitive damages against the ministry on account of its gross violation of his fundamental rights and freedoms. The court heard that Were was unable to conduct registration work at the Vihiga Lands registry, where he is now based, because he requires his official stamp to perform his duties. In response, the ministry said he was employed as a clerical officer from August 1, 1981, and not as an assistant land registrar as he alleged. Were was issued with a show cause letter for refusal to obey clear instructions to move to another station and for refusing to surrender the office stamp. He however testified that he was then based in Busia and that he was exempted from the transfer since he was due to retire in a short time. The ministry said the issuance of an official stamp is a preserve of land registrars, which the petitioner was not. “The petitioner’s transfer and lack of unique stamp is not a demotion since the petitioner still holds his position as senior assistant land registrar,” the ministry said. Justice Mathew Nduma declared that the action taken against Were by transferring him to a position of lower status and responsibility violated his constitutional right. However, having not proved any financial loss occasioned to him as a result of the transfer and demotion, the court last Thursday made no orders on general damages. Edited by Frank Obonyo