Governors of the North Rift Economic Bloc have asked manufactures not to take advantage of high demand to hike prices of Covid-19 testing kits. Led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, the governors said most manufactures were cashing in on the situation. Mandago asked the manufactures to be humane and help the country in fighting the pandemic. Addressing the press after touring Kapenguria County Referral Hospital, Mandago asked the government to provide kits and swabs and ensure hospitals were well supplied. “We all need these kits to save lives. Don’t take advantage of the pandemic to punish Kenyans,” he said. He said the manufactures should not be too greedy since they were also Kenyan. The governors raised concern over the lack of sufficient personal protective equipment (PPE) and testing kits in their counties. They said hospitals across the bloc did not have the capacity to rapidly test for coronavirus due to a severe shortage of kits. “We had planned as a  bloc to carry out mass testing in our region but due to lack of testing kits we are unable. But we are going to test in areas we suspect there have been contacts with people who travelled from counties that have reported the cases,” he said. He said delays in testing and relaying results made it difficult for doctors to deliver the most appropriate care to patients who had tested positive. Mandago said the counties had funds to buy the test kits, but they were not available in the market. “The virus is carried by people. Without movement the virus will not be transmitted, so let’s combine efforts to flatten the curve,” he said. The chairman assured health workers and security teams in the region that the bloc was committed to working with them to ensure that they were safe. “There is a lot of social impact related to this disease but I want to assure you as counties that we shall work together,” he said. The governor urged residents from the counties under Noreb to stay where they were until the pandemic is contained. “We have not denied you access to your home. You are still part of us but stay where you are until this thing stabilises,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori