Former Majority leader Aden Duale exited in style on Tuesday with former critics showering him with praise. In a reconciliatory tone as he made his exit speech, the Garissa Township MP apologised to everyone he might have wronged for the close to eight years he had been pushing the government agenda in the House. The apology extends to those in and outside the august House. He stated that he was only executing the mandate of his office. Duale was succeeded by Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya, who becomes the second holder of the crucial office. “Allow me to unconditionally ask for forgiveness and apologies to anyone, in this House and outside, who I may have offended in the course of executing my duties – I was simply doing my job. And such is the nature of the job as the Hon Kimunya will come to appreciate,” he said. He thanked members for the “invaluable” support they gave him during his tenure. “There is no storm that God won’t carry you through. No bridge that God won’t help you cross. No battle that God won’t help you win. Trust God and never give up. Amen!” he said. Members from across the political divide all agreed that the former assistant minister was not axed because of incompetence but politics. Speaker after speaker praised his exemplary performance during which he pushed through some of the most unpopular government bills, key among them the security laws and the VAT Bill. Minority leader John Mbadi said Duale performed well during his term, even when they disagreed on certain issues. "He weathered a lot of storms. He had the zeal and determination to deliver for his party,” Mbadi said. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed said a time had come for Duale to serve Kenyans in another capacity. “These offices are not for specific people. When you get an opportunity to occupy them, you serve Kenyans diligently and when you leave them, you still serve Kenyans but in a different capacity,” he stated. Kieni's Kanini Kega, who was the face of the signature collection that saw Duale pushed out after surviving the State House purge, was equally full of praise for the former Majority leader. “I was seen to be the face behind collection of signature. It was never personal. I had no personal vendetta against Duale,” Kanini said. Robert Pukose (Endebes) accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of being thankless to Duale, who has been faithfully executing the Jubilee agenda in the House. “He has been removed because asante ya punda ni mateke. We campaigned for Jubilee and won and what we didn’t expect is people coming from outside to kick us out,” he said. Ugunja's Opiyo Wandayi said the Opposition would have assumed control of the House were it not for Duale. “I want to appreciate the good work Duale did in Parliament. Had it not for Duale, the Minority side would have overrun the Majority side in this Parliament,” said Wandayi, the Public Accounts Committee chairman.  - mwaniki fm