Nyali MP Mohammed Ali is feeling the heat of handshake politics after MPs across the political divide abandoned him in his bid to impeach Transport CS James Macharia. In an ironic twist, MPs affiliated with Tangatanga also disowned Ali and accused the lawmaker of using unorthodox means to get members into signing the motion, which they said "is going nowhere." The more than 50 MPs - some of whom signed the censure motion – disowned Ali’s impeachment bid, with a number of them confessing they were tricked into signing the document. The lawmakers were led by MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay Woman Representative) and Sabina Chege (Murang’a Woman Rep). Speaking at Parliament Buildings, Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi claimed  Ali duped him into signing the impeachment documents which were presented to him as a sacco loan. Mwirigi claimed the Nyali MP approached him at Parliament Buildings pleading with him to sign, so he [Ali] can obtain a loan from Parliament Sacco. “Some of us signed without knowing what was happening. He approached me that there is a loan he wanted and was asking for my signature to help him process the said loan. I signed only to realize that it was for Macharia’s impeachment,” the Igembe South MP said. Mwirigi said he has written to Speaker Justin Muturi detailing the circumstances that led to him appending his signature and asking for withdrawal of the same. However, Standing Orders do not allow a member to withdraw his or her signature once the motion is formally received by the Clerk. Ali had submitted 90 signatures accompanying his impeachment motion to the Clerk of the National Assembly Michael Sialai. The motion seeks to remove Macharia from office over his order to use the SGR to haul cargo from Mombasa to the Naivasha ICD. The legislator, in a notice dated June 6, said the CS violated Article 10(1) (c) of the Constitution by not undertaking public participation with leaders and stakeholders. He said the CS's action has caused a public outcry and hurt the transportation sector, forcing some companies to shut down. Wanga said the MP is hiding behind the censure motion to extort the CS. She said the motion "is full of innuendos and malice and is going nowhere". “The matter of SGR cargo cannot be rounded off to one person, this is a government policy. The season and times when a minister was threatened with impeachment for extortion is long gone,” she said. Ndindi, who said they are out to support merit, called for scrutiny of the signatures claiming quite a number are fake. He defended Macharia as a performer who has done a tremendous job in improving road and rail infrastructure in almost every corner of the country. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua claimed that Ali’s motion is part of the wider scheme to discredit Macharia ahead of the anticipated Cabinet reshuffle so that the CS is removed from the ministry. “There has been a deliberate campaign to destroy the image of CS Macharia. We know what is going on, and we are more than prepared,” the Mathira lawmaker said. Ali denied the extortion claims, vowing to push on with his motion. He laughed off claims that some members were duped into signing the document. “How do you sign without reading? I also want to tell you that Standing Orders is very clear that once a member signs, he or she cannot withdraw, the motion is on,” Ali said. The first-time lawmaker who addressed the press alone, further appealed to Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to beef up his security as his motion deals with the "big fish". “I would rather lose or win with honour. I want the IG to increase my security here in Nairobi and at home. I am dealing with the big fish, not the small fish people are used to.” Nakuru Town East David Gikaria called on Speaker Muturi to dismiss the motion, claiming it does not meet the threshold of impeaching a Cabinet secretary. Edited by A.N