The Centre for Multi-party Democracy has urged the Public Service Commission to expedite the recruitment of the Registrar of Political Parties. CMD board chair Abshiro Soka Halake said having a substantive registrar will form a strong foundation for regulation, supervision and management of political parties to deliver a vibrant multiparty democratic country. The Office of Registrar of Political Parties (ORPP) has been held by Lucy Ndung’u and Ann Nderitu in acting capacities since it was established as per the requirement of the 2010 Constitution. Nderitu was appointed acting registrar on August 10, 2018. Halake said that a united country will be achieved when stakeholders tackle head-on indiscipline and disorder in political parties. “Being in an acting capacity, the registrar has been considered as a weak, ineffective or disinterested public officer when sometimes it has been the case of intimidation by or fear of reprisals from the political class.” The nominated Kanu senator said CMD was concerned that the country’s multiparty democracy is increasingly faced by non-democratic practices in political parties. CMD seeks to enhance multiparty democracy and strengthen the institutional capacity of political parties through policy influence and capacity building. In the recent past, the ORPP has been a beehive of activities as warring Jubilee and Ford Kenya factions tussle over leadership positions. Jubilee has been embroiled in wrangles over changes in its National Management Committee while Ford Kenya is in a crisis following the purported ouster of some top party officials. The PSC advertised the position of Registrar of Political Parties nearly 10 years after the law came into force. The commission had asked those interested to submit their applications by May 21. It was the second time the PSC was advertising the job. The first was in October 2012 but the process was cancelled after it was challenged in court by civil society groups. Halake said: “Political parties must be democratic not only externally, in their goals, but also internally in their organisational practices.” He said internal democracy must be mandatory, noting that there must be a valid justification for disciplining members or making changes to party leadership. “We further aver that properly constituting and strengthening the ORPP is one remaining critical step toward tackling the partisan and short term political interests by the political class shy and hesitant to accept fundamental and transformative reforms in the political sector,” he stated. According to Halake, lack of a substantive registrar meant political parties are not sufficiently policed. “We take note of the recent advertisement by the Public Service Commission to recruit a substantive independent Registrar of Political Parties as envisaged under the Constitution and Political Parties Act. "The enforcement of the Political Parties Act has been neglected since the ORPP has never been properly appointed under the new dispensation,” he noted.  - mwaniki fm