HOMA BAY SENATOR Moses Kajwang' has astonished social media users with his mastery of the procurement terms and laws. During the cross-examination of a Kirinyaga county procurement officer at the Senate proceedings on the impeachment of Governor Anne Waiguru, the youthful lawmaker took the officer to task, asking technical procurement questions that left everybody in the room, including his colleagues, amazed. In social media, Kenyans were impressed and perturbed in equal measure. One of them asked where and when the second-term senator, who graduated with a Bachelor of Information Science from Moi University, studied procurement. A VICIOUS FIGHT has erupted between two aides of a controversial first-term Jubilee governor. The two, whose roles and official positions have confused all in the county, have been fighting to control the governor’s diary as well as his speeches. Journalists covering the devolved unit have been as confused as they receive conflicting statements from the two officers. Recently, one of them attempted to persuade the scribes to skip a press conference called by the other to state the governor’s position on a matter that touched on the welfare of the county workers. Some journalists said they would raise the concern with the governor to stop the confusion. A FORMER MP from Nyanza has shocked his successor and constituents alike. The man has suddenly become philanthropic, distributing relief food and hosting delegations in his rural home. Last week alone, he distributed food and non-food items to all the four wards in the constituency. It is understood that more than 2,000 households benefitted from the donations. The vocal ex-legislator has been heard telling some of the delegations that he had started preparing for an epic comeback in 2022. The revelations have disturbed the current MP, who since Covid-19 hit the country, has not made any donations to help the constituents. His handlers say he will hit the ground next week. IT APPEARS THE excesses of a coastal water agency chief executive officer, whom we once told you had been engaging in a dubious award of contracts, have got to nauseating levels. Well, the man could finally be on his way out of the plum job. The agency’s board of directors held a meeting and discussed his conduct early this week. The meeting sent shock-waves among his allies with whom they are accused of pilfering the water agency. The water chief’s troubles could have been triggered by his recent denial of the agency’s two workers who were arrested for flouting curfew rules, yet they were on essential duty.