 @Yobramos4  When Ignas Kialu left for Somalia on January 6, his wife Purity thought life would get better. She was wrong. Life has got worse. Kialu and six other Kenyans thought they had hit the jackpot when an engineering company contracted them to do a welding job in Kismayu. The 33-year-old Kialu flew to Kismayu from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi alongside Patrick Shingula Mwangala, Martin Mwaghazi and Michael Mjala on January 6. They were joined by Gabriel Otieno, Elia Mwalili and Abass Mutuku in Kismayu on January 25. On Tuesday, Purity, who is a teacher at a private school, told the Star she has known no peace since her husband called and narrated his predicament. “Whenever I receive his call, my heart is filled with trepidation,” Purity said. She spoke to Muslims for Human Rights and the Star at her single-room house in Mariakani, Kilifi county where she lives with her mother and two children aged 10 years and seven months. Things have been tough for her for the last four months. Purity said her husband and his colleagues had a misunderstanding with their employer in mid-February over contract terms and payment. While still working, Kialu used to tell his wife that their safety was not guaranteed as they were cutting metal without proper gear and they were exposed to attacks because they had no security. “Their boss called me some time in mid-February and told me he was going to abandon them in Somalia since they were in dispute over pay,” Purity narrated. She said the employer had reneged on their agreement. Purity said their contract was terminated and Kialu and his six colleagues began their journey back to Kenya on April 5 via the sea since there were no flights. The voice of her husband on phone depresses her, she said. “At night, they sleep at the ruins of a building. When it rains they are forced to stand on their feet until the rain stops, which may be after eight hours,” Purity said. Kailu and his colleagues are currently stranded in Ras Kamboni near the Lamu border after they were denied entry into the country. Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa and the group's response officer Francis Auma told the Star the government is being unfair to the stranded Kenyans and their families. “The government evacuated Kenyans in India, China and the UK. Somalia is just next door. Why couldn’t the government allow them into their own country?” Auma said. Purity fears for the lives of her husband and his colleagues because the place is not safe. Ras Kamboni is one of the most dangerous places in Somalia where al Shabaab militants often attack Amison troops, including soldiers from the Kenya Defence Forces. Purity says she is “sometimes forced to look for money to send them so they can get something to eat”. “They are starving there. Food and water is a problem. They have exhausted all the money they were paid for the work in Somalia,” said the soft-spoken teacher. She pleaded with the government to have mercy on her husband and the six other Kenyans and allow them into the country. “These people are Kenyans. They don’t deserve to stay in that place. It is so risky. Anything can happen to them,” Purity said. She said their lives have not been the same since her husband made the distress call from Kismayu. The coronavirus pandemic has added to her woes with schools closed and most private institutions not paying their workers. Purity had to relocate from Nairobi to her mother’s house in Mariakani. In April, they were evicted after failing to pay rent and she had to look for a single room where she now stays with the mother and two children. “We don’t eat as we used to when he was here. We cannot raise rent and medication is a problem.  Please, Mr [Interior CS Fred] Matiang’i, have mercy on my husband and the other six because we need them home. We can hustle together. Life has become so tough. We are living like birds, with only what God provides,” Purity pleaded. She says they currently survive on a meal a day and that even that was not guaranteed. Priority is worried about the seven-month-old baby, who is also on medication for some illness. The 10-year-old can brave the hunger pangs. Purity described Kialu as a responsible husband who often caters for their needs. She said he sent home his January wages before it became irregular because of the dispute with his boss. Her baby stopped breastfeeding before his sixth month. “My breast dried up because of stress. Now I have to buy milk for him.” In Mariakani, a litre of milk goes for Sh80. She cannot afford that every day. Khalifa said the government does not care about poor people. “Having to listen to such stories is depressing when there is a government to which the same people who are suffering are forced to pay taxes,” Khalifa said. Khalifa said Kialu and his two colleagues who went to Kismayu first discovered the job involved dismantling wrecked warships, some with explosives. “They were forced to work without a contract despite agreeing that they would sign one after assessing the job. They verbally agreed with their employer on Sh40,000 monthly pay,” he said. The seven, who reside in Mombasa and Nairobi, anticipated the work would last a year, but it lasted just three months before the contract was terminated. When they finished work on March 31, the Kenyan government had closed its borders and cancelled international flights in a bid to stem the spread of the coronavirus. This meant they could not fly back home and were advised by the company officials, who had themselves flown back to Nairobi earlier, to use the sea to access Kenya through Ras Kamboni. The seven left Kismayu on April 5 by sea and were spotted a day later in Ras Kamboni by Somali police and immigration officials, who confiscated their travel documents. “Two KDF officers, three Somali police and two immigration officials interrogated the workers,” Khalifa said, adding that they were then released but instructed to write to Kenya to be allowed entry. They contacted Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia, who said the borders had been closed, and they could not gain entry. Irungu said the seven were trying to use ‘panya routes’ to get into the country. The seven, through Muhuri, have since filed a petition at the Mombasa High Court. Justice Erick Ogola will on Thursday hear the petition, in which the seven have sued the Attorney General Kihara Kariuki, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and IG Hillary Mutyambai. They want the government to facilitate their unconditional entry back into Kenya. The petitioners also want the state to facilitate the return of all their travel and identification documents which are being held by the authorities.  Edited by P.O