Isiolo MCAs have dismissed claims of a plot to impeach Governor Mohammed Kuti. Kuti has been at loggerheads with MPs from the county over claims that he borrowed ICU beds to take photographs for public relations. He has accused the MPs of mudslinging him. Several governors are under pressure from MCAs including Anne Waiguru of Kirinyaga and Charity Ngilu of Kitui. Fifteen Isiolo MCAs who attended a press briefing opposed any plans to impeach Governor Kuti. They issued a press statement at Three Steers Hotel in Meru town on Sunday. Majority leader Isaak Fayo (Burat) dismissed the impeachment claims as a rumour. “We are shocked by what has been circulating in the public yet we do not have such a thing in the real sense,” Fayo said. “There is something in the air about planned impeachment of the Isiolo governor. We are shocked that this is with the public. The threshold for such a motion is stipulated in the Constitution and there is no single step taken yet,” he said. Fayo said some Isiolo legislators he declined to name could be working behind the scenes inciting members of the county assembly and the public. He said the county assembly should not be dictated to on how to carry out its oversight role. “Members of Parliament should work tirelessly towards ensuring we get development from the national government and carry out their oversight role, but not to tell MCAs what they should do. We were all elected,” he said. The MCA said MPs from Isiolo had done little to address insecurity that has been a major problem in the county. “Three days ago only one MP who also came late attended the security meeting in Kinna to discuss disarmament of national police reservists and how it has brought insecurity,” Fayo said. He said Eldera town had been vacated yet the national legislators had not been pushing to address insecurity. He said MPs and MCAs should carry out their mandates well to foster development in the county. Deputy speaker David Lemantile (Ol Donyiro) said MCAs were not pocketed by the governor so as not to impeach him. They haven’t so far seen any problem with his leadership. Jillo Mumina (nominated) said they are not yet ready to impeach the governor now as he had done no wrong. Yarrow Hassan (Burat) and Sumeya Mishar (nominated) agreed with Mumina. Edited by Henry Makori