A lobby group has moved to court seeking to have Attorney General Kihara Kariuki declared unfit to hold public office over the 41 judges impasse. Katiba Institute argues that Kihara has violated the law by his conduct in the appointment of judges, which does not promote and uphold the rule of law. “A declaration does issue that Paul Kihara Kariuki, the Attorney General, having grossly violated Articles 10, 73, 75 and 156(6) of the Constitution, is incompetent and unfit to hold office as Attorney General of the Republic of Kenya,” they argue. Through lawyer Ochiel Dudley, Katiba Institute which has also sued the President says they have reason to believe that the President is planning to discriminatingly appoint a few of the judges-in-waiting while leaving out others that he personally objects to. “Neither the President nor the Attorney General has bothered to disclose to the public or JSC the contents of the so-called adverse reports,” the petition reads. Ochiel argues that even though the AG approved of the judges-in-waiting following thorough vetting and recruitment, he has now inexplicably changed tack. They further argue that the anticipated selective appointment of judges would violate the Constitution, defy an earlier court order and undermine the functioning and independence of the Judiciary. “That in any event, the President’s refusal to appoint the judges as recommended by the JSC, and ordered by the High Court, is a continuing constitutional violation requiring urgent orders of mandamus compelling compliance,” reads court documents. In July 2019, the Judicial Service Commission interviewed, recruited and recommended 41 persons for appointment as judges to the Court of Appeal, the Employment and Labour Relations Court and the Environment and Land Court. However, the President has refused to gazette or appoint the recommended judges, saying some of them have integrity issues. The lobby group avers that the President's refusal to appoint the 41 judges has significant deleterious effects on the right to fair hearing, right of access to and administration of justice and right to fair trial. “There is no prejudice to the respondents if all the judges-in-waiting who have been duly recommended, vetted with the active participation of the Attorney General, are appointed into office,” they argue. Katiba Institute wants the court to also order the Chief Justice not to assign any duties to the judges who will be selected by the President from the list of 41. Edited by Henry Makori