Mukumu Boys handball team coach Anthony Wekesa has expressed disappointment over  the postponement of the East African Secondary School Games earlier slated for August this year in Kakamega. The 19th edition of the games were pushed to next year during a zoom meeting between International Schools Sports Federation (ISF) president Laurent Petrynka and Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Association (FEASSSA) secretary-general, David Ngugi among others. Wekesa revealed that he was sure of bouncing back to the limelight going by their current preparations. “We have established a strong team with quality and experience players and this, coupled with good preparations before the Covid-19 pandemic, gives us the conviction of returning to the limelight soon," he noted. “It’s a good decision to postpone the event going by the current situation but I am just disappointed that we will not be competing," he added. " Of course it's not good to risk the students’ lives. Sports will always remain with us but life is irreplaceable. We shall wait and see how things will unfold,” Wekesa pointed out. He added that he’s in close contact with all his players and they were taking advantage of the break to see how they can improve their play . “The current situation doesn't necessarily restrict us from doing the right thing by gathering knowledge in a bid to realise our target," he stated. His Moi Girls Kamusinga counterpart Godfrey Simiyu revealed that it was going to be the perfect time for his team to reclaim the title after surrendering it to Kiriandichi Girls last year. “It's painful for the players who are in Form 4 because this is a missed opportunity for them to win scholarships and win the confidence of various clubs that are usually on a scouting missing during the games," he noted. He added: “Others will be time-barred due to age factor that remains one of the key issues in the games." The County Government of Kakamega was busy putting in place the right structures for the games in anticipation of a successful regional event in August