Wajir residents who have for the last three months been subjected to frequent power outages now have some hope after engineers camped at the power station to sort out the problem. Two weeks ago, residents took to the streets to protest accusing Kenya Power of doing little to address the problem. The business community, who have been forced to invest in generators, has continuously lamented incurring huge loses since they are forced to buy petrol. On Saturday, Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim, who has been on the forefront in engaging top officials from Kenya Power, was accompanied by a team of engineers to the Wajir power station. The firm is doing an overhaul and repair of two engines with a total capacity of 2,000 Kilowatts. Speaking at the station, Kassim regretted that the problem has gone on for far too long subjecting the residents to untold suffering. “I would want to empathise with the people of Wajir East constituency who I represent. The situation cannot be left to continue like that,” he said. The lawmaker said while he appreciates the efforts being put in place by Kenya Power to address the problem, long-term solutions remain in the connection of the area to the national grid. “The President is fully aware of the challenges of the town. One of the key legacies he wants to leave behind other than finalising the grid for Garissa is to have a grid for Wajir before the end of his term." Off-grid stations general manager Charles Kapsoi acknowledged that the town’s rapid growth was the biggest challenge, but was quick to add that they have adequate capacity to supply the town for now. The biggest problem, he said, is three major machines that are faulty, noting that plans are underway to restore them. He disclosed that getting some of the spare parts –which are only available outside the county - has remained the biggest challenge during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the engineers were ready to start working on one of the machines that will supply an additional 1,000MW noting that it will take the team seven-10 days to fix one engine. He further said there were plans to have a solar platform that will help generate more power. “Wajir power station will be among other 23 sites nationally set benefit from the solar hybrid project. The project will offer at least 3MW from solar which will be running during the day and the diesel engines at night,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie