The International Criminal Court -ICC has hit back at US president Donald Trump for authorising sanctions on its staff. The Court in a statement said the latest move by Trump's administration is a series of unprecedented attacks" on the ICC that constitute an "unacceptable attempt to interfere with the rule of law and the court's judicial proceedings. Trump on Thursday authorised economic sanctions against officials investigating or prosecuting U.S. personnel without Washington’s consent. Trump also authorised the expansion of visa restrictions against ICC officials and their family members. "The International Criminal Court’s actions are an attack on the rights of the American people and threaten to infringe upon our national sovereignty,” the White House said in a statement. Trump said he had “strong reason to believe” that there is “corruption and misconduct” at the highest levels of the prosecutor’s office. The Hague-based Court is set up to prosecute war crimes and genocide. Trump's move comes after  ICC appeals judges in March authorised investigation into allegations of war crimes by  the U.S. military and intelligence personnel, Afghan forces and the Taliban in Afghanistan. But the court in a statement said,"The ICC stands firmly by its staff and officials and remains unwavering in its commitment to discharging, independently and impartially, the mandate bestowed upon it by the Rome Statute and the States that are party to it" It added, "The International Criminal Court expresses profound regret at the announcement of further threats and coercive actions, including financial measures, against the Court and its officials, made the Government of the United States". The statement said the Court is an independent international judicial institution, as well as on the Rome Statute system of international criminal justice, which reflects the commitment and cooperation of the ICC's 123 States Parties, representing all regions of the world. "These attacks constitute an escalation and an unacceptable attempt to interfere with the rule of law and the Court's judicial proceedings. They are announced with the declared aim of influencing the actions of ICC officials in the context of the Court's independent and objective investigations and impartial judicial proceedings," the statement read. It further said, "An attack on the ICC also represents an attack against the interests of victims of atrocity crimes, for many of whom the Court represents the last hope for justice". The court said it relies on staunch support and cooperation of its States Parties.