A former Supermarket attendant who was in remand for close to two years for a wrongful charge of robbery with violence has been awarded Sh5 million. Anthony Waigwe was arrested on July 2015 and charged with robbery with violence but in those 23 months that he was in remand his case never took off as no witness was ever called to testify against him. In his case, Waigwe argued that he lost his job due to the case and he cannot secure another gainful employment due to the stigma associated with the serious charge he was charged with. In his ruling, Justice James Makau faulted the police and the DPP officers for preferring a serious charge against Waigwe when there was no evidence thus violating his rights. The prosecution withdrew the charge in June 2017 when the court declined to adjourn the case for lack of witnesses. "I find that it is not properly right in a civilized society like ours to close our eyes, ears and mouths when police officers arrests and charges innocent Kenyan youths and have them taken through an unnecessary criminal trial like in the case," Judge Makau ruled. It was the judge’s view that any good prosecution must be purposeful and should not be used to stage-manage cases further adding that in a democratic society like ours no one should be charged without authorities conducting proper investigations. “From the facts of this case its clearly demonstrated that the charge was orchestrated by malice as the facts clearly show that no reasonable and sincerely honest person could have believed that the prosecution against him for the offence of robbery with violence was likely to succeed, taking into account that he was not found in possession of any stolen goods and was charged immediately after the identification parade,” the court ruled. Justice Makau also held that the investigating officer in the case failed to conduct a thorough investigation and due to his incompetence Waigwe suffered in remand and was subjected to an unnecessary and dead criminal trial. The court also noted that due to the case, Waigwe has suffered psychological pains and there is evidence of rejection by his peers and members of the community who thought he was serving a prison sentence. “I have concluded that the petitioner was arrested for no apparent reasons, arraigned in court when there was no evidence against him and waited for hearing for 23 months which never took place,” the judge ruled. The court ruled that failure by the agents of the state to present any witnesses in court for a period of 23 months was a violation of his right to a fair trial. “I therefore, award him general damages of a global figure of Sh4.5 million and a further Sh500,000 for punitive damages,” he ruled. Waigwe said he was arrested while heading to his place of work on July 22, 2015 after he encountered with police officers at Kayole area within Nairobi County. He says he was heading to Donholm where he used to work as an attendant at Kamindi Selfridges Supermarket. He was not informed of the reason of his arrest and was immediately locked at Kayole Police station from July 22 to July 31, 2015, when he was charged at Makadara law court with Robbery with violence alongside another man. The said complainant of the said robbery never identified him as the attacker during an identification parade on July 29. In spite of the fact that there was no evidence linking him to the offence, the DPP and police officers preferred a very serious charge of robbery with violence against him. He was granted a Sh1 million bond term which he could not raise and so he remained in custody for 23 months and the state did not present a single witness in court to testify against him.