The fisheries sector in Lake Naivasha could collapse by years’s end due to illegal fishing and use of undersized nets, licensed fishermen have warned. Scores of illegal fishermen have invaded the lake in the past three months and use banned, small-mesh nets to sweep up immature fish, they said. Fish production has dropped by more than 30 per cent in two months due to overfishing, lake officials said. Due to unemployment in nearby flower farms, jobless workers have invaded the lake as foot fishermen. They fish along the shoreline, in breeding areas and they steal from licensed fishermen. National vice chairman of the Beach Management United Lucas Auma said illegal fishermen had taken over the lake, under the nose of the fisheries department. Speaking during a fisherman’s meeting in Naivasha, Auma said the fisheries sector could die as had happened in 2010. “The poachers have taken over the lake, stealing nets belonging to fishermen, beating us and fishing along the shorelines thus threatening the future of the lake,” he said. Auma urged senior county officers to meet the fishermen so they can resolve the crisis. Trader Grace Nyambura from Karagita beach asked what happened to the four patrol boats donated by the county to fight illegal fishing. She said licensed fishermen were living in fear due to frequent attacks and threats by the illegal fishermen who were openly fishing in the lake. “This is the worst time ever for this lake due to illegal fishing and we totally blame the Department of Fisheries for failing to act or renew our trading licenses,” she said. Chairman of Kamere beach Wesley Kimutai said the only solution is to deploy the Coast Guard. “The county government for years has underfunded the Department of Fisheries yet this lake is one of the major resources in the county,” he said. Trader Caren Achieng called for more patrol boats and security officers, saying that in a couple of months fishing would be history. “Some problems of this lake have been caused by an inefficient office that allowed the poachers to do as they wish,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham) 