After scooping his third Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month award in the 2019-2020 season, Gor Mahia head coach Steven Polack opened up on the role played by his Wazito counterpart, Stewart Hall in shaping his coaching career. Polack,who was named the February's finest revealed that the experienced Hall was his first instructor in the early nineties at Birmingham FC, his first club after transitioning into coaching. The Englishman, who also holds Finnish citizenship and is in his first season in Kenyan football, had clinched the award in October and November last year. Decades down the line, the pair currently ply their trade in the Kenyan Premier League and Polack says they have maintained a cordial relationship with the former Azam coach over the years. The former defender partly attributed his success to Hall, who tutored AFC Leopards between October 2016 up to to May the following year. “Hall was my first instructor at Birmingham in the early nineties and I learnt a lot from him. His understanding of the game is just on another level and I am glad I laid my coaching foundation under him. The game keeps on metamorphosing but at some point, I still use his skills even though I have my own philosophy. I also respect other local coaches whom I work with and face them on match days,” disclosed the former Berekum Chelsea gaffer Meanwhile, Polack who said he was staunch Aston Villa fan called on Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League to unanimously decide on the fate of the season. The federation declared Gor champions after concluding the season without consulting KPL who are pushing to have the final say. Caf have already confirmed Gor as the Kenyan representatives in the next edition of the Champions League. “They should put aside their differences and read from the same script. Let them sort things out. If they say lets play, we are ready and I have confidence with my players. They have to look at the bigger picture as the restrictions are still in place and the new season is beckoning,” he stated. At the same time, Polack who beat youthful Leopards coach Anthony Kimani to the award, thanks to the ten points gathered in the month lauded his players for their efforts to keep fit from home. During the month,Gor won thrice after thrashing Nzoia Sugar (3-0) and registered identical 3-2 wins over Zoo FC and Western Stima whom they also played to a one- all draw. Kimani on the other hand, bagged nine points while Bandari technical director Twahir Muhiddin came in third with eight points. “It's an honour to get my third Coach of the Month award. I attribute this to my staff, players and fans, who  without them I wouldn't be here. The players are working from home and we are always in constant communication,” he added.