The spread of Corona virus in Kenya is adversely affecting cancer patients physically and mentally. In an interview with the Star, three cancer patients narrate their anxieties amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Abraham Mbugua, 21, who is suffering from osteogenic sarcoma, says he is always fearful of his health, considering that Covid-19 is particularly lethal for people with low immunity. “It is so hard to stay calm. I'm always scared, knowing that I'm one of those at a great risk,” Mbugua, a Molo-based trader in secondhand shoes, says. For Mary Gathoni, 29, even a slight cough is enough to send her into panic mode. “I have a lot of fear of this disease Covid-19. One day, I went out of the house with a mask and came back and experienced a slight cough, it really scared me to death,” Gathoni, known to her peers as Laali, says. Mbugua’s woes have been compounded by the cessation order in Nairobi, which has blocked his access to regular medical attention. Last month, Health acting director general Patrick Amoth said chronic patients can still access medical care in Nairobi, provided they give the ministry the necessary information. However, Mbugua says this is a lengthy process that may not be possible in times of medical emergencies. “It’s hard for me to go because like now Nairobi is on lockdown so it is very difficult to access treatment because the means of transport are also scarce,” Mbugua says. FINANCIAL FRAILTIES Apart from difficulties in accessing healthcare, Gathoni’s worries are worsened by lack of finances. “I have strained to get funds for myself to go for a biopsy and a PET scan. I am supposed to do a biopsy of two tumours that were seen inside the bladder in January, all costing Sh180,000,” Gathoni, a bursar at a private school in Nairobi, says. Gathoni, who was first diagnosed with Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (blood cancer) in 2011, also requires Sh70,000 to undergo a PET scan after earlier chest scans discovered a nodule in her chest. Gathoni’s tribulations mirror those of Abednego, 23, who has to fork out extra cash to undergo regular screening in private hospitals. He was diagnosed with Chronic Myloid Leukemia in 2009. “It has become difficult to find a cheaper place to do these tests because accessing them in public hospitals as per now is restricted. Now I have to spend Sh2,000 for every test in private hospitals instead of the Sh500 I used to spend,” he says. For Mbugua, his worries have been heightened by his struggling ‘mitumba’ business. “Covid-19 has really disrupted those of us working in the jua kali sector. Business has really gone down, especially after the ban on mitumba importation,” Mbugua says. Luckily for Mbugua, he lives with his parents, who have supported him psychologically and financially whenever they can. However, in Gathoni’s case, most of her friends have not been supportive at her hour of need. “Everyone is saying they do not have money. No one is willing to give you a loan then you can repay them later,” she says. FIGHTING CANCER TOGETHER The three are part of Hope for Youth Against Cancer, a community-based organisation of young cancer survivors who support one another psychologically and financially whenever they can. Gathoni, who is founder and chair of the CBO, says she has been overwhelmed by calls from members seeking assistance during this trying period. “I am traumatised when members call me seeking money to buy food. Others call me to say they don’t have money to buy medicine. Yet I myself cannot help them,” Gathoni says. Established in August 2019, the CBO draws together over 55 members from Nairobi and its surrounding counties. Rev Dr James Mbugua, a counseling psychologist and lecturer at Africa Nazarene University, admits past experiences of cancer patients will be a nagging memory during Covid-19. “Hearing fear-invoking news as has been happening during this period may remind some of them of the first time they received the news they have cancer,” Rev Mbugua says. He adds that coronavirus-imposed self-isolation may detach these patients from their social support systems and instigate loneliness. Because of her low immunity, Gathoni nowadays keeps away from crowds of people to avoid any potential infection. “I could have organised a fundraiser to find the money I need for the medical procedures. But because of social distancing, it is not possible to approach people or gather them in one place,” she says. OVERCOMING THE STORM Rev Mbugua advises that cancer patients need to be spiritually strong at this time more than ever. “They should maintain a strong relationship with God because at the end of the day, it is all in God’s hands. We often tell cancer patients at the hospice to live one day at a time and maintain positivity,” he says. At the policy level, Rev Mbugua suggests county governments should establish response units to cater for medical emergencies, especially among chronically ill patients. “These units should probably be domiciled within county hospitals. These centres will be somewhere these patients can obtain medication and nutritional advice. They can also acquire immediate medical attention and counseling services,” Rev Mbugua says. He also recommends that security forces manning roadblocks should be understanding of certain cases that warrant urgent medical attention. “We need to improve the coordination of Covid-19 response in the country. The security agencies need to work with other health professionals to ensure genuine medical cases are not denied access because of the restrictions,” Rev Mbugua says. In the long term, Rev Mbugua advises healthcare stakeholders should establish coordinated mental and psychosocial services to cater to the needs of such patients. “The government should have provided such patients with electronic tags to monitor their condition at all times during this period. This should be a practice going forward. It is already being practised in the developed countries,” he says. For Gathoni, Abdenego and Mbugua, as well as countless other cancer patients, easy access to cancer treatment services would bring delight to their hearts. “I would wish the government to provide free cancer treatment or even at zero cost. Most youth who are affected by cancer are jobless since they cannot go back to their normal lives after being diagnosed,” Gathoni says. Abednego further suggests that government should pay attention to youth cancer support groups. “They need to prioritise young cancer patients when providing grants to youth businesses and also to assist cancer organisations support their members,” he says. During a period when virtually every Kenyan is feeling the ripple effects of Covid-19, it may be easy to forget the vulnerable in the society, whose situations are worse. One hopes Kenya will not lose sight of the monster that is chronic non-communicable diseases as it wages war against Covid-19.