Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru husband is among the lawyers who will defend her in the senate as she fights impeachment charges. Waiguru who arrived at the House chambers at 9.45 am, wore a patterned navy blue and white dotted blouse accompanied by black trouser and well-made hair during the special senate committee hearing. She sat before the committee as leaders practised the 1.5m social distance rule. The hearing began with a word of prayer from Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who is also the committee's chair before the introductions. Waiguru's lawyers included her husband Kamotho Waiganjo and Paul Nyamodi. The governor was accused of abuse of office, gross misconduct, and manipulating the public procurement procedures. She is also accused of illegally conferring a benefit of Sh10 million to herself for travel allowance. Waiguru on Saturday submitted to the Senate bundles of documents in response to the impeachment charges against her. The county chief beat the Saturday deadline set by the Senate special committee formed to probe the charges. The documents were stashed in several brown boxes marked 'Kirinyaga County Government'. The Senate Business Committee had recommended an 11-member committee to investigate charges levelled against Waiguru. Last week 45 senators voted for the committee route, 14 for the plenary and one abstained. The Kirinyaga County Assembly will be the first to argue its case before the committee moments after the parties make their opening remarks on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the governor will take the stand to defend herself against the particular allegations advanced for her impeachment. The 11- member committee will immediately retreat to scrutinise the submissions and file a report. The report shall be tabled on the floor on Friday. Should the committee find any of the allegations to be valid, it will uphold the MCAs decision to remove the governor. The decision shall be subjected to a vote on the floor. However, should the majority of the member dismiss the allegation, the case shall have been defeated.