As the first Leader of Majority Party in the Constitution of Kenya 2010, I can now pen down this for history and record: I came, I saw and I conquered. These were words of former National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. The Garissa Town MP on Monday said he was glad that from 2013-2020 he was able to process the agenda of the Majority Party effectively. In particular, Duale said he oversaw the passage of over 200 Bills and 500 Motions to mention but a few. "I came, I saw and I conquered. Today marks the end of my seven years of service to the great people of Kenya as the Leader of Majority of the National Assembly. I was the first occupant of the seat under article 108 of the constitution," Duale said. Duale was on Monday removed as the Majority leader and his role handed over to Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya. The decision came following a Jubilee Party Parliamentary Group Meeting attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. "I am particularly proud that during my service, I was also able to ensure that all the Bills for implementation of the Constitution, financial legislation to implement devolution and provide services to the people of Kenya and Bills to implement the Big Four Agenda were enacted," he said. Duale added, "This was not an easy task but one which required that I work with everyone, be it a foe or friend and in the end and with the help of Allah, I delivered". The vocal MP said he was thankful to Uhuru who is the party leader for having given him the opportunity to serve the great people of Kenya. "I equally thank the Deputy President, the entire Jubilee members of Parliament and my family for their support during this period," he said. "But like I have said before, public positions are not to be personalized. When you are given a position you do your best and when the time comes for you to leave, you leave with a smile," he added. Duale said one can only leave with a smile if during their years of service they executed their duties with zeal, diligence and dedication. "I am glad that today, I leave with a smile, being proud of what I was able to achieve. Finally, to my brother Hon. Kimunya, permit me to congratulate you for your new appointment," he said. Duale said going forward he will now focus on building a great future with his Garissa constituents.