 Police in Murang’a have arrested two people who were found ferrying bhang worth Sh5 million. Murang'a county commander of police Josphat Kinyua said the suspects were ferrying the bhang in 10 sacks, each containing eight bales. Kinyua said each bale weighed three kilograms each. The suspects were arrested at Makuyu area along the Sagana-Kenol road at about 5am on Friday by detectives from the DCI branch in Murang'a South. “We received information that a white land cruiser pick up was ferrying narcotics from Isiolo heading to Nairobi and were able to nab them,” Kinyua said. Kinyua said Yusuf Halkano Sokono alias Jarso Boru Dida, 43, who was driving the vehicle is claimed to be an employee of the Isiolo county government. The suspect produced an employment card that indicated that he was a nurse. The second suspect was 62-year-old Dida Jarso Ache from Marsabit county. The two were taken to Makuyu police station where the vehicle was and Sh190,900 recovered in cash. The cash is believed to have been intended for bribes to avoid arrest along the way. “An extra one kilogram of loose cannabis sativa was also recovered hidden behind the driver's seat and wrapped in a polythene bag,” Kinyua said. The police boss said the suspects were placed in custody at the police station pending further investigations. The vehicle was impounded. Samples of the drugs, Kinyua said, will be taken to the government chemist by the ant-narcotics unit and the suspects taken to court on Tuesday. “It seems like something they have been doing for a while because the sacks were only covered with a tent,” Kinyua said. He said there has been a spirited fight against drug and substance abuse, a war that is being led by a multi-agency team. He warned drug peddlers and suppliers that police were on the look-out and that they will not be able to carry out their illegal activities. Murang’a South deputy county commissioner Mawira Mungania said another consignment of bhang was nabbed at Saba Saba area last month. He said the drugs are sourced from other counties and either supplied or trafficked through Murang’a to other areas. “These drugs were on transit from Eastern region going through Murang’a to Nairobi. We will continue to fight them and are ready to act on information given by members of the public,” Mungania said.  Edited by P.O