Police in Lamu are holding five men in connection with Monday night’s gruesome murder of a police officer in Tchundwa, Lamu East. Constable Rodgers Odhiambo who was attached to the Tchundwa police post was accosted by panga-wielding thugs as he walked out of a shop in the village at 8.30pm and hacked to death. Preliminary investigations revealed that the officer was lured to his death by a phone call from a civilian friend in the village who requested to meet him urgently, only for him to be killed shortly after. The officer who was in civilian clothes and unarmed as he was not on duty at the time suffered deep cut wounds on his forehead, neck and limbs and is believed to have bled to death just outside a house in the village. Speaking on Thursday, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said those arrested included the man who made the call and two relatives. Police also arrested the owners of the homestead where Odhiambo was murdered. The commissioner said more suspects would be arrested as days go by as it is believed there were several people involved in the planning and eventual murder of the officer. He said the search for the killers had been narrowed down to Tchundwa village and neighbouring areas. “We have the five and we believe they will enable us arrest more people for the ruthless and undeserved killing of the officer,” Macharia said. He appealed to members of the public to submit any information that would enable police to capture and prosecute those behind the officer’s death. “We are calling upon people of goodwill to come forward and share any useful information to enable us put his killers away,” he said. The commissioner warned that it was a punishable crime for anyone to walk around armed with crude weapons like knives, pangas, swords and clubs in public. He also warned residents against taking the law into their own hands. Macharia said the continued attacks and killing of police officers and administrators in the county would not be condoned and would be met with the ruthlessness deserved. The murder of constable Odhiambo comes nine months after his colleague Hesborn Okemwa, attached to the same post, was lured to his death by a gang on October 2 last year. His death was linked to his tough stance on drug dealers in the region. His badly mutilated body was recovered several metres inside a mangrove forest in Kizingitini on October 5. The officer’s G3 rifle that was loaded with 60 bullets has never been recovered. No one has been arrested or charged with the murder. On December 11 last year, Mbwajumwali chief Mohamed Haji Famau, 45, and assistant chief Malik Athman Shee, 43, of Myabogi sublocation were accosted, attacked and killed in their office in broad daylight by two panga-wielding men who were dressed in buibuis and had their faces covered in veils commonly known as ninja. No one has ever been arrested or charged with the gruesome murders. Local administrators and police officers have become the latest target of drug gangs in a region plagued by the vice. Edited by Henry Makori