The Mombasa government will soon launch three housing projects, Governor Hassan Joho has said. As a result, dilapidated county estates — Likoni Flats, Buxton and Changamwe — will be demolished to pave the way for modern houses. Tenants on the estates will, however, be compensated so they can relocate. On Sunday, Joho said they are planning to put up 1,900 units, which will comprise 600 one-bedroom houses, 700 two-bedroom houses and 600 three-bedroom houses. He spoke during a public participation forum attended by county officials and Buxton tenants, among other stakeholders. “Each of the Buxton Estate tenant will be compensated Sh240,000 to move out to pave the way for the project. You have an option of taking the money, or investing it back as a mortgage deposit for the houses that will be constructed here,” Joho said. A one-bedroom unit will be sold for Sh1.8 million, a two-bedroom unit will be going for Sh3 million, whereas the three-bedroom units will go for Sh4.2 million. Joho said several banks, including Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Gulf Bank, Absa Bank and Housing Finance, have agreed to finance the Sh6 billion Buxton Estate project. “We have negotiated with the investors and several banks have agreed to finance the project. All tenants who will wish to continue staying on this estate will be put under a mortgage scheme,” he said. The county chief said instead of monthly rent payable to the county, tenants will be paying back the mortgage to the bank of choice. “After five or 10 years, you will stop paying back the mortgage and the property becomes yours. I want everyone to become a property owner,” he said. Joho said a company belonging to Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal, who was his bitter political rival, won the bid to put up the new houses in Buxton. “When we did the tendering, the persons that honestly and fairly won the bid are led by Suleiman Shahbal. Let it be known it is not a political favour,” he said. The Likoni Flats will be replaced with 5,000 housing units. A similar project will also be done in Changamwe. “We have started the compensation project in Likoni,” Joho said. Shahbal, who was present during the Buxton public meeting on Sunday, said the project will be 100 per cent transparent and all tenants will be involved. “We will involve you in the project design, mode of financing and anything that you wish to know,” he said. The Buxton housing project will also have football seven-aside pitches, basketball courts, social halls, a nursery school, a medical centre, shops and other amenities.