The first phase of Covid-19 vaccine allocation will give priority to the high-risk populations and groups, the World Health Organization has said. According to the global health agency, the allocation of vaccines is proposed to be rolled out in two phases. WHO director general Tedros Ghebreyesus on Wednesday said the allocation of the vaccine doses in phase one will be done proportionally to all participating countries simultaneously to reduce overall risk. In phase two, consideration will be given to countries’ in relation to threat and vulnerability. The director general noted that priority will be given to frontline workers in health and social care settings since they are essential in the treatment and protection of the population and come in close contact with high-mortality risk groups. The elderly aged above 65 and people with preexisting medical conditions will also be given priority as they are at the highest risk of dying of Covid-19. “If we don't protect these highest-risk people from the virus everywhere and at the same time, we can't stabilise health systems and rebuild the global economy. This is what the first crucial phase of the vaccine allocation mechanism aims to do,” he said. Ghebreyesus said once a successful vaccine has been identified, WHO’s strategic advisory group will provide recommendations for their appropriate and fair use. “Since May, WHO has been in extensive consultations to develop a new framework to guide fair and equitable access to diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, for Covid-19 across all countries,” Ghebreyesus said. He, however, noted that the response to the pandemic requires solidarity, adding that elite planning at the highest levels is needed right now in preparation to vaccinate and treat the world. According to Ghebreyesus, a vaccine developed in one country may need to be filled in vials with stoppers that are produced in another, using materials for the high-grade glass that is only available from yet another country. “We will need to quickly manufacture billions of doses to reach all those who need the vaccine, which means hundreds of millions of glass vials and ways to transport them effectively.” Already, letters have been sent to member states encouraging them to join the joint procurement and pooling of risks across multiple vaccines through the COVAX Global Vaccines Facility. “Like an orchestra, we need all instruments to be played in harmony to create music that everyone enjoys. One or two instruments playing by themselves just won’t suffice when the world is waiting and listening intently,” Ghebreyesus said. Last month, Health CAS Rashid Aman confirmed that there was an intense diplomatic discussion at regional, continental and international levels to ensure some levels of equity to access and distribution of vaccine once they are ready. The greatest concern is that once the vaccines are developed, low and middle-income countries including Kenya might be put at the end of the queue, with preference being given to the richer countries. “Effort is going on to see that there is a certain level of equity once the vaccines come out and we hope that low and middle-income countries, our country included, will get some doses of those vaccines once they are ready to be used,” Aman said. “There are discussions at many levels at regional and intercontinental levels to make sure that low and middle-income countries are not left out in terms of getting this vaccine. We have our regional and continental bodies who are working to strike this.” The concern came after the same was experienced with access to Covid-19 testing equipment and reagents due to the global demand and supply of the same which saw many low and middle-income countries suffer from constant shortage. This has led to huge backlogs of samples collected, with some countries opting for the rapid test kits as opposed to the PCR tests as recommended by the WHO. Edited R.Wamochie