University vice chancellors will serve a single term of six years if proposals by the Ministry of Education to change the Universities Act are accepted. The proposals also prohibit individuals from taking a similar position in another university. "Term should be reviewed for CEOs and the deputies to be one term of six years non-renewable... a person who has served as a VC will not be eligible to serve in the same position in another public university," a document from the ministry reads. Currently, the law allows VCs to seek a second five-year term after the expiry of the first. The single term and other proposals are contained in a draft document 'Matrix on Governance of Public Universities', which are the George Magoha-led ministry's suggestion to change the Universities (Amendment) Act, 2016. The document also proposes that the Public Service Commission be removed from the appointment process and instead be replaced by the Education CS and university council. The Act provides that the appointment of the vice chancellor is conducted by the PSC in consultation with the university council. The name of the successful candidate is forwarded to the Education CS. However, the PSC process has caused friction with the Education ministry, with some top candidates raising controversy. For instance, Magoha in January contested and revoked the appointment of  University of Nairobi vice chancellor Stephen Kiama who had emerged top candidate. However, after protracted court battles, the ministry agreed to settle the matter amicably, retaining the appointment of Kiama to end the standoff. Similar tussles have been witnessed in filling the vice chancellor position at the Masind Muliro University To resolve the disputes with PSC, the ministry proposes that the councils recruit the VCs and their deputies in concurrence with the Cabinet secretary. Council should consider gender and diversity in their selections. The joint selection is the practice by other state corporations and reduces political interference in filling university's top job, the ministry says. The number of deputy VCs should be restricted to three to cut on managerial spending, the ministry also suggests. The ministry also wants to power to handpick university council members without necessarily through advertisement. “This is because it is not fulltime employment,” the document reads. It proposes that chancellors be appointed by the President and selection by Senate and other relevant stakeholders. "Three names forwarded to the CS for onward transmission to the President," the document reads. The ministry further seeks to review and harmonise the retirement of public VCs and staff. Currently, each university sets the retirement terms of its academic staff. 