 The family of Church of God Archbishop Byrum Makokha has said it won't meddle in the plans for the cleric's succession. Makokha died on Tuesday at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu. He was 88. His family says the church should follow its constitution in finding Makokha's successor. “We are also hoping that the church leadership won’t involve the family of the late archbishop in the same (succession plans),” family spokesman Kennedy Khaenda said on Wednesday. He added, “The church has got its own constitution to follow in case of any leadership changes.” Khaenda is the nephew of the late archbishop. He spoke to reporters at his uncle’s home in Ibubi village in Luanda subcounty, Vihiga county. “Uncle was a nobleman and that is why some of us are where we are now. His time has come. Let him rest,” Kahenda said. “We have heard so many stories here and there, mzee was a controversial leader but we are not here for that. Those theories circulating out there were generated by youngsters within the church with current ideologies which couldn’t match his ideas and that is why they have termed him a controversial leader.” He said such differences are common with most leaders. “When you are a leader you can’t just agree with everybody’s opinions. Some you need to differ with,” he said. Khaenda said the late archbishop steered the church as best as he could. He said a successor should be found to take over from where Makokha left. “The late uncle has done his best. He has schools, he has hospitals, he has water projects and power projects countrywide to his name.” Makokha is survived by widow Grace, a son and three daughters. He will be buried on September 12, the church said on Wednesday. “As the chairman of the steering committee for his burial, we have settled on September 12,” deputy archbishop James Opunde said. “The body will be picked at Aga Khan mortuary on September 11 and taken to his home awaiting the following day.” Makokha had been at the helm of the church since 1970. He took over from Clare Shultz who was at the helm from 1962. Shultz had taken over from Cleak Goodricke who steered the church between 1957-1962. Before him was Wick Robert (1948-1957), Herman Smith (1947-1948) and John Ludwig (1927-1946). 