A Senate committee investigating mass failure of students at the Kenya School of Law has summoned Attorney General Kihara Kariuki, his predecessor Githu Muigai and Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto to explain. Also summoned are president of the Law Society of Kenya Nelson Havi, dean of the Law Schools forum, chairman Moni Wekesa and Kenya School of Law board chairperson Fatuma Chege. The Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee has summoned Githu in his capacity as the board chairman of the Council of Legal Education (CLE). CLE is the regulator that sets, administers and marks bar exams at the Kenya School of Law, the county’s only institution offering the Advocates Training Programme (ATP). The committee, chaired by Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni, issued the summonses on Thursday after they skipped a session convened by the panel to discuss the cause of the failures. The chairman adjourned the meeting prematurely after the officers representing the institutions failed to provide satisfactory responses about the causes of the failures. “We must invite them because those we are whipping seem not be the rights ones. We need to get to the root cause of these issues and the only way we can to do that is to talk to the top management and policy makers,” Omogeni said. The committee is investigating the cause of mass failure in the bar exams following a petition by two citizens Abdalla Suleiman and Elkana Kituri. Before the adjournment, Mary Mutugi, representing CLE, and KSL Chief Executive Officer Henry Mutai were at pains to explain the mass failures. Mutugi, represented Githu, was particularly taken to task to explain the rationale for charging students huge amounts for the exams only for the cash to be sent to the Exchequer. According to documents presented to the committee, CLE has sent the Treasury Sh215 million in the last five year as 'excess' from students. CLE charges Sh50,000 for regular exams, Sh15,000 for re-sit and Sh10,000 for re-markng per subject per student. The submission irked the committee members who demanded to know why the government was using poor students to finance its operations “We need to be told why the office of the Attorney General has made the Kenya School of Law its income-generating institution,” Mutula Kilonzo Jr said. Mutugi admitted that CLE, the bar exam administrator, has never initiated an independent inquiry to establish the cause of the mass failures. She could not explain why the CLE sets and marks exams yet the syllabus is delivered by a different body, the KSL. “As an institution, we have never made an inquiry apart from the report that came from KIPPRA,” she admitted. KSL CEO Mutai sought to absolve to the institution from any wrongdoing in the mass failures, saying the purported mass failure is not the true picture. “To pass the ATP exams, you have to pass all the nine subjects. In most cases, students pass seven or eight. So, it is not always right to say there is mass failure,” he said. “Why have we commercialised legal education in Kenya and especially at the KSL? The CEO should come clean. The petitioners have raised serious concerns,” Mutula said. The CEO explained that the fees charged is captured in law and  the institution does not arbitrarily impose fees on students. Edited by Henry Makori