Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday told off Jubilee members rooting for a Raila Odinga presidency saying they should resign from the party. Speaking to Muslim clerics at PrideInn Hotel in Shanzu Mombasa, Ruto said those in Jubilee supporting a candidate not from the party are going against party principles. "If your candidate your is in Orange House, what are you doing in Jubilee? Go to Orange House!" said Ruto. He was responding to those calling for his resignation from the party and his Deputy President position. Jubilee vice chair David Murathe and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu are among leaders who have been calling for Ruto's resignation saying he is going against his boss, President Uhuru. The DP urged Jubilee members undergoing persecution for supporting him to hold on strong. He said Jubilee has eight million members and the party serves 45 million Kenyans thus nobody should be intimidated. He said threats by "conmen" in Jubilee amount to nothing by cowardice tactics to try and rattle genuine members. "These people don't talk on behalf of the Government of Kenya. They are conmen. Don't be cheated by them," said Ruto. He said in the road to salvation, there must always be hurdles that must be overcome. The DP said immoral individuals, too drunk with power, are now shouting the loudest yet they have stolen funds meant for the sick. He was referring to the theft of billions of shillings in Covid funds. "Kemsa today has billionaires because of corona. Don't you have shame? Aren't you humane?" said Ruto. He was accompanied by Coast leader s including MPs Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga) and Shariff Athman (Lamu East), former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar, Sheikh Juma Ngao, among others. Ali reiterated that leaders must learn to remove the logs in their eyes before complaining of the specs in others. "I said it yesterday and I repeat, I will not wear any mask until all the Covid funds are returned," said the Nyali MP. Omar said Ruto is the best bet that Kenyans have and should trust in. "We tried the others and look where we are," he said. Ruto said leaders propagating tribal politics disguised as BBI should be shunned. "Let us form a government that has no Muslim or Christian, big or small, Coastarian or upcountry people. We are all one," he said. "It is possible to create a Kenya which is united and has no divisions along any tribal, ethnic, racial or religious lines," said Ruto. The DP said the Jubilee government intention when constructing the SGR was not to impoverish the Coast or any other region in the country.