Two hotels in Mombasa are in trouble for using plastic sand bags to curb the rising sea level. Medina Palms and Turtle Bay hotels were given up to Monday remove the bags along the sea shore. The bags will with time break up, spreading to the entire Ocean where some will be eaten by fish. Rise of the sea level, according to National Geographic, is an increase in the level of the world’s oceans due to the effects of global warming. Burning fossil fuels is one of the causes of global warming because it releases carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gasses into the atmosphere. Oceans then absorb the majority of this heat. As water becomes warmer, it expands. This results in ocean levels rising worldwide. The hotels' act raised an uproar from Kenyans among them conservation organisations. “These plastic sand bags were put at a Watamu beach near Marina Hotel today. It's important to know that these bags will quickly disintegrate into tiny plastics from action of tides and the sun, then end up in the ocean. Those responsible should look for environment-friendly bags,” James Wakibia said. “Perhaps the responsible environmental agency is waiting for the microplastic to pollute the water so that they get an opportunity to tender for a solution. How does a person with a functional brain fail to foresee the imminent menace those plastic sacks pose. Welcome to Kenya,” Osieko Nyakwar said. The backlash from Kenyans and conservationists forced authorities to swing into action. Kilifi county government said it had dispatched the Environment director to the site. “She talked with both directors of the hotels and directed that they start removing the bags and come up with an environment-friendly plan to adapt to sea-level rise,” the director said. The county said it engaged the National Environment Management Authority office so a cessation order can be given to the companies on Monday. The county government said the rise in sea level is affecting all coastal cities. “The department also has plans to work with stakeholders in putting up sustainable adaptation measures to address climate change challenges in Kilifi.” Three years ago, Kenya banned the use, manufacture and sale of polythene bags and packaging materials. The government has already banned single-use plastics in beaches, national parks, forests and conservation areas. The ban took effect on June 5. In effect, this means Kenyans going to the beach or national parks are banned from carrying water bottles, plastic plates, plastic cups as well as plastic spoons and forks. Water bottles are seen as a major nuisance for the environment in Kenya, with many littering rivers, the Indian Ocean, forests and even drainages. The Wildlife Conversation and Management Act, 2013 defines a protected area as a geographical space recognised, dedicated and managed through legal or other effective means, to achieve the long-term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values. It makes it an offence to pollute protected areas. Offenders, upon conviction, are fined not less than Sh2 million or jailed to a term of not less than five years, or both. Edited by R.Wamochie