Had it not been for the coronavirus pandemic, Mathare United and Harambee Stars left back David Owino reckons that he would be jetting out on August 15 to launch his professional career abroad. The versatile Owino revealed that before the virus struck, plans were at an advanced stage to facilitate his exit from the 2008 champions for Spain to join Catalonia-based Unió Esportiva (UE) Figueres. The latter  plays in Tercera División – Group 5, and stage their home matches at the Estadi Municipal de Vilatenim The player, christened Messi, landed the Spanish deal last year after successful trials but the two clubs did not reach consensus on his transfer leaving him with no option other than to return to Mathare. "Were it it not for the virus, I would have left on August 15 to join UE Figures. I succeeded in the trials held last year but they did not reach an agreement with Mathare, who were willing to let me go this month.The Spanish club told me to hold on until the virus is suppressed then I will be able to join them alongside other players who were successful in the trials," he revealed "I have had good seasons with Mathare and the national team and I was hoping  that my hard work will yield fruits this month but there is little I can do.I was looking forward to scale to the next level of my career but I will be patient and God-willing, I will make it once the coronavirus dust settles." Meanwhile, the diminutive player disclosed that locally, four top flight clubs were muscling for his signature. It is understood that KCB, Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards and Wazito have been hot on Owino's heels from the time the federation announced the conclusion of the 2019-2020 season. Owino's contract with the 'Slum Boys' is set to expire in December. He, however, said that he has shelved the negotiations with the clubs until the time the government will give sporting activities the green light to resume. "I have four offers from local clubs but I am yet to decide on my future since we don't know when football will resume. I have told the interested clubs to shelve the negotiations until the government allows us back to the pitches. I am not in a hurry to make a decision. I am still consulting with my seniors, family and friends and when the right time comes I will make my move known," he added.