The new cohort of university students could pay Sh48,000 in tuition fees, three times the current Sh16,000 if a proposal by vice chancellors is adopted. The fees increase is meant to plug revenue holes created by the de facto abolition of the privately sponsored students programme in 2015 and cover for mounting training costs. “It is proposed that tuition fees paid by government-sponsored student should be raised to Sh48,000 and that the increase takes effect for the new intake of government-sponsored students only,” the VCs say in a document. If adopted, 125,449 students who sat the 2019 KCSE exams and qualified for university places could be the first to bear the burden. The university bosses say the Sh16,000 fee was enforced in 1989 — when the cost of taking a student through college was Sh120,000 per year — and reviewed in 2107. The figure has ballooned to Sh254,644 per year 31 years later. However, the government has increased funding per student, with the new cohort allocated Sh171,051 on average. “The government funding combined with the direct fees paid by students falls short, with Sh67,593 of the total estimate to annual cost of taking a student through university… roughly 25 per cent of the total cost,”  the document reads. The VCs propose that students shoulder some of the shortfalls left. The fee increase is part of other proposals by managers to revive the ailing university sector. The blueprint 'Status of University Education in Kenya: Challenges and Way Forward' was prepared by Prof Geoffrey Muluvi who chairs the Vice Chancellors Committee. Prof Muluvi is the vice chancellor, South Eastern Jenya University. The VCs want the Higher Education Loans Board to increase loans advanced to students to cushion them from the fees hike. “The amount of Helb loans and bursary extended to students from needy backgrounds should be increased at an agreed proportion to the approved fee increase,” they say. But Helb boss Charles Ringera said they were not aware of the proposal and it would interfere with their financial planning. “Remember, Helb has a fixed budget from Treasury as voted by Parliament year on year. This year, it is Sh16.5 billion with with the Exchequer finding Sh11.3 billion and AIA coming in at Sh5.2 billion,” Ringera told the Star. If the proposal were to take place, the Helb budget would change exponentially, he said. GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP The VCs further recommend that the government rethinks the model it has traditionally used to determine those who qualify for sponsorship for degree programmes. Currently, the government depends on the cut-off mark—C+ (plus)— in the KCSE examinations to select students for funding. But the VCs propose that the government prioritises its resources to cover only those students it wishes to support. In such a case, the focus could be given to the vulnerable students and those pursuing courses perceived competitive and marketable for national sustainability and development. “Students who qualify with C plus and above but have not been qualified for government support to pursue degree programmes should then be free to either join TVET programs, sponsored by Government, or join universities as private students,” the document reads. The move could revive the collapsed self-sponsored student programmes that took a hit following reforms in the KCSE examination to curb cheating in 2016. From 2016, the number of students qualifying to join universities plummeted  from 169,492 in 2015 to 88,929 in 2016,  70,073 in 2017 and 90,950 in 2018. This decline in enrolment came with reduced fees to universities and the collapse of Module II. In the document, Prof Muluvi identifies lack of adequate staff, the rapid expansion of universities, lack of disciplinary focus, weak PhD studies and poor research output as among other problems ailing the sector. Poor infrastructure, weak governance structure and lack of a tradition to work with industry are also mentioned. UNCONTROLLED EXPANSION The VCs also oppose a plan to review and halt a requirement for the government to create a university in each county. The proposal was contained in the University (Amendment) Act, 2012. In the proposals fronted, VCs want a special fund established to revamp physical facilities in public universities. "Universities should be asked to make proposals for their needs in respect of physical learning facilities... The proposals from the universities should be evaluated by the Ministry and funds be sourced and allocated to universities in accordance with their evaluated needs,"  the recommendations read. The varsity managers expect that with the 100 per cent transition policy, more students will qualify for university education. “What is needed on the part of the Government is a much more organised expansion strategy that takes into consideration available resources to allow for the sustenance of the universities to the expected levels,” the document reads. In their proposal, the VCs suggest that the current institutions have areas of specialisation in line with the needs of the communities. They want special focuson science, technology, engineering and mathematics programmes. ACADEMIC STAFF The VCs also raise a red flag about the shrinking pool of graduates interested in taking up academic positions, warning that if not tackled, the institutions risk being starved of academic staff. Even worse is that those who already have the qualifications to be university lecturers— PhD degree holders— are leaving to look for opportunities elsewhere. For this, the VCs recommend a structured programme of identifying young talent among Kenyans, whether from local universities or abroad to be hired on staff development programmes. “Under such a programme, those with good Bachelor's degrees would be hired as Graduate Assistants while those with Master's degrees as Tutorial Fellows," the presentation reads. The programme could be expensive, they say, and the universities with their meagre resources can not engage in it now. They also ask the government to help universities in establishing proper remuneration levels to attract young talent to join the universities as teaching staff. The VCs also want the cost of postgraduate programmes reexamined and shared between the government and the university. "The Government should be responsible for the tuition costs of the student while the university could assist in supporting the students to cover living costs," the document reads. (edited by o. owino)