There’s never a stronger bond than that between brothers or sisters competing in the same sport, especially if they are twins. The world of sports has been treated to spectacles of twins playing in the same or opposing teams while others have had to endure rough patches just to see their siblings get over the line. In athletics, Alvin and Calvin Harrison became the first pair to strike gold when they helped the United States to the 4x400m relay title at the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000. Belgium’s Borlee brothers Kevin and Jonathan, however, showed that being twins does not necessarily guarantee athletes the same performances as Kevin struck gold in the 400m at the 2010 European Championships while the latter, the race favourite, finished a distant seventh. In tennis, Bob and Mike Bryan have established themselves as a pair to watch in the doubles category while in football, former Manchester United defenders, Rafael and Fabio Da Silva have had a chance to grace the sport at the top level. Back home, the pair of Alice and Maureen Owiti are seeking to be the next big pairing in the world of sports as they chart their own path in hockey, turning up for Lakers in the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League. Alice, the ‘older’ of the pair, is a striker-cum-midfielder while Maureen is a defender/midfielder. Alice has gone on to grace the national team while her sister is yet to don the national stripes. The Owiti’s were born on March 5, 2000 in Seme, Kisumu County. They studied in the same school, Barkorua Primary, and even shared a class until when they were in class six when Maureen was forced to rewind due to poor performances. Upon completion of their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education, they both went to Sinyolo Girls High School, with Maureen still a class behind. Interestingly, the duo were initially into football before a change of heart and mind since Sinyolo is more of a hockey-playing school than they are into football. The duo joined the sport in 2015, while Alice was in Form Two with Maureen a class behind. They were influenced by the school’s games teacher, Alice Owino, who had recognised their athleticism while trying out football and she was convinced they could do better with hockey sticks. In their debut year into the sport, the duo helped Sinyolo to the runner up position at the national championships and capped off a remarkable outing with the East African trophy. The team scored 24 and conceded just twice to lift the regional title. While Alice was instrumental in attack, Maureen kept opposing strikers at bay. Alice recounts how she was thrown into the deep end in 2015, as Sinyolo was undergoing massive rebuilding. “Sinyolo had lost around seven players — who had completed their studies — therefore several positions needed to be filled up. I was expected to replace performance-oriented players, who had made a name for the school. In 2014, they had played at the nationals in Mombasa and in the regional tournament in Dar es Salaam. It was like moving from a frying pan into the fire,” says Maureen. “But I always had the belief that I would make it. I quickly adjusted from being a squad player to an undroppable player and I reciprocated the goal-scoring form of the previous regime. It was a perfect year — heading to the national and regional championships while still in Form One. It forms one of those experiences and memories that sticks in your mind forever.” In 2016, Sinyolo was a household name after making a clean sweep of trophies. 2017 was, however, the best year for Alice, who scooped the best player award in both the national and regional championships. She scored 10 goals as Sinyolo finished second at the nationals and went on the rampage with a 25-goal tally at regional tournament, signing out on a high. Explaining their unmatched achievement for Sinyolo, Alice observed how it was fun playing for the institution adding that exposure, motivation and tough training allowed the girls punch above their weight. “It was fun playing hockey with the girls. We had many outings. We used to train with Maseno School at least 15 days a month while over the weekend, we could play in tournaments and that really built our endurance. Discipline was paramount. Lateness to training warranted punishment and we faced the reality of thorough training from the no-nonsense coach,” she said. Alice added: “Hockey players had a special diet when they played from the local regional level to East Africa. The team felt appreciated and there was no way the girls could not play their hearts on the field. The sense of togetherness always kept us going. Players stood up for each other when it mattered most and that was reflected in the trophies we won.” In December 2017 Alice played for Amira Sailors but re-joined Sinyolo in 2018 — having a go again in her Four Four studies after scoring a less than expected C Plain grade in her Kenya Certificate of Secondary Examination. This re-united her with Maureen. However, the team, despite having qualified for the national championships, decided to give the championships a wide berth and instead honoured an invitational tournament in France where the Owiti’s made the travelling party. In France, they finished second behind the Screps. The girls explained how their love for hockey split opinions back at home, where their father, Thomas Owiti was opposed to their hockey while the mother, Risper Owiti was supportive of their involvement with the sport. “Dad believed that hockey was time-wasting. It was when we went to France that the reality dawned on him that we could prosper in the game. Still, he remains unconvinced about hockey. Mum made all the difference with her motivation and support,” says Alice. They also ventured into the Kenya Hockey Union events in 2018, playing a game each for Lakers in the Super League. Overtime, they have proved to be a gem the lakeside team, helping them to a fourth-place finish in their maiden Premier League campaign last year. Alice scored six goals, two shy of the league’s top-scoring duo of Jacqueline Mwangi and Gilly Okumu. She was named the most promising player in the Premier League and awarded Sh5,000, which she says she shared with her sister. Alice believes she is not yet where she wants to be as a player. “My performance (last season) was good but I am not yet where I want to be. I want more. It was an honour playing with great players and the challenge was amazing. Discipline, self drive, hardwork and sacrifice were crucial for my achievements. The coming season should be even better. I want to score at least 10 goals. I have amassed enough experience to virtually achieve my targets,” she recounts. “I have an eye for goal. I am sturdy at dribbling and confident but not to the point of arrogance. I haven’t reached my peak yet, the top scorer dream is still valid. Who knows, I might even become the best player because I have what it takes to consummate my goals.” Maureen was careful in the assessment of her season. “I have been transformed since joining Lakers and I am now flexible to virtually play any position apart from goalkeeping. I love playing alongside my sister. If she’s in the game my performance is top-notch, but if she’s not playing, I tend to struggle,” she says. The debate on who is the better of the twins was put to bed by the Lakers coach Austin Tuju, who categorically analysed the duo based on last season’s performance. He says the sisters are on the same level but Alice is a pacesetter for her sister. “Alice is a quick learner and her execution is good,” he says. “Skill-wise, she’s definitely the best and a leader too. She’s quick, fast and her finishing is phenomenal. Maureen is tough and hard in defence. They can become world class if they get the right environment.” Last season, Maureen scored two goals but believes better days are coming. She advised girls to embrace the sport, saying: “Girls should not be afraid of stick and cork. There’s the notion that hockey is dangerous but the rules have simplified the game. Nothing is impossible. She promised to challenge her sister for awards in the coming season. “I am happy for the appreciation she received but she must know that I am scheming to surpass her. The two of us have set our targets and competition is healthy. I felt motivated after seeing her awarded but it would have been good if both of us won awards as we are used to doing almost everything together.” Playing at the City Park Stadium was a daunting experience for Lakers, where they lost a lot matches as opposed to back in Kisumu, where they had made their home-ground a fortress. She says their struggles at City Park were occasioned by the lack of a similar standard facility back at home while their Nairobi-based opponents usually have access to the venue during training days. She terms their 2-1 defeat to Sliders as their worst of the campaign. “The playing surface was the difference. We are used to playing on the murram pitch. On murram, you cannot play stick down and that is a must when you compete at City Park. We are slowly adjusting to that. As a team, we underestimated Sliders. I was tense and we arrogantly lost 2-1. Had we won this match and fought for results from the other ‘winnable matches’, we would have finished in a better position,” she says. She said her passing needs some work and so is her approach to one-v-one situations although she reckons her tackling is up to par. Alice said there’s no better joy than doing things together. “We always are excellent when we work closely. We used to do this from childhood and everybody knows that. Sometimes we differ on one or two things but our relationship is cordial. We miss each other during group discussions because of the difference in courses,” she observes. At the moment, the two are students at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology, Kakamega, where Maureen is studying for a Diploma in Social Work and Community Development  as Alice pursues a Degree Course in Education. They share a room. Alice likes watching cartoons during her free time while Maureen is a storyteller.