Senators have demanded the release of their colleagues before they continue with the debate on the divisive county revenue sharing formula. The senators on Monday morning wanted the special sitting adjourned until three senators were present in the chamber. The senators are - Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala, Bomet Senator Christopher Langat and Samburu Senator Steve Lelegwe. Police are said to have camped at their Nairobi homes seeking to arrest them. Speaking during senate proceedings on Monday, Makueni Senator Mutula Jnr Kilonzo said he was elected in the senate because of his father who was found dead on his bed. "That was my father. He was found dead on his bed..and if it is not Malala, it will be me or you... we will not allow this sought of thing to happen in this Kenya," he said. Kilonzo said that senators have had to switch off their phones so that they are not trailed by the police. "When one member is in trouble it does not matter who is winning .. we need to adjourn this matter until our colleagues are found," he said. Kilonzo said he has seen death adding that they are not conducting any personal business. "When did this become a police state? Who knows what is happening to Senator Lelegwe? I have seen what happens when someone gives you poison you bleed so much like my father did," he added. Senator George Khaniri said that senators cannot debate on the formula when their colleagues are under arrest. "We want the house to adjourn until our colleagues are released to come and debate here with us," he said. He said that no amount of intimidation will make us change our stand on this matter. "They are making our resolve even stronger. We will remain firm to ensure there is equity. We demand the senators to be released," he said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said he raised concerns of his security a few weeks ago. "I saw the same vehicle outside senator Langat's house. This is serious.. I expect senator Poghishio and James Orengo, to defend the senate," he said. "I know that wherever the senators are, the intention of the arrest is clear to everyone.  We cannot lose our country. We cannot lose our country. There is nothing bad as a coward leader." Sakaja urged senators that no matter how they voted they must stand united. "You can even summon the IG here so that he explains to us whey he went to senator Malala's house, is he a witch, a wizard?" he posed. "Let us not look at this in the prism of politics. I support the president and i know that those who are doing this are not doing it out of his instructions." Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko said there are no facts that the senators are missing. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said he could not seleep last night over the issue of intimidation of the senators. "I did not sleep last night. And i have been updating on Twitter. We are facing an assault on constitutional order. Rule that this integrity of this be protected," he said. "Orengo you told us in this house that the revolution eats its own children... and yes, it has devoured and thrown me to the backbench... but it will come for you next now that you are in a position of power." An angry Murkomen said that Migori senator should style up. "I am shocked. Ayacko go for a mirror and see yourself. We do not lie, we cannot mislead this house. This facts are here," he said. "Let us not belittle this debate. It is an assault on the senate." Nyamira Senator Okong'o Omogeni said that he will stand firm and fight for justice. "My blood and organs will fight to defend the constitution of Kenya. We want justice. We are talking on a day that Covid-19 millions have been stolen, and officers are camping on senators houses," he said. The sentiments come after a night that saw three senators part of Team Kenya holed up in their houses fearing arrest ahead of the crucial vote on Monday on the divisive revenue sharing formula. Kenyans could have to wait longer for white smoke over the controversial formula for sharing cash among the counties after last-minute talks to unlock the Senate impasse collapsed. Warring factions in the Senate have maintained their hardline positions. Senators continue digging in, despite eight sittings having been adjourned for lack of a solution. The stalemate over the formula has stalled the passage of the County Allocation of Revenue Bill (CARA), 2020, legislation that outlines how the Sh316.5 billion allocated to the counties in the 2020-21 budget should be shared. In the disputed formula proposed by the Finance and Budget Committee, 18 less populous counties of North Eastern, lower Eastern, Coast and parts of Rift Valley regions are losing Sh17 billion. It has been rejected by senators from those regions who have also successfully managed to win over at least seven lawmakers from the counties that will gain funds.