The Kenya Red Cross has started free 40-days mass Covd-19 testing in Garissa county. It was launched on Sunday at the Garissa Primary School playground. The programme by the Red Cross and the county is funded by the European union. Red Cross county coordinator Muhamed Dubow urged residents to get tested, saying tests will reveal coronavirus cases that otherwise would have gone undetected in asymptomatic patients. Cases have been increasing in the county. More than 3,000 people have been tested, positive cases stand at 192. Five people have died. Dubow said testing and track-and-trace programmes go a long way in isolating and quarantining asymptomatic people who could unknowingly be spreading the virus. “We urge residents of Garissa town and the county to take advantage of the free mass testing," he said, adding health workers will be moving around the county to reach every area. The programme has engaged 1,100 Community Health Volunteers to sensitise people at the grassroots on the need for testing, hand washing, social distancing and mask wearing. Sixty front line health workers also have been trained on handling Covid-19, four health workers have been employed, face masks and sanitiser have been supplied to health facilities and Garissa University, Dubow said. County Health director Mohamed Dagane encouraged the Ministy of Health to decentralise Dovid-19 testing. He said a testing centre should be swiftly set up at Garissa Referral Hospital as sending samples from all over the county to Nairobi is expensive and time-consuming. “The tests results take at least three days but sometimes up to a week. Those tested sometimes become anxious and by the time we receive the test results they have disappeared,” Dagane said. “If that person's results are positive, you can imagine how many people he or she will infect," he said. “Testing positive is not the end of the world. The number of recoveries is impressive and if you test positive early enough, you can manage better and recover more easily," Dagane said. Those who test negative should observe all precautions because they can still be infected. He pleaded with Garissa town residents to observe health protocols, saying the disease is real and claims lives. (Edited by V. Graham) 