Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said he will sue the county government of Kakamega for demolition of traders' stalls near the upcoming county referral hospital. Savula said he had engaged Nairobi-based lawyer Ken Echesa to prepare a suit seeking compensation from the county government for losses incurred by traders last Friday. Traders said they were not given notice. The move was taken by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya's administration to pave the way for the completion of the referral facility. On Saturday, the traders held protests in the town, stoning Oparanya and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe's convoy. Kagwe was in Western to inspect Covid-19 preparedness but was caught up in the mayhem. He also updated the country on the Covid-19 situation from the town. Savula said the demolition was ill-advised and unjustified, adding that the same county government had been collecting levies from the traders. "We shall push this one because the county government, like any other organisation or human, is supposed to issue notice to occupants before any demolition. "The government should have engaged those it feels are operating in wrong locations to inform them why they should move and to where before carrying out the demolition,” he said. Savula urged the county government to suspend all fees and charges for traders to cushion them from economic effects of Covid-19. The traders accused Oparanya of ruining their livelihoods for personal aggrandisement. They said the county government had not carried out any development on the site it demolished the kiosks. The demolition is likely to pit Oparanya against those seeking to succeed him. Those interested in the seat include Savula, Senator Cleophas Malala, Ketraco CEO Fernandez Barasa, Samuel Omukoko, Deputy Governor Philip Kutima, former Senator Boni Khalwale and county clerk Laban Atemba. Oparanya is serving his second and final term. Senator Malala and Lurambi MP Bishop Titus Khamala led the traders' protests in Kakamega town on Saturday. Malala has worked closely with the governor since his election, which has earned him accusations of failing to carry out his oversight role. Oparanya had also enjoyed cordial working relationship with elected MPs, but some of them now seem keen to chart their own paths as they seek to replace him. Edited by F'Orieny