A businesswoman arrested on Monday for illegally importing methanol valued at more than Sh2 million was charged in Busia on Wednesday. Kelly Mwangi appeared before senior resident magistrate Patrick Olengo to answer to charges of illegal importation. She denied any wrongdoing. Mwangi was arrested in Nairobi, having been on the run for eight months. According to the prosecution, Mwangi was intercepted with the methanol on December 13, 2019, at the Malaba One-Stop Border Post customs yard. The product, which was being imported from Uganda, had been packed in 25 drums, each containing 250 millilitres of ethanol concealed in 53 bags of maize. A multi-agency team at the border post seized the goods during a routine verification exercise but the suspect abandoned the vehicle she was using to ferry the product and escaped on foot. The owner of the truck ferrying the product assisted the police with investigations, which enabled the tracking and arrest of the suspect in Nairobi. Mwangi is expected to answer to charges of dealing with prohibited goods contrary to the East African Community Customs Management Act, 2004. Methanol, also referred to as methyl alcohol, is a multipurpose chemical with widespread industrial applications. Kenya Revenue Authority Western Region coordinator Jackeline Mosonik, in a press statement on Tuesday evening, said they will remain firm in averting illegal businesses. “KRA is committed to ensuring that companies declare and remit taxes within the confines of the law,” Mosonik said. “Tax evasion not only denies the government a fair share of revenue but also poses unfair business competition to legitimate businesses.” Mwangi was arrested alongside Robert Kalwera who was in her company at the time the methanol was intercepted in Malaba. Kalwera was also in Nairobi. He appeared in court in Busia on Tuesday. Most products imported into the country from Uganda pass through the Malaba One-Stop Border Post. In 2015, KRA, through a public notice, introduced procedures to govern access, purchase and importation of ethanol pursuant to the government’s initiative to combat illicit production and consumption of spirit-based drinks. 