Deputy President William Ruto has reiterated that the revenue sharing formula should not disadvantage counties that are already marginalised. Ruto said that the Senate has a duty to develop a formula for sharing revenue that will not hurt any county and which will ensure devolution is strengthened. “Hence, it should be guided by a win-win situation whereby populous counties get their fair share of revenue just as those that are considered marginalised or geographically small in size,” Ruto said. The DP hosted a delegation of leaders from Bungoma and Trans-Nzoia on Friday at his home in Sugoi, Uasin Gishu county. Ruto said it was time the Senate Committee on revenue allocation puts aside its political differences and take a common stand on matters affecting Kenyans with a view to ensuring the country remains united. He said that the Government’s agenda remains to unite Kenyans and accelerate development projects across the country. “President Kenyatta and I are leading a country irrespective of ethnic, populations, or how Kenyans voted during the last general elections. This is why Senate should come up with a formula that is not divisive,” Ruto said. At the same time, Ruto urged the elders to support leaders in addressing the challenges facing Kenyans. He said elders were well placed to educate Kenyans on the need to engage in activities that can unite the country. “As elders, you are well placed to help the country unite irrespective of political and ethnic persuasions." Ruto had earlier said that the move to form a bipartisan Senate Committee to develop a consensus formula showed wisdom and leadership. His words came hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta distanced himself from the revenue sharing debate. The President said that the formula was proposed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and has nothing to do with him. “Do not pull me into the Senate debate. That was not my formula, it's CRA's. My deeds will speak louder,” Uhuru said. Ruto has been campaigning for a win-win formula, saying the method used should not cause division. The Senate on Monday adjourned for the ninth time to allow the Special Committee formed by opposing sides to reach consensus on the Third Basis for formula allocation among counties. The 12-member committee consists of Johnson Sakaja, Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Ledama Ole Kina (Narok), Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu), Stewart Madazyo (Kilifi) and Nderitu Kinyua (Laikipia). Siaya Senator James Orengo moved the motion to adjourn and it was seconded by Samuel Poghisio.