Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has been asked to replace his secretary general who resigned last week with a person from Mt Kenya region. ANC’s secretary general Barrack Muluka last week resigned as the party’s secretary general, saying he has completed his task and had no new value to add. He also called on the Registrar of Political Parties to strike off his name from the list of ANC members. ANC members from Nyeri county now say a replacement from the region will help in marshalling votes from the region for his 2022 bid. “We understand that the party’s secretary general position is vacant and if he wants Mt Kenya to support him fully, then he has to think about us and give the position to a person from this region,” Regina Macharia, the county branch secretary, said on Sunday in Nyeri. She said Mt Kenya will not be fielding any candidate from the region and this will give Mudavadi a great opportunity to sell his agenda in the region. Macharia said Mudavadi has backed other candidates many times and that this is the time for others to support his bid. They termed Mudavadi as peace loving and a neutral person who is sellable in Mt Kenya and in every other corner of the country. Macharia added that Mudavadi is the only person among those vying for president in 2022 who understands the country’s economy better. Nyeri branch ANC chairman Phillip Githua said they will put up a spirited campaign in the region for Mudavadi's presidential bid. He told off people purporting to speak on behalf of Mt Kenya region, saying Kenyans have matured politically and can make their own decisions. “We have not sent anyone to speak on our behalf as the Kikuyu community. I am directly addressing [Jubilee vice chairman David] Murathe and (Jubilee nominated MP) Maina Kamanda. We shall be countering any comment you make purportedly on behalf of the community,” Githua said. Murathe was recently quoted saying that the country should prepare for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidency. But the ANC members said Raila has no chances of winning as Nasa has already fallen apart and Mudavadi and Kalonzo are no longer with him. That has weakened his chances of ascending to the presidency, they said. Githua echoed Macharia’s sentiments saying that out of all those contesting for the presidency; it is only Mudavadi who is in a position to revive the country’s economy. ANC coordinator in Mt Kenya region Simon Gikuru said they will sell Mudavadi in all the counties in the region, saying people on the grassroots want to be involved in campaigning for the former vice president. Edited by EKibii 