More than 5,500 girls under age 18 have gotten pregnant in Narok county this year, most of them since schools closed in March due to Covid-19. Urgent measures are needed, political, social and religious leaders said on Sunday. Governor Samual Tunai called for urgent meetings to empower girls and inform them of the dangers of early pregnancies and early marriages. He and others spoke at Narok Stadium during the last day of praying, fasting and repentance, in hopes the Covid-19 pandemic will soon pass. They included ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit and Anti-FGM board chairperson Agnes Pareiyo. They said the number of pregnancies has increased dramatically since the government closed schools in mid-March. Medical records show 5,538 girls below age 18 attended pre-natal care in the government hospitals in the last four months. The actual number of pregnancies is higher. “We fear the numbers might rise as these are only cases recorded in the hospitals and other girls shy away from visiting health facilities," Tunai said. Tunai said his administration will organise stakeholders’ meetings to empower girls to avoid premature sex and inducements and remind them that education will give them a better future. “I call upon religious leaders to dedicate their time in church and pray for schoolgirls so the vice can end and allow them to continue learning when schools reopen in January," Tunai said. He urged parents and guardians to teach their children good values. Pareiyo said teen pregnancies have become a national disaster and everyone should work together to fight it before many girls' future is destroyed. “Even as we are fighting for the girl child, we also need to shift attention to the boy child so when schools reopen, all students can resume learning without any problems," Pareiyo said. Sapit said girls who had dropped out of school due to pregnancy should be allowed back, as the Basic Education Act provides every child should have a chance to learn. The cleric said denying girls a chance to return is stigmatisation the government must not allow. “We should not condemn such pupils but rather give them another chance to redeem themselves. Dropping out of school after a pregnancy should not mean the end of schooling," Sapit said. (Edited by V. Graham)  