The Kenya Forest Service wants the number of rangers increased across the country to protect forests. The service said the number of rangers is declining due to fatal attacks by poachers with over 100 killed or maimed in the last five years. According to the organisation, in the period, five rangers were killed while another 106 were seriously injured by poachers, with 22 of the cases reported in the last one year. Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau said increasing pressure on forest resources had put a strain on the life and times of rangers. Speaking in Eburru forest after marking World Rangers Day, Kamau noted that the rangers protected the newly-gazetted forest areas and critical installations and equipment of the Service. “A single forest ranger protects on average 1,045 hectares both day and night as opposed to world recommended 400 hectares per ranger when motorised,” he said. He noted that the group braved the extreme terrain and harsh weather conditions in the wild, which, at times, left them with lifelong health complications. “They face life-threatening situations in their line of duty, sometimes being attacked by wild animals or assaulted if not killed by illegal loggers or poachers,” he said. He noted that protecting 2.5 million hectares of public forests, including other security operations with a lean number, was an uphill task. “These officers strive to ensure that forests and allied resources are safeguarded and protected for the benefit of the present and future generations,” he said. On his part, Joseph Mutongu from Rhino Ark was full of praise for the rangers as their efforts have seen logging and poaching in Eburru forest reduced. He added that the organisation and other stakeholders could continue to support the rangers who played a critical role in conserving the environment. “Eburru forest is home to the rare Bongo species which is under threat and the efforts by these rangers have stopped poachers from killing the animal,” he said. A community outreach officer, Peter Munene, noted that they faced many challenges in their operations with illegal loggers been the most dangerous. “This forest has a lot of benefit to area residents and we are working closely with them to protect is from charcoal burners and poachers,” he said.