 Nurses in Vihiga have started a work boycott in protest of their delayed July salaries. Kenya National Union of Nurses chairman for Vihiga Zadock Miheso on Tuesday said members had decided to stay away from their work stations to force the county government to pay their salaries. “We have not received our July payment and efforts to push for it has become a hard job so we have decided to stay at home until our cry is heard. We won’t go on the streets because we want to comply with Covid-19 regulations.," Miheso said. Most counties are grappling with the payment of salaries. The devolved governments have blamed the National Treasury for failing to released their cash. By the end of June, the National Treasury had not released about Sh29 billion to counties for the 2019-20 financial year. However, last week, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the cash had been released. Vihiga Health executive Amos Kutwa said the county was willing to pay its workers but was unable to do so because it had not received cash from the National Treasury. “We are not refusing to pay them. We haven’t received cash from Nairobi and that’s the challenge we are having,” Kutwa said. He said his Finance counterpart Alfred Indeche was in Nairobi to follow up to ensure the county receives its cash allocation. Kutwa said once the money gets to the county, they will pay the nurses immediately. The Senate stalemate on the formula for the division of county allocation has also occasioned a delay with counties unable to get their allocations for the current financial year. But Miheso said nurses will stay at home until the money reaches their bank accounts. Health services have been disrupted in several public hospitals across the county.  Miheso said Mbale Referral Hospital suspended services and discharged patients from its wards. The officer-in-charge of Mbale Referral Hospital declined to speak to the Star, saying it is only the Health executive who could speak on the matter. Those seeking services at the hospital were advised to visit private facilities, while patients requiring emergency care were referred to Kakamega, Kisumu and Eldoret. Miheso told the Star that the strike will go on until the payments are made. “We are not here to listen to those theories of the county having no money. We are not going to buy that,” Miheso said.  Edited by P.O