Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has been dealt a blow after his ally lost the Deputy Speaker's post. The governor was supporting the youthful Elijah Kirimi (Kibirichia MCA)  to clinch the seat. He was defeated by Municipality MCA Elias Murega, who clinched the position after two rounds of voting at the assembly. Murega is a fierce critic of the governor and is one of the most vocal MCAs in the assembly. Meru Leader of Majority Victor Karithi (Athwana) had lobbied MCAs to vote for Kirimi. Karithi was counting on the Jubilee Party numbers to help Kirimi clinch the seat. During the voting, 68 members were present, and in the first round, Murega got 68 votes while Kirimi got 24. The speaker called for another round because the winner did not attain the required two thirds as required by the Constitution. As the voting went into round two, Kinyua Turibu (Muthara) claimed some MCAs were being intimidated into taking a photo of the ballot paper after they had voted and post it in a certain Whatsapp group according to ‘orders from above’. However, Speaker Joseph Kaberia intervened and calmed the members from the two opposing sides. Voting went on after about 30 minutes. “Honorable members, do not take more than two minutes to vote. I have noticed some are taking too long. You also do not have to be policed. You have your right to have a phone and you were also elected to represent your people, behave accordingly,” Kaberia said. In the second round, Murega got 44 votes while Kirimi got 23 and one vote was spoilt. Murega took an oath of office after being declared the winner. He said it was not easy to go against the ‘system' and emerge victorious, adding that the will of people is the will of God. “This is Gods favour. It is not easy to go through a lot of intimidation and win. When God favour is upon you, there is no amount of intimidation that can win,” he said. Murega said he will work together with all leaders to propel the county ahead. He said the MCA did not vote along party lines. Murega took a swipe at Kiraitu, who he claimed had summoned MCAs at Thiiri Centre to lobby them to vote against him. “We respect Kiraitu very much but he should also respect the independence of the assembly,” he said. He added differing with Kiraitu does not mean the MCAs are against the governor.