Voi MP Jones Mlolwa has differed with his Coast counterparts over their decision to cut ties with ODM if Senate passes the disputed revenue-sharing formula. The legislator on Sunday said there was no agreement to ditch the opposition party, noting that the move is selfish and might not stop the bill from being passed. “We are strongly opposing the formula. However, we did not say that we are ditching our party. We are in ODM to stay and we shall fight from within,” Mlolwa said. Mlolwa was among some legislators from the region who on Thursday threatened to decamp the Raila Odinga-led party, accusing it of abandoning them at their hour of need. Coast senators and other political leaders have opposed the formula fronted by the Senate Finance and Budget Committee to determine how the devolved units share the national cake. Speaking during the launching of the George Faraji Dispensary in Werugha, Mlolwa said the formula should be amended to increase revenue share for Coast region counties and other marginalised regions. He said the reduced allocation would further derail development projects in the regions. “Projects require funds for them to be executed. The money given to some of these marginalised counties is not even enough, we want it increased to bring equality,” he added. Taita Taveta county could lose Sh388 million if the proposed formula is implemented. The county revenue allocation share standoff at the Senate will be revisited on Tuesday after several attempts to have it passed failed last week. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja termed the formula a clear attempt to take away resources from marginalised counties, thus killing devolution. Samboja noted that with the slashed allocations, counties might not be able to perform some devolved functions. “This is a bad formula that is being fronted by selfish people. We should stand to defend the spirit of devolution,” Samboja said. Further, he lauded frontline health workers for stemming the spread of the coronavirus. “Your sacrifice is evident as statistics indicate that we are having fewer infections,” he said, adding that the virus has adversely affected businesses, learning and economies. He said the county is currently dealing with only two cases in its isolation ward. “Our secret lies in contact tracing and proper handling of cases as per WHO guidelines,” Samboja said. Edited by R.Wamochie