The chief tax collector has won the first leg of a legal battle challenging a decision denying it Sh5.6 billion in tax arrears. The Supreme Court has accepted to hear an appeal by Kenya Revenue Authority. KRA is challenging an appeal decision in favour of Coca-Cola relating to levying of tax on returnable containers. In their August 4 decision, Supreme Court judges David Maraga, Mohammed Ibrahim, Smokin Wanjala and Philomena Mwilu held that they have jurisdiction to entertain the matter. "....we find that this court has jurisdiction in respect of this appeal. Having so found, we have no option but to dismiss the preliminary objection," the four judges ruled. In its application Coca-Cola had said the Supreme Court lacks jurisdiction because the appeal before it does not involve the interpretation or application of the Constitution. It wanted the court to dismiss the appeal. The appeals court, it said, had considered the principles of interpreting tax statutes. On the other hand KRA argued that the matter involved interpretation and application of the Constitution and the Supreme Court has every authority to handle it. Earlier, appeal judges had held that levying tax on returnable containers every time they are refilled amounts to multiple taxation and is unconstitutional. “In our view, the exclusion of returnable containers from the ex-factory selling price as per the previous legislations must have appreciated the unique nature of the practice in the industry and the dealing in such containers,” Justices Wanjiru Karanja, Otieno Odek and Kantai ole Sankale had ruled. In the initial case, Mount Kenya Bottlers, Rift Valley Bottlers, Nairobi Bottlers and Kisii Bottlers sued KRA after they were slapped with a demand of Sh5,620,730,161 in alleged arrears of excise duty, VAT plus  interests. KRA made the demands after tax audit, which revealed that the companies had failed to include the cost of returnable containers in arriving at the excise duty payable. Aggrieved by the assessment, Coca Cola moved to court but KRA stood its ground maintaining that returnable containers (bottles and crates) were subject to excise tax and VAT under the Customs and Excise Act and Value Added Tax Act. The then High Court judge Isaac Lenaola (now a Supreme Court judge) ruled in favour of KRA dismissing the case by the bottlers. Edited by Henry Makori