The 78km Gilgil-Nyahururu metre gauge railway line which stopped operating in 1980 is being rehabilitated. Kenya Railways acting general manager for Infrastructural Development Engineer Tobias Otieno said on Monday the rehabilitation work will take three months. He said the cost of rehabilitating the line has not yet been determined. However, there are "basic estimates" which will be refined to come up with near realistic engineer estimates for doing the work, Otieno said. He did not disclose the "basic estimates" either. The rehabilitation is being undertaken by Kenya Railways in collaboration with the Nyandarua county government and the local administration. Kenya Railways and Kenya Defence Forces Engineering brigade will supervise the work. Otieno said the revival of the line aims at bringing back mainly freight train services. “Depending on the uptake and demand of freight services, we may be able to resume passenger services,” he said. Speaking at Ol Kalou station, Otieno said the revival of Gilgil-Nyahururu railway will create jobs and improve the economy of the area. Among the economic benefits to be achieved, is the resumption of transportation of agricultural products from Nyandarua and livestock from Laikipia at reasonable cost. In Nyandarua, potato processing plant and cold storage are being constructed hence the railway will be an efficient means of transportation of finished products and also required materials. The rail, which cuts across three counties of Nakuru, Nyandarua and Laikipia, is also expected to bring down the cost for transporting building materials in the region. Otieno said they will start with clearing of bushes along the railway line corridor. Some sections have been buried by soil while the drainage system have silted and collapsed. The clearing work will be undertaken by youths engaged in the Kazi Mtaani programme and other residents along the railway corridor. Nyandarua acting county secretary said the revival of the railway will ease transportation of farm produce to market. He said anything that makes transport cheaper for Nyandarua people is key. Edited by A.N