Legislators from arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL) under Pastoralists Parliament Group have urged senators to reject the third basis formula. They seven MPs said senators should defy divisive politics that will destroy the country and damage the rights of the marginalised citizens. The MPs including their chairman Alois Lentoimaga (Samburu North), vice chairman Bashir Abdullahi Sheikh (Mandera North), secretary general Rehema Dida (Isiolo County), Ali Wario Guyo (Garsen), Qalicha Gufu Wario (Moyale), Nasri Sahal and Sophia Abdinoor (Ijara) said that Kenyan democracy guarantees that we all move forward as one nation where equity prevails. “It should be noted that we are not here to ask for a favour or beg for what is not rightfully and legally ours. We are here today demanding for equity, fairness and an acceptable Revenue Sharing formula that puts this country together which is also not based on factors that will disadvantage our people,” the MPs said. They said that the allocation and revenue should be pegged on development needs and priorities and that those crafting the new amended formula “ought not to forget the level of underdevelopment caused by such policies crafted by their forefathers. They have asked senators proposing the new formula to be concerned, sensitive, and committed to eradicating poverty by increasing allocations to maginalised regions instead of reducing allocations. “Unfortunately, what we are seeing now is an attempt to take us back to the era of channeling resources to already developed regions at the expense of deserving areas. The people of our region are Kenyans and we deserve to be treated like everyone else.” The debate on the third basis revenue sharing formula is expected to continue before the Senate on Tuesday for seventh time after disagreement in their previous sittings. The Senate had shot down the disputed revenue sharing formula proposed by Irungu Kang'ata (Murang'a). Kangata, also the Majority Chief whip, had sought to amend the report by the Finance and Budget Committee to push forward the commencement date of the formula. The MPs said those propagating for the amended version of the new resource allocation formula and supporting the 'one-man, one-shilling' politics are undermining the spirit and the letter of the Constitution. “The Mt. Kenya leaders’ sense of entitlement and false claims that they contribute 60% of the Country's GDP while receiving only 20% of the revenue share is not true,” they said. They have also ruled out the allegation that Mt. Kenya region is sidelined in revenue allocation compared to its population. “The nine counties have a population of 8.5 million, representing 18 per cent of the national total. In 2020/21 allocations, they receive Sh53.3 billion, being 17 per cent of the total county revenues. On per capita basis, Sh316.5 billion will work out to Sh6,600 per person. This region’s allocation works out to per capita of Sh6,200. Hence, if the sharing is on population which they deem essential, they got more than their share of one man one shilling mantra.” Kang'ata had said that the fight to have the third basis revenue allocation formula adopted is far from over. The Murang'a senator said though the formula that seeks to have revenue allocated based on population was shot down by senators, it still has a chance to be passed next Tuesday. “For the first time since divisions in the party started, 16 senators from both factions came together to support the formula out of the 22 that were for the adoption of the formula,” Kang’ata said.