Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama has been told to be a unifying agent in the greater Ukambani region and stop engaging in verbal spats with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. He should respect the former Vice-President if he does not want to be viewed as disruptive in the lower Eastern region, Mwala Chama Cha Uzalendo coordinator Raphael Nzuki Kyalaani said at Wamunyu on Tuesday. Kyalaani was referring to last Friday's confrontation between the former friends-turned enemies during the burial of Sammy Mulu, son of  former Ukambani political kingpin Mulu Mutisya at Muthetheni. Muthama did not mince words as he told Kalonzo before the mourners that he lacked leadership prowess. The CCU official told Muthama that Ukambani would develop fast if leaders were united. “Muthama needs to front himself as a uniting factor in Ukambani instead of constantly attacking Kalonzo over his leadership style. He should respect the former Vice-President if he wants to be recognised as a genuine leader,” Kyalaani said. Muthama, who has since his fallout with the Wiper leader a few months ago become Deputy President William Ruto's lieutenant, accused Kalonzo of being a big letdown to the people of Machakos, Kitui and Makueni. The former Vice-President himself did not have kind words for Muthama, and accused him of twice misleading him to join ODM leader Raila Odinga in a political pact that ended in humiliation in the 2013 and 2017 general elections. He said he would never again seek guidance from the former senator and would instead negotiate any future political arrangement himself, arguing that his vast political experience placed him ahead of the pack. Muthama maintained that Kalonzo was his own enemy.  And his parting shot? He had shifted his political support elsewhere. Kyaalani said the ex-senator should seek his political relevance ahead of the 2022 general elections without attacking other leaders. “I understand Muthama is supporting Ruto for the top seat come 2022. If that is the case, he should leave Kalonzo alone and concentrate on building his political base, including negotiating his way into becoming Ruto’s running mate,” the CCU official said. The former senator told the mourners that he had joined the Ruto political camp and urged the Kamba community to rally behind the DP in his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. "We cannot continue working with people who have betrayed us in the past!" he said. In response, Kalonzo said the man from Kangundo had misadvised him into leading the Kamba community in the wrong direction. "I will not allow you to mislead me a third time because you have failed me twice. I will be my own negotiator in national politics. Take a message to DP Ruto that we'll face off in the ballot," he said. Kalonzo was especially angered by Muthama's accusation that he lacked the ability to independently mount a formidable presidential campaign.  - mwaniki fm