The Kenya Hockey Union is ready to roar back even as they wait for for the evaluation of Ministry of Sports return to action protocols in the next seven days. On Monday federations were given protocols to be observed for action to return which revolves around meeting the Covid-19 safety guidelines set by the Ministry of Health. KHU secretary general Wycliffe Ongori said there's light at the end of the tunnel at City Park and that the union will abide by the Federation of International Hockey (FIH) and Ministry of Health guidelines. He, however, indicated that there will be no fans in the stadium but this will change as the global health situation stabilises and as per the rules and regulations from the relevant authorities. "We are fully equipped and ready to return because there's no greater joy than doing the thing you love most. Sanitisation is a priority and we will also fumigate the changing rooms," he said. "The temperature of the players will be taken before entering the field. Water for washing of hands and sanitisers will be on both benches. We have prepared our document which we will share with the ministry in a day or two. Generally, we are happy and we will work as fast as possible to meet all the regulations as we await approval from Kencom." He, however, observed that it might prove difficult to have all teams in action since most of the teams in the leagues are from universities or made up of university-going students. Universities remain closed and Ongori, a former Wazalendo coach, said they will hold discussions with the concerned people and make a decision on the way forward. "If universities will not be back by the time we return to action, then we may have to do without their teams," said Ongori. KHU deputy match and fixture secretary  Moses Majiwa said dates for the start of next season will only be altered if the remaining three months will not be enough for the union to carry its mandate. "We are not living in normal circumstances and we cannot do things the normal way. It will be good if we can execute our duties properly within the next three months. If we will not be done by November, the dates for the 2021 season will likely be pushed forward," he said.