Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has opposed the disputed formula for sharing revenue among counties, saying it will harm devolution. Speaking during the inspection of Thwake bridge funded by the Makueni county government, Kibwana said if approved the formula will deny underdeveloped counties sufficient funds to do flagship projects. “We will not be able to do flagship projects like this one because like Makueni is set to lose over a third of the development funds we use in funding major projects,” Kibwana told reporters on Wednesday. The governor urged senators to protect counties by ensuring equitable sharing of revenue so that underdeveloped counties are not denied funds for major projects like roads, bridges and hospitals. On Tuesday, the Senate failed to resolve the revenue sharing formula impasse after the debate flopped for the seventh time when Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen successfully moved an adjournment motion. In the formula proposed by the Senate’s Finance and Budget committee chaired by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru, 19 counties, the majority from the Coast and Northeastern, will lose Sh17 billion. “I am not arguing against the question of population because it is an important factor in a democracy, but I refuse to agree that the majority must win so that the minority lose or vice versa and it is our hope as governors that no county will lose money in the end,” Kibwana said. He said the population issue could be handled by the national government through the National Assembly by provision of conditional grants. Kibwana also took issue with the Treasury for  delays in the disbursement of funds to counties. He said besides salary delays for county employees some of whom are threatening to go on strike, the devolved governments risk being penalised by institutions like Kenya Revenue Authority, the National Hospital Insurance Fund and National Social Security Fund for not paying statutory deductions on time. “As the Senate resolves the revenue sharing formula impasse, they should also resolve the issue of delay of moneys meant for counties once and for all because it is harming service delivery, our staff especially at the beginning and at the end of every financial year,” Kibwana said. He expressed concern that some junior workers at the county level are experiencing challenges in paying loans and rent. According to Kibwana, the Senate has the constitutional authority to make decisions over devolution matters without leaning on the President or other forces. “If some of them become governors in the future, then they will experience the same problems we are going through and so they rather be kind to Wanjiku and themselves and solve the issue,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori