It seems some MCAs allied to former Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi (pictured) are going through hell. Plans are afoot to de-whip the MCAs from plum assembly committees. On Monday, two ward reps were overheard saying that they will not allow the MCAs anywhere near the new speaker and have vowed to ensure they are ‘punished'. The Elachi-leaning MCAs, now named the Elachi orphans, are always seen walking and sitting together. A first-term MP from Nyanza has panicked. The lawmaker, whose management of the Constituency Development Fund kitty is in the eye of a storm, is a worried man. The MP is said to have been pocketing kickbacks from contractors who win lucrative construction tenders in the constituency. To make matters worse, even as anti-graft authorities move in to probe the graft claims, the lawmaker is said to be scheming how to defeat justice. The MP has allegedly sponsored demonstrations and is issuing threats to constituents keen to push for transparency and accountability in the management of the CDF. Has the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the type of phones that MPs have? Well, a chair of a departmental committee complained in a recent meeting that some members have cheap phones with poor sound quality. The two-term lawmaker tore into her colleagues, asking them to dispose of the devices from a popular country, as the ones they have cannot guarantee their audibility in meetings. The murmurs that greeted the remarks came close to confirming this fear. Maybe the lawmakers can bank on the promise by the management to provide them with iPads with internet connectivity to assist them in carrying out their oversight job. At whose behest are bloggers associated with the Office of the President asking Kenyans a number of questions regarding their views on government performance? Well, the group has been busy and at times it has retained the questions or deleted them from their social media accounts after a while. For instance, they have been asking questions bordering on the character traits expected of a president as well as questions pointing to the comparison of a number of potential presidential candidates. Maybe time will tell if the lot is doing a survey or is developing other reports from the well-fashioned incessant questioning