Thirty Members of Nyamira County Assembly have today pledged to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s unity with the opposition leader, Raila Odinga and the Building Bridges Initiative. The MCAs who were accompanied by Borabu MP, Ben Momanyi said Nyamira and the entire Omugusii community was behind the Interior Cabinet Secretary, Fred Matiang’i and were ready to support him once he declared his political interest. Addressing the media in Nakuru on Tuesday, their chairperson, Bomwagamo Ward MCA, Charles Barongo said out of the 36 members of the Nyamira County Assembly, only six went to a recent meeting chaired by Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen home in Nairobi. Barongo said any one who went against the wishes of the Omugusii people would not be elected or re-elected to any political position. "Those who went to Karen including some of our parliamentary representatives went for food and they will come back and support the will of the people," he said. The ward rep said those who were aligning themselves to Ruto had been 'yellow-carded' and would be condemned to political oblivion if they did not apologise to the community for going against their wishes. “Just like in 2002 when our former Kisii spokesperson, Simeon Nyachae led the community in to making a joint political decision, this time we have Matiang’i who is representing us on the decision making table,” said Barongo. Barongo said the Omogusii were united in terms of politics with Matiang'i being their point-man at the decision making table. Momanyi said he wanted to ensure the interests of the Kisii were taken care of even after the 2022 General Elections. He said they would back CS Matiang'i who has proved his leadership skills under the President. The MP urged Matiang'i to carry out the duties assigned to him by the President and ignore his detractors. "For now, we urge the CS to carry out is duties and we will do the politics for him until when he will be free to do so," said the MP. He urged the Senate to expedite the revenue allocation discussion and adopt the third-generation formula which will ensure equity for all.