Captains of Kenya teams which have already qualified for next year's 2020 Tokyo Olympics have urged the relevant authorities to assist them return to training as soon as possible. In an online conference, ‘Kikao na Manahodha’,  held via zoom and Facebook Live moderated by Swahili journalist Hassan Jumaa, Andrew Amonde (Shujaa), Philadelphia Orlando (Lionesses), Mercy Moim (Malkia Strikers) and Nick Okoth (Hit Squad) said other countries have resumed training and it is only important that Team Kenya follow suit. "Most of the teams in the world are training. We need to start now. We are willing to follow all the Covid-19 protocols as prescribed by the relevant organisations. We are eagerly awaiting for the outcome and direction from the Ministry and the appointed committee in regards to return to play,’’ said  Amonde. Amonde, who captained the Kenya Sevens to the 2016 Rio Olympic Games said that as a team sport, it such a big challenge to train individually save fitness routines. "The more we sit out, the more our preparations are delayed, we need to look at how we can resume training, even if it means in phases. We urge our federations to amplify their support for our players and teams during this pandemic,’’ Amonde added. The captains expressed that most of the sports persons lost their contracts when the pandemic struck and are therefore having a tough time. "We are excited to be heading to the Olympics but we need to start preparing. Players in other countries are training. We should also go back to training. We shall observe all the protocols,’’ Mercy Moim. Moim, who captained the national volleyball team in clinching a ticket to Tokyo during the African qualifiers in January, defeating Cameroon at home added: "We need assistance in having one consistent training venue for our national team. We also urge corporates and stakeholders to believe in our national teams and support our squads. Sports people are great ambassadors out there." Moim said she has been mentored by former Kenyan international Dorcas Ndasaba, who taught her that: "You need to work for 75 per cent because the coach only gives you 25 per cent." She revealed that she has carried this lesson with her and uses it to motivate her team. This was corroborated by a Malkia Strikers team mate who wrote in during a live chat session, saying: "She's a good example, whatever she tells us to do, she does it first." Olando revealed that she started in sport by playing football, but eventually settled in rugby despite the training being intense. She reminded all sportsmen that it takes discipline, passion and commitment if they want to succeed. Olando is a good role model, and has shown that it is possible to have a career while in professional sport. Other than being a rugby 7s player, she is a certified strength and conditioning coach, currently in charge of Malkia Strikers. With the perception of boxing being a violent sport Okoth informed the audience that, "Boxing is a good sport to develop the confidence in young players. It develops a lot of respect with each other and with opponents. I encourage young people to take up boxing as a sport,"said Okoth. Nick, nicknamed 'Commander’ has been an elite boxer for over 10 years. He first represented Kenya at the Olympics in Beijing 2008 and heads to Tokyo after a great performance in February, where he was a finalist at the African qualifiers in Senegal, bagging a silver medal.