Interior Permanent Secretary Karanja Kibicho has dismissed Deputy President William Ruto's claim that there exists a 'deep state' seeking to block his ascend to State House. Ruto on Tuesday said he is not afraid and his 2022 presidential ambition will not be derailed by the so-called 'deep state' or 'system'. The DP, who has been relegated to the periphery after a falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta, said he will rely on his supporters and God for victory. In a message to his supporters who fear the 'system' could thwart his grand march to State House, he said he will emerge the winner. But speaking to Spice FM on Wednesday, Kibicho said he is yet to understand what deep state is. "There are many things that we keep hearing and wonder what they are. When people do not understand sth they create explanation through mystery. "It is a term used by people loosely to mean probably bad things. When you are told deep state, you don't think those are preachers and pastors. This definition is outrageous as it can get." Kibicho said there is no deep state adding that the government is structured in a manner that everyone can see. "There isn't any deep state. We have facilities that you can interrogate things that you think about," he added. Since independence, there has been a claim that there is a system that works behind the scenes to decide who takes up power and run government. The claim has been that this system or deep state has been domiciled in the Office of the President and specifically the those in charge of the internal security ministry. Two weeks ago, opposition chief Raila Odinga's brother Oburu, publicly claimed that they are assured of winning the 2022 polls because they have 'the system or the deep state'. The East Africa Legislative MP, who said Raila will run for the presidency in 2022, said they now own the 'system' through Uhuru and this will enable Raila to succeed Uhuru. “This is now the stage of making strategies for winning elections. We have won elections three times but every time we win the elections, we are robbed of that election. That victory is known to the whole country but we never go to State House,” he said.