The rising number of Covid-19 cases has forced most North Rift governors to reduce public appearances. Covid-19 cases have risen to more than 200 in the eight counties that make North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) within a week. The combined numbers are close to 700. Among those infected in that span of time are close aides of governors Alex Tolgos and Josphat Nanok of Elgeyo Marakwet and Turkana respectively. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who is the Noreb chairman, is rarely seen in public preferring to administer the county by phone from home and office. “With the reopening of the economy, it's now the responsibility of Kenyans to ensure they comply with Covid-19 containment measures to control the spread of the disease as we revive the economic activities that had stalled,” Mandago said recently. The governor had personally been helping in the enforcement of the containment measures especially in Eldoret town. Tolgos and his Trans Nzoia counterpart Patrick Khaemba have also cut down their public appearances. The county chiefs have identified bars and matatus as the weak links in the containment of the contagion. Bars and matatus especially in Eldoret are notorious for flouting presidential orders and Health ministry guidelines to curb the spread of the disease. Many Eldoret bars ignore President Uhuru Kenyatta's order to close.  The owners, according to Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa, lock in customers even during curfew hours. Jaldesa said a team has been deployed to crack down on such bar owners and withdraw their licences permanently as per last month's presidential directive. “We have formed special enforcement teams that will go round to enforce the measures and ensure those flouting the regulations are arrested,” he said. He announced the re-opening of quarantine centres where those arrested for defying Covid-19 regulations will be detained at their own cost. Jaldesa attributed the surge in the contagion to non-adherence to wearing of masks and regular hand washing, and defiance of social distancing in public places.  - mwaniki fm