Ginger, lemon, honey are sources of vitamins and micronutrients but are not a cure or treatment for Covid-19, the Health ministry has said. “The lesson to take home from today is that there is still no cure for Covid-19. I will not stop you from taking your ginger, your honey or your lemon as many times as you want but for sure is not a treatment or a cure for covid,” Health director general Patrick Amoth said. The ministry has further warned that pregnant women are at higher risk of getting a severe form of Covid-19. This means that they should not work in isolation or quarantine facilities. According to Amoth, pregnancy is included as one of the conditions in which individuals have depressed immunity. “A pregnant mother carries a baby who has a 50 per cent genetic constitution of the father and 50 from the mother and it is on that basis that the ministry issued guidelines that pregnant mothers are exempted from working in Covid-19 isolation and quarantine centres,” he said. Regarding quarantine protocols, Amoth noted that the WHO classification puts Tanzania and Kenya in the same group as high-risk countries. This means the two have established community transmission. On July 30, the WHO issued guidelines on how to resume international air travel based on the patterns of transmission of the disease. “Therefore, someone departing from a country with community transmission and arriving in a country where there is community transmission there is no much difference in terms of epidemiological trend of Covid-19,” he said. “That is another basis on which we allowed Tanzania as our sister country to be able to come in but with a Covid test. We even allowed people from the US, which is reporting higher cases, because we are in the same criteria classification.” He, however, noted that the government has put in place proper measures at the points of entry to ensure cases are not imported. According to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, the system of whether or not to quarantine does not depend on country-to-country basis. “We deal on the basis of the fact that everybody coming into Kenya, irrespective of which country they come from, must come with a Covid-19 negative test and we have given that allowance,” Kagwe emphasised. He added that initially, some countries were not testing their residents on the basis that the virus does not exist, hence posing a challenge to the already existing East African protocols. Those coming into the country from such countries and without a valid Covid-19 negative certificate will have to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine. “Nobody can come here without the test, so irrespective of the internal policies in different countries, they can follow the policies that they deem fit but as far as testing is concerned, you must have have a Covid-19 negative test.”