It's about career progression, former Nairobi Speaker Beatrice Elachi has said on her exit as she alleged her time at City Hall was marked by threats on her life. "When you get to a peak, you move on.. and you must resign to move on," she said, denying she was kicked out. Speaking to Citizen TV's JKL on Wednesday night, Elachi said her life was in danger. "There was sulfuric acid... I don't know if they wanted to throw it at me...." Elachi also narrated leaving City Hall and spotting men opposite the building at KICC carrying a coffin written "RIP NMS" and holding guns out. The former speaker said all this happened two weeks ago when a fracas broke out at City Hall when MCAs planned to deliver a notice of impeachment to her. Elachi said she constantly looks around her to see if someone is following her. Elachi also dismissed her first impeachment, saying it was not procedural. She was impeached on September 6, 2018. However, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Pauline Onyango overturned the impeachment . Elachi also dismissed plans for the second impeachment bid, saying of the 86 MCAs who appended their signatures to motion to oust her, "Do you know how much each signature costs?" "That's a story for another day, a sub-chapter of a book..." On how she resigned, Elachi said she resigned the right way and knows she is supposed to send her resignation letter to the clerk, rather than the President as she did. Commenting on Governor Mike Sonko's decision to bury the hatchet with Nairobi Metropolitan Service boss Mohammed Badi, Elachi said she hopes he will keep his word. Elachi said she had no problem with Sonko and doesn't understand why he fears her. "Fight your shadows and imaginations... if he would see that then he will be able to work with everyone... you don't need to like me. You just need to respect me and everyone should do their work," she said. Elachi defended her 'name dropping' to instill fear. "We are all children of the President... doesn't he (Sonko) do the same," she said. 