@alalmaurice ODM party has suspended Kisumu county vice chairman Kennedy Ajwang over the County Public Service Board office attack by armed youths. Kisumu Central subcounty party executive office and its six ward officials resolved that Ajwang stands suspended until an investigation into the attack is complete. Subcounty ODM chairman Seth Kanga distanced the party from the Monday attack. Armed youths, allegedly led by Ajwang, raided the board office and injured five employees over jobs. Among those injured was board chairman Babu Karan, who was roughed up. They were treated at a local health facility and discharged. The youths were annoyed for failing to get jobs after recent interviews. They damaged furniture and doors as they demanded appointment letters. “It is regrettable and unfortunate that the lead member is the deputy chairman both at the subcounty and county office. At no time did we resolved to attack the board members,” Kanga said. The party, Kanga said, apologised to Governor Anyang Nyong’o, where Ajwang works as the liaison officer. Party secretary Samuel Nyabinda said it was in the public domain that qualified applicants who are members of ODM were recruited as revenue and enforcement officers. Migosi MCA Victor Rodgers suffered the wrath of the attackers when he tried to intervene. The youths passed by Central Primary School in Milimani where his car was being washed and informed him they were headed to the board offices. “After a short while, I heard people screaming at the board office. I rushed and found people being beaten,” Rodgers said. "I was attacked by Ajwang and some of the youths when I tried to stop them from beating the board members.  Ajwang roughed and punched me but I did not respond.” Rodgers said he lost Sh65,000 during the incident. “I have reported the matter at Kisumu Central police station.” Later, his supporters attacked Ajwang in retaliation. The ODM youth leader was treated for injuries at Avenue Hospital. Nyong’o condemned the raid, terming it a barbaric and criminal act. He appealed to the public to follow procedures in presenting grievances to public offices. “We are happy the police have moved with speed to investigate the matter and hope those responsible will be arrested and prosecuted,” Nyong’o said. He, however, assured the public that the board is independent and must be handled with the respect it deserves. The party has also expelled members who attended a meeting at DP William Ruto’s close ally Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi's home in Eldoret on Saturday. “Those members cease to be members and officials of the ODM party as stipulated in our constitution forthwith,” Nyabinda said. They include Owino Mahawa (Konndele), Maurice Omolo Mbero (Railways) Peter Owuor (Railways), Maina Ochieng (Migosi), Dan Naymor (Kondele) Richard Ogendo (Migosi) and Francis Juma (Migisi), among others. The delegation christened itself Nyanza Movement for Ruto 2022. Ogendo, a former Kisumu Business and Cooperatives executive, was sacked by Nyong’o. Kanga has directed for a thorough investigation to establish more names. The delegation, mostly from Kisumu, travelled in buses and presented a memorandum ahead of a visit to Ruto’s Sugoi home. Sudi told the delegation they would open a new chapter of politics in Nyanza and other parts of the country. Edited by EKibii