National basketball team star forward Ariel Okal is worried over the players fitness as the country prepares for the Afro-Africa qualifiers in November. Okal, who plays professional for Algerian side Union Sportive Setif, said there is need for players to start training for the event. “As an athlete, my worry right now is players fitness and how bad the Covid-19 pandemic has affected us. We will have to start slow because of injuries,” he noted. He went on: “I hope the sports ministry will facilitate training for the Morans. We need to start working towards that Afro-basket dream.” He said the break has been long and unfortunately, coincides with Kenya’s preparations for the qualifiers. Okal, who was one of the national side’s mainstay during January pre-qualifiers in Nairobi, said preparations are key if they are to make an impact in a tournament of such magnitude. He said he has personally maintained serious workout plan with the help of his coaches in Setif and his personal trainer. “We have worked every single day from when the break started until now. It will not be the same when I get back on court,” he said. “I know the game shape has been affected. I am aware I have to work extremely hard but within a short period of time with to much to do.” He said a lot of sacrifice and effort will be required from each and every member of the team if they are to qualify. Fiba Africa have confirmed Dakar, Senegal as the host of the 2021 Afro-Basket Group ‘B’ first leg qualifiers. Morans, who have set their eyes on their first continental meeting return since 1993, will open their campaign against the host on November 27. Kenya will tackle 11-time African champions Angola on November 28 before winding up their fixtures with a match against Mozambique a day later. The next phase of the event will be held from February 19 with Kenya again starting off their campaign against Senegal. They then play Angola on February 20 before meeting Mozambique in their last fixture on February 22.