MCAs from sugar cane growing areas in Western and Rift Valley have pledged to monitor illegal sugar importation from neighbouring countries to curb the practice. The county legislators lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya for the ban on illegal importation of sugar, saying the move will help revitalise the sector. Nine MCAs addressed the press in Webuye at the weekend. “We want to take this opportunity to express our hearty gratitude to President Uhuru and CS Munya for placing a ban on sugar importation," said Turbo MCA Ramadhan Werambo Ali (Uasin Gishu) "On behalf of our farmers, we really appreciate the government for the move because, lately, we have witnessed sugar cane being harvested and collected by our factories in the regions.” Last month, the government banned sugar imports and suspended trading licences to curb influx of cheap supplies and protect farmers. The lawmakers urged the government to tighten the measures on illegal sugar imports in order to close the loopholes used by unscrupulous businessmen. “We shall continue to support the government in the fight against this vice by monitoring illegal sugar imports into the country because we want to make sure that our sugar cane farmers get value for their hard work,” said Martin Wanyonyi, Ndivisi MCA (Bungoma). Marachi Central (Busia) MCA Patrick Obuya said the government was on course to curb illegal sugar importation and that he had witnessed trucks suspected of ferrying illegal sugar being barred from entering the country across the Busia border. Farmers are now happy and encouraged to grow cane, he added. “We have received very good feedback from sugar cane farmers that their crop is now being harvested. I want to encourage Busia people to continue growing sugar cane because the government has put proper structures to help them get full value for their labour,” Obuya said. Kolongolo-Keiyo MCA Emmanuel Waswa called on the Senate to tone down the standoff over the counties' revenue sharing debate and come to an agreement, saying operations in the counties are at standstill. “We are urging the Senate leaders not to politicise the discussion but rather come together and think about the voter who wants services delivered by the county governments,” he said. Other MCAs present were Kakamega deputy speaker Leonard Kasaya, Elphas Shilosi (Murhanda, Kakamega), Atsiaya Vincent (Wodanga, Vihiga), Laurence Murunga (Ang’urai) and Metrine Nangalame (nominated). Edited by Henry Makori