The Inter-faith Council of Kenya has warned the Ministry of Health against corrupt deals and misuse of the Covid-19 funds. The council lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for speedily taking charge to ensure the Covid-19 funds are utilised for the intended purpose. “Men and women of the cloth of this country are clean, we always committed to prayers asking God to end this pandemic and in that regard, we don’t entertain any form of corruption,” National Interfaith Council member Rev Samuel Thiongo said. They, however, termed anybody who steals the money allocated to fight the virus as cursed. “Such people whichever their individual capacities and without favoritism should be held culpable, arrested and charged firmly,” Thiongo said. The religious leaders spoke while meeting during a one-day sensitisation training on the reopening of worship places in Kabarnet town, Baringo, on Friday. Thiongo, therefore, urged those responsible for public funds at the ministry to observe high levels of transparency and accountability. Furthermore, the group wanted the marked corrupt culprits to be made to return back the embezzled funds. In attendance was County Commissioner Henry Wafula and religious leaders among them Full Gospel Churches of Kenya county Bishop Daniel Chemon, Christ Dominion Church Bishop Julius Chepsat and Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (Supkem) Baringo chairman Abubakar Bilal. “If one would want to steal money, then should try elsewhere not in Kenya, we don't support anybody stealing public funds,” Chemon said. The religious leaders further requested the government to allow them space to regulate themselves, “We also require some facilitation to drive the Covid-19 awareness at the grassroots,” Chemon said. Wafula urged the clergy to strictly observe the rules in their worship places saying the law will not favour anybody including the religious gatherings. "We will simply arrest the religion organisers who violate the rules and close their worship places just like we normally do to the bars and any other notorious social places,"  he said. The faithful leaders, however, pledged to adhere to the Health ministry measures to wash hands, sanitise and keeping the social distancing in the various places of worship beginning this week. Under phase one regulations of the opening of worship places, a maximum of 100 faithful are allowed at a go in for a period not exceeding one and a half hours. The strict rules also bar children below 6 years and the elderly persons above 65 years from attending the worship sessions. “Also, those people with underlying conditions should stay at home,” Thiongo said. The council also proceeded to Elgeyo-Marakwet and Uasin-Gishu counties. Edited by R.Wamochie