Newly acquired Wazito forward Vincent Oburu is focusing on enhancing his performance which he hopes will open bigger doors in the future. Wazito announced the arrival of the striker who left Leopards last week after failing to reach consensus with the latter on his expired contract yesterday. "We are pleased to announce the signing of striker Vincent Oburu from AFC Leopards. The former Lang’ata High School striker is expected to boost our attack ahead of the 2020/2021 FKF Premier League campaign," said the club on their verified social media accounts The 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge winner with Harambee Stars said he will be seeking to step up his show in front of the goal with an aim of getting better deals  including returning to the national team. "Wazito is a new challenge for me and I want to improve my performance. "It is only through hard work that opportunities like returning to the national team and even playing abroad will come my way. "Players complain that they are starved of playing time but for me, the ball is on my court. "If I work hard,  then I am certain I  will get playing time. There were great and experienced strikers at Ingwe like Mark Makwata and Elvis Rupia but through hard work, I still enjoyed playing time," he said Meanwhile, the budding player remained mum on his immediate targets as far as netting goals is concerned. He said he will let the cat out of the bag once football resumes. Oburu will reunite former team-mates  Whyvonne Isuza and Dennis Sikhayi who left the den for Wazito last season. He is expected to fill in the shoes of axed Liberian forward Augustine Otu. "We do not know when football will resume and I can not reveal my targets at the moment.Teams have not resumed training either,and it's tough to gauge the preparedness of players who have been on a break for more than four months.Once I return to training with my teammates, then I will be able to disclose my targets. However, I  want to give the best in a Wazito shirt," he added Oburu is the first signing to be officially unveiled by the club which has been linked to several stars among them is former Gor Mahia custodian Peter Odhiambo, Boniface Omondi ,Fidel Origa and Maurice Ojwang.