In 2001, Mwalimu Masoud Mwahima sat his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam while serving as mayor of the defunct Mombasa Municipal Council. As a private candidate at Kwale High School, he scored E in all his eight subjects, including Kiswahili. He failed but his desire to promote education never faded. Mwalimu, a Kiswahili word for teacher, died from asthma complications on Monday night. He was 78. Mwalimu and other civic leaders who sat the exam that year raced against time to be able to run for a parliamentary seat after a bill passed by the National Assembly required those seeking elective seats to have acquired secondary education and have a certificate as proof of that. Despite the poor score, Mwalimu did not let his education background reflect on his development record as he served residents, including years later when he was MP for Likoni constituency. He valued education. His track record, particularly in the education sector, dwarfed his academic credentials. This is manifested in the number of schools he helped build, some of them bearing his name. He represented Likoni for two terms — 2008-13 and 2013-17. At some point, his rivals had played the education card to discredit him but he hilariously responded, “If I see a burst pipe and water not being supplied to voters, will I need to be schooled to know that my people need water?” On Sunday, Mwalimu was treated at St Thomas Hospital and discharged. His family said he was recovering at home. He was buried on Tuesday near his brother’s grave at Vyemani, Likoni, where he lived. Some of the schools he helped build included Mwalimu Mwahima Secondary, Tibwani School, Shika Adabu Secondary, Puma Secondary, Bububu Secondary, Likoni Primary, Mweza Secondary, Mtongwe Secondary, Mtongwe School for the Physically Handicapped, Likoni School for the Blind and Mrima Secondary. Others were Mrima Primary, Mwangala Primary and Bububu Polytechnic. He also established the Mwahima Stadium, Mwalimu Masudi Mwahima Foundation, Mrima and Mbuta health centres, as well as the Likoni Fire Station. Mwalimu's death comes weeks after another political icon, former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe, died. The two at some point served together in Parliament. His death marks the end of an era for his generation in Coast politics. Mwalimu had planned to bounce back from his loss in 2017 when he contested the seat on a Jubilee Party ticket and lost to current MP Mishi Mboko of ODM. Just last week, he held a meeting with his election campaign team and informed them of his desire to reclaim the Likoni seat. He told them preparations would start in earnest. That was never to be. Evans Momanyi, Mwalimu’s personal assistant whom he had nurtured over the years, said his death was a big blow to Coast politics, his family and residents. “He took me in in 2005 after I graduated from university to help him on matters of education in the constituency. He has been like a father to me and never discriminated on the basis of tribe or religion,” Momanyi said. Momanyi and family spokesman Mohamed Patel noted that Mwalimu was a strong pillar for the people of Likoni and the region. “He was a down-to-earth leader and will be remembered for his social nature and the many projects he initiated, leave alone the people he recommended for jobs,” Momanyi said. He said they had plans to start a medical training college in the area but the plans stalled after he lost in the last election. “His being close to the Jubilee administration was to enable his constituents to reap maximum benefits from the government,” Momanyi said, referring to a photo that stirred controversy of him leaving State House, Mombasa, just a week before he ditched ODM for Jubilee ahead of 2017 election. Mwalimu is survived by 11 children, three widows and grandchildren. Several leaders eulogised him as a strong pillar and an icon in Coast politics. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said, “Mombasa is engulfed in sadness as we mourn the demise of one of our prominent elders and leaders. He was a pillar of strength and always stood firm in defence of the people of Likoni and Mombasa at large.” ODM party tweeted, “We join the people of Likoni constituency in mourning the passing of Mwahima, the former MP for Likoni. He represented the area twice — in 2008-13 and 2013-17.” Deputy President William Ruto, for his part, said, “We have lost a smart and formidable politician who was always a firm defender of his people’s and the national interest. He served the people of Mombasa with sustained commitment, passion and integrity.” From 1999 to 2002, Mwahima served as Shika Adabu councillor. He also served as Mombasa Municipal Council deputy mayor before becoming mayor.