@ppcheti Lamu residents whose lands were acquired for the Sh21 billion wind power project have expressed displeasure over the move by the county assembly to nullify its execution. More than 600 people have a collective 3,206 acres earmarked for the project at Baharini in Mpeketoni, Lamu West. The project is under the Baharini Wind Power, a consortium of Belgian firm Elicio Company in coordination with Kenya's Kenwind Holdings Limited - and is expected to generate 90 megawatts of power once ready. The initial project plan includes up to 38 turbines to be constructed within the 3,206 acres in Baharini village which is located about 40 kilometres from the new Lapsset Corridor project in Kililana. Last week on Wednesday, Lamu county assembly unanimously voted to nullify the project citing failure by the investor to meet certain conditions. Reacting to the assembly’s decision, however, the project affected persons accused the MCAs of malice and arm-twisting the investor. Through their spokesperson Linus Gachoki, the individuals said it was untrue for the MCAs to allege that among the reasons for the nullification of the project is that the investor had failed to resettle them when they had never had issues with the investor. They also accused the MCAs of working in cahoots with selfish individuals to reject the project for their own intentions. “How do you claim to nullify a project because a certain party is not being treated well without asking. We have never had issues with the investor and we are shocked that our MCAs can fabricate such lies just so they can get away with something. It's unsettling that our own leaders can do that to us without even asking,” Gachoki said. They also worry that the move will serve to only drag their compensation process. The project has had to overcome numerous court battles before it was finally approved. On March 7, the Court of Appeal in Mombasa dismissed an appeal by US-based firm Codison International after establishing that it lacked merit in its demand to be allowed to establish the project in Baharini and gave a go-ahead for the Baharini Wind Power Project to continue with implementation. That same month, the Kenya Power Company signed a 20-year Power Purchase Agreement with the wind power plant, a move that signified the project's viability. The project affected persons have called on politicians in the county to desist from politicising the project. “We know they are politicians and anything they do is for their own selfish gain. They should know that such decisions are only causing us pain,” Hoseah Mwangi said. In response, Baharini MCA Anthony Njomo, who introduced the motion for the project nullification, denied that he hadn't consulted the landowners. "Everyone was consulted on this. It's clear that has the investor failed to adhere to some conditions as listed earlier. What I did was in the interest of mwananchi," Njomo said. Edited by R.Wamochie