"This is a good time to resign, I can sit there." These were Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr's words to  Speaker Ken Lusaka on Monday during Senate proceedings. This was after Senator Yusuf Haji said that CSs who were told to appear in the Senate claimed that they were on leave. "They've sent an SMS and one of the officers at the office of the CS did inform us that the CS is on 10-day leave which was given by the President, therefore he was not available," Yusuf said. "And by extension, the PS, the IG and the DCI cannot come without being accompanied by the minister. Therefore the committee decided to report accordingly. Mr. Speaker you can give us further direction." But Kilonzo asked the speaker to be wise and end the session with senators having been arrested. "You have the powers. I hear you are under pressure, pressure from who? Did God call you this afternoon," Kilonzo said. But the speaker interjected saying that he was not under pressure. ".. it is good that you said it is a rumour.. I am not under pressure," he said. An angry Kilonzo said the Cabinet ministers treat Kenyans with contempt. "We will not live on our knees. If you direct that we proceed there will be chaos. We cannot proceed when senators are being taken across the country on the highway," he said. "This is not a laughing matter. We must speak as a Senate. Enforce your direction my speaker. You are not an inferior person to the CS." Kilonzo said a narrative has been planted in the Senate, adding that the matter is astonishing. "...the devil is ruling this chamber. Three people, those are not three votes. I cannot debate anything without the three," he said. "Mr Speaker, I pity your decision today." Senator Kithure Kindiki said the report by the security committee was extremely underwhelming. "That report by the security committee is extremely underwhelming. It actually makes a big joke of this House and the institution of Parliament. Today is a sad day for our country. We have no business being here discussing anything if Senators Malala, Langat and Lelegwe are not here," he said. Kindiki said the senators are willing to come back on Friday, Saturday or Sunday. "..any day any hour as decided by this House for the interest of this country. Arrest us, kill us, torture us. We will not yield," he said. "The Parliament of Kenya must face the Executive head-on. The Parliament must face the Judiciary head-on. There's no way we are going to entertain any arm of government to run this institution, we will not allow it." Kindiki said the Senate can even meet at 4am in the morning any day, with curfew or  without curfew. "The kind of anger we have caused in this country, I dread, is the kind of anger that made the citizens of Burkina Faso to burn down Parliament. That was three years ago," he said. But Senator Irungu Kangata (Murang'a) opposed the adjournment motion by Senator Kindiki. Kangata said there was no connection between the arrests and the vote to be taken on the revenue formula. "I oppose to move the vote today. Voting today doesn't mean that we do not have empathy. No evidence is currently available to show that the vote and the arrests re co-related. We have adjourned nine times now . We have to make a decision," he said. "I believe and urge the House to stop adjourning the issue further. Counties are suffering out here. Take into account that this government cannot arrest anyone who wants to exercise his democratic rights." However, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said, "Do not sacrifice this House... do not sacrifice Kenya. The decision is in your chair Mr Speaker." "You cannot say that the vote has no relationship with the arrests. We are not children, the desire was to reduce us from 25 to 23 and achieve the objective of dividing the will of the people." "The determination of a historical moment shifts to your sit Mr. Speaker. If you make the same mistake you made in my situation, you will be judged harshly," an emotional Murkomen added. Siaya Senator James Orengo said, "We are talking without conclusion. Had we been allowed to deal with the report, there would be no lamentations. I don't want us to be the house of lamentation." On the matter of the CS failing to appear before the committee, he said, "If it was in a court of law, we should ask what we should do with a contempt. That is where your power is Mr Speaker. Our dignity has been violated. I like the speeches we are making but at the end of the day they will signify nothing." "When Parliament summons, it does not matter whether you are on leave or honeymoon or on leave." The Senate earlier adjourned for the eighth time on the revenue allocation formula debate. However, on Monday, the senators stood united and voted for the adjournment over the arrests of senators. Steve Lelegwe (Samburu), Christopher Langat (Bomet) and Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) have been arrested.