When President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) announced that the state machinery would be tough in enforcing Covid-19 protocols, he warned police officers against bowing to the power of cash to look away from those who defy the health directives. Maybe the President isn’t aware it is common practice for cops to turn his orders into cash cows. The boldness with which some bars and clubs in Eastlands are still operating attests to this fact. A small bird whispers to Corridors of Power that a number of cops manning the area have been compromised and simply collect bribes on their beats instead of enforcing the directive to close all bars. *** A top ODM official is pained by the behavior of two Nyanza legislators who have turned into beggars at a top government office every Friday. The two notorious legislators, whose appetite for handouts has made them sycophants of a Cabinet Secretary, were last Friday seen dillydallying in wait for handouts after a formal meeting by national government officials. The ODM official got embarrassed, excused himself and left the two behind. The duo eventually received their 'weekend allowance'. Corridors is apprised that the money is meant to ensure they raise no questions about the CS’s lack of commitment to complete projects in the region. *** On Sunday, we told you of a county boss who made desperate proxy calls to the Interior ministry to rescind the transfer of a county commissioner. Well, the man appears to be eliciting more and more interest by the day. There is talk among his constituents about his overindulgence with a female MP whose house he has been frequenting of late. Those privy to the county chief’s escapades say that the man visits the politician in the evenings and stays past midnight. Corridors of Power is told that the two could be party to the lucrative Covid-19 tenders in the county, which were facilitated by the transferred administrator. *** A county assembly speaker in Nyanza is on the spot following his penchant for demanding a 20 per cent kickback from contractors awarded tenders by the assembly. The speaker, whose appetitefor county business has gone overboard, recently awarded to himself a tender for supply of Covid-19 items within the devolved unit. Staff aware of the goings on say that the speaker has not only been manipulating tender processes but has also violated their rights to access car and mortgage loans. They say that package is only provided to the speaker’s close allies.