Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at the police for bullying and intimidating senators. The arrest of three senators on Monday triggered a political storm in the Senate that saw angry lawmakers rail at the state for trying to circumvent the will of the people exercising their mandate through their elected representatives. Emotions ran high during the debate with senators pointing an accusing finger at state functionaries for unleashing terror on their colleagues holding divergent views. In a night of long knives, contingents of DCI detectives arrested Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Christopher Lang'at (Bomet) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburu). Ruto on Tuesday took to Twitter and said, "The abuse of police and criminal justice to bully citizens, threaten and intimidate leaders and now blackmail senate is wrong." He said Kenyans did not elect Jubilee to bully citizens. "The bipartisan Senate Committee to build win-win consensus is great wisdom and leadership. The abuse of police is wrong..very wrong. It's not the reason millions woke up early to vote for us," he said. Ruto's post came a few minutes after ODM leader Raila Odinga sent a statement to newsrooms on the arrests. Raila criticized the state, adding it needs to pull back and abandon actions that can take away the gains made on the path to democratisation. "The warlords need to stop beating the drums of war or financing the divisive rhetoric and our legislators involved in this matter need to search their souls in all honesty and put public good above private gain," Raila said. He added that the divisions witnessed in the Senate over the appropriate formula to share the revenue to counties should not be allowed to tone down the ethnic and regional rhetoric and diffuse the tensions that bubbled to the surface over the matter. "At a time that we need to come together to confront monumental problems including a struggling economy, schools whose gates are shut for children and a chronic health care crisis, we cannot afford to push positions that cause more divisions in the hope that such can boost our chances in competitive politics," he said. Senators linked the trio's arrest to the debate on the contentious formula for revenue sharing among the counties, which is deadlocked in the Senate. The three senators are aligned to a group christened Team Kenya which brings together marginalised and less populated counties and those standing in solidarity with them. Police had camped at the senators' Nairobi homes throughout Sunday night trying to take them in, but it was not until midday on Monday when they managed to arrest them in a day of heightened political showdown.