Kenyan youth are more optimistic than older citizens, a report has shown. The report released by Infotrak on Sunday indicates that 68.5 per cent of youth aged between 18-24 years are the most optimistic followed by those between 25-29 years with an index of 64.8 per cent. While the overall optimism index stands at 65.1 per cent, 63.1 percent of those aged between 45-49 years said they are optimistic compared to an index of 64.3 per cent of those aged above 55 years. According to the report, more females with an index of 66.1 per cent are more optimistic compared to the male's index of 64.1 percent. The report indicates the overall index of 65.1 per cent had dropped from 75.5 per cent in 2015. The research firm said the CountyTrak Index tool consisted of thirty-three indicators and five approval rating questions. The tool asked residents to indicate the key issues of concern for the county among other things. Each County was allocated a quota sample averaging between n=600 and 2000 depending on the size of the county. This translated to a margin of error of +/4 at a 95 per cent degree of confidence. The survey conducted between November and December 2019 to January 2020 saw a cumulative of 37,600 interviewed. According to the report hope for stability at the highest political office, proximity to national political power and new inspiring county leadership are among factors contributing to optimism. Other factors are visibly significant changes through devolution, personal development especially through education, sustainable development by second-term governors, open governance, cordial working relationship between county government and the county assembly, youthfulness and more women having stronger social support systems and deeper connections to the community. The report indicates only Uasin Gishu county out of the 47 counties had a positive increase in its optimism which increased by 6% from 64.7% in 2015 to 70.7% in 2020. All the other 46 counties had a reduction in their optimism levels. "Not all top-performing counties are doing well in the Optimism Index suggesting that County Governments and policymakers at large must marry the functional roles of service delivery with soft issues that cater for the emotional well being of citizens," the report said. While Makueni, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Tharaka Nithi and West Pokot are leading the topmost optimistic counties, Taita Taveta, Nairobi, Mombasa, Homa Bay and Siaya are among the top 10 unoptimistic counties. Makueni, Westpok, Machakos, Bomet and Kwale are ranked among the top 10 happiest counties while Taita Taveta, Trans Nzoia, Nairobi, Mombasa, Siaya, Nyamira, Kilifi, Homa Bay, Busia and Nyandarua are the 10 most unhappy counties. The report further indicates that Kenyan cities are no longer a place of hope for many dwellers. This is because the majority of the residents are extremely discouraged by their current circumstances. "Although many move to cities and large towns in search of opportunities and a better life, a majority end up disillusioned and frustrated," the report indicates. Last year another survey indicated that Kenyans were more optimistic compared to other African countries. consider themselves optimists compared to citizens of other major African economies, a new survey has found. The Global Optimism Outlook Survey found that 70 per cent of Kenyans view themselves as optimists, above the global average of 56 per cent, and the continental average of 64 per cent. The survey tracked people’s priorities for the future, looking at sustainability, economic growth, technology, travel, and more. More than 20,000 people across 23 countries were surveyed, broken down by geographic region, gender, employment, marital status, and income. "Despite the breadth of diversity, it appears the majority of the world is closely aligned when it comes to the key issues facing the planet’s future,"reads the report. Kenyans' optimism about the future has been linked to new opportunities being created by a thriving digital technology landscape, decentralised system of government, and a continued uplift in socio-economic conditions across the country.