A political fight is brewing between Mombasa youth activists allied to the Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions of Jubilee. At the centre of the war is a two-month-old political movement, Mwamko Mpya Pwani, formed to champion the rights of the Coastal region but which one group feels is leaning towards the Kieleweke faction. Miraj Abdillahi, a co-founder of the movement, on Thursday said the factions that have emerged are scrambling for cheap monies from politicians, a far cry from their vision for the group. “This group was formed to push for the rights of Coast residents and to have the region get its fair share of resources. But this cabal now wants to take over, promising members they will set up meetings with politicians in Tangtanga,” said Abdillahi. However, one of those opposed to Abdillahi denied that they are out to take over the movement. Bwanaheri Msalame, who claims to have been one of the first members to be recruited, said they have invested a lot in the movement but they are not consulted in crucial matters. “It is like this movement is being run like personal property. Miraj and her group want to run the movement like a toy. We are not children to be pushed around,” said Msalame. He said there is more than meets the eye in the fight for control of the movement, he said. Abdillahi pointed an accusing finger at politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto saying, they want to hijack the movement to preach  the DP's gospel. That's not the group's objective, she said. Mwamko Mpya Pwani, which has close to 2,000 members, was founded to persuade Coast leaders to support Nyali MP Mohammed Ali’s motion in Parliament to impeach Transport CS James Macharia. After the motion flopped, Abdillahi said, they decided to use the platform to advocate for issues that affect the Coast region and especially the youth. Abdillahi said politicians now want to take advantage of the numbers to progress their own selfish interests. “We are in the process of registering a political party and we opened an account at Gulf Bank to raise funds,” said Abdillahi. However, allies of two politicians close to DP Ruto attempted to take over the movement’s Facebook Page, posting messages that disparaged Abdillahi as an imposter. On Thursday, Abdillahi said many of the founding members have since been lured by promises of meetings with DP Ruto, ex-Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama and other high ranking officers in the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee. “They veered off our main agenda because of promises of quick bucks and photo opportunities with the big boys,” Abdillahi said. She said she is ready to surrender the Gulf Bank account and begin afresh. “One of those who want to push us out is in Saudi Arabia, operating remotely. This is just pure malice,” said Abdullahi. She said Mwamko Mpya Pwani was not founded to enrich individuals but to bring economic, political and cultural change in Coast region, which has for a long time been used and dumped by politicians for selfish gains. The movement, she said, is part of a larger plot to empower Coast residents to stand firm and fight for what is rightfully theirs. (edited by o. owino)