 Residents of Kajiado have accused authorities in Makueni of shielding a youth militia that often causes the insecurity along the border of the two counties. Kaputiei community spokesman Julius Ntayia on Sunday claimed the more than 100 youths nicknamed “Jeshi La Ndolo” have been terrorising residents of Oloirien area. “We have full information on the existence of this army that belongs to a former KDF officer and a former intelligence officer who own land in Mikululo in Makueni,” Ntayia said. He said the militia has been attacking the Maasais and burning their houses. He said police have not taken action against the youths. “What do you call that, is it not the protection from the police?” Ntayia said. But Makueni county police commander Joseph Napeyian denied the claims and asked Ntayia to make a formal complaint with the police in Kajiado so the matter can be investigated. “What I can only confirm is the mounting tension between the two communities along the Kenya Wildlife Service dispersal area that borders Chyulu Hills National Park and the land around it,” Napeyian said. Napeyian said the tension is caused by competition for pasture. The two communities living on both sides of the counties have livestock and the dispersal area has little grazing ground left which has attracted the two herding communities from Kajiado and Makueni. “What I have done with the support of other security agencies is to put 30 patrol officers along the Kajiado-Makueni border in Oloirien and Mikululo to monitor the situation,” Napeyian said. He said five people have been killed in clashes over water and pasture. “We cannot allow more lives to be lost again. We can maintain law and order, and we are warning those spreading rumours that the law will take up with them,” the police boss said. Kaputiei elders were on Thursday last week addressed by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko in Ilkilunyeti area along the volatile border. They have instructed their lawyers to go to court to seek the recovery of 200,000 acres of land they claim have been taken from them by the Kamba community. “The era of fighting with spears in seeking justice has been overtaken by events. What you need to do is to look for lawyers to take up this matter through the justice system,” Tobiko told the elders. The elders included former Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye, Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko, politicians Kakuta Maimai, George Kimiti, and professionals led by Nicholas Matiko. Before meeting with the leaders, Tobiko had earlier on toured seven primary schools in the area which have been affected by human-wildlife conflicts. Tobiko called for a ceasefire as the Kajiado Kaputiei community goes to court to be enjoined in an appeal case filed by KWS against an earlier ruling that gave the Kamba community the right to live in parts of the Chyulu National Park. Ntayia claimed he has documents dating back to the 1940s and which includes colonial maps indicating locations that the Maasai community members lived along the Makueni-Kajiado border. “All we know is that the Nairobi-Mombasa railway line is the boundary line between us and the neighbouring community,” Ntayia said. On Sunday, Napeyian said the Kajiado community could be bitter following a successful court case launched by the Mikululo community against the KWS and which the courts gave them the right to own a swathe of land along the border that the Maasai community has also laid claim to. “It is better they also seek justice through the courts so that their issues can be handled legally,” the police boss said.  Edited by P.O