Never in the past had Auka Gecheo ever envisioned himself sitting at the helm of East and Central Africa’s football governing body. Prior to his appointment, he had been a rugby enthusiast to the core. Gecheo once featured for the fiery Njoro High School in the national finals of the secondary schools rugby competition. He turned out for Mean Machine and Nondies in the Kenya Cup, before ultimately cementing his position as an administrator at the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) headquarters. So defined was his path in rugby that his name became synonymous with the game. Rugby and Gecheo were inseparable twins. However, on the March 9, 2020, the former East Africa Supersport general manager officially assumed office at the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) as the new executive director. This was, after taking over from Nicholas Musonye, a former sports journalist who had served in the capacity for two decades. Gecheo had initially been unveiled on March 12, 2019 in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, during a ceremony attended by the new Cecafa president Wallace Karia. Undoubtedly, Gecheo has received a baptism of fire in his first year in office, his stint being dealt a big blow with the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic which has thrown Cecafa’s calendar into total disarray. He, however, insists that Cecafa is still focused on their core objectives, which seek lasting solutions to a wide range of challenges that jolt the smooth ride of the region to higher echelons of football. One major challenge, he points out, is seeking effective methods of bridging the gaps that exist among member unions and which have been occasioned by diversity in culture, political ideologies and religion among other factors. “Fundamentally, because of the diversity and infrastructural inadequacies from a traveling perspective in Africa, it’s very difficult to hold competitions of the Uefa nature,” he says. “Arsenal traveling to play at Olympiakos in a Champions League is an easy thing, it’s a hop, it’s two hours.” Accordingly, regional bodies address this challenges by pooling together countries drawn from the same geographic region so that national teams may easily compete with each other without having to travel long distances. Grouping neighbouring countries together also assists in limiting differences in language and culture. “Even if you take a look at countries in Cecafa, you’ll see that they offer diversity. We have Djibouti, Burundi, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan and Tanzania who are very diverse. Diverse from a cultural perspective, religion and language. During Cecafa meetings, several languages are spoken including Kiswahili, French, Arabic,” he says. Gecheo hails his predecessor Nicholas Musonye whom he says did a superb job, adding that from him he has inherited a well-serviced vehicle. “I think Musonye has done a great job over the years to keep Cecafa and competitions going and getting it to be as active as it has been all these years. He should be given credit for that.” “From where I’m seated, I wish to build on what is already there. He has created his vehicle, he’s been involved in this vehicle that has gotten this far, in terms of organising competitions among member federations.” Gecheo observes that the mandate of the regional body has increased significantly after the continental football governing body, Caf and the world football governing body, Fifa redirected the African Cup of Nations qualifiers to the Cecafa servers. Development, he observes, is a complicated issue given the contrasting interests and objectives of member football associations who all pull in different directions “As far as development is concerned, that mandate lies squarely on the shoulders of the member unions. How Burundi approaches development is quite different from how other countries approach their development. The objectives of Uganda football are quite different from the objectives of Somalia football,” says Gecheo. This slight hiccup, however, doesn’t distract Cecafa from seeking ways to improve the quality of football among member states. “As Cecafa, our mandate is to ensure we organise quality competitions regularly for our member states. If our members are playing quality football, they are improving and this should trickle down to age grades as well,” says Gecheo. Gecheo believes such a task can be achieved by challenging countries to improve on their facilities by giving them more opportunities to host competitions frequently. “We want to see how we can rotate competitions among our member states, which will then compel them to build on their infrastructure. Good stadia, good training pitches and proper hotels for accommodating players.” Success further calls for great urgency in harmonising the activities of member unions because failure to do so usually compromises the quality of competitions. “All this can be achieved when we get our competitions going. If we can harmonise competitions and different calendars between our member states and get our competitions to make sense for our football associations, we are bound to grow.” Gecheo cites an example in which the Kagame Cup is being played when the Tanzanian league is still ongoing and as such Simba and Yanga say their priority is the league and not necessarily playing in the regional competition. “Are we able to harmonise that so that we can have the best teams, the best players, so that sponsors are attracted and more people are drawn to the stadia during matches?” In terms of sponsorship, Gecheo assures football stakeholders that Cecafa will soon be closing a new deal with Azam who have expressed interest in committing more funds to the game. “Azam still exists and we are on the verge of renewing Azam. I’d be very surprised to see a new sponsor coming in to sponsor when nobody even knows for sure when the next competition will be held.” Gecheo confesses that the coronavirus has disrupted the Cecafa calendar in unprecedented way, pointing out that as late as a fortnight ago, the responses that Rwanda and South Sudan gave in terms of hosting the U-17 and U-20 tournaments were disappointing. “They told us they were sorry they couldn’t make a commitment just yet, because they still had lockdown priorities” “Those are some of the challenges of regional competition. When life is going on in Tanzania as usual, Rwanda has very stringent lockdown rules. In Kenya, we’ve even designated our stadiums as Covid-19 recovery centres,” says Gecheo. He agrees that everything is now at a standstill and the earliest Cecafa can hold any competition is either in November or December. Gecheo was born on September 25, 1978 and he is the firstborn in a family of four children. He initially had five siblings, but two have since passed away. After sitting for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination at Kilimo Primary School at Egerton University in 1992, Gecheo proceeded to Njoro High School where he developed a keen interest in rugby. The prestige and honour that rugby players got at Njoro High School propelled his desire to be part of the team. They had won back to back national titles in the secondary school ball games. “It is the prestige that came with being the national champions, especially for an upcountry school for that matter and the prestige that came with seeing how rugby players were treated like small gods that inspired me. I guess that’s what drew a lot of us into the game,” he says. Much as his interest grew in the sport, his parents remained adamant, reminding him all the time that they took him to school purely for academics. Gecheo says he once got into trouble with them after he went home without a tooth. It had been knocked out during a rugby match. They were convinced that rugby was a rough game which was unsuitable for him after he once also suffered a concussion during a match. “I fell out with my parents after I got a concussion in a training session with the big boys while I was still in Form One.” That setback didn’t dent his zeal in pursuing his dream. He went on to play the game he had now come to love so much. His resilience finally paid off handsomely later. When he was in Form Four in 1996, he featured for Njoro at the national stage of the school games competition at Shimo La Tewa in Mombasa. That year Nairobi School beat Kakamega’s representatives Musingu in the finals to lift the crown as Njoro settled for fourth place. He eventually sat for his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams and qualified to join the University of Nairobi where he took up undergraduate studies in Building Economics. During his time on campus, he turned out for the famous university rugby team, the Mean Machine. “After university, I went into the job market in the construction industry between 2002-2008,” says Auka. Meanwhile, he had joined Nondies to play in the Kenya Rugby League. Gecheo says he delved into sports management merely by chance. “I doubt if there is any of us who was told there is a career in sport, go and pursue it. After campus, I joined Nondies and  picked up a nasty injury in 2004 that kept me out for long,” says Gecheo. In 2009, Kenya got awarded the U-20 Africa qualifiers competition that was hosted in Nairobi. One of the conditions for staging that tournament was that there had to be a local organising committee with a substantive head or director. “I was taken as the tournament’s director by a gentleman called Fred Ollows, who was the head of development for rugby,” says Gecheo. So impressive was his work that in the following year, he was asked to join the Safari Sevens committee as head of logistics. He did this for three years until one day in 2011 when he got a call from a head hunter asking him if he would be interested in the position of a general manager at the Kenya Rugby Union. After a series of interviews, Gecheo met the prerequisites and was immediately absorbed in that position. “I went into KRU as the GM in 2011 and that’s how I leaped from the building industry into sports management.” He stayed at KRU for three and a half years before he was fired after which he established a sports management company called Pacific Sports. To boost his skills in the industry, he went back to school in Johannesburg at the Wits Business School where he did a postgraduate in sports management. Gecheo, who is in the final stages of his MBA degree at Strathmore University, says he’s proud of achieving two things at the rugby union. “Firstly, Kenya became a core team in the seventh circuit —a feat they achieved while I was still there and secondly, my involvement together with Fred Ollows and Humphrey Khayange in the inclusion of rugby as an Olympic sport. We did a lot of work for IRB to get that going,” he revealed. In 2013, SuperSport knocked on his door asking him to manage their business in East Africa. He joined them as their partner in 2013 and worked with them until last year (2019). Gecheo says he first got involved in football through Supersport when he oversaw their deal with the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) as well as GOtv who approached them to broadcast the Shield Cup. “It was during my involvement in getting Supersport to be broadcast partners for Cecafa for four years that I began interacting with people in the football world.” At the Caf level, Supersport produced World Cup qualifiers, the Champions League and Confederations Cup as well as the Afcon qualifiers. “My entry into soccer was really through Supersport. Our involvement with football in Kenya was a big achievement, the production and broadcasting of football for all the eight years.” “When I got in, we were doing about 60 games per season. To us then, taking them to 120 a season which was double the number, was a huge success.” Gecheo says he always looks back to his achievements with a lot of pride. “Getting a dedicated channel for East African football with Kenya as the main anchor, launching of Kiswahili football magazine show, Mchakamchaka and opening the doors in terms of broadcasting Cecafa and the Gotv Shield Cup was a huge success for us.” However, the broadcaster’s controversial exit from the country left the league limping. Gecheo explains why Supersport had to leave unexpectedly. “Supersport got into a situation where it was no longer tenable for them to continue broadcasting here.” “The expansion of the league from 16 to 18 teams, fundamentally breached the existing contract. It meant that the number of games had increased from 220 to 306 which was quite substantial.”  BIOGRAPHY  Name: Auka Gecheo Date of Birth: September 25, 1978 Place of Birth: Nakuru 1985-1992: Kilimo Primary School 1993-1996: Njoro High School 1998-2001: University of Nairobi 2002 -2008: worked in building industry 2008: Director, U-20 Africa Rugby Qualifiers Committee 2008-2011: Head of Logistics, Kenya Sevens 2011-2013: General Manager, Kenya Rugby Union 2013-2019: East Africa Supersport general manager 2019 to-date: Executive director, Cecafa   