World Bank-financed infrastructure projects in Kapsabet town are the focus of a fresh row between Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Samson Cherargei with the latter alleging massive graft in their implementation. Cherargei wants the WB not to release Sh128 million final payment to contractors until an extensive audit of the projects is done. He claims in a letter to the Bretton Woods institution that there was massive graft in the implementation of the projects leading to “shaming poor quality work". He cited a Nandi County Assembly audit that allegedly details misuse of the WB funds and how flawed tendering was used to benefit senior county officials. “I would like to sincerely appeal to your office to kindly carry out a special audit on the projects in Nandi County to avoid loss of funds as a result of serious breach of the law and corruption allegations,” the senator told to the financier. Yesterday, he told reporters in Eldoret that “there is no value for money" in what has been done. "Just because the projects are a donation from the bank does not mean Sang’s administration had the licence to mess up with projects meant to benefit the people of Kapsabet,” Cherargei said. He said similar upgrade projects in Eldoret town - also funded by the WB - are more impressive than Kapsabet's. The senator spoke as Sang and his officials met WB officials who were assessing final works on the projects about to be handed over to the county. Sang said the projects'  implementation had been done smoothly. Last month he invited the media to witness the work in progress. "We are happy with the World Bank support. Kapsabet town is being transformed," he said. His administration insists the projects, which include a jua kali centre, a sewer line, a five-kilometre pedestrian walkway along the Eldoret-Kisumu road, street lights and high mast security lights, have been done satisfactorily. Kapsabet, with a population of more than 200,000, is the headquarters of Nandi county. It is among Kenyan towns selected to benefit from urban economic and infrastructure development projects. Some Sh177 million has been earmarked for its projects. Residents are upbeat that the projects will transform the town for their benefit. Small-scale trader Jane Chemeli said: “We have had serious insecurity problems in our area but with the street lighting we will enjoy better security and can even do business up to late hours.” The new sewer line has cost the WB Sh12 million while the more than 200 jua kali sheds expected to be ready for occupation next month have been developed at Sh39 million. The walkway has cost of Sh12 million and street lights and high mast security lights Sh33 million. A toilet block and sheds for travellers at the matatu terminus are complete at a  cost of Sh9 million. “We intend to privatise the public toilets. They will be given to an organised group of residents to run at a fee as part of empowering them and its sustenance,”a county official disclosed. Fabricated jua kali sheds will also be installed at Namgoi, Chebarbar, Chepterit and Baraton. The high mast security lights are at the market, Baraton, Segut, Cheptiret, Chebarbar and near the Jua Kali centre. The projects are spread across the towns four wards - Kapsabet, Kosirai, Kilibwoni and Chemundu.  - mwaniki fm