Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has been dealt a blow in his effort to take total control of the party ahead of the 2022 presidential duel. Last week, the Registrar of Political Parties stopped party members from amending the outfit’s constitution. The party had on August 6, notified the public through the media of the proposed change to its constitution, rules and regulations. Mudavadi had been sworn in as the party leader under the now contentious new constitution for the next five years. The new constitution had created Amani Council, a new organ fronted as the second most-powerful organ after the National Delegates Council. Members of the Council had also taken the oath of office. The proposed constitution designated the party leader the automatic chair of the NDC and also chair of Amani Council. On August 14, the RPP informed the public, through a Kenya Gazette notice, of the intended changes and asked the membership to deposit them in her office within seven days. But registrar Ann Nderitu warned in a letter to the party that the changes will only take effect if they complied with the provisions of the original ANC constitution and the Political Parties Act. “The proposed changes shall only take effect upon conclusive satisfaction of the processes envisaged under the ANC party constitution and Section 20 of the Political Parties Act,” Nderitu said in her August 19 letter. Section 20 of PPA provides that where a fully registered political party intends to change or amend its constitution, rules and regulations, the title, name or address of any party official or even its name, symbol, slogan or colour it shall notify the registrar of its intention who shall within 14 days after the receipt of the notification, publish the notice of the intended change or alteration in the Kenya Gazette. It also requires the party giving notification to publish such notification in at least two daily newspapers having nationwide circulation. After the expiry of 14 days from the date of publication of the notice in the media, the political party may, after taking into account any representations received from the public, effect the change or alteration in accordance with its constitution and rules.  - mwaniki fm