Ugandan artiste Jackie Chandiru survived four attempted suicides as she fought drug addiction that cost her her marriage. Chandiru is famous for hit song 'Gold Digger' alongside her former Blu*3 counterparts Lilian Mbabazi and Cinderella Sanyu (Cindy). In an interview with Kiss FM's Jalang'o on YouTube, the Ugandan detailed that she got into drugs after developing a health issue from a back problem. She then started abusing a painkiller, Pethidine, to avoid surgery and to aid her to perform on stage without complications. It also assisted her to sleep as she had insomnia. Chandiru says she used to inject herself over 20 times in a day, with scars developing in her hands. She got tired of injecting the drug into her veins and started injecting it into her skin. This made her contemplate suicide, but her four attempts failed. Her ex-husband supported her during the trying moment. However, the marriage failed as her drug addiction worsened. "All I want is a second chance. I believe we are all entitled to it," she said. "The media wrote that I died, four times, and these were part of the things that made me ask God to take me away. I found out that my grave had been dug before I passed out, and I prayed that those who dug it would get into it before I do." She says her fans motivated her and most of them prayed for her. "I vowed to get back up and to live my life again. God will never make you go through whatever you can never overcome," she said. "He made me realise that He loves us no matter who we are." Chandiru has opted to revive her career in Kenya by collaborating with local artistes. Her story left Kiss FM's Jalang'o in tears, they knelt together as they held hands in prayer. "Dear Father, I thank you so much for my sister Jackie and I thank you for all you have done in her life. We are not holy before you, but I bless your name because of the far you have brought my sister [sic]. In Jesus name, we pray. Amen," Jalang'o interceded. Chandiru is set to get back to performing and releasing new music.