 Senators have intensified lobbying for and against the disputed revenue sharing formula even as Speaker Kenneth Lusaka called for a special sitting of the House to debate the contentious motion on Monday. Lusaka on Friday gazetted the special convention of Senator on Monday, the ninth sitting to be held in a span of two months, to debate and vote on the controversial formula. “Notice is given to all senators that pursuant to standing order 30 (1) of the Senate Standing Orders, on the request of the Senate Majority leader, with the support of the requisite number of senators, I have appointed Monday, August 17, 2020 as a day for a special sitting of the Senate,” the notice reads. Lusaka said the sitting will be strictly limited to the consideration of the third basis for the allocation of revenue to the counties. “In accordance with standing order 30 (5) of the Senate Standing Orders, the business specified in this notice shall be the only business before the Senate during the special sitting, following which the Senate shall stand adjourned until September 8 at 2.30pm, in accordance with the Senate calendar.” The notice came amid intensified lobbying for numbers as the two rival camps in attempt to win over more support ahead of the high stakes sitting. The senators have failed in eight sittings to conclude the debate and vote on the formula that has divided the House down the middle. One camp, dubbed Team Kenya, has opposed a proposal fronted by the Finance and Budget Committee of the House that cuts allocations to 19 counties by Sh17 billion. They have amended the committee’s formula in what they said would minimise losses and ensure counties ‘grow together.’ The other faction has however supported the formula saying the new method will ensure allocation is proportionate to the population in each county as captured by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics following last year’s census. “We are meeting every day, strategising. Even today, we are meeting. It is part of strategising to ensure we win the vote. We understand they will adjourn again but we are ready,” Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr of the Team Kenya told the Star on Saturday. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, a proponent of the committee formula and whose county is set to be the biggest gainer if the contentious formula is adopted, said his camp has been caucusing and was sure of victory on Monday. “Of course, we will win. We have the numbers. Our counties should not be punished because we are many. You cannot allocate money to tress and forests,” Cherargei said.  Edited by P.O