Youthful AFC Leopards custodian Maxwell Mulili will be targeting to make his debut for the club and play at least four matches in the new season. The former national U-17 goalkeeper arrived at the den last year in August but found the going tough, thanks to the experience harboured by the duo of Benjamin Ochan and Ezekiel Owade. Leopards surprisingly went for the rookie’s signature last year after parting ways with Jairus Adira who decamped to Posta Rangers. Other junior players who joined the former champions are Omar Somobwana from St. Peter's High School-Mumias, Dan Musamali (St Anthony High School-Kitale0 and Dan Sunguti (Mount Kenya University FC) . The 18-year-old Mulili, who is a Mukumu Boys alumnus, admitted that starting ahead of his seniors was a tall order last season as the scene was bigger and opportunities were fewer after the federation concluded the season half-way. The former Kariobangi Sharks man, however,  believes he has come of age and his patience and hard work will earn him playing time once football resumes and the federation announces dates for the new season. “I have learnt a lot in the past season and I am looking forward to making at least four starts in the new campaign. I have been patient enough and worked hard to step up my game and hopefully, I will make my debut next season. Let our fans know there is a young goalkeeper at the club,” he said Meanwhile, the former Green Commandos player showered the club and Harambee Stars goalkeeper trainer Lawrence Webo for instilling confidence and skills in him. Despite his age and limited exposure at the top level, Mulili told his teammates in the department to brace up for playing time competition going forward. “I count myself lucky to work under an experienced gaffer who demands us be at our best always. "My confidence levels have shot up and there is remarkable improvement in as far as my skills are concerned for past one year and I owe it to him. "Both Ochan and Owade have been encouraging me but I promise them playing time will not be guaranteed anymore for I will be hot on their toes with an aim of starting ahead of them,” he added.