Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has called on all city MCAs to end their wrangles and work together so as to improve services for Nairobi residents. The governor further called on the assembly to fully support the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) and any agenda proposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Sonko offered to host a meeting of all the MCAs to discuss how they can effectively work together in supporting Uhuru's agenda. “We were all elected and Nairobians are watching. Let’s end these unnecessary wrangles and work for our people. This is our future. The wrangles and divisions must end now. We no longer need camps but unity of purpose that will ensure the NMS and the county deliver on their mandate," Sonko said. He spoke during a meeting with opinion leaders and youth group leaders from various wards on Wednesday morning. He said it is possible for the county to work closely with the NMS without squabbles as long as both parties demonstrate mutual respect and respect to the rule of law. Sonko added that the rule of law must be expressed and police should stop using excessive force on human beings. He was referring to the recent assault of Mlango Kubwa MCA Patricia Mutheu during a scuffle at City Hall over the impeachment of now resigned speaker Beatrice Elachi. "I am guarded by police. They are my friends. But the rule of law must be respected. Police should not apply excessive force on human beings. What was experienced at the assembly recently was a heinous act," he said. Sonko further asked leaders to obey those in office and those in leadership positions. He said the electorate has powers and they are watching, overseeing the roles played by every individual. "There will be no problem as long as we all recognise that we have laws that govern our operations and we can hold high respect to one another and the rights of the people who put us in office," he noted. He said he is aware of the projects the President wants accomplished in Nairobi, among them; affordable housing units, the sewer system in Mukuru kwa Reuben, Kibra, Uthiru,Kariobangi and other slum areas. "Some of them were in our five-year master plan. Let's support each other," Sonko said. After a series of internal assembly wrangles, Beatrice Elachi on Tuesday threw in the towel and quit her position as speaker of the Nairobi assembly. Elachi, the first female speaker in the House, became a victim of endless Jubilee Party leadership wrangles in the assembly, power struggles pitting her against suspended clerk Jacob Ngwele and the supremacy battles between Mike Sonko and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. It merged that a secret meeting held two weeks ago discussed and sealed Elachi’s fate. The Star has established the meeting was chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta and was attended by 41 MCAs, who were planning to impeach her. The powerful state machinery is said to have been very upset by the chaos that marred the assembly last month and brought the capital city into disrepute. A decision had to be taken to restore order.