Kisii University and Kisii County Herbalist and Research Centre on Wednesday signed an agreement to jointly research a cure for Covid-19. University vice chancellor John Akama said conventional drugs are manufactured from herbal medicine and trees and their research borrows from those processes. “The university and herbal doctors will be conducting research aimed at discovering medicine which will be used to cure the deadly pandemic,” Akama said. Akama signed a memorandum of understanding with the centre’s chair Peter Nyaora at the university. “Herbal medicine was used to effectively treat various sicknesses before the advent of modern medicine. We are optimistic it will cure coronavirus,” he said. “We want herbalists and scientists to discover drugs with efficacy to treat communicable and non-communicable illnesses like diabetes, blood pressure and current pandemic.” Colonisers and some missionaries, Akama said, demonised African medicine and forced herbalists to abandon it in favour of imported drugs. The result was an erosion of African medical heritage, he said. “Chinese and Koreans have used herbal medicine for decades. We need, as Africans, to embrace and protect our heritage, values and the medicines to treat and prevent diseases,” Akama said. He said the university will formulate the drug, package it and send it to Kenya Medical Research Institute and Kenya Pharmacy and Poisons Board for approval before it is brought to the market. The university boss appealed to the researchers and herbalists to focus on research and shun the obsession with money. They will earn more once they discover drugs to treat various diseases, he said. Nyaora urged the youth in urban areas to minimise interaction with their aged parents as they suffer serious complications from the disease because of poor immunity. He said the government has no clear laws in relation to herbal medicine, unlike China and Tanzania. The partnership will enable the herbalists to subject their drugs to scientific research so they can be approved to help patients, he said. Nyaora lamented that forests from where herbalists sourced medicinal materials for drugs have been cleared.  He appealed to the university to set aside some land for the planting of herbal seedlings to help in conducting research. (edited by o. owino)