As the novel coronavirus continues to spread in the country, the National Assembly proceedings have not been spared. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Thursday said that the House is intending to kick-off the streaming House Committees and plenary sessions of Parliament. Muturi said the streaming will be on various social media platforms, which will ensure maximum utility and public participation. Parliament is scheduled to resume in September amidst threats of the virus. The National Assembly has made amendments to the Standing Orders, which will reflect the new situation whereby it allows for holding of physical, virtual, and hybrid proceedings. The Speaker said the amendments have however faced challenges, including little knowledge about the technology. “Challenges still abound on Members of Parliament who are not technology-savvy and who have to rely on others for assistance with accessing or participating in virtual proceedings,” Muturi said. He is also concerned with the mechanism that may be employed in ensuring voting in the Houses of Parliament by elected representatives. Muturi said the integrity of the platforms used and whether such voting would indeed be that of the elected representative and not that of another person who may be assisting the elected representative “We remain concerned with the integrity of results that would be obtained from electronic voting. In addition, as is common with technology and technological platforms, there still remains the potential for hacking as well as other associated security risks.” The House Speaker added that recording and transcribing proceedings that occur in the virtual platforms is another problem, given the differences with recording on the Hansard within the physical chambers. “Other questions that may need to be answered include how compatible the virtual platforms that are to be used are compatible with existing technology," he said. The Speaker confirmed that the National Assembly is alive to the potential of technology and said the public will be able to follow the proceedings through online platforms. Graft surrounding KEMSA Regarding the ongoing investigations of alleged misappropriation of donor funds meant to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, Muturi said the House Committee will play an oversight role and resolves issues surrounding Kemsa. “We are moving with speed to institute immediate and thorough account of the Covid-19 funds to ensure fiscal prudence and protection of the health and interests of the people.” He added that more oversight is being done by the National Assembly Committee on Health even as PIC pursues its audit and accountability obligations. Ten years of new Constitution As the country marks 10 years since the promulgation of the Constitution, the Speaker has said that a concerning issue on constitutional implementation relates to the Independent Constitutional Commissions established under Chapter 15 of the Constitution. He said there have been occasions when these commissions and independent offices have felt slighted by the insistence that their Bills must pass through the Office of the Attorney General, which has questioned their independence. " What then happens in instances when the Executive is not keen on legislative proposals from a particular independent commission? We see a situation where independent commission should be able to send or submit their legislative proposals to Parliament on their own in order to guarantee this independence.”