The government is prioritising Covid-19 testing for vulnerable groups to reduce fatalities. They include older people, those with underlying medical conditions and those with weakened immunity. So far, 388 people have succumbed to the virus, mostly people with pre-existing medical conditions. The Health ministry confirmed on Tuesday six more patients had died of the virus. “These are groups we are targeting but at the same time contact tracing is still going on,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. “As community transmission takes root and the numbers of people grow, you can see the challenges if you were to trace back each and every contact of 23,000. But that doesn't mean we give up and we don’t do it," he said. The ministry expressed concern over the problem of improper disposal of clinical waste in the environment, including face masks, gloves, soiled tissue papers and sanitiser bottles. Aman said discarded masks litter the roadside, footpaths, railway stations, bus and matatu stages, parks, markets, construction sites and other places, becoming a health hazard as well as an eyesore. The CAS noted that it is important to be cautious in disposing of masks after use to avoid environmental hazards and transmission of the virus and other pathogens lingering on the surface. “In the midst of this pandemic, there may be a tendency to not consider the adverse health and environmental impacts of wanton and haphazard disposal of these products as if they are normal waste,” the CAS said. Health experts say viruses and bacteria remain on masks and surfaces for varying periods of time, hence, people and especially children are at great risk of infection. There is also danger to those who come into contact with discarded face masks blown about by the wind. Data from Tuesday's briefing show the number of positive cases in the country is 23,202 after 605 more cases were confirmed. The new cases were from 4,547 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case was detected in March is now 323,923. On a positive note, 587 recovered from the virus, 500 from  home-based care while 87 were discharged from hospital. The total number of recoveries after treatment is 9,327. The new cases range between two months and 99 years, including 410 men and 204 women. Of the total confirmed cases, 373 are from Nairobi, 35 are from Kiambu, 25 from Migori while Busia and Narok recorded 20 cases each. Kajiado and Laikipia had 16 cases each, Nakuru 15, Kakamega 12, Uasin Gishu 11, Machakos 10, Mombasa nine, Samburu eight, Turkana seven, Muang’a and Kericho five, Taita Taveta three; Nyeri, Makueni, Kisumu, Kilifi, Elgeyo Marakwet two cases each, while Siaya, Meru, Kitui, Isiolo and Bungoma had one case each. (Edited by V. Graham)