The political climate in the country seems to be at an all-time high and Kenyans are watching and will never forget. Despite the fact that we are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, a visitor to the country would be forgiven for thinking that the elections are around the corner. Everywhere one turns politicians are discussing and plotting succession politics. Yet if you asked them what they have achieved since 2017, many will have nothing to point at. Listening to the Senate proceedings on the revenue sharing formula, politicians spoke to incite the populace and sought to unite under alliances. Outside Parliament, it’s one meeting after another to plan 2022 succession. Meanwhile, mwananchi is looking up to their elected leaders hoping to catch their attention, to remind them that they exist. With an economy deflated by the pandemic, many Kenyans want solutions that will put food on their tables and not unending politics. Politicians seem not to have learnt that the Kenyan voter is observant and ruthless at the ballot. In the last election, voters rejected 166 out of the then 290 MPs; 32 of the 47 woman reps were also sent packing. Some of them were very vocal in politics and had nothing to show for their time in office. The reason is simple – there is a time to deliver and a time for politics and this is not the time to be focused on succession politics. In Central, leaders are jostling to be kingpin while there exists a kingpin in place. President Uhuru Kenyatta has not retired and the residents of the mountain have not said they want a new leader. Uhuru will be the kingpin and the region will be looking to him for the direction that they will take in 2022. But for now, they are focused on ensuring that he delivers on his promises and builds a lasting legacy. What leaders should be doing is to help the President and the residents to ensure that the region gets its fair share of national development. Focusing on politics is not only distracting but uncalled for at the moment. During this pandemic, Kenyans are suffering. It’s becoming harder and harder to put money in the pocket, food on the table and to fend for one’s family. This is not the time for a charged political atmosphere, and to announce 2022 plans. This is the time to prioritise services. And it is not only in Mt Kenya. The same thing is happening in Western, where the elusive quest for Luhya unity has now divided the region further with some following Musalia Mudavadi, others Deputy President William Ruto and yet others Francis Atwoli. In Rift Valley, the script is the same but with a different cast. It is all about fighting to see who between DP Ruto and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is the region’s kingpin. Yet, hunger, cattle rustling and floods are currently devastating the region. In Ukambani, it is a war between former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and regional governors. The governors are claiming that Kalonzo’s time to lead the region is over but the Wiper leader is using his new-found friendship with Uhuru to up his stakes. The succession politics are distracting. All senior politicians seem to be angling for is Uhuru’s endorsement in 2022 while he is focused on delivery. What if Uhuru decides, like former President Kibaki, not to endorse anyone in 2022? Will all this distractive noise have served any purpose? Focus on empty politics and succession will have the effect of putting aside service delivery, with mwananchi suffering the consequences. It is time we stopped and focused on what matters at the moment; Kenyans will not forget who worked and who was politicking.