North Rift governors say delayed funding from the Treasury is the main obstacle to the success of devolution since the Constitution came into effect 10 years ago. The county chiefs argue full implementation of devolution with the required funding would have made greater transformational impact on the country. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, among other leaders, have called for a referendum to amend the Constitution and allocate more money to the counties. “As governors, we would have done even more under devolution but with frequent funding hitches, many activities and projects remain disrupted to the disadvantage of the public," Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. He is chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc. He urged the Senate to swiftly resolve the stalemate over revenue sharing so counties can resume normal operations. “We need to pay salaries and continue projects but constant problems over funding have been the main problem undermining devolution," Mandago said. Two other second-term governors - Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet - separately said counties need uninterrupted funding for devolution to be more successful. “We cannot afford to go back on devolution because it’s working. But we need to sort out funding issues so counties can operate smoothly, implementing projects and activities within the set time," Tolgos said. Data from the eight Noreb counties indicate more than 200 projects, including major ones, have stalled or been disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and funding problems. The counties owe more than Sh7 billion in pending bills, following the Covid-19 disruptions and lack of revenue collection. The validity of some bills has been disputed. Bills could increase following the suspension of mega projects in the past four months due to the pandemic. Last week the Controller of Budget and Auditor General said most counties were yet to clear their bills by June, as required. Turkana owes the most with Sh4.5 billion, West Pokot Sh1.5 billion, Trans Nzoia  Sh420 million, Elgeyo Marakwet Sh97 milion, Uasin Gishu 97 million and Baringo Sh24 million. The counties have incurred huge losses, as they have not been able to collect more than 50 per cent of taxes, charges and levies due to pandemic restrictions. Staff members in most counties have been ordered back to work, except for those who are older and vulnerable to Covid-19, so collections and other operations can resume as normal. “We are working on economic recovery strategies to help us resume normal operations as we also ensure residents adhere to Covid-19 control measures," Mandago said. He said counties will introduce economic stimulus packages to support key sectors hit by the pandemic, such a transport and agriculture. Nandi has paid Sh942 million bills that had been outstanding for more than three years. It had Sh1.44 billion arrears but complied with the Treasury requirement to clear all approved bills - the Sh942 million. (Edited by V. Graham)