Organisations have been urged to provide PPEs especially to health workers at the frontline in the fight against Covid-19. Provision of protective gear will help the workers attend adequately to Covid-19 cases and curb the spread of the disease, Cure International chief of programmes Peter Kyalo said. He spoke in Nairobi on Tuesday when the nonprofit organisation received equipment and funds from Janus Continental Group to assist in the fight against Covid-19. Health workers at the frontline in the fight against Covid-19 will be prioritised in the distribution of the donated equipment. Uganda, Zambia and Mozambique will also benefit in the project that focusses on the purchase of PPE and ventilators. JCG gave a Sh20 million grant to Amref Health Africa to support coronavirus testing in collaboration with the Ministry of Health. In a partnership with Cure International, JCG donated a testing machine for children living with disabilities. “Children living with disability risk being among the biggest victims. They were already marginalised and this pandemic has made it worse for them,” Kyalo said. JCG said there is a constant need for extra PPE, masks, gloves and all the necessary equipment to ensure patients seeking health services are well protected. “The donation from JCG will make sure that Cure International has facilities well prepared to take care of the critically sick patients if called upon to. Also, healthcare workers who are at great risk of Covid-19 while in the line of duty will greatly benefit from the PPE kits,” the organisation said. It added that having the right equipment is essential in preventing transmission and is a vital part of the strategies of the Ministry of Health as they work to contain Covid-19. Cure International said it was providing testing services for children living with disability so they do not worry about Covid-19 infection. By end of July, the country had received over Sh700 million from the US, Sh35 billion from the European Union, Sh100 billion from the World Bank, Sh300 million from James Mwangi of Equity Bank and medical supplies worth millions from Jack Ma, among other donations. 