Not long ago, we told you of a former Health ministry official who became an overnight tycoon. He moved from an average home in Rongai to upmarket Karen. He is among ministry officials who refused to move after being transferred. It’s said he gave sleepless nights to a former CS in the ministry and was among those singled out for altering contracts of a major procurement. The procurement turned into a huge scandal. Three months ago, CS Mutahi Kagwe insisted the man be transferred. However, the man has been rewarded in ongoing changes in another ministry. Insiders are calling on the EACC and the Assets Recovery Agency headed by Muthoni Kimani to order a lifestyle audit on the man. Senators opposed to the government-backed revenue formula for counties were  organised, aggressive and had the gift of the gab. Team Kenya also seemed to enjoy the backing of most Kenyans. However, it appears politicians get carried away too easily. Sources whisper to Corridors there has been a quite push to turn the group into a political movement. It’s not clear whom they would support for president as some appear to signal switching political camps. However, government insiders were heard dismissing the group as lightweights and a passing cloud. It’s said damaging dossiers against some of the senators would make the team disintegrate. A close ally and aide to a prominent Coast governor has fallen out with his boss. The reasons remain unknown. However, it is known the man who was once a strategist for a presidential candidate has jumped ship for an aspiring governor, a prominent businessman with deep pockets. He joined the hopeful's bandwagon out of conviction that the candidate will become the next governor. And he hit the ground running, starting grassroot campaigns and reestablishing networks.  Those in the know are still surprised over what led to the falling-out as the man was once almost family to the governor, willing to take a bullet for his boss and his relatives. A top official in a parastatal is a man under siege. He has refused to vacate office two weeks after a court ruled his appointment was unprocedural. The man has continued to defy the court, using the company car to run personal errands. Insiders say he has been intimidating staff not to reveal any secrets about his private companies doing business with his parastatal. Word has it that in the week he has been in office, he has signed lucrative contracts and activists are headed to court to have all decisions he carried out declared null and void.