Malkia Strikers head coach Paul Bitok yesterday confirmed the addition of eight more players to the squad that qualified for the Tokyo Olympic Games . Bitok’s charges qualified for the Games, thanks to a 3-0 (25-15, 25-21, 24-12) win over Nigeria in their last match of the African Olympic qualifiers held in January in Cameroon. Among the new faces is the experienced Kenya Pipeline middle blocker Triza Atuka, who has been nursing a knee injury for the last one year. She returns to the squad alongside her Kenya Pipeline team-mates Esther Mutinda and Pamela Adhiambo. Others are Kenya Prisons trio of Pamela Masaisai, Lorine Chebet and Shyrine Jepkemboi, Caroline Sirengo from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and KCB’s Immaculate Nekesa. The squad that earned Kenya a ticket to the Olympic Games, remains intact. They include long serving Prisons setter Jane Wacu who is in the team alongside her teammates and another setter Joy Luseneka,middle blocker Joan Chelagat, right attacker Immaculate Chemutai and Elizabeth Wanyama(libero). Besides leading the team to seal a spot in the Olympics, skipper Mercy Moim also led six of her teammates from KCB in making it to the Malkia team. They are Edith Mukuvilani ,Violet Makuto (right attacker), Noel Murambi (left attacker), Leonida Kasaya (Left attacker), Sharon Chepchumba (right attacker) and Jemimah Siangu (right attacker). The Kenya Pipeline duo of Gladys Ekaru (lmiddle blocker) and Agrippina Kundu (libero) are also in the team. Despite the long wait for government's return of sporting activities, Bitok said the players have been working from home and he has been filing reports to KVF’s on a monthly basis. He said he is impressed with Atuka’s progress in terms of recovery and he is hopeful she will make the cut to the Olympics. “She is currently undergoing rehabilitation under Team Kenya’s physical trainer Geoffrey Kimani and the response is impressive,” he said. Despite being a year away, he said their focus is on the Olympic Games and they are determined to make a difference.  “There is talk in the volleyball circles that the Africa Club Championships could be  staged in either October pr November. This will be good news for our players because we will use the platform as a build-up and also to gauge our strengths ahead of the Games,” he added.