Sometime last week, the wife of a governor flew out of Nairobi with a sackfull of cash. Reason? She needed to pacify some noise causing political turbulence for her husband. When she alighted,  a number of MCAs were boarding another flight to Nairobi. Her arrival caused a stir. The cheery lawmakers cancelled their trip as they followed the county's First Lady to get their share. Indeed, the cash was meant for them. Sources whisper to Corridors the MCA’s have pocketed millions to go slow, in fact, to abandon a position they had taken. Corridors will keep you posted on the drama. Insiders aware of the nasty deals are asking DCI boss George Kinoti (pictured) to make an example of this to would-be offenders. *** President Uhuru Kenyatta likes taking his sweet time where government changes are concerned. It’s usually whispered that when such information leaks to the media, he abandons the idea altogether. Well, those in the know say the President was widely expected to make changes to the Cabinet this week. Tuesday was thought to be the day. Top government officials were alert, fearing the axe would fall. But it seems no one knows exactly what the head of state is thinking. Some opposition enthusiasts have been asking why they should take bullets for the Executive yet they have not been rewarded almost three years after the handshake. *** Just why is the bid to make Peter Kenneth the heir to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Mt Kenya backyard rattling many big names in the region? Well, the noise follows the near surety that the former Gatanga lawmaker is the man tipped for any top job the region would negotiate for in its 2022 stakes. The politician, Corridors is apprised, is backed by the well-oiled power minders from the region, most of whom have been supporting some of the top contenders. The group positioning Kenneth for higher stakes meets regularly at a hotel in Lavington to chart the plan and compare notes on progress. Some politicos, aware they are being left out, are waging a ruthless war. *** When Health CS Mutahi Kagwe toured counties to assess Covid-19 preparedness, front line health workers knew their concerns would be addressed. A health worker observed that when the CS visited, their governor - prior to the tour -provided them with sufficient PPEs and masks. More PPEs and masks were given out during the CS’s visit. A week later, the health workers began having to buy their own masks. A bird whispers to Corridors that the governor is holding on to the full consignment of protective gear until there's a major event that will give him political mileage. 