The Kip Keino Classic Continental Tour earlier scheduled for September 26 has been pushed back by a week. The event will now take place on October 3 at the newly refurbished Nyayo National Stadium. The changes are as a result of a change in the Diamond League 2020 calendar, which has seen Doha Diamond League brought forward by two weeks. This means Doha will now take place on September 25 instead of the initial date of October 9 after it failed to take place as the traditional season opener in April. It is because of the clash in dates that the organisers of the KipKeino Classic saw it better to push the event forward by a  week . “Due to our closeness with the Middle East country, the two meetings are bound to divide the athletes in the region and that is why we thought it wise to postpone our event to give the athletes an opportunity in both races,”  said the KipKeino meet director, Barnaba Korir. "We apologise for any inconveniences caused but the rest of the plans to ensure we host a successful event are still in force," said  Korir. The Nairobi meeting is expected to attract among others—world 1,500m champion, Timothy Cheruiyot, Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Chepng'etich and world 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri among others. The Nairobi leg of the World Continental Tour was named KipKeino Classic in honour of the most decorated Kenyan athlete of all time. Keino won two Olympic gold medals for Kenya in 1968 and 1972, setting the stage for Kenya to dominate in the Olympic Games, World Championships and other major races on the athletics calendar. Elsewhere, German Johannes Vetter produced his best throw for more than two years to win the javelin at the Paavo Nurmi Games in Turku on Tuesday  night providing the highlight of the first World Athletics Continental Tour Gold meeting of 2020. In what was perhaps the highest quality outdoor meeting of the year so far – and, with about 6000 fans, certainly one of the best attended—Vetter’s 91.49m was one of six meeting records set tonight in the Finnish city. The other standout performance came from world champion Daniel Stahl, who added almost three metres to the meeting record in the discus. Since opening his season in late July, 2017 world champion Vetter has improved with each competition. The German recorded three fouls in his season opener in Zweibrucken but then found his rhythm in Kuortane on 1 August, winning with 86.94m. Eight days later, he won the German title with 87.36m. One day after throwing a world-leading 71.37m in Sollentuna, Stahl was close to the 70-metre line once again in Turku. Understandably, given the tight turn around, he needed a couple of rounds to get into the groove in Turku, but after registering fouls in the first two rounds, he sent his discus out to 69.23m in round three to add almost three metres to the meeting record. Lithuania’s 2017 world champion Andrius Gudzius, who opened with 65.55m before throwing 66.39m in round three, was relegated to second place, marginally ahead of Slovenia’s Kristjan Ceh, who threw 66.07m in round three. In a competitive 100m hurdles final, European indoor champion Nadine Visser emerged victorious in 12.68, her fastest time outside of the World Championships last year.