It is usually every footballer’s dream to bag an accolade after all the hard work that goes into training and endless battles in closely contested matches. The football world is abound with players who enter and exit the stage with few have leaving an indelible mark in the history of the sport following their outstanding contributions on the pitch that set them apart from the rest of the crowd. Even after retirement, there are those who look back on their heydays with glee as the trophies they scooped along the way during their stellar careers remind them of their successful journey in football. The world drools over the likes of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo because they continue to stand out among their peers. Messi, for instance, has won the world’s most prestigious individual award, the Ballon d’Or, a record six times and that’s what separates him from the rest of the world. Back home, Kenya is no different in recognising exemplary performance. Every year, save for 2020 when activities were disrupted by Covid-19, the country has always rewarded its best footballers during the Footballer of the Year awards. In 2014, Posta Rangers custodian Jairus Adira—then playing for Chemelil Sugar—scooped the coveted Golden Glove award. The achievement turned him into an instant hot cake and he soon found himself in the thick of a transfer dispute as two big sides in the Kenyan Premier League battled for his signature. Adira was born on October 14, 1984  in Nandi county into a family of five children. He attended Chemelil Primary School, where he developed an interest in football at the age of 10. He wasn’t so much active there though as his teachers made little or no effort at all to nurture talent, but rather placed more emphasis on academics. Still, he would occasionally be involved in the game just for fun while turning out as a striker. He discovered his great potential immediately he sat for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and proceeded to join a secondary in Makhokho. There, he played more often and even transitioned from a striker to a goalkeeper. Adira says he was fortunate enough to have met their games teacher, Mr.Indimuli who did everything in his power to shape his career as a goalkeeper. “He kept encouraging me and pushing me to work harder. He used to say ‘Junior’, I would wish to see you playing in the Kenyan Premier League some day.” Adira’s journey in football kicked off at the former Kenyan Premier League side, Muhoroni Youth. After a brief stint with the sugar belt side, he made a trip to Naivasha to try out for Homegrown and an impressed coach Michael Nam didn’t hesitate to offer him a deal. He signed up for the flower growers as their first choice keeper. It wasn’t long before National Super League side Agro chemicals lured him to the side after monitoring his performances during their league ties against Homegrown. On January 26, 2011, Adirah joined Sugar Millers Chemelil where he played under coach Nick Yakhama. In November, 2014, he was named the goalkeeper of the year in the Footballer of the Year (FOYA) awards at a Nairobi Hotel. Adira warded off competition from Mathare United’s Robert Mboya and Gor Mahia’s Jerim Onyango who came in second and third  respectively. He was runners up in 2015. In 2016, Adira courted trouble after his club Chemelil accused him of double signing. He was then believed to be eyeing a move to Kenyan Premier League newbies Kakamega Homeboyz and had even trained with the side at the Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. Chemelil secretary general, Bosco Magare, had insisted that Adira still had a two-year contract with the club. Bosco had indicated that Adira was supposed to remain at Chemelil until June 2018. However, he still left the club despite the clause. In 2015, Sony Sugar dropped five players including reserve goalkeepers Ronnie Kagunzi and Jaseck Gathongo and coach Zedekiah Otieno signed him up to fill the gap. Adira only lasted at the Awendo-based side for six months before rejoining Chemelil Sugar. He stayed there until on January 11, 2018, when he signed a two-year contract with AFC Leopards after ditching the sugar millers. While at the Den, he played under five different tacticians including Robert Matano presently at KPL side Tusker FC, Dennis Kitambi who later joined Tanzanian premiership giants Simba SC as assistant coach, Argentinian Rodolfo Zapata, Serbian Marko Vasiljevic and Cassa Mbungo who currently guides Gasogi United of Rwanda. On July 30, 2019 he joined mailmen, Posta Rangers, who were determined to beef up their shaky squad. This was after the club had struggled to keep afloat the previous season, and had to win the relegation/promotion playoffs against National Super League (NSL) side, Nairobi Stima to remain in the top tier. Despite his glow on the big stage, Adirah admits he’s yet to impress any of national coaches for his first call up but would wish to wear the national colours someday. Is there any particular striker he’s usually scared of coming face to face? He doesn’t think so. “I don’t fear any striker. If I’m scared why should I even play in the first place?” he asserts. His greatest inspiration in football is former Kenyan international custodian Arnold Origi while internationally, he admires Ederson Santana de Moraes, the 36-year-old Brazilian goalkeeper who plays for Premier League club Manchester City and the Brazil national team. “During my free time, I love spending time with my family. I also take time to listen to gospel music and R n B.” His best KPL match so far was when he featured for AFC Leopards against Ulinzi Stars.  “We won 1-0 against Ulinzi Stars. It was my best game ever it because I made several saves.” “My worst match was against KCB when I turned for Posta Rangers. We received two red cards, conceded five goals and only managed to score a goal.” Adira contends that Kakamega Homeboyz are the toughest side in the Kenyan Premier League at the moment and the most difficult side to beat. He says is a father of two and married to bubbly woman who has been a great source of inspiration throughout his rollercoaster ride in football. “I’m married to a beautiful woman. She’s my best friend. I have two children. She’s my biggest supporter. She encourages me and prays for me daily.” Adira is equally thankful to his parents whom he says have always given him enough moral support from the time he began playing football. “My parents do support me quite a lot. They always make sure that they call me before and after every game to provide the much needed encouragement.”  BIOGRAPHY  Date of Birth: October 14, 1984 Place of Birth: Nandi County 1990-1997: Chemelil Primary School 1998-2001: Makhokho Secondary School 2006-2008: Homegrown 2009-2010: Agro Chemicals 2011-2014: Chemelil Sugar 2015: Sony Sugar 2015-2018: Afc Leopards 2019 to-date: Posta Rangers     