The government should ignore calls for more consultation over the leasing of sugar factories and instead hasten the process, National Assembly Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi has said. The MP for Ugunja said those behind calls for suspension of the leasing programme were not sensitive to the plight of sugarcane farmers who have suffered for decades because of mismanagement of the factories. Speaking in Ugunja town in Siaya county, the MP who was flanked by Sidindi MCA Joseph Wandera urged the government to work within the timelines outlined by Agriculture CS Peter Munya. “Let us have the factories run by those with the capacity,” he said adding, “asking for an extension of time for more consultation or formation of task forces, in my view, is time-wasting, diversionary and insensitive to the plight of the long-suffering farmers.” Wandayi said leaders in the Western and Nyanza regions have agitated for so long for the revamping of the sugar subsector and now that the government has come up with a good option it was prudent that local leaders support it. “If we really want to save our sugar cane farmers and the economy of the Western part of Kenya, this is the way to go. We have consulted and talked enough and brought in as many stakeholders as we could,” he said. Wandayi at the same time urged the government to be transparent in its expenditure of Covid-19 funds. He said there was a hue and cry from the public over the way both national and county governments were spending the billions of shillings set aside to fight the pandemic. “In my view, the hue and cry is because of the opaqueness that seems to be the order of the day both at the national and county governments,” the PAC chairman said. “National and county governments must transparently tell the public how this money is being utilised on a daily basis.” Wandayi said Covid-19 was an eye-opener that has the country’s lack of preparedness in the health sector. The legislator said it was not enough for the government to tell Kenyans that it had purchased personal protective equipment for the health staff. It was high time the country agreed on the minimum amount to be channelled towards the infrastructural development of health facilities in each corner of the country. Wandayi said those managing the Covid-19 funds were doing so on behalf of Kenyans and were, therefore, duty-bound to be transparent. Edited by Henry Makori