Three people died on Wednesday after a quarry in which they were mining stones in Muthara area, Juja subcounty, collapsed. Four others were seriously injured. The three, a driver and two loaders, died on the spot after huge boulders buried their truck. David Ekidor, a worker at the quarry, said they suspect the accident was caused by vibrations from heavy mining machinery used to cut stones. “The section which collapsed had huge cracks,” he said. Ekidor said the driver was in the truck’s cabin while the two loaders were arranging stones at the back of the truck. Elias Mwaura, the owner of the truck, said he was notified of the accident by a worker at the quarry. “The deceased were good workers, and they were supposed to deliver stones to Umoja Estate in Nairobi. It’s sad and regrettable to lose such people,” Mwaura said. Juja subcounty police commander Dorothy Migarusha confirmed the incident, saying the injured were rushed to Thika Level 5 Hospital. “The four are now in stable condition. The deceased have been taken to General Kago Mortuary in Thika,” Migarusha said. The police boss said the quarry has been closed to allow investigations. Meanwhile, quarry workers want the government to compel quarry owners to acquire insurance cover for them. “It’s sad that quarry owners are minting billions of shillings from this business, but they care less about the poor people working for them. For instance, those who were injured during the accident will have to foot their hospital bills. We need insurance cover,” worker Japheth Kimeu said. They also urged the Kiambu county government to regulate mining in the area and ensure that quarries are fenced and refilled after mining is complete. “These quarries are death traps. Investors leave huge ditches after they complete mining, exposing us and our children to grave dangers. The county government should not just focus on the revenue they raise from the trucks ferrying stones here but should ensure residents are left with a safe environment,” Kimeu said. They also petitioned the National Environment and Management Authority (Nema) to shut down all quarries that do not adhere to safety measures. Edited by A.N