Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has dismissed as fake a statement doing rounds on social media in which he praised Beatrice Elachi soon after her resignation. Elachi announced on Tuesday morning that she had resigned from her position as as speaker of the Nairobi County Assembly. But minutes after the resignation, a statement purportedly from Sonko noted that he was shocked by the turn of events. In the statement, Sonko heaped praise on Elachi describing their relationship as healthy and said he had learnt of her resignation with shock and dismay. "This move wouldn't have come at a worse time. Our county is in turmoil, our people are suffering, and our city is in disarray. Another crisis is what we all don't want at this time.But as Edward Murphy's Law warns us, whatever can go wrong, will go wrong," the statement had read. The statement went further to say that the Governor had worked tirelessly to make sure that Elachi was able to come back to the county and continue discharging her duties as speaker. But shortly after, Sonko's spokesperson Ben Mulwa said the statement was fake. "Sonko does not wish to comment on the resignation of Speaker Beatrice Elachi. If need be, he will issue a comprehensive statement later," Mulwa said. "He also wishes to distance himself from a statement circulating in social media platforms." "GOD'S HAND" However, Sonko's social media postings for the better part of Tuesday morning soon after Elachi had announced her exit left much to be desired. The governor flooded his Facebook page with gospel songs. "Yuko Mungu Mbiguni Asikiaye Maombi yetu. We have seen your mighty hand Lord," he posted on  Facebook. But asked whether he was celebrating the resignation of Elachi, Sonko said he was just "worshipping God". "I'm not celebrating anything it's just my usual morning worship. Is it bad to worship?" he posed. He went ahead to post another song "Sio juju ni Maombi." During her resignation on Tuesday, Elachi advised Sonko with whom she has had a frosty relationship with to focus on God and stop intimidation. "I think I was the biggest stumbling block for the governor but I want to pray for him. Governor, focus on God and stop threatening peoples lives it does not help," she said. The supremacy wars between Sonko and Elachi played out with both flexing their political muscles. The fight for the control of the devolved government drove a wedge between two camps of ward representatives. When Elachi was still in office, she returned the County Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2020 back to Governor Sonko for his assent. The bill sent back is the original that was passed by the House on April 2, and which allocated at least Sh15 billion to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. In her ruling, Elachi set aside the said memorandum in its entirety and it will not be committed to the Committee of the Whole Assembly. The political marriage of convenience between the two in 2019 crumbled during the bid to impeach the governor. Sonko felt he had been left to his devices and that his support for the speaker was not reciprocated.