Protracted wrangles that have marred leadership of the Luo Council of Elders are expected to end after one of the factions stepped down. The council has had prolonged leadership tussles which led to the emergence of three factions led by Nyandiko Ongadi, Opiyo Otondi and Calvin Ariko. Three elders claimed chairmanship of the council and had officials in their factions. But on Monday, Ariko stepped down in an effort to create harmony and unity in the council. In a meeting attended by more than 50 elders from Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori and Siaya counties in Kendu Bay town, Ariko said he will now serve the council under Ongadi’s leadership. “After thorough consultations with fellow elders, my followers and I have decided to support Ongadi as our chairman. Ongadi now holds the mantle since he owns the registration certificate from the Registrar of Societies,” Ariko said. The senior citizen said stepping down signified the genesis of unity in the council. He argued that the unity of the council is more important than the interests of any individual elder who claimed chairmanship of the council. He said they have plans to hold talks with Otondi so he can also work with Ongadi for the common interest of the community. “We’re already having elders who have been following Otondi in this meeting.  We will reach to him to enhance the envisaged unity,” he added. Ongadi, who was present, said the new initiative of uniting the elders will make the council stronger for the achievement of its objectives efficiently. “There is nothing more important than unity. This new move will lead to more achievements,” Ongadi said. He said the time had come for the council to speak in one voice. “Let us ensure that we communicate through one channel to avoid any conflict,” Ongadi said. He said they will work together with the government to transform the lives of Nyanza residents. Other elders included council Secretary General Silus Olala, vice chairman Thomas Achand and deputy executive director Christopher Ojienda. They said the existence of different factions in the council leadership portrayed a bad picture in the community. They urged residents to comply with the government regulations to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Edited by R.Wamochie