The late Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo shot to fame for his outspokenness on matters of national interest. He had a promising political career at the time of his sudden death in April 2013, having served as the county's first senator for only 30 days. He first joined parliament in January 2003 as a nominated MP under the Kanu ticket, ostensibly following his ties, then, with the late President Daniel Moi whom he served as personal lawyer. During the 2007 general election, he won the Mbooni Member of Parliament seat under the ODM-Kenya party ticket which would subsequently land him the job of Nairobi Metropolitan minister. He was named minister after his party leader Kalonzo Musyoka (now in Wiper) joined President Mwai Kibaki’s administration as Vice President. Kibaki would later appoint Mutula as Justice Minister in May 2009 after then minister Martha Karua resigned. He grew famous as ‘Minister of Optimism’ as a result of his spirited role in campaigning for the 2010 Constitution. Mutula was also opposed to calls against Kenya withdrawing from the Rome Statute. The calls escalated after ICC prosecutor Louis Moreno unveiled a list of six suspects to face charges at the Hague-based court. He was clear that those who were named in the Ocampo list were not fit to hold public office. He was later appointed Education minister until April 2013 when President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration took over from Kibaki. While at the helm of the Education ministry, Mutula sparked controversy when he advocated for school girls not to be forced to wear long skirts – like nuns. His ideal skirt was one that was just two inches below the knee which was touted as long enough to sooth conservatives and short enough to please the students. Mutula had his run-ins with Knut – as is usual with those at the helm of the Education ministry - but had a soft-spot for children. The minister was easy with people and a dogged and fearsome debater. Mutula bid for the Makueni Senate seat in 2013 on Wiper ticket and gave the likes of John Harun Mwau a run for their money with over 193,500 votes. He was among the top lawyers who were assembled by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Musyoka to draft the petition which challenged President Kenyatta’s election in 2013. His daughter Kethi Kilonzo wowed the courts with her brilliant performance at the Supreme Court and which became one of his most proud moments.   