We have failed as committee chairs because once we approve monies to ministries, we do not monitor disbursements. These were the words of Kieni MP Kanini Kega during a presentation in Nairobi on Wednesday. "...We only wait for audits, but that will be too late if any monies have been misappropriated," he said. Kega noted that a member of his committee had been given money meant for the elderly under the Inua Jamii programme. More than one million beneficiaries receive between Sh4,000 and Sh8,000 each from the state to cushion them against the effects of the coronavirus. The cash is part of the government's package to cushion the most vulnerable people from the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 1,094,238 people are benefitting. "The other day an MP in my committee was shocked after receiving some money that is being disbursed to the elderly and the vulnerable in her account," Kega said. "This tells us that there is need to monitor these disbursements to ensure they are going to the right people." The MP noted that if the committees would monitor how the monies are being disbursed , Kenya would not have an issue with Kemsa. "If as Committee Chairs we had been monitoring disbursements and appropriation of the funds we have approved, we would be having facts on such matters as how Kemsa has spent funds disbursed to them," he said. Kega noted that Sh 43 billion meant to cushion Kenyans from the pandemic has been stolen in the last three months. "…it should have been clear…we would have known how much money that has gone to Kemsa…Senate cannot purport to oversight people they don’t oversight…" he added. KAZI MTAANI The MPs also questioned the ‘kazi mtaani' programme launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The first phase of Kazi Mtaani started at the end of April as a pilot programme and focused on select informal settlements. Over 31,648 workers from 34 informal settlements have been cushioned from the adverse economic effects associated with Covid-19. The work entailed unclogging drainages, clearing bushes, garbage collection, fumigation and disinfection. Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi asked if there was value in asking the youths to clean drainage systems across the country. "Let’s ask ourselves, is there more value in asking them to clean the drainage systems, or for instance in making school desks or classrooms in schools, now that we require to revamp school in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic?" he posed. "..there is need to rethink the ‘Kazi Mtaani’ program. We need to assess how much value we derive from our youth. Can we engage them in better programs than would derive more value for money?" Limuru MP Peter Mwathi said the programme was introduced in a haste. "I am convinced that the ‘kazi mtaani’ program was either introduced in a hurry or meant to siphon monies by some people. It failed to enrol the most vulnerable youth in the society, as was envisaged," he said.