A ward representative wants the county government and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services to come up with a transfer of staff guideline for seamless delivery of service to city residents. Kilimani Member of the County Assembly Moses Ogeto's notice of motion follows a June High Court ruling that the establishment of the NMS contravened the law. Employment and Labour Relations judge Hellen Wasilwa ruled there was no instrument establishing the NMS  presented in court at the time activist Okiya Omtata filed the petition on April 6. Wasilwa declared the Deed of Transfer of Functions executed between the National Government and Nairobi County Government irregular and gave the government 90 days to rectify the illegality. Ogeto is urging the County Executive and the NMS to develop guidelines on the secondment and/or deployment of officers from the City Hall to the NMS. City Hall, moreso Governor Mike Sonko, and the NMS have been at loggerheads since April when the Public Service Commission seconded 6,052 employees to the new outfit headed by Maj-Gen Mohamed Badi, who reports to the President. Sonko argued that the NMS and PSC have no jurisdiction over county government employees. He accused some National Government "individuals" of pursuing the implementation of the Deed of Transfer of Functions (signed at State House in February) "atrociously and repugnantly". He maintained: “As it stands, the responsibility still remains with the Nairobi County Public Service Board to notify its employees of the purported secondment. The Public Service Commission can only second National Government officers to the Metropolitan Services.” On May 11, President Uhuru Kenyatta, through an Executive Order, placed the NMS under the Executive Office of the President. Under the Deed of Transfer, City Hall handed over the health, transport, planning and development, public works and utilities functions to the National Government. Last week, Omtata accused President Kenyatta of abusing his powers when he created the NMS. He said in court documents that the decision to establish the NMS under the Executive Office of the President was made without reference to Parliament and without the involvement of the city government. He said there is no provision in law for using an executive order to establish a state corporation and asked the court to declare as unlawful the inclusion of the NMS as a department under the Executive Office of the President. However, the dispute between the county and national governments over the Deed of Transfer of functions has since been assigned to the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee for resolution. The assignment follows last month's notice of declaration of dispute by Sonko to Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. In April, Sonko claimed he was hoodwinked into signing the agreement, saying he never saw the draft document before appending his signature. The Constitution's Clause 9.2 on the deed of transfer provides that functions can only revert to the county administration by mutual written consent between the two levels of government. Clause 11.2 requires the two parties to seek amicable solution to any dispute that may arise and in case of a deadlock, the matter is referred to the National and County Governments Coordinating Summit chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  - mwaniki fm