BY ROBERT OMOLLO @robertomollo3 The Homa Bay government will not pay contractors who do shoddy work and will proceed to blacklist perennial offenders, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe has said. Ogwe, who spoke after inspecting projects in Homa Bay West ward in Rangwe constituency on Sunday, asked committees overseeing the implementation of ward development projects not to approve shoddy works for payment. “No payment will be made for any contractor before residents and the committee approve your work. In fact, we’ll blacklist companies prone to doing shoddy works,” Ogwe said. The Homa Bay government has allocated at Sh800 million for the implementation of various projects in all the 40 wards across the county. Each ward was given Sh20 million to undertake at least a water, trade, road, ECDE and health project. Governor Cyprian Awiti argued that the projects would help improve the living standards of residents. Awiti said he wanted the projects done perfectly as they would form part of his legacy after 2022. “I don’t want shoddy work because we all want to benefit from the projects once they are complete. The kind of legacy I will leave also depends on the projects,” Awiti said. However, residents have raised concerns that some contractors were not doing their work to the required standards. They said some were leaving the sites and demanding payment without completion of work. Ogwe who was with MCAs Joash Achieng' (Homa Bay West), Nura Odongo (Kasgunga) and Joan Ogada (Kojwach) inspected the construction of Koduogo dispensary,  Benga market and Koduogo-Kosieke road. “We want residents to take public participation forums seriously because that is where their development opinion agenda is taken and incorporated for implementation,” Ogwe said. Odongo who chairs the county assembly's implementation committee said they will ensure only contractors with a good record are recommended for tenders and payments. “It’s high time the committee helped residents got value for their money,” Odongo said. Ogada and Achieng' urged residents to support the development projects. “Let’s not vandalise any project aimed at improving our lives,” Achieng' said.  Edited by P.O