ODM party leader Raila Odinga has called for a special audit of the country's Covid-19 funds. In a statement on Monday, Raila said no one should be spared if found guilty of misappropriation of the funds. "ODM wants a speedy professional audit that can lead to prosecution instead of a political shouting match that creates more confusion and end up clouding the issues and even covering up for the thieves," he said. "ODM will not defend anyone including members for relatives and friends of its officials found to have benefited from funds and other resources meant for fighting the pandemic." This was after allegations were levelled against the procurement and handling of Covid-19 protective gear by the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa). Raila said ODM never did and never will tolerate corruption in all its manifestation, no matter who is involved. "The government needs to conduct a thorough and urgent audit of all the funds that have been put at the disposal of ministries to fight the pandemic with a view to establishing the facts on usage of such resources," Raila said. "ODM has always advocated this systematic audit of the sale of grand regency hotel and attendant consequences. " Raila said as matters stand, none of the people taking to the podium or social media to condemn theft of funds has any evidence. "The so called condemnations of theft could well be part of a cover up. Our experience in this country is that the best way to bungle and cover up corruption investigations is to have many different voices each with its own version of truth," he said. "We saw that noise with Arror and Kimwarere dam scandal and the NYS among others." Last week, ODM party tore into Deputy President William Ruto over his remarks that he will not be blamed for embezzled Covid-19 funds. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said it was improper for a senior government official like Ruto to go public and state that "at least now nobody will blame me for stealing Covid-19 funds". “This statement suggests that it is okay for the funds to be stolen if he is not to blame, or even more unsettling, it expresses the jealousy of being left out of the gravy train,” Sifuna said. He added that it was wrong for Ruto to make such remarks at a time when he should be helping President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack the whip on corruption cartels within the government. Amani National Congress party (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi urged the President to set up a judicial inquest to probe the alleged theft of Covid-19 funds, adding that loss of money at MoH is a threat to his legacy. Mudavadi said on Sunday that the country may lose the support of the donor community if proper measures are not put in place to act against graft.