The Kakamega government will construct a modern market at Kaburengu junction along the Eldoret-Webuye highway to prevent deaths. On Monday, eight people died on the spot while another died at Webuye Subcounty Hospital after a lorry rammed into roadside traders. Fourteen others suffered injuries. Deputy Governor Philip Kutima said the county will purchase land in the area for a market to accommodate the traders. Selling at the roadside leaves them exposed to dangers and accidents. “We will construct a modern market at Kaburengu to save traders from accidents. This place is an accident hotspot and in most cases, traders are the ones affected,” Kutima said after visiting survivors at the Webuye Subcounty Hospital. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya's administration will also deploy enforcement officers at the centre to ensure no trader sells products at the roadside. “It's unfortunate that we have lost many people at this centre to road accidents. It is time we acted to curb such accidents. I urge traders to cooperate so that when the market is ready, they move to occupy space,” Kutima said. He told area MCA John Ngome (Lwandeti ward) to look for a site for the proposed market. Kutima condoled with the families of those who died and promised that the county government will support them to give a befitting send-off to their loved ones. “We will support the affected families for those who died and those in hospital. I wish to convey our condolences on behalf of the governor who is away on official duties,” he said. Ngome said he will work with the county executive committee to ensure the success of the project. “We will work together to ensure the safety of the traders. We have to relocate all traders to a safe place,” Ngome said. He was addressing traders at the centre in the company of the deputy governor. Kaburengu junction is an accident hotspot that has claimed many lives. In one of the previous accidents, 12 traders died when a driver lost control of his lorry. This prompted the national government to expand the road. A flyover at the junction is still under construction. 