Universities Academic Staff Union has accused varsity heads of exclusion and secrecy in the implementation of the Sh6.6 billion lecturers pay deal. The government offered lecturers the deal as part of the 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement (CBA). However, the union alleges that the implementation is mired in disharmony and confusion. Uasu accuses vice-chancellors of implementing the CBA in a non-transparent manner. In a communique, Secretary-General Constantine Wasonga says implementation has been “characterised by pay distortions, reduced salaries for some academic staff, freezing of promotions, lack of uniformity of pay of staff in same grades among others.” The SG communication comes after a meeting by Uasu national officials University Education PS,  and the Chairperson of the Vice-Chancellors' Committee. Wasonga also accuses public universities bosses of denying some of Uasu members promotions and annual increments. "Based on our discussions the Chairman of Vice Chancellors Committee has agreed to convene the National Implementation Committee (NIC) to monitor,   evaluate and harmonise the implementation of the 2017-2021 CBA," the communique reads. The payout benefits 32,000 staff in 39 public universities. The looming feud will be an unwelcome development as the institutions are preparing to reopen in January following their closure in March to curb the spread of Covid-19. “I’m awaiting data from all the universities before I give the official position of the union. There is total confusion in the way the payment is being implemented. Some are implementing their own things,” Dr Wasonga said by phone. Universities, like other learning institutions, will reopen in January, 2021. The University of Nairobi is unlikely is most affected by the pandemic after 14 members of staff tested positive for Covid-19, and some died. "Nairobi is the most affected part of the country and the university sits right at the centre of the city. It will not be prudent to reopen,"  Vice-Chancellor Stephen Kiama said two weeks ago. The institution had hoped to resume studies in September. Kiama identified inadequate accommodation as top on the list of the drawbacks against the resumption of on-campus activities. He told the Star that the institution can only accommodate 10,000 students against a 60,000 population due to the protocols issued by the government. “This means, 50,000 students live in all other estates within the city and its environs, putting everyone at risk… We also have campuses in Kisumu, Mombasa, Kikuyu,” Kiama said by phone. Another consideration is the advanced age of most academic staff. According to the VC, senior teaching staff are easy targets of the virus as they are well above 50 years.