On Wednesday, March 23, 2016, Kenya battled it out with Guinea Bissau in a tough Group ‘E’ Africa Cup of Nations qualifier at the Estadio 24 de Setembro. That evening, all eyes were trained on the then 22-year-old Kariobangi Sharks midfielder Patilah Omoto, a gifted player whose presence in the line-up sparked controversy, with many local fans opining that he shouldn’t have made the traveling party in the first place, leave alone a slot in the first eleven. Omoto had been handed a maiden starting role by coach Stanley Okumbi ahead of more experienced and popular players like Antony Kimani, David Kingatua and Teddy Akumu and his zealous critics were eager to see him tumble. Speculation was rife that he might have earned a slot in the national team through the back door, largely due to the influence Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa — the Kariobangi Sharks chairman — had on the selection process. Such is a perception that has always made it extremely difficult for Kariobangi Sharks players to fly the national team colours without being subjected to all manner of ridicule and disdain. A section of local fans continue to hold on to the notion that Mwendwa allegedly coerces national team coaches into absorbing Kariobangi Sharks players even when they aren’t good enough to don Harambee Stars’ stripes. Omoto reckons that on that particular day, he was a victim of such circumstances. “I was under intense pressure being in the starting lineup that boasted of big names whom I had never played with before,” says Omoto. “The fans also questioned my credentials, saying that I was included in the team because I belonged to Kariobangi Sharks, a team owned by FKF President Nick Mwendwa. They felt I shouldn’t have been there in the first place.” The match, he says, actually began before he had mustered up enough courage and confidence to be part of the action. He simply couldn’t just concentrate given the negative energy that engulfed him. “I found the going very tough. My name was all over the media. Commentators would always take it upon themselves once in their observations to kick up the debate whether I was on the team out of merit or because of my association with Mwendwa.” Omoto says he literally became the pulp of the grapevine especially after his unconvincing performance in that match. He had given his critics a reason to scream their voices hoarse. “I was trending for a week. I tried all I could to justify my inclusion in the squad but the more I tried the more things fell apart. It wasn’t simply one of my best days. I was left with a broken heart.” “My first touch was a mispass and this disoriented me completely and deflated my self esteem irreparably throughout the remainder of the match, because I kept thinking about what the fans thought of me after the howler,” he rues. Omoto lost focus and was withdrawn after 50 minutes in a game that Kenya lost 1-0. He is, however, certain that he emerged from the ordeal an emotionally emboldened and stronger person. Born on March 2, 1995 in Mulwanda Location, Khwisero in Kakamega County, Omoto is the third born, and the only boy, in a family of four children. He was eight years old when he began learning his football while playing with his agemates on the dusty fields of the sprawling Kariobangi slums in Nairobi’s Eastlands. Coach Milton Kidiga was the man entrusted to mould the young Omoto at African Heroes, a development side that registered their players to participate in the U-12 league of the Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA) organised competition. At that age, he was still struggling to place himself in his exact position on the pitch, always dabbling in different positions. He would on one occasion play as a goalkeeper and on another feature as a defender. Omoto sharpened his skills at Heroes up to the time when he was mature enough to join Sharks. He had worked his way through the ranks of African Heroes, gaining systematic promotion from the U-12 squad, hopping into the U-14 category and eventually adapting well enough to the U-16 demands. He found Sharks participating in the Super Two League under the guidance of coach Robert. “When I joined Sharks, they didn’t have an academy. I was drafted into the senior team as young as I was,” says Omoto. Robert was later replaced as coach by Mwendwa, who acquired the club. He worked alongside Benard Ndolo as his assistant. Even at Sharks, Omoto was still groping about to get a firm hold on his actual position on the field of play as the coaches made him to oscillate between attacking midfielder and a wingback. “I was a midfieder, but most of the time I played as a wingback,” says Omoto. In 2013, he joined Kenyan Premier League side AFC Leopards on loan from Sharks. “AFC Leopards approached Kariobangi Sharks for my services. Former international player Tom Olaba was their coach then,” says Omoto. Despite the giant leap in his career, Omoto’s feet were still too tiny and frail for the gigantic shoes that he was expected to wear at the Den. Quite often, he was warming the bench, hardly earning play time. A groin injury he sustained during a KPL encounter against Tusker FC at City Stadium exacerbated the situation and marked the end of his unfulfilling relationship with Leopards. “I sustained a groin injury while featuring in a KPL match for Leopards. This decreased my chances of being fielded and so Sharks management asked me to consider joining Bandari who had expressed interest in my services,” says Omoto. The setback kept him out of action for a massive three months, even denying him a golden opportunity to fully embrace his first ever national team call-up at Moi Stadium, Kasarani where coach Adel Amrouche had invited him to join the provisional squad ahead of a World Cup qualifier against Nigeria. Although he honoured the invitation, Omoto had to leave the camp barely after four days due to excruciating pain. When Omoto finally recuperated, his handlers decided that he had already endured enough and it was now time for him to vacate the Den because apparently, his potential was being underutilised. As much as he fell short of achieving his aspirations at the Den, he prided himself in the smug feeling that he had bagged the 2013 GOtv Shield Cup with Ingwe after pipping bitter rivals Gor Mahia by a solitary goal in the final. He left in 2014 and found a home at Mbaraki Sports after signing for  Bandari. Even there, he struggled to penetrate into the first team, being as inconsistent with his appearance in the Dockers’ starting lineup just as he was while turning out for Leopards. In 2015, it was time for him to return to his former side, Kariobangi Sharks after a rollercoaster voyage that navigated two seas without nothing much to write home about. When he finally rejoined Sharks, he found them in National Super League with Michael Amenga as head coach and the squad battling it out to amass enough points to earn promotion to the Kenyan Premier League (KPL). “I had enough time to regain form and fitness because I joined Sharks early enough during the preseason,” he says. Omoto says they fought tooth and nail for promotion for a couple of seasons after he returned but in 2017, he was the club’s hero, scoring the all-important goal that propelled them to the topflight league. “It was Sharks up against Nzoia Sugar in a match that was meant to determine if we would secure a slot in the KPL. I had not trained the week prior to the match because I was unwell. I only attended the final training session. God is great. He made me score the crucial goal that won us the match and which also earned us direct promotion to the KPL after finishing second on the log,” Omoto reminisces. Omoto says that his most memorable match was when he turned out for Kariobangi Sharks in their KPL second leg fixture against Mathare United at Kasarani. “We dominated the match, we enjoyed the game and we won,” he says. Conversely, his worst match was against Zoo Kericho at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. “I just didn’t play well. I usually know when I have fallen short of expectations.” Is there any particular team in the KPL that he is usually scared of coming face to face with? “The reality is that I’m usually under intense pressure to perform but I’ve never ever developed cold feet on the eve of a match,” says Omoto. Omoto says he has a lot of respect for Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Austin Odhiambo (AFC Leopards) and Mike Mutinda (KCB). “They are very skillful players who are always a challenge to keep tabs on during matches.” Omoto who has earned 21 U-20 and 18 senior team caps relives the 2018 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup final as his most memorable international assignment. “Picture yourself wearing the national team colours in the final and representing 50 million Kenyans. The stadium is full to the brim with a charged crowd of ardent supporters. You have those who love you and those who hate  you in equal measure. I surely can’t forget the amount of pressure I found myself battling,” he observes. The father of two, Wesley Travis (10) and Mylah Brighly (1½) says his wife Mary Wanjiru has always been a great pillar to him. “She is my biggest fan. She understands the game of football quite well and always critiques my performance,” he jokes. Omoto does not rely on football only to make ends meet but earns more income from a pub and a restaurant he owns.   BIO Name: Patilah Omoto Date of Birth: March 2, 1995 Position: Midfielder  EDUCATION 2001-2007:Marura Primary School 2009-2011:Global Vision Secondary  FOOTBALL 2001-2005: African Heroes 2009-2012: Kariobangi Sharks 2013: AFC Leopards 2014: Bandari FC 2015 to-date: Kariobangi Sharks