Greedy lawmakers are exploiting the Covid-19 pandemic and related work suspensions to demand one-year extensions of their five-year terms, Vihiga's KICC chair has said. And they deserve to go to jail for squandering public resources and demanding more time plunder, said Billy Nyonje, branch chair of the Kenya Chambers of Commerce and Industry. He also told lawmakers to stop trying to amend the Constitution now and then "to fit in your corrupt deals that are ruining Kenya's economy". Njonje commented as some lawmakers are trying to extend their terms by one year, claiming they hadn't been able to do much work and need more time to serve the people. He said MPs must be aware they are only elected for a one term of five years and they are free to seek reelection. “Kenya is a free democratic state where there is no need to extend your leadership via the back door,” Nyonje added. “The monies they have spent during this 'non-work' period should be refunded back to the public for the period not worked before they advocate an extension of one year on their calendar,” he said. “All those allowances, salaries and even travelling expenses must be refunded to the Treasury to be channeled back to their counties to help them grow," the KICC leader said. Covid-19 is a global pandemic and lawmakers should not take advantage of it to waste public resources, he said. He said it's only in Kenya where lawmakers want another term because of the pandemic. Lawmakers in countries worse hit aren't clamouring for more time and oney, he said, citing the US, Italy and even African nations. "Legal actions should be taken against those lawmakers who have been squandering tax payer’s money without working," he said, adding that they should be heavily fined. Nyonje also said Health CS Kagwe should "come clean and expose Covid-19 billionaires." “The Ministry of Health must account for more than Sh100 billion for Covid victims and prevention of the disease," he said. “If we are now robbing the sick, what will bar these people from robbing the dead - where is Kenya headed?" Nyonje asked. Kenyans are struggling for survival yet a few individuals are robbing the ailing economy, he said. (Edited by V. Graham)