Civil servants may have a reason to smile with the onset of the third cycle of job evaluation, which tips them for a pay raise from the next financial year. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) said the new review of the worth of state jobs will cover  2021-22 to 2024-25. The SRC will also carry out a salary survey to collect data which, together with the job grading results, will inform the salary structures for the next review cycle. Chairperson Lyn Mengich in an August 6 circular to all public service institutions and constitutional commissions says the SRC will evaluate new jobs. Jobs identified by state agencies to have significantly changed will also be reviewed, an exercise coming at the height of concerns about unsustainable wages and the pension bill. Mengich, however, gave a rider that the job evaluation could result in the status quo, upgrade or downgrade of jobs; and “does not necessarily result in a salary change”. “The commission envisages that most jobs may not have significantly changed,” Mengich's circular reads. Jobs that were not previously evaluated and new institutions that came into existence after the first job evaluation will be reviewed. “In cases where responsibilities of a new role have been significantly hived-off an existing role, the existing role shall be evaluated together with the new role to reflect the changes,” the SRC guidelines indicate. Some of the newly created entities included the Nairobi Metropolitan Service, which has new postings that did not exist in the county government structure. President Uhuru Kenyatta also recently created the Kenya Transports and Logistics Network by merging Kenya Railways, Kenya Ports Authority, and Kenya Pipeline. The agencies will be coordinated by the Industrial Commercial Development Corporation chaired by former KPC chairman John Ngumi. The merger is expected to stage a staff shake-up of structures, resources, operations, and services at the respective entities. Institutions that did not participate in the previous job evaluation, for various reasons, despite being in existence will also be factored in the review. SRC will also conduct job reviews for instances where organisational restructuring has resulted into new jobs, merger or split of jobs. “The commission shall evaluate the jobs based on the new organisation structure and the corresponding job descriptions,”SRC said. The public service has had a raft of changes among them new job grades; staff working on three-year contracts; and mandatory pension which is set to kick off in January. In the last review, staff in job groups A-D were moved to Job Grade B1; E to B2; F to B3; G to B4; H to B5; J to C1; K to C2; L to C3; M to C4; N to C5. The others are now graded as D1, D2, D3, D4, D5, E1, E2, and E4 with the salaries ranging from Sh11,553 for lowest paid public servant to Sh292,765 for the highest. Application of the grades varies from one institution to another, for instance, at TSC, the jobs start from B5 (P2 teachers) and peaks at D5 – chief principals. County workers recently got a seven per cent pay rise following the implementation of their final phase of salary review. In the current phase, jobs in state agencies where there is change of institutional mandate through the Constitution provisions or an Act of Parliament will also be reviewed. SRC says the review will also factor change in job content, which may have resulted in a significant or permanent change to the job-holders’ duties and responsibilities. This would apply to situations where there has been no consequential organisational change. “This applies equally to a reduction and an increase in the job holders’ duties and responsibilities,” SRC guidelines read. On this, the commission says increased managerial responsibilities that may lead to higher scope, complexity and change of terms may warrant evaluation. “Change in academic and professional qualifications without corresponding change on other compensable factors does not warrant evaluation of a role.” The TSRC will this month meet chief executive officers of various state entities and heads of human resource for engagements on the process. Government agencies will be required to form Job Description Analysis Committee by October 2; same time having assessed jobs to be evaluated. The results of the evaluation are expected to be communicated by end of May next year to pave way for implementation of the new structure, and corresponding pay. An insignificant increase or decrease in volume of work; change of processes; minor duties; temporary assignments; and voluntary duties will not be basis for evaluation. The SRC conducted the first evaluation in 2012 covering state officers and independent offices; and a further one between 2015 and 2017 whose results have been implemented.