Nurses have expressed concern over the level of preparedness by county governments to handle Covid-19 amid the rising cases of infections among frontline health workers. The National Nurses Association of Kenya has demanded that both the national and county governments ensure that healthcare workers are provided with adequate and quality personal protective equipment. So far, three nurses have died from Covid-19, the latest being a 32-year-old nurse from Rachuonyo County Hospital. Marian Awuor died on Sunday evening from Covid-19 complications leaving behind a baby boy who is slightly over a week old. The nurse was admitted at Homa Bay County Hospital with flu-like symptoms in pregnancy, where she tested negative for the virus a week ago. She developed breathing complications and was transferred to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital where another test was done and the result was positive. “We have lost another comrade who has left behind a child who will never meet his mother and this is very unfortunate to the medical fraternity,” union’s president Alfred Obengo said. Others are Clifford Manyara Mburia, a 58-year-old anaesthetist who worked at Kitengela Medical Centre and Moses Gitonga Ringera, a 49-year-old Clinical Nurse at the University of Nairobi Clinic. “We have realised that county governments are not prepared to handle Covid-19. Our demands are still not met and what we need is action and fewer words for the benefit of our healthcare workers and our people,” Obengo said. Eight healthcare workers have succumbed to the virus, with more than 600 getting exposed. “We soon wake up one day to find no one to take care of our brothers and sisters in our healthcare facilities,” Obengo added. The association further demands proper training on managing Covid-19, adequate psychosocial support and employment of more healthcare workers in all the 47 counties. They also want payment of healthcare workers' allowances to be done in time and enhanced risk allowance and special insurance support. “We should never put nurses and other health professionals in a situation where they are more worried about their health and the future of their siblings in case something adverse happens to them in their line of duty. Health workers should never beg for this if we are serious in their welfare and combating this disease.” Health CAS Rashid Aman on Monday said the government has taken all the necessary action to give frontline healthcare workers an environment where they feel safe and protected from the virus. He further noted that PPE have been provided to all healthcare workers and all frontline workers who are at risk of being infected. “We place very high premiums on our healthcare workers because without them we may not have a response to this pandemic,” the CAS said. He, however, acknowledged that there could be PPE that could be substandard being provided through other sources, adding that the government is vigilant in making sure that the health products and technologies in use meet regulatory requirements and standards so that they are safe and protect those who are using it. “The PPE that are being provided and procured have been subjected to various tests and standards and have been tested by Kebs and other institutions to ensure the protection of those who are using them.” Edited by R.Wamochie