Amani National Congress MPs have lauded former secretary general Barrack Muluka for the service he rendered to the party. Muluka tendered his resignation letter to the party leader Musalia Mudavadi on Wednesday after three years as secretary general. In a statement, the legislators appreciated Muluka for his "selfless contribution and leadership" within the party. “For almost three years that Muluka has headed the ANC secretariat, the party has made very significant strides. He has been a strong and dependable pillar to our Party Leader Wycliffe Musalia Mudavadi and the entire ANC fraternity. We appreciate his contribution.” The members also described Muluka as a "seasoned, hardworking, and visionary leader who is recognised as a fierce defender of democracy, transparency, the rule of law and human rights". They said that his strong engagement in national public debates has placed the party on the national political map. “His unwavering promotion of the party's principles and ideals were unmistakable. We wish him well in his new political endeavours and other personal interests.” They further assured the party supporters across the country that the party remains strong and focused on propelling Mudavadi to the presidency during the 2022 General Election. “ANC will continue to spread its wings in all parts of the country and seek partners and allies in the countdown to the next State House race.” They added that the party leadership will provide direction on the next step within the coming days in line with the party constitution and rules. The MPs who jointly issued the statement include Ayub Savula (Lugari), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga), Ernest Kagesi (Vihiga), Justus Murunga (Matungu) and Oku Kaunya of Teso North. Musalia had also thanked Muluka for his work while serving as the SG, saying that he served the party through the defining and intractable moments. In a letter addressed to the party leader, Muluka said ANC needs a fresh start ahead of 2022 polls. "I doubt that I could add more value to what I have done so far. Moreover, it is now fitting that the space around you should be decongested. This will allow you to make critical decisions on the population and leadership of the party under the new constitution," Muluka said. Muluka said his resignation will ease Mudavadi's making of personal political choices in the lead up to the 2022 elections.