After spending the last four years in the National Super League, former Nairobi Stima captain Joseph Shikokoti may be on his way back to the top flight. The towering defender and his Stima team-mates were served with a shocker after their employer terminated their contracts last month, thanks to the exit of their shirt sponsor Kenya Power and Lighting Company, rendering them free agents. Despite the setback, Stima's chairman Jonstone Sakwa maintains that the club will not switch off. Instead, he said he will roll his sleeves and look for another sponsor to fill in the void left by the parastatal. Shikokoti revealed that two clubs, who ply their trade in the elite league, had approached him for his services courtesy of his experience. Prior to joining Stima,the former Harambee Stars centre half, had featured for another second tier outfit, Ushuru for six months. He said his next move will be determined by playing time and player welfare “Two top flight clubs have tabled bids and I expect more both in the NSL and top league clubs. I am ready to play in any of the leagues and even win titles. I am approaching my sunset days and I have to make a wise decision even if it means to remain in the second tier," said the former Yanga player. He added: "Football is business and a full time job and before deciding my next home, I have to ensure they take player welfare with the seriousness it deserves. Most of the clubs are struggling and can't guarantee players good lives,”he said. Meanwhile, the former Tusker man picked his friends to thank for their support at the eleventh hour. The player found himself at crossroads last month after losing his mother and days later, he was swept by the purge which hit the club. He said the club and teammates deserted him when he needed them most but does not harbour hard feelings towards them. “The club abandoned me at the hour of need despite serving them for all those years. Only one player stood with me at the darkest moment of my life. We had a policy where we would stand with one of us when in need but when my turn came, I got no support although I have no hard feelings. I sincerely thank friends who came to rescue. I am looking forward to return to the pitch and play for as long as I a fully fit,” added the former AFC Leopards player.