A proprietor of a private school in Witeithie ward, Juja subcounty, is living from hand to mouth as Covid-19 continues to ravage most sectors in the country. George Mwangi, the director of St Georges Cornerstone School, has been forced to start hawking sweets in Witeithie to get little money to buy food. He makes between Sh100 and Sh200 a day. The situation is so bad that he cannot support his wife and children. He was forced to send his family to live with a relative in Nyeri after they were thrown out of the rental house they were living in. Mwangi now lives in his school office. Mwangi on Monday told journalists that he started the institution in 2015 with an aim of helping children from vulnerable families in the area to access secondary education. At the time, there was no other secondary school in the area except Mang’u High School. Most residents living in the sprawling estate, who are low income earners, could not afford to take their children to secondary school. Before President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered closure of schools to curb the coronavirus spread on March 15, the school had 148 students. Mwangi said the school has been supporting students with uniforms and also created a policy where parents who are unable to raise school fees for their children could pay in kind. “Most parents living here are casual labourers and miners in quarries. Many are the times that they are financially incapacitated and cannot pay school fees but we have a policy whereby they can provide labour to the school to settle fees or those working in quarries can bring building bricks or ballast,” he said. The 38-year-old father of three, who was born with a condition called clubfoot, said that after schools were closed, he could not sustain his seven teachers. Most of them left for their rural homes while others secured jobs at construction sites in the area. “I witnessed all of them being kicked out of their homes. It was a sad moment. Some of them have already moved on and are working in construction sites and others are in small-scale farming in their rural homes,” he said. Mwangi said he was also thrown out of his rented house in Witeithie as he was unable to pay rent. His wife, who was also a teacher in a private school, was also rendered jobless by the pandemic. “I started a shop but the small business failed to pick and I closed it  after two months. I had to send my wife and our children to live with her sister in Nyeri because life here was becoming unbearable,” he said. Mwangi said he hawks sweets that he had stocked in his shop to earn a living. “I’m unable to feed my family but I occasionally send them Sh200 or less which cannot sustain them. I live from hand to mouth,” he said. Parents who spoke to journalists said the school was a godsend to the area. They said their children used to trek for kilometres to secondary schools in Thika and Juja. Regina Wambui said her three children are students at the school. “Our children used to end their learning after primary school. There was no secondary school affordable to us around. We pray that the pandemic ends and schools reopen so that our kids can continue with their studies,” she said. Mwangi urged the government to support private schools since they have been severely affected by the pandemic and some are at risk of closing permanently. Earlier this month the Ministry of Education announced that it was planning to give private schools concessional  loans to cushion them against the effects of Covid-19. Education CS George Magoha said the government would provide Sh7 billion in concessional  loans to bail out the struggling private schools. Edited by A.N