The hopes of unlocking the contentious revenue-sharing formula deadlocked in the Senate now rests in the hands of a 12-member team. The team faces a delicate balancing act to pore through many amendments being fronted on the Finance and Budget Committee's report on the formula. The panel will burn the midnight oil to deliver a consensus report that would receive a unanimous vote in the Senate next week as senators seek to close ranks. The mediation panel formed late on Monday night after a day of drama in the Senate held its inaugural meeting on Tuesday to set the ground rules ahead of their marathon sittings. Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye and Parliamentary Budget Office head Martin Masinde were directed to personally lead the technical support to the consensus-building team. There were initially claims that some of the amendments being pushed lacked the necessary technical simulations from the twin offices in what posed a danger over arbitrary figures. The committee, which will be co-chaired by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula and his Nairobi counterpart Johnson Sakaja, is expected to work apolitically to resolve the standoff. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka had initially ruled for a 10-man team to be formed to unlock the stalemate three weeks ago but some senators christened 'Team Kenya' rejected the mediation bid. Monday's formation of the committee exposed the senators' rare unity to resolve the controversial matter after three of their colleagues were on Monday arrested hours to the debate. Steve Lelegwe (Samburu), Christopher Langat (Bomet) and Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) were nabbed by detectives on Monday after a long night of police siege at their Nairobi homes. “We are going down to sit together without taking into account any form of affiliations so that we can finally resolve the matter,” Nakuru's Susan Kihika told the Star. The protracted standoff, she said, was taking a dangerous path that would divide the country instead of uniting it. “The Senate now has the goodwill across the board to rally Kenyans together and take the country forward,” she said. The Star has established that the committee resolved to consult individual members proposing amendments as well as the CRA and other technical experts before drawing a final formula. They will also reach out to key political players through the House leadership to build consensus ahead of the elusive vote. Siaya Senator Jame Orengo said the committee's report will be tabled at a kamukunji -an informal sitting - chaired by the speaker before it is tabled on the floor or the House. The Finance committee's formula has already been amended by the Sakaja and Meru Senator Mithika Linturi's amendments. Nominated Senator Petronilla Were had further amendments which were due for debate in the Senate before a deal was struck to form the mediation panel. The government leaning side is said to be backing Were's amendments. The amendments propose that the status quo remains and that the CRA formula to be rolled out when the equitable shareable revenue is raised to Sh348 billion. The current allocation is set at Sh316.5 billion. Members of the committee include Mohammed Mahamud (Mandera), Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni). Others are Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherararkey (Nandi), Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Anuar Loitiptip (Lamu), Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), John Nderitu (Laikipia) and Ledama Ole Kina (Narok). The committee would, however, be confronted by hardline positions after it emerged that ODM kicked a fight with Wiper. ODM secretary of political affairs and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said Mutula, the minority whip, had gone against the position taken by the party. “How can persons who hold leadership positions in the Senate blatantly contradict the party position on a matter as critical as this? Isn't this an abuse of privilege? Freedoms have limits. This has to be revisited,” Wandayi wrote on Twitter. Edited by R.Wamochie