Cotu boss Francis Atwoli's weekend endorsement of ODM leader Raila Odinga for president in 2022 should be treated as a personal statement, two MPs have said. Enoch Kibunguchy (Likuyani) and Titus Khamala (Lurambi) said Atwoli does not speak for the Luhya nation and that his statements should not be mistaken for the position of the Western people. Kibunguchy said the Luhya community will rally behind ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi or his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula who have both declared their interests to run for president in 2022. "As the Luhya community, we have supported Raila three times without any tangible achievements and this time we have decided that we will vote as a bloc for either Mudavadi or Wetang'ula,” Kibunguchy said. He spoke to the Star in his office in Likuyani on Wednesday. On Sunday, Atwoli said he will support Raila's bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The endorsement of the former Prime Minister had been made by Jubilee Party vice-chairman David Murathe before Atwoli supported it. Atwoli who spoke after hosting Murathe at his Kajiado home said Raila deserves a reward for the sacrifices he has made for the country, saying the ODM leader is the only person who can unite Kenyans. However, Kibunguchy said Raila has shortchanged the Luhya community on several occasions and cannot be trusted. "We now know that the handshake had nothing to do with Kenyans but a route to the presidency for Raila. We have worked with him before and said enough is enough. In 2017, the slogan was Jubilee tawe (no Jubilee), we are saying Raila tawe (no to Raila) in 2022," Kibunguchy said. Khamala said Kenyans shed blood for the second liberation and that wananchi will not cede their democratic rights to a handful of people to coerce them into electing a specific person. "We're simply saying that the fifth president of this country will be elected by Kenyans and not decided by one or a few individuals,” Khamala said. He accused Atwoli of serving the interests of outsiders and not those of the Luhya community. On May 29, the veteran unionist hosted more than 40 Luhya elected leaders including MPs, senators and governors at his home in Kajiado. The meeting endorsed Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa as the Luhya spokespersons to market the handshake and champion development in the region. Two weeks ago, Atwoli led Oparanya, Eugene and Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala to visit Kanu chairman Gideon Moi at his Kabarak home and promised to work with the Baringo senator ahead of 2022. Atwoli, Oparanya and Wamalwa have been accused of working against Luhya unity by a section of leaders who support either Deputy President William Ruto, Mudavadi or Wetang'ula.  Edited by P.O