We have been using emojis on WhatsApp to express ourselves but with the new update that is coming to the app, we will now be able to express ourselves much easier with Stickers. Stickers are small cartoon images that you can insert into WhatsApp conversation as a change from plain old emojis. It comes with several packs of stickers by the same artistes and you can download extra ones to add more variety. Finding a sticker is usually a challenge when you have grabbed some extras since you can only browse by pack. For instance, if you are looking for a congratulations sticker you might have to scroll through dozens of others to find the one that suits you. This is about to change with the addition of tabs that will gather stickers that are related to a particular feeling. This new feature was discovered by the keen-eyed experts, who specialize in trawling through the install files on WhatsApp beta releases for hints about future updates. Few months ago, WhatsApp introduced animated stickers to liven up one’s chats, encouraging users to download additional packs, so the ability to search and filter by mood would be a real boost. The tabs for stickers is still in development and are not yet available to test and they will be introduced alongside the Sticker search tool that was hinted in November that will make cartoon images as easy to find as emojis. The only option we have now is to download the New Stickers for WhatsApp app from Google Play Store to get stickers. It is a large collection of emoji HD Stickers. It contains all varieties of cartoon stickers tidying altered types. It is cool to stake on the social network as it has emotion emotive couple chat stickers and more than 200 exclusive free stickers. Some people are tired of distribution of funny meme pictures but with theWhatsApp stickers app, it lets you prompt automatically and your spirits are in the right direction with altered dank meme Stickers. Some of the features that the New Stickers for WhatsApp have are include the best collection of emojis and free stickers available anywhere, pretty variety of emoticons to add and absorbing the quality of gifted day stickers. It also had an exclusive collection of love stickers, chat stickers to describe your love, beautiful and awesome couple chat stickers and free download sticker app and you can add in your social media app.