President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday made a haste retreat and rescinded far-reaching changes at the Ministry of Health which had technically demoted PS Susan Mochache. Uhuru had effected administrative and structural changes at the graft-ridden Afya House ministry splitting the PS dockets into two. In what was seen as a plan to whittle down Mochache's influence at the ministry, Uhuru had appointed Industrialisation Principal Secretary Francis Owino as PS for Public Health. Owino’s position was to be taken over by  Johnson Weru, formerly Kenya’s ambassador to Belgium. Peter Kinuthia Thuku had also been appointed as the Principal Administrative Secretary in the ministry, in radical changes meant to address graft allegations at the ministry. In the changes made before the President recalled them, Mochache was moved and appointed PS for Medical Services, technically knocking her off from direct management of funds meant to fight coronavirus. In a press release issued earlier, the President had ordered that the changes take effect immediately. However, an hour later, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena sent out a statement saying the head of state had recalled the changes. “We would like to retract an earlier communication on the management changes at the Ministry of Health and that of Trade. Fresh communication on the subject matter will be issued in due course,” she said. The Health ministry, which is the parent ministry under which the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency operates, is battling graft claims amid allegations of loss of billions of Covid-19 funds. Kemsa has been accused of being the gravy train by purchasing Covid-19 supplies at inflated prices from firms said to be associated with influential people within the political circles. Uhuru has been under pressure to crack the whip at Afya House and Kemsa to demonstrate his resolve to fight graft, and his changes were initially seen in that context. But the recall of Owino who was due to take over from Mochache as the ministry's accounting officer triggered confusion at Afya House, with analysts saying the recall could have been made to await an elaborate overhaul. Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari is among the three top officials suspended to allow a probe into the agency's procurement of virus supplies. Procurement director Charles Juma and his Commercial counterpart Eliud Muriithi are being investigated in relation to, among others, a controversial Sh7.7 billion tender for the emergency procurement of Covid-19 Personal Protective Equipment. Edited by R.Wamochie