All mothers are encouraged to initiate breastfeeding within the first hour of life and exclusively breastfeed for the first six months rather than use breast milk substitutes. According to Unicef, not only is formula harder for babies to digest, the water used to prepare it may be contaminated and can cause disease. For infants who are less than six months of age, breast milk is all they need for nutrition. Dr Yaron Wolman, chief of health at Unicef Kenya, further says that increasing breastfeeding to near-universal levels could save more than 800,000 lives every year across the world, the majority being children under six months of age. In addition, nearly half of all diarrheal diseases and a significant part of all respiratory and ear infections could be prevented with increased rates of breastfeeding. “With this evidence, it is clear that support of breastfeeding is indeed crucial for the survival and optimal development of children,” Wolman said. Wolman also recommends that women breastfeed their children for two years or beyond, complementing breast milk after six months with other safe and nutritious foods. He, however, noted that Kenya should do more to protect healthcare workers from the influence of the baby food industry through stronger enforcement of the Breast Milk Substitutes Act, 2012. “It is critical that children and women (and communities) are able to go to and get quality health services such as ante-natal care, safe delivery, immunisation, treatment for acute malnutrition and common childhood illnesses.” He noted that Kenya is progressing well overall in child health and nutrition, adding that the progress should not be unravelled because of Covid-19. According to the World Health Organisation, a small number of health conditions of the infant or the mother may justify recommending that she does not breastfeed temporarily or permanently. Whenever stopping breastfeeding, the decision should be weighed against the risks posed by the presence of the specific conditions listed.