Let's be honest to ourselves, the world has changed since the pandemic hit the globe. Things are now being done virtually with many people putting off meeting physically to reduce the spread of the disease that has now claimed over 400 lives in Kenya. With the advent of information overload, many people or businesses have resorted to podcasts, something that has become  popularly used. In most cases, podcasts were done in studios or the people recording could look for a very quiet room and sit side by side to record the podcast while discussing topical issues. But then this changed drastically, as people and businesses also resorted to carrying out virtual podcasts and businesses. Recording a podcast in the same location will always yield the best audio quality and conversational chemistry. But the technology is so good these days you can still put together a professional sounding podcast. So, for this to be possible, you need to broaden your horizons and make your show truly location independent. You can record using Zoom, Skype, Facetime among others as long as you will get good quality sounds wherever you and your guest is. You can also use applications that you download on google play such as Anchor. Logistics Remote interviews require a few extra logistics and additional coordination to keep the conversation smooth for you and your guest. When you’re setting up the interview with your guest on email, text, or social, try to keep communication as clear and organised as possible. In your initial outreach, be sure to mention who you are, why the guest would be a great fit for your show, and what you plan to interview them about. Use language that you and your guest are comfortable with, be concise about what you want, and be polite. Time Find a time that works for both of you the same way you get in touch during the actual interview — down to the details of who will call who on which platform. When it comes to the actual recording process, Anchor’s Record With Friends feature is designed to make interviews easier for hosts and guests alike. When you’re ready to record your interview, open up the Anchor app and invite people to join your conversation. This will depend on how many people you want to join the conversation at hand. Guests can easily join your recording from any device on the web or mobile by clicking the invitation link and typing in their name — they don’t even need an Anchor account or app to get started. Research You are required to do some background work and practice your conversation. If you don’t know your guest well already, take some time to research their work and their background so that you’re prepped and ready when it’s time to hit record. Think about what you want to get out of the interview and how the conversation might enrich or entertain your listeners.. Wear headphones Wearing headphones or earphones while you record your podcast allows you to monitor your volume levels and hear sounds your mic is picking up. The last thing you want is to record an interview and end up with audio that isn't usable. Quiet room A home "studio" doesn't have to cost a lot of money, and a few tweaks to your space will go a long way toward making a good impression on your listeners. You should choose a quiet, small, carpeted room to record (closets work great if you're alone!). You can also apply DIY acoustic treatments to your space to help dampen reverb and optimise your sound quality.