Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene in the revenue allocation bill that has flopped in the Senate. He urged the president to offer direction to the Senate, saying the county governments are almost broke. "We are asking our President to come in to rescue counties before senators go back for debate. We do not want to hear the bill has flopped again," Kimemia said. He said the county governments need to pay their workers, improve roads and hospitals at a time when the country is fighting the coronavirus. "We have used monies and we cannot do projects without money. Actually, we are heading for a financial crisis," the county chief said. He noted that senators have politicised the 'one man, one vote, one shilling' formula and are not sensitive on the issue. "The one man, one vote, one shilling formula for revenue allocation was the best for this country since counties will get what they deserve, and it will show some fruits of devolution," Kimemia said. "On top, the counties in marginalised regions will be receiving equalisation funds, to enable them to grow just like the others. No county will feel left behind." Kimemia, who is also the chairman of Mt Kenya governors, asked senators not to waste too much time if they really need to support the development and welfare of Kenyans. He was speaking on Friday at the burial of his cousin Rosemary Njoki in Nyambare village, Lari subcounty, Kiambu. He was accompanied by executives Mary Mugwanja (Finance), Stephen Mwaura (Education), Magumu MCA Hussein chief of staff Ndung'u and Charles Wachira, among other county officials. Also present was Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Thiong'o wa Gitau, who asked people to pray for the country as leaders struggle to implement development projects. He appealed to elected leaders to support President Kenyatta to realise his legacy projects. "Let us avoid politicising issues that can support this country grow like the revenue allocation formula,” Thiong'o said. He urged people to live peacefully and observe instructions given by the Ministry of Health to reduce the spread of Covid-19.