With Gor Mahia chairman (Ambrose Rachier) and secretary general (Sam Ocholla) already having secured their positions unopposed for the next four years, the long awaited elections kick off tomorrow without  the usual excitement. The Electoral Board chairman, Henry Ogoye, confirmed on the club’s official portal that voting will start at 10am and the process will take one hour with winners set to be announced almost immediately. “Everything is set for Saturday and voting will start at exactly 10am. It will run for one hour and we will announce the winners say within 10 minutes after closing the process,” noted Ogoye. “All the candidates have been briefed on what’s on and they are in the picture of what the process entails and the general aspects on how we will conduct it. We are all in agreement and we hope all will go as planned,” the board chairman added. With the process set to be done electronically, all eligible voters will be presented with a unique voting code and a link to get through to the voting platform. “The electronic voting system is in place and all voters will have their unique voting codes, where ID numbers will serve as the unique digits to avoid any sort of malpractice.’’ With the two slots already sealed unopposed and two posts to be contested as per the new club’s law, Gor fans will go to the online polls to elect vice chairman and treasurer. Rachier has been at the helm of K’Ogalo leadership for the last 10 years, winning three elections. His greatest achievement in stamping authority has been the club’s dominance of the league and regular continental appearances. Gor Mahia has won seven KPL titles, five Super Cup titles and two Top 8 cups among other domestic crowns. With a lean office and a plan to set-up a functional secretariat, Rachier promises K’Ogalo followers to do things differently. The outgoing office had 11 executive committee members. Sally Bolo, the outgoing treasurer will vie for the vice chairperson seat against Francis Wasuna while Chrispine Okoth and Dolfina Onduto will vie for the treasurer’s post. Elsewhere, the transfer window for the 2020/2021 season will be opened on Monday to November 9, according to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) officials