A Senate watchdog committee on Tuesday summoned Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria over audit queries. The County Public Accounts and Investments Committee issued the summons after the governor snubbed an invitation to respond to the queries. Chairman Sam Ongeri (Kisii) ordered wa Iria to present himself before the panel on September 11 or else he will be severely sanctioned. The governor had written to the senators saying he was ready for a virtual meeting. “As you are aware, Murang’a County Government Executive has prepared adequately or a virtual appearance and presentation of our audited accounts today, August 11. “We therefore await your communication on the mode and link to facilitate the virtual deliberations,” wa Iria said in the letter signed by Murang’a Finance executive David Waweru. The governor said he was cognisant of the various advisories on Covid-19 prevention and control and subsequent health protocols issued by the Ministry of Health, Head of Public Service and National Security Council regarding physical meetings by senior public servants. But it was not the first time the governor was snubbing the committee. Last year, the committee, then chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang', had to compel him to show up. When he finally appeared, the session was full of drama, with Kajwang' at some point ruling him out of order. Late last month, Speaker Kenneth Lusaka ordered that all physical committee meetings be suspended by a month to contain the pandemic said to have been spreading fast in Parliament. “We had a liaison committee meeting, which has all the chairpersons of committees, and agreed that all meetings should be held virtually,” Lusaka told the Star on August 1. The order came days after the Council of Governors wrote to the Speaker calling for virtual meetings to protect governors, most of them in the vulnerable age bracket. "We call upon the Speaker of the Senate to emulate the example of the National Assembly, which has since dispensed with physical appearance. I urge all the governors to appear virtually as their health comes first,” CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) said. The Speaker told the Star that the governors’ appeal had merit as some of the county chiefs were either in the vulnerable age group or had other medical conditions. “After one month, we will review and CPAIC will handle each case on its own merit. Those (governors) who request virtual meetings we will allow them,” Lusaka said.  - mwaniki fm