Parents in Taita Taveta have been advised to closely monitor their children’s daily routines and keep them engaged in life skills activities to curb rising cases of drugs abuse. The number of young people engaging in vice has risen owing to prolonged school closure due to the coronavirus. Taita Taveta Senator Johnes Mwaruma said the future of most children might be ruined by drugs if not monitored. "In this period when most of our youth haven't been in educational centres for a long while, it's very easy for them to engage in vices like drug abuse and early pregnancy,” Mwaruma said. "If they are not engaged wisely... we might end up in a very awkward position in the coming periods within our community." He appealed to parents to fully take responsibility for taking care of and educating their children until schools are opened. The lawmaker has launched an initiative to reach out to youth groups engaging in sports across the county as a way of empowering them in the fight against drugs and substance abuse. “The initiative targets the vulnerable youth through common sports, which they are passionate about, to keep them engaged. In so doing, both girls and boys are safer,” he added. The county has been facing increasing cases of sexual assault and gender-based violence. Young girls and old women are the worst hit. Most victims, however, do not get justice because of lack of evidence or pressure from family members to drop the case. The area is also in the spotlight over the rising number of early marriages and female genital mutilation. Dorcas Gibran, the Coast region Sauti ya Wanawake chairperson, urged the government to roll out national civic education on teen pregnancy, noting that the increasing number is posing a threat to the future of girls. She said children had taken advantage of the prolonged holiday to engage in early sex, further resulting in early marriages and unwanted pregnancies. “It is clear that most parents have failed in bringing up their children. Let the government intervene by rolling out a programme that can sensitise girls on dangers of early sex,” Gibran told the Star. She revealed that cases of incest are rife in the county and blamed the problem on uninvolved or neglectful parenting. “Children have been left at home without supervision by an adult and they are now engaging in sex with siblings. It is a sad reality that parents should talk about,” she observed. 