A court has freed a Bungoma human rights activist and exempted him from the curfew so that he can travel to attend the hearing of his impeachment petition against Governor Wycliffe Wangamati. Barasa Nyukuri's petition for the removal of Wangamati is pending in the county assembly and he was scheduled to appear before a committee on Tuesday. Kibera senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki released the activist on the grounds that there was no sufficient evidence to detain him. Police constable Peter Orwa had requested the court to grant him 15 more days to detain Nyukuri so that he completes his investigations. The activist had been linked to the theft of documents from the county government. Police said they would prefer theft charges against him after the 15 days. “I request the honourable court to grant us 15 more days to complete our investigations as we need to do a search his houses so that we obtain calls data on the applicant's phone,” he said. The officer told court that the activist was in a position to temper with the evidence if released before they completed collecting critical information. But through his defense lawyers led by Lempaa Suyianka, Nyakuru told the court  that his arrest was politically motivated as he was pushing an impeachment petition against Wangamati in the Bungoma county assembly. “My client has been arrested because of political reasons and I urge this court to grant him a free bond and quash the application,” Suyianka said. The lawyer told court that the accused person was arrested in Bungoma and was brought to Kilimani police station before his arraignment in a Kibera law court on Monday. Suyianka asked the court to allow Nyakuru to travel back to Bungoma by exempting him from the curfew. "I urge this court to make an order exempting my client from curfew so that he can go to Bungoma and execute his political right," the lawyer added. Magistrate Mwaniki ruled that the court could not interfere with the political freedom of citizens. “The disclosure that the suspect is due to move a motion in the Bungoma county assembly is important. The court cannot be seen to fetter the respondent's right  to exercise this democratic duty. He will avail himself to the investigators  should his presence be required. He has pleaded to cooperate in the investigations,” the magistrate said. He dismissed the police application and ordered the matter to proceed on September 24. The magistrate also ruled that the accused was free to travel overnight to Bungoma. “For these reasons, I find the application is without merit. I hereby disallow it. I direct that the accused person be released forthwith on free bond. He shall, however, report to the investigating officer applicant on August 24. Edited by Henry Makori