The number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kenya has hit the 33,000 mark after 213 new infections were confirmed on Wednesday. The caseload stands at 33,016. The new cases were from 4,017 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests  since the first case was recorded is 433,530. The youngest is eight month old, the oldest 92 years. All are Kenyans, except for six,comprising 139 men and 74 women. The government expressed alarm over the spread of the virus to counties and rural areas where people had thought they would be safe, or safer than in cities. “While our determination to manage the spread of this pandemic in cities like Nairobi and Mombasa has started to pay dividends, the crisis has, however, begun to percolate to the counties,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said in his address to the nation. He said it's necessary  to increase the pace of expanding health infrastructure in the counties to meet the gradual shift of the virus to counties. “Whereas there is no doubt, a notable expansion of the health sector infrastructure has taken place in the counties, more needs to be done," the President said. Nevertheless, 241 more people recovered from the virus, 124 from home-based care while 117 were discharged from hospitals. This brings the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered to 19,296. Five more patients succumbed to the virus, raising the total fatalities to 564. Nairobi continues to lead after recording 101 new cases, followed by Mombasa with 19 cases, Busia with 17, Kiambu 12, Machakos eight, Kajiado seven, Kericho six, Isiolo and Meru five and Bomet four. Samburu, Bungoma, Kilifi, Kirinyaga and Kisii all recorded three cases each; Kisumu, Murang’a, Lamu, Nakuru and Makueni recorded two each, while Kwale, Tana River and Uasin Gishu recorded one case each. Lang’ata leads in the number of Nairobi infections with 24 cases, Westlands 12, Dagoretti North nine, Starehe six, Embakasi East, Embakasi West and Kamukunji have five cases each. Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi North, Embakasi South, Mathare and Ruaraka had four cases each with Kasarani, Kibra, Makadara and Roysambu recording two cases each. In Mombasa, Nyali recorded seven, Mvita six, Jomvu three, Likoni two and Kisauni one case. Edited by R.Wamochie