A Coast political operative is up in arms against his rivals for allegedly micro-managing Deputy President William Ruto’s tour of Mombasa last week. He is said to have threatened a local politician, accusing him of scheming to block him from the DP. There are indications that the DP, who hitherto has been in good books with the operative, has decided to shun him in preference for other people. The man was blocked by security officers from accessing the DP at his private residence. Bitter and feeling shortchanged, the operative is said to be plotting to cross over to opposition chief Raila Odinga's camp in a matter of weeks. A vocal chief executive officer in a troubled relationship with his line Cabinet Secretary is said to be in trouble as anti-graft detectives are reportedly on his trail. The man had been fingered by the CS for earning illegal salaries, a matter that was escalated to the State Corporations Advisory Committee (SCAC) and the head of civil service. It’s said the man is eyeing politics and has started flitting with the political elite. It is not clear whether he will get to 2022 as his state corporation is rocked by internal disquiet over his iron-fist management style. Reportedly, the CEO has a fleet of cars and is driven in a convoy. It was Warren Buffet who said it takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. Those who uphold that view do things differently. Not so a first-term Nyanza MP who is openly disgracing himself with his voters' wives. The MP, who does not discriminate between the young and the old, uses his power and might to snatch the wives of his close handlers and residents for sleeping with. This has pissed off the electorate who have vowed to send him home with or without the ODM ticket come 2022. One recent evening, the legislator shocked the electorate by storming the home of a woman, confusing residents with handouts before eloping with the woman. A first term MCA in a Coast county has gone into hiding. Reason? He is being sought by a tycoon who he allegedly fleeced of Sh5 million. He is said to have collected the cash from the businessman to midwife talks with a governor for a business deal. Two months after taking the cash at a Mombasa hotel, the ward rep has gone quiet and has not been reachable on phone. The tycoon is said to have hired police offices to trail the MCA from his hideout in a nearby county.  - mwaniki fm