Some financially troubled institutions may be forced to close because of the economic effects of the coronavirus. Some cannot afford to put all required safety measures in place, including student and staff testing. Because of the pandemic, many students cannot afford to attend college and universities and may not want to attend because of crowding. Academic staff too are wary. Insiders said that in July vice chancellors warned about increased financial stress in public universities that already are broke. For at least five years, colleges and universities have been grappling with declining student enrolment and reduced allocations. Being autonomous, universities are required to meet the standards for institutions to operate with all anti-Covid-19 protocols in place. University bosses complain they have to assume extra responsibilities without receiving additional allocations to meet their new health obligations. With a budget maintained at Sh96 billion, the universities heads say the additional financial burden of Covid-19 could lead to ultimate shuttering. The University Education PS and Treasury officials are to meet university bosses and stakeholders next week to discuss the problem. However, sources have told the Star that Education CS George Magoha has asked varsity bosses to first work with the funds they have. The government has withdrawn an earlier plan to have colleges and universities reopen in September and aims for January at the earliest. In July, Magoha issued a statement saying no university had met the health requirements for reopening. Dozens of universities nationwide started 2020 in financial straits. David Some, former CEO of the Commission for University Education, said many colleges that have been on the verge of collapse for years, continue struggling to survive. "The prospect of lower revenues and inflated responsibility could force some schools to re-examine their budgets and could lead to waves of closings [of some campuses] all in hopes of staying afloat, experts and researchers say," Some said on Wednesday. The Star's analysis shows all public and private universities have had declining first-year enrolments since 2016 when the government established strict anti-cheating measures for the KCSE exams. The then Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2018-19 report raised concerns some public universities were failing to honour statutory deductions, such as KRA, NSSF and NHIF. Many colleges and universities have a history of financial mismanagement, increasing spending as enrolments fell or going into debt to construct new buildings. "Even if colleges manage to stay open, they may have to make deep cuts to do so, which could ultimately hurt students as well," Some told the Star in a phone interview. "Think of the shocks these universities are suffering." (Edited by V. Graham)