When Sebastian Amoi became blind at the age of 27, life came crashing down on him. Initially, he never thought it was as serious but, as he reveals, numerous trips to eye clinics, witchdoctors and all other places he thought he could get help, it dawned on him it was over. He had to live with it. He had to 'accept and move on.' However, it was not easy. He sunk into depression for almost a year, six months of which he was admitted in hospital. “There is nothing as bad as losing your eyesight at a prime age," he says. "Since then, life has been tough, tedious and full of challenges. I fell into depression since I could not believe it and was admitted to hospital for six months." “I spent days on end feeling sorry for myself but I had to accept that it was over," adds Amoi. When the impairment struck, the 44-year-old was an employee of the then Eldoret Municipal Council, having trained as a plant engineer at National Youth Service. And even though he never played at the top level, he was a sportsman, playing football, handball and volleyball in the local play fields. However, Amoi was lucky since, when disaster struck, his employer facilitated his enrolment at the Maseno University Town Campus for Special Need Education (SNE). He was then redeployed to the department of Social Services. “I thank God that my employer did not fire me but instead took care of me in a special way, taking me to school where I learnt new skills of life. Here I am now, living well as a good father, husband and neighbour," says Amoi. Due to his love for sports, Amoi felt he couldn't just sit pretty. Instead he ventured into GoalBall, a not-so-popular sport in the North Rift region. “Due to my condition, I could not venture into my sports of choice and some friends introduced me to goalball. Being a sport for the visually impaired, it helps participants strengthen their listening and hearing skills and I am glad I have been doing well since," he observes. At the moment, he reveals, they are in the process of integrating a team but challenges still lurk. "The sound ball itself is very expensive, about Sh26,000," he says. "Still, some people don't believe in us and we also lack enough braille teachers which makes learning quite a challenge." However, he is optimistic that his efforts will not go in vain since they are engaging the Uasin Gishu County government, which has seen more people interested in the sport. “Through our partnership with the Uasin Gishu County government, more people  with visual disability have come out. The Kenya Society for the Blind, where I sit as a council member has also been helpful,” he said. "We are in the process of forming a team and we are certain we will have a good one," says Amoi. "The Kenya Society for the Blind are also developing a sports manual where goalball is one of the flagship sports." "We hope to have inter-county tournaments once the coronavirus pandemic is over. We hope this will help visually impaired individuals have the confidence to come out and do something creative," he adds. “When you lose eyesight, you need to work on the rest of your skills; touching, tasting and smelling. Your listening should be very strong. Sound ball sharpens this listening capacity.” Amoi's target is to see Kenya send a goalball team to the postponed 2020 Paralympic Games set for Tokyo, Japan next year. “We have not competed in Paralympics but we are heading there. I am one of the activists advocating for what is under the table for the visually disabled," he adds. He says individuals like Henry Wanyoike are their heroes after what they have done in the world of sports, scooping numerous medals in major championship for a long time. To help with outreach, he says: “We don’t just play with people who are blind. We blindfold abled-bodied individuals as put them in a competition scenario. This helps them appreciate the sport and our condition. With this, we hope the sport will grow even further." He says he is also motivating individuals who feel visual impairment is the end of life. “I have tried to live as a role model. Sports make people unite, meet and share their stories. First, you have to accept who you are. Forget that you lost your eyesight and do what you can to make ends meet. Don’t be a father or mother who lost hope, a weak one. I also discourage disabled people from borrowing,” he says. "I always believe that each person is gifted differently and I have to try all I can to instil confidence which will then help individuals identify their real potential. I have also been urging disabled people to join sports." And to keep himself in shape since he cannot venture in outdoor training routines, he reveals; "Before I sleep, I do 100 press-ups.” He observed that the coronavirus pandemic has been a big challenge to the blind and appealed for more resources to be allocated to help them survive through the tough times. However, he observed that the Lions Club of Kenya has been of great help,  distributing food stuffs and sanitisers. He also called on able-bodied individuals to treat the blind with dignity and offer help when one can.  Biography Sebastien Amoi 1976- Born in Vihiga County 1990- KCPE at St. Francis Hambale Boarding Primary School, Vihiga County 1994- KCSE at Kegoye Secondary School, Vihiga County 1995-1996- National Youth Service (NYS), Gilgil 1996-1997- NYS Building the Nation Turbo Field Unit 1997-1998- Garissa for Plant Mechanic Course 2000- Eldoret Municipal Council 2002- Started losing eyesight 2008- Ran into full blindness - Left Engineering Department for Social Services 2013- Maseno University Town Campus (Diploma in Special Needs Education) 2014- Kenya Society for the Blind (Council Member)