A legislator has called for the elimination of Senate in the Constitution, and a special committee in Parliament to tackle issues assigned to the Senate. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi said he will be pushing for that proposal to be included in the articles of the Building Bridges Initiative, saying the current House has failed to pass the revenue allocation formula. "The current Senate has failed and frustrated counties, because of politicising the one-man, one-vote one-shilling revenue allocation formula," he said. Mwathi said if the issue was being handled by the National Assembly, it would have been passed long ago and counties would have started receiving their allocations. The legislator asked the senators to have mercy on counties, since they are playing a huge role of improving hospitals when the country is fighting to control the spread of coronavirus. He spoke at Gitithia Primary in Lari constituency on Saturday during the burial of Mary Njoki — mother of Lari Traders chairman Paul Ngugi. Mwathi was accompanied by area MP Jonah Mburu and Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu. Mwathi proposed that BBI should give Parliament an extra committee which will be tasked to the roles of the current Senate. He said the move would also help the country save money paid to senators, since MPs will be given allowances like in other committees. Mburu said once the revenue allocation formula is passed, it will be an achievement to devolution. "Once we realise the one-man one-vote one-shilling formula has been passed, then we shall feel the warmth of devolution," the Lari MP said. "The counties in marginalised areas will not be left out owing to their scarce population, they will be receiving equalisation funds to enable them like the others," he added. The MP added urged people to pray for the country, its leaders in all levels including President Uhuru Kenyatta and his DP William Ruto. Karichu urged MPs not to relent and to push the Senate to pass the revenue allocation formula. The MCA said if the revenue allocation formula is not passed, people in Central region where a lot of taxes are collected will continue being affected since they will still be getting little allocation of national cake, regardless of their large contribution and population. Edited by R.Wamochie