DPP Noording Haji has ordered the arrest of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and seven others over the misappropriation of Sh19 million NGCDF cash. The others are Wachu Abdalla (NGCDF account manager), Kennedy Otieno, Bernard Kai, Margaret Kalume and Sophia Charo (NGCDF tender evaluation committee members), Multserve Contractors Ltd and Robert Katana (director of Multserve). The DPP said it had been alleged that several businesses controlled by Jumwa through her proxies fraudulently received funds amounting to Sh57 million from the National Government Constituency Development Fund and in turn transmitted the cash to her. The DPP was however only able to establish the misappropriation of Sh19 million. In a statement on Thursday, Haji said the accused were involved in conspiracy to commit corruption, conflict of interest, money laundering, forgery and acquisition of proceeds of crime. "Due to the complex nature of the financial transactions involved, the ODPP and DCI met on several occasions to ensure all areas were covered," the statement said. It was found that Sh19 million was paid to Multserve Contractors Ltd for the construction of the Malindi subcounty education office. The procurement process was skewed in favour of Multserve, the statement said. A total of Sh2.5 million out of the Sh19 million was transferred to Jumwa, a conflict of interest. Jumwa is said to have hidden to receipt of the funds by putting the amount towards the purchase of an apartment on Argwings Kodhek Road in Nairobi. Jumwa's prosecution orders come two days after those issued against Migori Governor Okoth Obado. Obado and his four children will be detained until Monday, when the bail ruling will be delivered. Chief Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi on Thursday dismissed lawyer Kioko Kilukumi's application to release the accused pending the bail hearing. Mugambi said the earliest he can give the bail ruling is on Monday. Earlier, the accused denied the charge of conspiracy to commit a felony relating to fraud of Sh73.4 million from Migori County. Obado and his children were arraigned in court to answer to the graft charges before Chief Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi. They appeared alongside seven others. It is alleged that being the governor held an indirect private interest in several contracts that paid money into his children's accounts. Obado was separately charged with eight counts of conflict of interest for the different times that each of the children received money in their accounts from the county's coffers. The governor has also denied a charge of money laundering. Obado and his son Dan Okoth have been jointly charged with money laundering and it's alleged that they entered into an arrangement of transfer of Sh10 million for the purchase of a Land cruiser vehicle knowing that the said money was a proceed of crime. The governor will be charged separately on 28 accounts with each of his children for the different amounts of money that was sent to them. Obado surrendered to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission in Kisii on Wednesday. Haji said on Tuesday investigations revealed the cash was used to pay school fees, upkeep, maintenance and medical bills for the governor's children studying in Australia, Scotland and the United Kingdom. A dossier from the EACC details how Sh38.9 million of county cash was wired directly to Obado’s children from major suppliers said to be the governor’s proxies.