Two Kiambu lawmakers have petitioned the county government to come clean on the alleged loss of Sh5 billion in collected revenue. Patrick Wainaina (Thika) and Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba want Governor James Nyoro’s administration to explain how the money was lost. The loss was revealed by the county assembly Committee on Finance and Economic Planning led by Kinoo ward rep Samuel Kimani on August 20. The MCAs said out of the total revenue the county collects, 70 per cent end up in the pockets of the cartels. The county can only account for 30 per cent of the collection. The committee decried that some county revenue officers have not been remitting daily collections to the county government. “We went to ground to inspect how revenue was being collected, but we were shocked to find out that the revenue was being pocketed by county revenue officers through their cartels at the subcounty level,” Kimani said. The team noted that Thika, Juja and Ruiru lead in revenue collection theft. Some of the areas where revenue is stolen the most include approvals for construction sites, land rates, parking fees, cess fees and quarry charges. “This is why residents are grappling with poor roads, poor health infrastructure, among other needs. Graft roots must be incised even at the county levels,” Wainaina said. The lawmaker said the county leadership should move with speed and seal all the loopholes being used by unscrupulous county workers to plunder public money. “Counties must prove proper management and prudent use of county allocations and own revenue even before seeking an increment of the allocation it gets from the National Treasury,” Wainaina said. He urged the Kiambu county government to devise ways of improving revenue collection. According to a World Bank survey report on how much counties should get in own-source revenue, Kiambu is able to collect up to Sh8 billion annually. However, the highest the county has collected since the onset of devolution is Sh2.9 billion. Wamuchomba said the allocation that goes to counties from the National Treasury must be spent prudently to address the needs of residents, especially the vulnerable. She said that funds were being mismanaged and plundered by corrupt individuals in the counties at the expense of vital development and services for residents. “We shouldn’t let monies be stolen from the counties, funds that can be used to bring much-needed developments to help our women, orphans, disabled, elderly, single mothers and other vulnerable citizens,” she said. Wamuchomba proposed that out of the 35 per cent the counties receive, five per cent be set aside for women, five per cent for the disabled and five per cent for vulnerable communities. Governor Nyoro recently said he wasn’t aware of the loss of collected revenue as the county assembly had not communicated to the executive regarding the matter. He said that his administration is putting in place measures to curb plundering of revenue. “We’re doing everything to ensure we don’t lose what we collect to cartels. Our revenue collection in all areas will be digital to ensure our staff do not receive cash,” he said. Nyoro warning that anyone found engaging in corrupt deals would be axed and legal measures taken against them.