 An administrator has raised the alarm over rising cases of teenage pregnancies in Nairobi's Kawangware area. Kawangware assistant county commissioner John Kisang singled out Muslim area as worst-affected, with many schoolgirls having fallen pregnant. “This is something that is becoming an increasing problem in this area. Teenage pregnancy is something that the government takes seriously and will not condone those perpetrating it,” Kisang said. He said his office was committed to helping the affected girls rebuild their lives. “It is important that these teen mothers know that despite their unfortunate circumstances, life must go on. We will help them to go back to school so that they can improve their lives,” he said. The administrator spoke during a ceremony to award seed funding to small-scale businesswomen at the Dagoretti Empowerment Center on Tuesday afternoon. The funding – worth Sh300,000 – was awarded to 10 traders under the auspices of Engage Jamii Initiative. The cash was donated by the American Embassy in Nairobi. Kisang called for help so his office can mentor the teen mothers and help overcome their present circumstances and fully realise their potential. “We need you ladies to help us with these teenagers who have unfortunately become pregnant unexpectedly. Even as you better your lives, you should also hold the hands of the younger ones so that they can become like you,” he said.  He thanked the US Embassy and EJI for supporting the women, saying it was a plus for the whole Kawangware community. "If you empower a woman, you have empowered a whole community. When you put this funding to good use, I am sure that the hundreds of thousands of residents in this area will benefit," Kisang said. He said subcounty officers were ready to help beneficiaries with business skills on how to improve their businesses. “Among you seated here are future millionaires and billionaires. Many of the multinational companies started out as small businesses like the ones you have. With the right commitment, we will be talking a different story in one year.” The 10 women were awarded the seed funds according to the quality of their business plans. Mariam Abdalla, who emerged winner with the best business plan, expressed optimism that the fund will enable her to expand her chapati-cooking business. “I have been cooking chapatis and receiving orders from the house and this has been distracting with the children around. However, my aim is to now establish a business premise outside my home,” Abdalla, known to many as Mama Chapo, said. 