East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed failed to show up for a Senate committee meeting as he was busy “handling very sensitive” regional matters. National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity and Regional Integration Committee chair Naomi Shiyonga accepted the explanation given and said they will summon the CS another day to respond to their queries. “There are things happening in the region and we were definitely going to ask the Cabinet Secretary to respond to them,” she said. The CS was to appear before the committee alongside East Africa Legislative Assembly MPs from Kenya. MPs Oburu Odinga, Kennedy Musyoka, Muhia Wanjiku, Jematia Sergon and Simon Mbugua turned up for the virtual meeting. The ministry, through a letter, communicated to the committee that the CS would appear before members at a later date. Ties between Kenya and Tanzania have been strained recently following differences in Covid-19 response strategies. On August 1, Tanzania banned Kenya's national carrier KQ from flying into the country amidst a deepening row between the two nations. Tanzania said Kenya Airways flights were being banned "on a reciprocal basis" after the Kenyan government omitted it in a list of countries whose passengers would be allowed to enter Kenya when commercial flights resumed on August 1. "The Tanzanian government has decided to nullify its approval for Kenya Airways (KQ) flights between Nairobi and Dar/Kilimanjaro/Zanzibar effective August 1, 2020 until further notice," Tanzanian Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) said in a statement. George Arogo, Senior Assistant Director Regional Integration at Ministry of East Africa Community, told the Shiyonga-led committee the Cabinet Secretary would present himself when time is right. “There are very sensitive issues happening now and the CS could not avail himself for this meeting,” he told the committee. Nominated Senator Getrude Musuruve Inimah said the CS made a good decision to postpone his meeting with the committee. “That was a very good approach by the CS. We would want him to have all the answers when he meets us,” she stated. On July 28, Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied claims that the Kenyan delegation to President Benjamin Mkapa’s funeral was turned back mid-air by the Tanzanian authorities. The claims of possible retaliation by Tanzania were linked to comments made by President Uhuru Kenyatta a day earlier. Speaking during his 10th Presidential Address on Covid-19, President Kenyatta told Kenyans not to think countries that are not releasing their coronavirus data are doing any better in handling the pandemic. Uhuru fell short of naming Tanzania, which has been accused of siting on Covid-19 data and restricting news reporting about the pandemic. The EALA legislators who appeared before the committee said relations between the two countries would be best addressed by Foreign Affairs and EAC ministry officials. Edited by Henry Makori