The High Court has ruled that the contingency plan produced in court by the Ministry of Health on coronavirus preparedness is sufficient and satisfactory. On March 18, the ministry filed in court a report titled 'The Report on Measures put in place by the Government to deal with the Coronavirus (COVID-19) threat in Kenya' by Acting Director General of Health Patrick Amoth. In the case, LSK had asked the court to compel the ministry to prepare a more detailed report on Covid-19 preparedness as had been ordered by the court in February. However, Justice James Makau declined to issue the order ruling that the application by LSK was without merit and the interim contingency plan ordered by the court was to be prepared and presented for scrutiny. “The report filed on March 18 following interim orders by the court on contingency plan is sufficient at the interim stage,” the court ruled. Judge Makau further ruled that he was satisfied that the ministry complied with the order by preparing an interim contingency plan and did not violate the law. LSK had argued that the ministry violated the right to health under the Constitution and International Law. The court said it was alive to the fact that the report was not final on the plan as it was filed in pursuance of interim orders of the court pending the determination of the application and petition. Makau said the report has a detailed plan on maintaining a heightened surveillance system at all points of entry, health facilities and communities across the country including mandatory screening at all points of entry to minimise virus spread. “The report clearly indicates that the ministry has continued to provide prompt and regular updates to the members of the public regarding coronavirus. It is, therefore, clear that the report is not final,” the court ruled. LSK, through lawyer Ochiel Dudley, had argued that the report does not include any risk analysis or potential scenarios and it has not attempted to identify and rank the risks and their geographic locations or to define the hazards and scenarios for which contingency plan is required. Meanwhile, Justice Makau declined to set aside the orders he issued in February including the one directing the state to trace and confine all the 239 passengers that were aboard the Chinese flight CZ 6043 that landed on February 26. The state though the AG had made an application to set aside the orders arguing that the Court did not exercise its discretion judiciously in issuing them. But Makau ruled that it is clear that no prejudice was suffered by the state nor were they denied rights to a fair hearing by the February orders. Edited by R.Wamochie