Homa Bay health workers have rejected Governor Cyprian Awiti’s plea to resume duties pending payment of their July salaries. The medics on Wednesday accused the county government of failure to honour an agreement the two sides had signed on salary payment and working environment. Awiti had appealed to the medics to sympathise with his administration and return to work taking into account the devolved unit's hard economic situation. The governor told Ramogi FM that his government is trying to pay the medics' salary arrears. He pleaded with them to return to work. He regretted that residents are suffering because they cannot access treatment and medication in public health facilities because of the strike that has lasted 16 days. “We tried and paid the medics June salaries after some banks gave us overdrafts. I appeal they go back to work as we find ways of paying them,” Awiti said. But the medics dismissed his pleadings and vowed to continue with the strike. They spoke to journalists at Homa Bay County Teaching & Referral Hospital during their "salary parade". They noted that their employer had sued them for demanding their right. The Health department sued the medics for failure to return to work despite being paid June salaries. Nyanza KMPDU chairman Kevin Osuri and Homa Bay’s Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Philip Mbom, Kenya National Union of Nurses' Omondi Nyonje and Kenya National Union of Laboratory Technicians' Adendo Opondo insisted that the employer had failed to abide by the agreement. “You can’t understand an employer who blows both hot and cold. You can’t plead to the people you’ve sued in court to return to work,” Osuri said. The KMPDU official said many of the health workers can no longer access health care because their NHIF deductions are not remitted. “Let the governor surrender this sector to the National Government because he has demonstrated that he cannot manage it,” he added. Mbom described Homa Bay county government has made life and working environment for medics difficult and called for the intervention of other local leaders. “We’re tired of false promises. No medic will resume duty until we’re all paid,” he said. Nyonje questioned the county preparedness to handle Covid-19 when medics are on strike and told Homa Bay residents to continue seeking health services elsewhere as the strike will not end soon. “Everybody feels the pinch of Covid-19 but Homa Bay government has made it worse for the medics. We can’t pay rents, neither are we able to feed our children,” he said. Opondo told the employer, “We can excuse you on anything else but not our salaries. We work to get paid.”  - mwaniki fm