The US Government has issued a travel alert for Kenya over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country. A statement on the US Embassy Kenya website said the government lifted stay at home orders and resumed some transportation options and business operations. “Reconsider travel to Kenya due to Covid-19. The  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  has issued a Level 3 Travel Health Notice for Kenya due to Covid-19,” it reads in part. According to the CDC, a Level 3 Travel Health Notice  is the highest risk level and means avoid all non essential travel. This notice informs travellers that an outbreak (or in this case the coronavirus pandemic) is of high risk to travellers and no precautions are available to protect against the identified increased risk. CDC says risk of contracting coronavirus in Kenya is high and has listed the country among 208 others on the Level 3 list. "Travellers at increased risk for severe illness from Covid-19 should consider postponing all travel, including essential travel, to Kenya," the Embassy said. It further warns travellers that if they were to get sick in Kenya and need medical care, resources may be limited. The CDC advises that travel to Kenya should only be undertaken in case of humanitarian aid work, medical reasons, or family emergencies. The US also warned against travel to Nairobi neighbourhoods of Eastleigh and Kibera at all times due to crime and kidnapping. "Be especially careful when travelling after dark anywhere in Kenya due to crime.Violent crime, such as armed carjacking, mugging, home invasion, and kidnapping, can occur at any time," the statement read. "Local police are willing but often lack the capability to respond effectively to serious criminal incidents and terrorist attacks. Emergency medical and fire service is also limited." The US added terrorist attacks have occurred with little or no warning, targeting Kenyan and foreign government facilities, tourist locations, transportation hubs, hotels, resorts, markets/shopping malls, and places of worship. "Terrorist acts have included armed assaults, suicide operations, bomb/grenade attacks, and kidnappings," it added. The advisory comes as the US coronavirus cases surged to over five million. With one out of every 66 residents infected, the United States leads the world in Covid-19 cases. The country has recorded more than 160,000 deaths, nearly a quarter of the world’s total.