ODM party chief Raila Odinga has warned members against mayhem and violence as they work towards the party and 2020 elections. He said they will not tolerate anybody out to cause violence in the party whatsoever, in elections or rallies. “We are currently strengthening the organs of the party ahead of party elections which should have taken place in April,” Raila said. The elections were halted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He spoke on Friday when he visited Kisumu after six months. “We want to hold the elections as soon as the conditions allow,” he said. Currently, the party leader has started restoring sanity in his party signaling readiness to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The ODM elections board has been blamed for bungled polls that led to the party's dismal showing in 2017 polls. Raila is aggressively pushing to redeem ODM's image. He has so far overhauled the National Elections Board and the party's internal Disciplinary Committee. The ODM boss said they want their elections to be a lesson to the rest of the country that they can do elections where losers and winners do not create enmity. He said they don’t want any kind of violence in party’s elections going forward. “We want only genuine members of the party to participate in the elections, not people who come to the party when elections are approaching and then buy membership and come with cash to hire the youths to cause violence." This, he added, will not be tolerated in ODM henceforth. He pledged to ensure peaceful, free, fair and transparent elections and nominations in the party Raila said there must be internal party democracy, discipline, and a sense of camaraderie to be a truly democratic party that is anchored in their name. “We want to lead by showing that it is a democracy because we want to go to the government. Where are you going to borrow that democracy in government if you don't have it in the party,” he said. Following his endorsement for presidency by Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe, Raila said he does not want to talk about 2022. “President Uhuru Kenyatta and I have said that we don't want 2022 politics. We want to correct the wrongs of the past,” he said. Murathe is a Jubilee insider and a close confidant of President Kenyatta. Raila said they are focusing on creating an enabling environment for Kenyans to unite and work together as a people. “When this is achieved and Kenyans go to an election, it will be a friendly exercise. No Kenyan life should ever be lost because of an election,” he said. Raila said they want proper structures put in place to ensure free and fair elections. He announced that BBI will resume after a short break. They also seek to make improvements to the country’s governance structure through the Building Bridges Initiative, he added. “After we received the original BBI report, it was publicised and took time to capture views of Kenyans. There will be issues which require pure administrative action to be given to national and county executives to implement,” Raila said. But for issues that will require legislative action, he said, bills will be prepared and taken for debate to be enacted into law with a specific timeline. Raila said issues that require a national referendum will be subjected to the procedure provided for in the Constitution. He dismissed excuses fronted by some people against the referendum because of time and cost. “We cannot combine the referendum with the general elections. Neither has to cost Kenyans much money,” Raila said. The ODM boss noted Kenya’s election is the most expensive in the world, but corruption is in our procurement process. He wondered why Kenya’s election cost Sh700 per ballot while in Europe it is about Sh50 per ballot. “That is why last time we spent over Sh40 billion in elections. Then there was a presidential election repeat that was boycotted by the majority of people yet it cost Sh10 billion and they used the same ballot papers. It is just corruption,” he said. Raila said people should not shy away from having a referendum on issues that divide the nation in order to get a national consensus. He reiterated that the referendum should not cost more than Sh2 billion. Edited by R.Wamochie