The Senate will hold a special sitting on Monday – the ninth in a span of two months – to debate and vote on the controversial third basis for sharing revenue among counties. The sitting was initially scheduled for Thursday but Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the same has been pushed forward due to technicalities. “Due to technicalities and the requirements for a special sitting, we shall have the sitting on Monday,” Lusaka told the Star. The Speaker had on Tuesday ordered that the senators reconvene today after he adjourned the session for members to beat the 9pm curfew imposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The House broke for a month's recess on Tuesday, implying that any siting in between must be gazetted as a special convention. Such a sitting requires a petition by either the Majority leader or Minority leader supported by at least 15 members. Lusaka made the disclosure even as he fought off accusations from a section of senators that he has derailed the resolution of the stalemate. ‘Team Kenya’, which is opposed to the controversial formula proposed by Finance and Budget committee, lamented that frequent sittings to resolve the stalemate were partly to blame for the prolonged deadlock. “We are delaying because of the leadership of the Senate and Speaker Lusaka takes all the blame,” Mandera Senator Mohamed Mahamud said. Minority chief Mutula Kilonzo Jr and Narok's Ledama Olekina said the Speaker’s admission of many points of orders derailed the debate. “There were very many points of orders. Some were not even points of orders. They were points of arguments or points of debate,” Olekina said. But the Speaker dismissed the accusations, saying he followed the laid down procedures and traditions and could not have extended the Tuesday’s sitting because of the curfew. “I sincerely want this stalemate to end. That last adjournment was sought by Senator Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and went through. I formed a team to try to build consensus. It didn’t take place,” he said. “Yesterday’s adjournment was necessitated by curfew and a similar ruling was given two weeks ago,” he said. Lusaka explained that on Tuesday, there were still three amendments on the order paper and all of them could not have been concluded within the short time. “It is my prayer and sincere hope that there will be no any other adjournment on this matter. I also want it concluded,” he added. On Tuesday, the Senate failed for the record eighth time to unlock the stalemate that has plunged counties into cash crisis. Two camps are fighting over a formula proposed by the House Finance and Budget Committee on how counties will share the national cake in the next five years. One faction, whose counties are losing Sh17 billion under the committee’s proposal, has vehemently opposed the formula and has come up with an amendment to ensure the counties do not lose. During Tuesday’s sitting, the senators voted 25 against 20 to amend a proposal fronted by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja. Sakaja has amended the committee’s formula to place all the Sh316.5 billion allocated to the counties in the current financial year, shared equally among the devolved. However, the same was amended by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, who reduced the baseline from Sh316.5 billion to Sh270 billion. The Sh46.5 billion difference will be shared based on the revenue sharing parameters such as land mass, population, agriculture, health and fiscal responsibility.  - mwaniki fm