Chief Justice David Maraga has said there are trends that seem to suggest that President Uhuru Kenyatta's 'revisit' remark is being implemented. "I can't say yes or no... but when you see a trend, it speaks on its own... a few things we have experienced leave me wondering whether this threat is being followed.. The issue of funds for the Judiciary for example.." he said. The CJ was talking about the infamous "we shall revisit" remark by Uhuru after the Supreme Court overturned the results of the 2017 General Election. "I stand by that decision... you bring it 10 years from now, I will still stand by it." "I have no problem with the President as a person. Remember even when that remark was made, I invited him to a Judiciary event and he was gracious enough to come and said the remark was made in the heat of the moment, let's go on and work, you wear a thick skin... those were his words." "I have a problem with the exercise of powers that are there..." Maraga said the Judiciary is not demanding the amount of money sectors such as education and health get, but it needs enough money to function. "It doesn't even get one per cent of the national Budget, which is extremely unfortunate... We have said we need at least 2.5 per cent of the Budget..." "When you give an arm of the government less than one per cent of the Budget and when cuts come, they are included, what are you talking about?" He spoke during an interview with NTV aired on Sunday night. Maraga said Kenya has one of the best Constitutions in the world, but a lot remains to be implemented. "It is the Executive that has to come up with legislation... some sections are not self-executing," the CJ said. Maraga said he is yet to be granted a meeting with Uhuru since the time he complained publicly about his inaccessibility in June. During a press conference at the time, the CJ said, "You know I have respect for you as our President, you also know that I have unsuccessfully sought an appointment with you to sort out these issues but it has been futile leaving me with no option but to make this public." On how he feels about the many times he has been the subject of attacks, ranging from billboards on major highways disparaging him, to a woman alleging he sired a child with her, Maraga said, "At times I have been irritated, but I have actually enjoyed working as the Chief Justice..." The CJ said a comment about his work's impact by officers who visited his office once has stayed with him for a long time and keeps him going. "They said, 'you are doing this for us... you are being taken through this for Wanjiku'... some of these things are done to push you to change your decision." On the woman who went ballistic at the High Court and caused a scene accusing the CJ of siring a child with her, Maraga said, "It was so crude that Kenyans dismissed it before the end of the day. I think it's because of the uproar on social media that those propagating it withdrew it." Away from his work, Maraga said he preaches occasionally and supports Arsenal.