Kakamega Homeboyz players have lauded  club's head coach Nicholas Muyoti for unifying the team and creating a winning mentality among the playing unit. The players said Muyoti's leadership style has made it difficult  for visiting teams to pick points from Bukhungu Stadium. Muyoti, who took over Kakamega Homeboyz last year, led the team to second place finish in the Kenya Premier League last year, behind winners Gor Mahia. Muyoti took over from Ugandan Paul Nkata who left the team after being implicated in alleged match fixing scandal. David Okoth, who had a short stint at Nzoia before  returning to Homeboyz, where he has cemented his position in the first eleven,  is one of the key players who have contributed to the club's turn-round under Muyoti. He said: “It’s great playing under Muyoti. He makes things easy for us and this has motivated the playing unit. The players are united and eager to sacrifice for the sake of the club." “I believe I am in the right club if the skills and techniques I have gained are anything to go by,” he added. Okoth, who has formed one of the lethal combination with Moses Mudavadi, Allan Wanga, Peter Thiong’o and Stephen Etyang, has become one of the dead balls specialist—scoring crucial goals for Homeboyz. The attacking midfieder Shami Mwinyi who has adapted well to life in Kakamega and build a strong bond with other players., is quickly becoming a darling of  fans, thanks to Muyoti's input. “Muyoti is like a brother and father to many players. His approach towards players and the game is very unique and this has motivated us to face the opposition with confidence," said Mwinyi. Winger Peter Thiong’o said Muyoti is one of the best tacticians in the country. “Muyoti has created a very strong bond with the playing unit and he is really friendly,” Thiong’o narrated. Soft-spoken Muyoti assured that the team is yet to hit its peak, adding: “It’s all about the team-work. Cooperation of both the players and management has been super and having support from all quarters, gives me the morale." He said the players have equally been committed and ready to adapt to whatever new things he introduces.