PAIX Data Centres , a  Pan-African provider of cloud- and carrier-neutral colocation data has today announced the construction of its Nairobi data centre. The new data centre facility in Kenya is part of the company’s accelerated Pan-African expansion, following its 2018 entry into the West African market with PAIX ACC1. The centre will host 240 cabinets with a total power capacity of 1.5MVA, 690m2 of whitespace, and a guaranteed uptime of 99.982 per cent, located at Britam towers, Upperhill. “This location for PAIX Nairobi-1 is an ideal entry point into the Kenyan data centre market, as we contribute to the strength of the infrastructure that enables the digital economy in Kenya, CEO Wouter van Hulten said in a statement on Thursday. "This will allow us to serve a diverse customer community, generating new business opportunities for all connected businesses," van Hulten added. The shared facilities will house PAIX clients’ computer equipment, and the company assures it is a secure facility for mission-critical IT infrastructure . The facility has ample fibre connectivity from all leading carriers, making the site highly suitable for PAIX’s interconnected customer community of internet service providers, telecom operators, cloud providers, content distribution networks, digital media and enterprises. “The central location of PAIX Nairobi-1 makes this facility an ideal connectivity hub that strengthens the digital infrastructure of the city,” said Jama Mohamed, Director of Frontier Optical Networks. “Building reliable communications infrastructure is at the heart of our business, and we look forward to serving PAIX clients with connectivity on our expanded network between Mombasa and Nairobi, and throughout Kenya,” said John Kamau, General Manager, Jamii Telecommunications Ltd. PAIX’s data centre project in Kenya is supported by the Dutch Good Growth Fund of the Dutch Government providing PAIX’s data centre projects with long term growth financing for its Pan-African expansion.