As Covid-19 continues to ravage the economy, schoolgirls from poor families in Murang’a county have been suffering in silence due to lack of sanitary towels. Some have fallen prey to predatory men who offer them money for sex so they can buy pads. In the sprawling Mjini slums near Murang’a town, girls are forced to make do with tissue paper and pieces of cloth during their menstruation. Their parents can barely afford to put food on the table and things such as sanitary towels are considered secondary necessities. When schools were still open, most girls would be given sanitary towels by teachers who understand the challenges faced by families in the slums. But with schools closed, the girls have no one to turn to for help, and they have to give in to sex demands from men. “When we get pregnant, the men abandon us and leave us to deal with the pregnancies,” one girl said. Following the numerous cases of teenage pregnancies, Township MCA Jecinta Ng’ang’a decided to take action. She came up with a programme to provide sanitary towels to the girls. The programme, which started last month, targets over 2,000 girls in 10 public and six private primary schools in her ward. “I realised lack of sanitary towels has been contributing to the number of expectant teens. When they are in school, teachers try to assist them, but at home, parents are struggling, especially with the floored economy,” she said. The MCA, who spoke at Mjini Primary School while issuing the donations on Monday, said she is also working with mentors who talk to the girls on how to look after themselves. She appealed to parents to stop settling defilement matters out-of-court, saying it encourages potential culprits. Besides facing the law, she said, the men responsible for the pregnancies should be compelled to take care of their children. School deputy headteacher Ann Mwenja said the girls have been facing stigma due to lack of pads. “We are so happy for the donations. Sanitary towels are a basic need for girls and now they will no longer miss school,” Mwenja said. Edited by A.N