A woman who was charged in 2015 with the death of her brother-in-law who tried to rape her has been set free by the High Court after the prosecution failed to prove the case against her. Esther Nduku was charged with murdering Francis Kioko in Makueni by hitting his head with a club following a quarrel. Justice Hellen Ong’udi on July 30,  however, ruled proper investigations needed to be carried out. “The evidence on record does not irresistibly point at the accused alone and nobody else as the person who killed the deceased. The evidence does not meet the test for circumstantial evidence which can be relied on to found a conviction," the judge said. She said suspicion alone can never be the basis of a conviction. “Suspicion, however strong, cannot provide the basis of inferring guilt which must be proved by evidence beyond a reasonable doubt.” After analysing all the evidence, the court came to the conclusion that the prosecution did not prove its case to the required standard. “I find the accused not guilty and acquit her under section 322 (1) Criminal Procedure Code. She will be set free unless lawfully held under a separate warrant,” Ong’udi ruled. According to the prosecution, Dennis Mutuku, a nephew of the deceased, testified that on January 14, 2015, around 4pm, he was at Nduku's home when his uncle came there. He came while drunk and a quarrel ensued between the deceased and Nduku. Mutuku told the court that Nduku said she would beat Kioko before she hit him and he fell. She called someone and they pulled the body to the railway. He did not go with them. Kioko's mother Anna Mutungi confirmed having seen him on January 15, 2015, at 6:00 pm. He appeared drunk and she heard him tell Nduku, “I don’t like you”. She heard noises from them as they traded insults. Mutungi said that Nduku went into the house and came out holding a club which she pointed out to the deceased saying; “If you fail to kill me today, I will kill you.” She intervened and held Kioko whom she pushed away and he left. Nduku also went to her house. She did not hear of anything until the next morning when she was told of the body on the railway line. Dr Emmanuel Loiposha produced a postmortem report which showed the body was almost completely crushed from chest to pelvis. The cause of death was cardio-pulmonary collapse following a severe crush injury. When placed on her defence, Nduku denied the offence. She said she was a businesswoman and that that day, she was home alone in the evening, resting when she heard someone in the house. She found it was Kioko and was shocked to see him. He removed a knife and ordered her to remove her pants. She told him that they should talk but in the process, their goats ran inside which made him run outside. She got a chance to leave the house. Mutuku, his nephew, was behind the goats, she said, and he took them out and locked the house. She said Kioko returned and she was telling Mutuku what he had done. But he denied it and a quarrel ensued. Her mother-in-law heard it and intervened. Mutungi lectured him and left. At 9:00 pm, Mutuku left the house but as she closed her door, she felt her dress being pulled from behind. It was Kioko and he was drunk, she said. She screamed and Mutuku came back. But Kioko insisted that he had to sleep with Nduku no matter what. Nduku said she felt embarrassed and pulled a piece of firewood with which she hit him and he fell down and said he would sleep there. She dragged him to the fence as Mutuku watched, she said. But she denied beating Kioko to the point of bleeding. Edited by R.Wamochie