The Kenya African National Union party is not dead in Mombasa, it had just fizzled out, the new interim official in Mombasa said Friday. The pre-Independence party chaired by Barigo Senator Gideon Moi is seeking a foothold in the coastal town of Mombasa ahead of the 2022 general election. Mombasa is a predominantly ODM party stronghold, but county officials led by Rukia Rashid are confident Kanu can hold its own. “Kanu in Mombasa had only fizzled out, but we are ready to revive it and put it to its original status of fame and glory,” she told the press on Friday. She spoke as Kanu unveiled its 10-member executive committee, which will be leading on interim basis as the party intends to revamp and increase its visibility in the region. Rukia, the immediate former Mombasa branch chair of the Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry, has been appointed as the county's branch chairperson for Kanu. She said the 10-member executive committee was confirmed during a meeting on May 15. The county chair said in the 2017 general election, Kanu had several candidates in Mombasa county. Former Mombasa mayor the late Ali Shekuwe ran on a Kanu ticket for the Mvita parliamentary seat but lost to ODM’s Abdulswamad Nassir. “We also had seven MCA candidates who ran on Kanu. Our Miritini MCA candidate performed very well and came in second position,” she said. Rukia said they will embark on recruitment of new members. “Kanu is the only party that is still alive. The party started before Independence and it is still growing strong. We have now been given a mandate by the national office to recruit members at the grassroots,” she said. Others who have been appointed to work with Rukia in Mombasa include John Musia as vice chairperson, Bisher Yahya (secretary), Abdulaziz Shekuwe (assistant secretary) and Luka Mbatti (treasurer). Others are Hadija Baya (assistant treasurer), Salim Sumra (organising secretary), Mohammed Ali (assistant organising secretary), Munira Faraj (women chairperson) and Mohammed Abdurahman (chairperson youth).