Hospitals in the North Rift have recorded improved attendance by patients who had kept off after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. The majority of hospitals have in the last two weeks recorded improved services and counties have stepped up measures to ensure full compliance with Covid-19 control measures within all health facilities. Governors in the region led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), have been urging residents not to shun the facilities due to fears of possible infection with Covid-19. “Our hospitals are safe for use and we urge those who need medical services not shun the facilities and risk their lives yet they can be safely assisted by medics,” Mandago said. Use of the facilities had dropped by more than 60 per cent. Maternity services at the hospitals had fallen by more than 75 per cent. But health officials now say most services are improving and will soon be fully normal. “Our hospitals are well equipped with drugs and other needs so that they can fully carter for patients,” Uasin Gishu Health executive Everlyne Rotich said. Cancer and HIV patients whose treatment had been adversely affected have also resumed normal hospital attendance. A spot check at the Uasin Gishu County Hospital in Eldoret indicated staff were attending to more than 400 patients daily in the last two weeks unlike in April and May when they served less than 100 patients. Services at Iten County Referral Hospital in Elgeyo Marakwet have also improved in the last two weeks. Last week, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi lauded MTRH for continuing to offer other services especially surgeries safely despite the ongoing Coviod-19 situation. Hospital CEO Wilson Aruasa says their services had remained normal even though they had put in place strict measures to control the spread of Covid-19. Very few people are allowed to see patients at the facility as part of the control measures. “We handle patients as required but also ensure the safety of everyone at the facility including medics,” Aruasa said. The hospital also serves as a testing centre for Covid-19 in the region. The eight Noreb counties had recorded more than 730 positive cases of Covid-19 by Tuesday. Uasin Gishu has 449, Turkana 90, Trans Nzoia 70, Nandi 65, Baringo 49 while Samburu has 37. Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot have six cases each. Samburu was the last county in the country to record a Covid-19 case less than a month ago. Edited by Henry Makori