Judiciary employees reported bullying and sexual harassment in significant numbers but the complaints were rarely filed or successfully addressed, an audit report has revealed. The report compiled by National Gender and Equality Commission (NGEC) in collaboration with International Association of Women Judges identified at least nine key issues of concern. However, the total number of sexual harassment cases is not indicated in the statement. Although the Judiciary has gradually and progressively become receptive to the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination a lot needs to be done, the report says. For example, the Judiciary's strategic plan ending 2019 did not impose any obligations on the directorates and departments to allocate resources to promote gender equality and inclusion interventions. Even though it is the administrator of justice, the institution is yet to ensure the Judiciary Training Institute offers training on gender equality and how to apply it in service delivery and at the workplace. The audit report notes that Judiciary lacks a formal plan or a framework for achieving gender parity within specific timeframes in its senior leadership positions. Another weakness pointed out is that court processes and case management, including Court Annexed Mediation programmes, were often not viewed from a gender perspective. Even in court decisions discussing constitutional principles, the language sometimes lacked gender sensitivity. The team asks the Judiciary to come up with a comprehensive gender policy in order to promote equality. Also recommended is an undertaking by Judiciary to increase the number of women in senior leadership roles, develop a gender-sensitive training curriculum for all employees, put safeguards to ensure fairness in Court Annexed Mediation and use simple education materials on equality and non-discrimination to educate the public. The NGEC promised to continue monitoring the implementation of gender mainstreaming in Judiciary. Edited by Henry Makori