The government has announced a plan to engage National Administration Officers in the war against gender-based violence. Interior CS Fred Matiangi on Friday said the officers will take lead towards finding responsive interventions that will complement the existing legislations on the issue. This comes amid an upsurge in interpersonal crime, particularly sexual and gender-based violence against women and girls. Matiangi appealed to all Kenyans to shoulder more individual and collective responsibility and prescribed urgent action from Community-Based Organisations by initiating discourse against prejudice targeting girls and women. The CS was speaking in Nyeri during a meeting with the administrators. He said the government is banking on effective contact with wananchi through the NGAOs structure to reinforce the participatory approach deployed to combat the surging cases. President Uhuru Kenyatta last month directed the National Crime Research Centre to move swiftly and investigate increasing cases of gender-based violence and teenage pregnancy. Uhuru said his administration is concerned by increasing tension within homes across the country. He said cases of gender-based violence have risen, mental health issues have worsened, and instances of teenage pregnancy escalated. “I appeal to social institutions, including the religious institutions, to exercise civic responsibility to bring these unfortunate trends to an end,” he said. Uhuru said a family is a projection of the state and if the same family is under attack, the state is under attack. “If the family is weak, the country is weak. Therefore, to fortify our protection of the family as the foundation of the state, I direct and order that the National Crime Research Centre probe the escalating cases of gender-based violence, the worrying trend of cases where the girl child has been dis-empowered and the violation of children’s rights,” he said. Uhuru said the centre is directed to prepare an advisory to security agencies on remedial action within 30 days and initiate immediate prosecution of all violators. Last month, the Education ministry dismissed alarming figures of teenage pregnancies in the country released by the Children’s Department Technical Working Group during the celebrations of the Day of the African Child. The report was released by Machakos children's officer Salome Muthama, indicating that 3,800 girls over 15 years and 200 others under 14 years became pregnant between January and May. The National Crime Research Centre later said it is banking on women leaders in probing the escalating cases. CEO Gerald Wandera on Monday said the centre has undertaken to work closely with women including Public Service CS Margaret Kobia, Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa) chairperson Gathoni Wamuchomba and the leadership of the National Gender and Equality Commission to prepare an advisory on appropriate remedial action. The advisory once in place will be critical in initiating prosecution of all perpetrators of gender-based violence.