@Yobramos4 Mitumba dealers at Kongowea Market in Mombasa are a happy lot after the government on Sunday lifted the ban on importation of secondhand clothing. Of about 4,000 mitumba traders at the open-air market, one of the largest in East Africa, some 1,000 had closed up shop after running out of stock. The government in late March banned importation of mitumba clothes and shoes to protect Kenyans from Covid-19 that had ravaged most parts of the globe, including countries where mitumba are sourced. The ban was also meant to promote the local textile industry through increased production. On Sunday, the Kenya Bureau of Standards lifted the ban after development of protocols to enhance the protection and safety of traders and users while handling used textiles and shoes to avoid the spread of the disease. The Star has learnt that Kenya Trade Network Agency (KenTrade) chairman Suleiman Shahbal had been lobbying to have the ban lifted. Shahbal said the ban was counterproductive. He said mitumba trade supports more than two million people in Kenya, alongside other industries in complementary businesses. “You don’t just kill small-scale traders, you (also) kill godown owners in King’orani, Mombasa county. You also kill truck businesses who transport mitumba bales to different parts of the country,” Shahbal said. He called for sobriety and extensive consultations when coming up with policies to strike a balance that is favourable to all sector players. “We understand and support the desire to build local textile industries and cotton farmers, but you shouldn’t kill the source of livelihood for over two million people by supporting other sectors,” Shahbal said. “Let’s not make policies that support the rich but oppress the poor.” Kongowea Market mitumba section secretary Ben Baya said on Monday the decision to lift the ban will go a long way in rescuing suffering families. “We are happy the government has lifted the ban. We had to demonstrate to get it lifted but it is all good now. Some families were at near break-up because of the dire situation at home, with no income,” he said. Tom Okode, one of the biggest mitumba dealers in Kongowea, said many traders will now  put food on the table. “It is better to have something than nothing. The ban had crippled our businesses and we had to venture into other items we had no experience in. Some of us had to sell utensils,” Okode said. The dealer has employed seven other people in his business. “They were all desperate and were looking to me for help. I could help only so much. At least now we will be able to put food on the table for our families,” he told the Star. Shahbal said the economic situation in the country does not allow all Kenyans to buy new clothes. “All of us want to put on new clothes and shoes, not secondhand ones. However, affordability is the issue. “We live in a country where there are Kenyans who get new clothes during campaigns, when they receive T-shirts and other paraphernalia,” he said.