Former students of Kisii High School are seeking Sh30 million for construction of a tuition block to decongest the institution. They have already raised Sh10 million for the project whose construction has started and is expected to take 40 weeks. The five-storey tuition block with 25 classrooms will accommodate 1, 750 students. The school’s board chairman Patrick Nyagosia and principal Maurice Ogutu presided over the groundbreaking ceremony on Wednesday. Also present during the ceremony was the old boys' association treasurer Richard Atandi and secretary Henry Mosioma. A former student and the project manager, Abiud Ogori, noted that facilities at the institution are stretched and overcrowded. “The current facilities were meant to accommodate 1,000 students. The school currently has a population of 2,200. Initially, we planned to build 10 classrooms but after consultations with the management we resolved to do 25,” Ogori said. The school’s playing fields will also get a facelift alongside the assembly hall and laboratories. Nyagosia, a retired senior education officer, and Ogutu hailed the former students for the initiative and appealed to others to support the project. “This is a well-thought-out idea which will give the school a facelift and ease congestion. I want to call upon former students to support this project,” Ogutu said. Nyagosia said the project was timely. “Ten classrooms will be completed and ready for occupation in January when schools are expected to reopen. This will come in handy especially now when we expect social distancing due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. “Kisii School has produced many prominent Kenyans. I want to make a passionate appeal to them to support this project. As a school board, we are ready to partner with them to give this school a facelift.” Among prominent personalities who studied at the institution are Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, Chief Justice David Maraga and governors James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) and Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga). Transport CAS Chirs Obure, former minister Simeon Nyachae, former vice chancellors Douglas Odhiambo (Moi University), Ratemo Michieka (Jkuat) and Shellamiah Keya (Moi University) are also old boys. Edited by Henry Makori