President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to restore order in Nairobi after bringing together NMS Director General Mohammed Badi and Governor Mike Sonko on Wednesday. Uhuru warned that unending "baseless" political blame games between the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and the Nairobi government would be detrimental towards service delivery to residents. He told both Badi and Governor Sonko to work together and avoid anything and anyone trying to bring divisions between them. “I have said enough is enough and I don’t want to hear about political fights in Nairobi. My brothers seated behind me work together. Si kila saa ni vita na matusi. Jukumu letu ni kuhudumia wananchi,” Uhuru said. Referring to NMS, the President made it clear that it is not a political office and told Sonko to stop politicising the matter. “My Major General here is not a politician and not interested in the office of the governor, MCAs or speaker. He is here for the work I have given him and after two years he will return back to the military,” Uhuru said. Uhuru's meeting coincided with Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa appearing in Parliament and praising the NMS for improving service delivery for city dwellers since its inception on March 18. Eugene told the Senate Committee on Devolution that revenue collection has improved compared with the same period last year despite the economy being ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. “In June for example, revenue collected went up by 35 per cent when compared with the same period last year yet we did not have a pandemic at that time, keeping in mind that Nairobi has been the hardest hit county,” he said. Kenya Revenue Authority has been the principal revenue collector in that period, responsible for parking fees, business licenses, land lease fees and buildings’ approval charges. Eugene asked the committee to invite Sonko, Badi, KRA and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki to shed more light on disputes arising and progress made so far. “KRA should appear before you to give a breakdown of how much they have been collecting every month while Badi will explain to you the improvements so far. The AG will shed more light on the court order,” he said. Sonko had been scheduled to appear before the committee together with Eugene but he was held up at the presidential event. He, however, sent a presentation he had hoped to make before the committee. In his presentation, Sonko appealed to the Senate to offer mediation to resolve the dispute between Badi and him. He also asked senators to “interrogate the unconstitutionality of NMS” and provide a framework on how the governor should operate. Eugene said efforts were being made to rectify irregularities cited by the High Court on the transfer of functions. The court on June 18 declared the Deed of Transfer of Functions executed between the national government and Nairobi county as vague and irregular. “NMS is working towards complying with orders of the court. We have developed inter-governmental relations regulations as we develop a framework for public participation, dispute resolution mechanisms among other issues identified by the court,” he said. Justice Hellen Wasilwa ruled that the deal signed at State House in February was not approved by the County Assembly, hence unlawful. The court further declared the transfer of 6,000 county employees and secondment of chief officer to NMS as irregular and illegal since Sonko was not consulted. She gave the government 90 days to rectify the illegality failing which any party will be at liberty to move the court for appropriate action. Activist Okiya Omtatah had sued to reverse the transfers until such a time when proper mechanisms and procedures are put in place for the safety of the workers. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ said the committee would soon invite Sonko, Badi, KRA and the AG to shed more light on the status of Nairobi county. “We will also be inviting the director general on a regular basis to tell us the progress he is making. We will not wait till the end of his term to ask for a report,” Kajwang’ added. Senator Rose Nyamunga said KRA should explain the percentages Nairobi county and NMS will get from the revenue collected. On June 30, President Uhuru Kenyatta commended NMS for its efforts in improving service delivery in Nairobi and its catchment. The President expressed satisfaction with the progress made so far. NMS came into existence on March 18 when the deed of transfer of functions signed between Sonko and the state came into effect. Under the deed, health, transport, planning and management, and public works and ancillary services were transferred to the national government. NMS is funded directly by the national government and has the recruitment of its workers done directly by the Public Service Commission. (edited by o. owino)