Narok Senator Ledama Olekina has taken a swipe at the President Uhuru Kenyatta over his recent State appointments. The senator likened the current state of affairs in the country to former President Daniel Moi's rule soon after he took over power. "Kenya is slowly returning to the dark days of the 80s. Companies being formed using executive orders and relatives being appointed to ran them!" Olekina tweeted on Sunday. "The only way to save Kenya is to say enough!" The Narok Senator on Friday expressed his displeasure after the President issued an Executive Order establishing the Kenya Transport and Logistics Network -KTLN. The order will see a framework for the management, coordination and integration of public port, railway and pipeline services. The network brings together Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) and Kenya Pipeline Company Limited (KPC) under the coordination of the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC). Uhuru has since appointed John Ngumi to be the Chairperson of the ICDC, with effect from the August 7, 2020 to May 2, 2022 after revoking the appointment of Bernard Muteti Mungata. Olekina promised the next government will undo a lot of things being done by the current Executive led by Uhuru. "Among the things which will be reversed are; land grabbed will he returned to the original owners and stolen money will be recovered as per article 226-5 of the Kenyan Constitution," the senator said. "Appointments revoked and a few big men and women sent to jail for life be warned!" Relatives and close alllies of ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Kanu’s Gideon Moi were among the major beneficiaries of Friday's appointments by the President. Among the new appointments are ODM Raila Odinga's younger sister Beryl Okumu, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi’s brother John Matiang’i and Kalonzo’s son Kevin Muasya. Okumu was appointed to chair the Athi Water Works Development Agency, for a period of three years while Muasya was appointed to be a member of the Board of Tourism Regulatory Authority for a three-year period. Matiang'i who is the Knut Treasurer, was appointed to be a member of the Public Service Superannuation Fund Board of Trustees.