As the world marked International Youth Day on Wednesday, women in public service shared their experiences, urging young Kenyans not to give up. The theme of International Youth Day 2020 is “Youth Engagement for Global Action”. The number of young women serving as public servants continues to increase in the country, even as more calls are made to legislators to have the two-thirds gender rule adopted. A clip shared of leading women in public service gave a glimpse into the experiences in high office. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi shot into the limelight when she started addressing the nation during Covid-19 briefings. In the clip, she said, "I'm especially grateful for the work I do.. it is a clear manifest of God in my life." Nadia Ahmed, Youth Affairs CAS said, “Many young people look at people in public service as old people or people who just clock in time and leave.” "Being a young woman in public service is an honour and a big step when it comes to giving back to my country." Head of Tax Unit, Kenya School of Revenue Authority Emmah Githinji said the highest percentage of the population in the country are youths who should therefore lead in different sectors. According to Dr Kizzie Shako who is the Head of Clinical Police Medicine, youths should not despair chasing their ambitions but should instead continue chasing their dreams. “Dream big, be as ambitious as you want to be, the sky is the limit,” Dr. Kizzie said. Nepad communications officer Pauline Njoroge was also in the clip. She urged youths to pace themselves. "There is so much you want to achieve, but pace yourself," she said. CS Najib Balala last week revoked her appointment as a a board member of the Tourism Regulatory Authority following the discovery of disparaging comments she made about the Nairobi National Park. ODM leader Raila Odinga had asked politicians and leaders to protect the youth against violence and discrimination. "On this Youth Day, I appeal to fellow parents, guardians and leaders to do everything to protect young people from violence and discrimination," he said. "Let’s give them reason to believe in Kenya and offer our shoulders to the ambitious and restless who hold dreams and are raring to go."