The Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) has called for an immediate audit of Covid-19 funds. In a statement, the business lobby reaffirmed its commitment to the promotion of ethical business practices in order to help combat corruption and bribery. ''The government must undertake an audit of the use of all Covid funds raised, including those raised under the aegis of the KEPSA-supported Covid-19 Fund Board,'' the association said. The remarks statement comes amidst widespread public concern about and condemnation of alleged corruption in the healthcare supply chains involved in the supply of medicine and Personal Protective Equipment in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are deeply disturbed by these allegations coming at a time when Kenyans are being asked to make enormous personal, financial and business sacrifices to combat the spread and impact of Covid-19,” the statement read. Separately, KEPSA has also appealed to its members in all sectors to undertake urgent self-examinations in order to remove any weaknesses that allow malpractices leading to corruption. For its part, the alliance will continue the rollout of the Code of Ethics for Business under the UN Global Compact; and is encouraging it’s 1000 business members organizations to not only sign but also adopt a self-regulatory framework for their members. Kepsa will also intensify training among its members on business ethics and integrity, and continue to push and support the digitization of government services as a key effort in reducing corruption as well as enhancing efficient service delivery to Kenyans. It urged the government to make amendments to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act (PPDA) Regulations to include a stipulation that the government only does business with those companies that have signed the Code of Ethics for Business. It is also advocating for the mandatory online publishing of prices of goods that the government procures, and also publish online the procurement process for goods and projects for greater transparency.