Kisumu county health workers resumed work on Wednesday morning following payment of their salary arrears. Health services in the county had been interrupted for six days after the workers refused to report to duty demanding salary arrears from as far back as March. The health workers began the strike on Thursday last week after their unions ordered indefinite suspension of work until their salary arrears were paid. Kenya National Union of Nurses deputy general secretary Maurice Opetu said the county government had failed to honour their end of the deal. Opetu said residents would continue to bear the brunt of disruption of health services during the strike. Opetu, however, on Wednesday told the Star they had resumed their duties in all the health facilities across the county. He stated that the county government had paid them their June and July salaries but they were yet to receive their August pay. “We urge the county government to pay the August salaries by next week so that we try to have constant services to the people. This will depend on the clearing of arrears including the ones for promotion of health workers coming to an end on August 30,” he said. The unionist said they will continue to follow up on the salaries of contracted health workers who are yet to receive their pay. A joint committee of the health workers unions ordered members to stage sit-ins Thursday because the county government had failed to honour an agreement to pay funds owed. The workers are represented by the Kenya National Union of Clinical Officers, Kenya National Union of Nurses, Kenya National Medical Laboratory Officers and the Union of Kenya Civil Servants. Some had not been paid their salaries for the last three months and others up to six months, they said. In a statement, the joint committee said medics had been working with an erratic  supply of PPE by the employer. They said persistent follow-up by their unions and a written commitment by the county government had been ignored by the employer. County secretary Godfrey Kigochi in an August 12 letter said July salaries would be paid in a week. The letter was addressed to county chief officers, the director governance and administration, city manager, county attorney and the unions. The workers' initial strike was halted by a Kisumu court, which issued the county government with an ultimatum to pay all pending salaries by August 19, failing which the health workers were at liberty to resume their strike. Counties had initially cited challenges in remittance of salaries, with Sh29 billion released by Treasury two weeks ago expected to have eased the hitch. Nairobi and Homa Bay are among counties that have reported disruptions in health services after workers went on strike. Earlier, the health workers called upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to invoke Article 218 of the Constitution to form Kisumu Metropolitan City. Opetu said they were reaching out to the president because the county government had failed in its primary obligation to offer crucial health services. He said a metropolitan area just like in Nairobi would inject efficiency in the management and running of the affairs of Kisumu county. Edited by Henry Makori