Tens of Bungoma residents demonstrated on Monday to protest against the escape of 11 criminals from police cells in the town. The family, relatives, friends and the business colleagues of slain trader Michael Gacheche Karuga disrupted transport in the busy Moi Street, demanding justice for his murder. Among the 11 criminals who dug a hole to escape from Bungoma police station on Sunday were two main suspects in the murder. The demonstrators who carried placards and twigs staged a sit-down at the police station main gate and demanded justice for Karuga. Karuga who owned Shell Petrol station on Bungoma-Kanduyi highway was shot dead at Keringet Hotel near Bungoma bus park two months ago. The assailants on a motorbike also stole Sh2 million from him and fled towards Mjini Estate on Bungoma-Mumias road. Seven suspects were arrested on June 19, arraigned and denied bond. They had been remanded at the police station awaiting their Covid-19 status reports. Karuga's widow Anne said that among those who escaped were two key suspects Brian Ochieng Onyango and John Wanyonyi. Others escapees were Clerkson Otieno (burglary remandee) and Simon Wekesa (assault), Collins Nyukuri, Alex Muyekho, Bramwel Barasa, Pascal Namasaka, Emmanuel Wakoko, John Wekesa and Isaac Wekesa  . “As a family, we are fearful for our lives because the main suspects are out. If they can drill the hole in lawful custody what stops them from attacking us? We are demanding for a speedy manhunt and their subsequent arrest because we aren’t safe at all,” Anne said. She said the case was to be mentioned last Monday and hearing to start on August 26. Anne demanded to know why the murder suspect’s case was transferred from Bungoma police station to Cheptais station in Mt Elgon. Human rights activist Philip Wanyonyi asked Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to push for a speedy investigation into Karuga's murder and the jailbreak. “Let Matiang’i and Mutyambai move with speed and transfer all officers at Bungoma police station who might have slept on their jobs. We are demanding justice. There is no way the key suspects who are also very dangerous can escape from a police cell, we are reading a sinister motive,” Wanyonyi said. Bungoma police station boss Emily Salamba asked the demonstrators to be calm as she had shared the memorandum presented to her with her seniors. “Our officers are combing every place to help us rearrest the key suspects who fled from our cells,” she assured.  (edited by o. owino)