The government has issued an alert over looming disease outbreaks on Kihoto estate due to flooding of tens of houses following the rise of water levels in nearby Lake Naivasha. All families in the flooded part of the estate have been issued with a week's notice to vacate. When Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya toured development projects in Naivasha, he termed the situation in Kihoto serious, adding that plans were underway to assist the affected families with food and non-food items. “The situation in Kihoto is worrying due to the flooding and this could lead to diseases outbreak and thus the need for the affected families to move out,” he said. Natembeya added that more than 500 landlords who had been left behind were the most affected, noting that the government would assist them. “In the first phase, the government used over Sh2 million to resettle the affected families and we are keen to support those who have not shifted,” he said. On the new multimillion-shilling outpatient wing at Naivasha Subcounty Hospital, Natembeya said it would be completed in eight months. He said that Kengen had contributed Sh300 million while the county government had put in an extra Sh31m towards the construction of the health facility. “We are impressed by the ongoing work in the hospital and once complete the government will provide medical equipment and staff,” he said. Natembeya at the same time put on notice contractors involved in government projects, warning that the state would not entertain delay. “We are warning lazy contractors that the government will not tolerate them and will instead put them behind bars for the delays,” he said. In Kihoto, one of the area leaders Simon Wanyoike said that residents had undergone untold suffering due to the rise in water level. He said hundreds of workers who lost their jobs had been forced to relocate again due to the rising water level that had flooded all structures including latrines. “We fear a disease outbreak in Kihoto due the flooding of latrines and we thank the county and national governments for the support given to these families,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori