Kanu branches in the Rift Valley have asked Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny to stop his attacks on party chairman Gideon Moi after the two differed on appointments in government. The allies of Gideon accused Kutuny of perpetrating personal interests and seeking to use Gideon as a scapegoat for his failures in Cherangany. Kanu officials in Trans Nzoia led by Pius Kauka, David Sitienei and Celestine Chemutai along with Elgeyo Marakwet branch chairman Paul Kibet and his Uasin Gishu counterpart David Chepsiror advised Kutuny to stop misdirecting his frustrations to the Baringo senator. “We know very well that Kutuny has lost political ground in Cherangany and there is no way he will be re-elected. But he now wants to make outbursts against Gideon in the false hope that he will attract some political sympathy from people in the constituency,” Kauka said. He said it was misplaced for Kutuny to attack Gideon over job appointments in government yet as an MP he should be know that Gideon is the Kanu leader and Baringo senator but not the appointing authority in government. Kutuny has been quoted in the media saying he had thought Gideon "is better than the DP but he has turned out to be a wolf in a sheep’s skin”. The vocal legislator and fierce critic of the DP told the Star, “Gideon is now an enemy of the people of Rift Valley. He is identifying civil servants especially CEOs and managing directors from the region then engineering their sacking on the basis that they are allied to the DP.” Kutuny is the face of Jubilee's Kieleweke faction in the expansive Rift Valley. The genesis of the fallout between Kutuny and Gideon is the changes made at the Kenya Rural Roads Authority. Both had agreed that Luka Kimeli, the former Kura managing director and a Cherangany constituent, be confirmed as the substantive director general. However, Gideon, according to Kutuny,  went against the deal "which had been endorsed by the President" and instead influenced the appointment of Philemon Kandie to the post. Kandie is from Baringo. “We met and agreed that Kimeli will be confirmed but I was surprised to see a different name. Gideon wants to eat the fruits of Kieleweke, yet he is a passive member. In fact, he has not participated in it but now wants to be the one controlling our plans,” he said. “This was the point of departure between me and Gideon and we will deal with him and his Kanu if this is his style of leadership.” Kutuny also accused the senator of engineering changes at the Kenya Power board which saw, among others, former Nandi Woman Representative Zipporah Kering sacked. “Gideon has been identifying Kalenjins who are perceived to support Ruto then he sacrifices them so that he gets to appoint those who come from his home county and who are loyal to him. Going forward, we will not allow anyone from Rift Valley to be removed,” the MP said. He said that despite his fallout with Gideon, he will not back Ruto. He declared he will continue supporting Uhuru and Raila. But Kauka, Kibet and Chepsiror said those appointed to any position from the region deserved it because they got the jobs on merit. “In any case, why does he want Gideon to favour him yet he claims to be fighting for the rights of the community? Kutuny has proved to be selfish because he wants his friends appointed and not anyone else,” Kauka said. Edited by Henry Makori