The National Environmental Management Authority has denied reports that fish in Lake Naivasha are unfit for human consumption. The authority has joined the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KEMFRI), Water Resources Authority and the Department of Geology to study challenges facing the lake. The latest tests come in the wake of reports in various outlets that fish from the lake had high levels of metal. Nema director of environment in Nakuru Solomon Kihiu said the research involved testing the quality of water in the lake and identifying any source of pollution. Kihiu, however, ruled out the presence of metal in the fish terming the reports as misleading. “We are working with other agencies to know the status of the water body,” he said on Monday. Kihui said they expect to come up with a report in a week to give guidelines on how to address the challenges facing the lake. “Currently, tens of structures including flower farms and latrines have been submerged in water following flooding, and the effects of this will be captured in the report,” he said. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said they had issued an alert to residents of Kihoto to shift to higher grounds due to the rising water levels. He said they were working with other government officers in monitoring the rising water levels which had flooded even the police post. “In the first phase, around 2,000 people were displaced by water from the lake and with rising water levels, we expect another 4,000 to be affected, meaning more challenges for residents,” he said. Lake Naivasha Boat Owners Association chairman David Kilo welcomed the ongoing research works around the lake terming them as long overdue. He said poisonous waste from nearby estates and even flower farms was easily finding itself into the lake that supports hundreds of people. “The lake ecosystem has been adversely affected by the flooding of the farms and informal settlements and the studies will help in seeking the way forward,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie