More than 11,000 schoolgirls and teenagers have gotten pregnant in the North Rift since schools closed in mid-March. Most schoolgirls in slums are forced to trade sex for sanitary towels, other necessities and even food, health experts have said. Eleven thousand are only the ones reported in the eight counties; the real number is higher. Schools were force to close because of Covid-19 and will reopen in January if the situation improves. That’s more than nine months without school and supervision. Schools are supposed to provide sanitary towels. The economy is hard-hit by Covid-19, so everyone is needier. Lucy Mandago, the wife of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, said on Friday last week that pregnancies are increasing since schools closed, posing many challenges for adolescent girls. “We have so many vulnerable girls and women at the grassroots who are often forced to trade sexual favors for sanitary kits to avoid the horrid embarrassment of menstrual flows,” she said. She wants communities and well-wishers to partner in preventing teen pregnancies and supporting girls to avoid unintended pregnancies. The governor’s wife is leading the distribution of more than 10,000 pads for girls in all wards, targeting the most vulnerable girls. Distribution started a week ago. “I appeal to community health volunteers to pay close attention to our mothers and sisters who cannot afford sanitary kits, especially because of hardship caused by Covid-19,” she said. Each girl will receive pads for four months. Lucy Mandago said the county is working with donors to distribute more pads throughout the county and the larger region. Governor Mandago, who was present at the launch of the distribution, warned men against taking advantage of vulnerable girls and women in dire need. “As parents, this is the time we should protect our children, especially the girls so that they do not fall prey to irresponsible men,” Mandago said. County Health executive Evelyn Rotich said her department will reach girls and women in need through the network of community health workers. Trade executive Emily Kogos urged girls to value themselves and not to trade their future for short-term pleasures. Chief Officer Victoria Tarus of Livestock and Fisheries urged women to pursue government procurement opportunities set aside for them. The event was attended by Uasin Gishu women MCAs who promised to sponsor and support bills to empower women and reduce the cost of maternal healthcare. Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet have recorded very high numbers of teen pregnancies since March. Slum areas such as Huruma, Kamkunji, Munyaka and Langas in Eldoret town are the hardest-hit. (Edited by V. Graham)