Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala has urged health experts and Kenya Wildlife Service researchers to find if there is a relationship between increased Covid-19 cases and the rise in bush-meat trade. “We have seen an increase in bush meat trade and also in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country. We think they are related due to the manner poachers  handle the meat. We are asking scientists to investigate,” Balala said on Monday. Nairobi and Kiambu are the main markets for bush meat. The counties are also the hot spots of Covid-19 in the country. The CS, who was speaking in Naivasha after inaugurating the Wildlife Research Institute (WRI) board, said that the pandemic had adverse effects on the wildlife and conservation. He at the same time said the KWS will establish a wildlife corridor from the Nairobi National Park to Athi-Kapiti plains. He said individuals and institutions had donated 47,000 acres to be used as a conservancy which will be linked to the national park. A task force has been gazetted and given 60 days to come with the methodology  of the corridor's establishment. “The biggest challenge will be the human population in Athi River and Kitengela. This task force is meant to look into that,” Balala said. He exuded confidence that the tourism sector will be on its feet by the end of the year with bookings in Mara and the Coast already on the rise after the reopening of the airspace. “We are also happy with the ongoing construction of a service bay at KWS Training Institute ahead of the World Rally Championship in July next year,” he said. World Championship Rally Kenya branch chief executive Phineas Kimathi  said the country will host the event next year. “We expect that this service bay will be ready in 60 days and we are working with the rally organisers to meet all the requirements,” he said. Principal Secretary  Fred Sigor challenged the new Wildlife Research Institute board to seek external collaboration. “For years KWS did not have a research centre but with the formation of the Wildlife Research Institute we expect more data and solutions to challenges facing us,” he said.  - mwaniki fm