The country could soon be free from locusts but experts warn infestation could happen again next February, Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said. Munya said currently, there are a few swarms in Turkana and Samburu counties. The CS spoke to the Star during an interview on the locust update on Thursday. “Experts have advised that the winds could come back in February because winds contribute a lot and right now the winds are moving towards the north of Somalia and Ethiopia. This means there is a danger of locusts coming back to Kenya again in February,” Munya said. The CS assured Kenyans that the government is stockpiling desert locust control chemicals and will be ready with sprayers and build more capacity at the local and county levels to contain the situation should it happen again. “We have done a tremendous job in managing the desert locusts in partnership with the UN-Food and Agriculture Organization, and for the last month or so, no swarms have been sighted in Marsabit. Where we have a few swarms is largely in Turkana, but our team is working on the control operations both on aerial and ground spray even in the border between Turkana and Marsabit,” he said. Munya said swarms have been emerging at Kapedo, Suguta Valley area where it is hilly and difficult for the control team to access. “We believe we will probably declare the country locust-free by end of this month or earlier. However, the danger still remains because there are swarms crossing to Ethiopia, Ugandan borders and Sudan. But by the end of this month of August, the country will not have home-grown locusts,” he said. According to the FAO locust watch, second-generation spring swarms are declining in northwest Kenya due to control operations and migration northwards. “A few swarms last crossed into northeast Uganda in July and at least one swarm appeared in the southeast of South Sudan at the beginning of this month. Other immature swarms have migrated northwards to Ethiopia to join existing swarms, some of which moved into the northern Ethiopia highlands and northwest Somalia where control operations continue against hopper bands and swarms." Edited by R.Wamochie