The Court of Appeal has sentenced a man convicted of defiling a mentally challenged minor to 15 years imprisonment instead of 20. Josphat Lokwayen had been found guilty of defiling 14-year-old CN between July and August 2018 in Samburu county. He was sentenced to 20 years in jail. In her testimony, CN said Lokwayen, who is their neighbour, went to her home when she was alone, removed her clothes and defiled her. He then threatened to harm her if she informed anyone of the incident. Her testimony was corroborated by her mother who said she noticed that her daughter was having frequent headaches and would be dizzy and withdrawn. She took her to hospital but nothing was diagnosed at the time. “I shared the same with my son and he came home one day and demanded to know what the problem was. That is when CN disclosed that she was being defiled by Lokwayen,” the mother said. She took CN to hospital for examination and reported the matter to the police. A clinical officer who examined the victim observed that she was mentally challenged. The private parts were not injured but the hymen was broken, indicating that she had been defiled. In his defence, however, Lokwayen denied the charge. He stated that he was away and while on his way back home on July 30, 2018, at around noon, he received a call from the girl's brother who asked that they meet. When they finally met on August 7, 2018, he accused him of defiling his sister before calling the police. He insisted that the case was based on a grudge due to a land dispute. He even accused the victim's mother of killing his father. But the trial court found him guilty and sentenced him to 20 years behind bars. He appealed against the conviction and sentence saying the prosecution did not prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. “I was not positively identified and that the entirety of the evidence was inconsistent and insufficient. The trial magistrate failed to note that the complainant was mentally challenged,” he noted. In his appeal ruling, however, Justice David Majanja said that although the complaint was mentally challenged, she was able to give direct evidence on how the appellant sexually assaulted her. “She knew the appellant as he was a neighbour, a fact he admitted in his defence,” he ruled. “Like the trial magistrate, I find this a serious accusation made without basis. There is also no basis to imply that CN was involved in framing the appellant in the light of all the other evidence. Likewise, and in view of the overwhelming evidence, I reject the appellant’s alibi.” Noting that the complainant was born in May 2004, the judge confirmed that CN was a minor and therefore substituted the sentence to 15 years in jail — the current minimum sentence for sexual offences.