A Meru High Court has ordered for retrial of a case where an underage boy was sodomised while in police custody in 2017. Justice Alfred Mabeya on Wednesday said it was unclear whether the trio that had been convicted of gang rape had been supplied with witness statements. Geoffrey Mutethia, Dickson Murangiri and Boniface Kimathi were charged with defiling LM, 17, while they were being held at a police cell in Imenti North in March 2017. The three were sentenced to serve 15 years in prison. During the trial, LM told the court that while eating supper, three people approached him and introduced themselves as Dickens, Jeff and Boniface. They later retired to their cells. Around 11.30pm, Dickens called him near the washroom in the guise that he wanted to ask him something. When he got to the washroom, he found Jeff and Boniface there. He recognised them from the air spaces that let in light from the bulbs outside. Dickens held him on the neck and forced him to bend over while Geoffrey held his hands. Dickens and Boniface then sodomised him in turns. LM eventually managed to escape and retreated to his cell where he locked himself until the following morning when he reported the incident. He was taken to Meru Level 5 Hospital where he was examined and treated. LM picked out the three suspects in an identification parade. When put on their defence, the three remained silent. Meru medical officer Stephen Chege said an examination revealed that he had pain on the right side of the neck, bruises and discharge from his behind, indicating assault. However, after the sentence, the three filed an appeal on grounds that the trial court failed to conduct a fair hearing, convicted and sentenced them based on a null identification parade and that the prosecution failed to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt. According to the court records, an advocate who was representing the three failed to show up after the complainant testified. “There is nothing on record to show why the advocate did not appear. The trial court failed to inquire where the advocate was or whether the appellants wished to proceed in her absence. The trio did not complain about the absence of their advocate so that the court could rule on it, the record should have revealed more than what it has,” the judge said. The judge also said it is not clear whether the appellants were supplied with the witness statements they had complained about. “The conviction and sentence are set aside. The appellants are to be retried afresh by another court,” he ruled. Edited by R.Wamochie