Lawyer Ahmednassir Abdullahi, popularly known as the 'Grand Mullah' has said the process of interviewing the Chief Justice and the Supreme Court judges should not be rushed. The lawyer said that the office of the CJ was given a new meaning in the 2010 Constitution unlike the previous one and interviewing the applicant for 2 hours only is not fair to the office. According to him, the applicants for the post should have good knowledge about the post he/she is about to take. “If I was given a chance to interview someone for an office of Chief Justice or a judge of the Supreme Court, it will take 3-4 days,” Ahmednassir said. Appearing in an interview with TheHotSeat program on Sunday, Ahmednassir said that the CJ’s office entails a lot of things. “It entails someone who will be the president of the Supreme Court, the guy who will shape the Supreme Court and also entails someone who will be the head of the Judiciary,” The lawyer said that the bench interviewing the applicant for the office of the CJ should explore his/her background information including the type of cases handled before. He said such kind of information will reveal the applicant’s philosophy as well the way forward to the judiciary. “It is not everybody who can become the Chief Justice of Kenya. I need someone with a scholarly background, something with impeccable history as a lawyer In the previous Constitution, the CJ was appointed by the sitting president without any interview process or parliamentary approval. The president would also dismiss the CJ at his pleasure since the office did not have any security tenure for the holder. The similarity between the current Constitution and the previous is that the president appointed the CJ. But in the current Constitution, the president receives the name of the successful applicant from the Judicial Service Commission. The process of interviewing applicants for CJ’s post is competitive, involving a vacancy announcement, shortlisting of applicants, and interviews. The lawyer also said that he is not planning to be a judge at any time. “I tell guys that I will never become a judge in my life." Ahmednassir also said that as a lawyer, he has handled some cases for money and in many cases, he considers the human facts. “I have done many cases just to show the other side, that he may have more money than my client or be more powerful than my client but we can still beat him in the court,”