ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Sunday urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a judicial commission of inquiry into the "blatant theft" of Covid-19 funds. Mudavadi said the President risks tainting his legacy if he does not deal decisively with funds misspent or stolen at the Ministry of Health. “I am in no way infatuated with proposing judicial commissions of inquiry whenever things get skewed. Things have indeed gone awry, and only such inquiry will soften the hearts of our development partners who threaten to abandon us at the hour of our most need because of our insatiable dishonesty,” he said. Mudavadi noted that Uhuru has often emphasised the Big Four Agenda and beseeched leaders to stop politicking and instead support it. “The blatant theft is not only a recipe for failure of the Big Four Agenda but will also certainly deny the President a coveted legacy,” Mudavadi said at the Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi. He warned that if donors pull out, Kenya will not only lose Covid-19 support but will also forgo over Sh400 billion for fighting HIV, malaria and TB. Two key donor agencies have threatened to withdraw funds set aside for Kenya following the latest Covid-19 graft claims at the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. The United States Agency for International Development and the Global Fund have written to the government expressing concern over alleged corruption. Mudavadi said a judicial commission of inquiry and the normal investigations would address the concerns of donors and Kenyans at large. He said that inquiry commissioners would enjoy immunity unlike officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations or Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, “who are vulnerable to influence, threats and blackmail by the infamous powerful cartels". He added that a judicial commission of inquiry is public, conducted in an open and transparent manner. “There is naming, shaming and refutation. This facilitates public participation as required under the Constitution,” he said. The ANC leader said decisions of such a commission are binding in law just as those of a court, and are enforceable on their own without need for further machinations. “Since only the President has the power under the Commission of Inquiry Act to form such a commission, he should stamp Executive authority on the fight against graft with finality and deflate the lingering insinuations that he is a reluctant fighter of corruption,” he said. Mudavadi said the traditional actions by investigative agencies do not attract public participation. “Therefore, the nature of overzealous embezzlement inflicted on the health sector over time — especially the Kemsa heist now — demands that everything is done aboveboard, in the glare of the citizens and with robust public participation,” he added. He said graft has not been tamed or stopped by Chapter Six of the Constitution of Kenya on Leadership and Integrity, Chapter 12 on Principles and Guidelines of Public Finance, the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, and the Public Finance Management Act. Kemsa CEO John Manjari and procurement director Charles Juma are among five top officials suspended as the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission investigates claims of corruption. The ACC is probing a controversial Sh7.7 billion tender for the emergency procurement of Covid-19 personal protective equipment (PPE) that was to be delivered by July 22. On Friday, police in Nairobi teargassed and dispersed protesters demonstrating against alleged embezzlement of Covid-19 funds. Reports indicate that Kenya has so far secured Sh223 billio (Edited by o. o.) 