Authorities are in the process of tracking down arsonists suspected to have lit the latest fire at the Tsavo West National Park. Kenya Wildlife Service Cooperate Communications said on Sunday that the fire, which started at the Sheik dam area on August 8, 2020 at 2pm, is suspected to have been lit by arsonists. "KWS is jointly working with KDF, NYS, KFS, County Government of Taita Taveta, conservation partners and the community to extinguish the latest fire in  Tsavo West National Park," KWS said. KWS said ground and aerial teams have been deployed to deal with the fire. It is said the government has deployed resources through its various agencies and expects to contain the fire soon. KWS said anyone fund raising money that will go towards extinguishing the fire has not been sanctioned. "We wish to clarify that the service has not sanctioned any NGO, independent groups or individuals to fund raise on its behalf to support fire-fighting. The public should be wary of such requests." KWS said a clear and transparent process is being established to fund raise and support fire fighting efforts. Meanwhile, it said the public and especially neighbours to National Parks and Reserves are advised to avoid lighting fires close to these areas. On July 30, KWS cautioned the public against setting fires close to game reserves following the increased fires incidences. The KWS corporate communications' office said in a statement that those causing fires risk being fined an amount not less than Sh200,000 or imprisonment of not less than two years or to both. The fine is provided for under the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act 2013. The Act states, "Any person who sets fire to any vegetation in any wildlife protected area or allows any fire lighted by himself or his servants to enter a wildlife protected area commits an offence." KWS said the fires lit by adjacent communities in most cases end up in the parks  and reserves and affect wildlife and habitats. "Fires that occurred in the Tsavo and Chyulu national parks in July originated from the areas surrounding the parks," KWS said. While it has put in place measures to ensure appropriate preparedness for the upcoming fire season, KWS said, the public, especially those living in proximity to national parks and reserves, are advised to avoid setting fires close to the boundaries. The public is informed that it is a punishable offence to set fire in a wildlife protected area. Tsavo East National Park was on July 29 up in flames yet again, days after a similar fire was put out by KWS. Tsavo Conservation Area assistant director Robert Njue confirmed the incident to the Star on the phone. “We are in the middle of mobilising to put out the fire,” Njue told the Star.  The fire started in Bachuma. It was also not clear if some wildlife had been affected by the inferno. Another fire had been put out the previous week. “The first one is in the Taita ranches adjacent to Tsavo East National Park,” KWS said. It said the fire had been extinguished before spreading. The service said rangers, with the help of other stakeholders, were battling a second fire at the southern part of Tsavo West National park. KWS said a third fire broke out in Kikunduku, part of Chyulu National Park, at 7.30pm. Wildlife PS Prof Fred Segor said the fires were caused by neighbouring communities. "The communities are currently preparing their farms and one of the ways they are doing so is by burning," he said. Segor said the ministry is on high alert and patrols had been intensified. He ruled out illegal activities. In May, an out-of-control inferno destroyed 4,000 acres of Tsavo East National Park before it was put out. According to KWS, the fire started in a village called Lebanon, 15km from Voi town. KWS acting head of corporate communications Paul Jinaro said investigations indicated it was started by a boy who was burning litter. The twin parks are the largest protected areas in Kenya and are home to most of the large mammals, cat family and 500 bird species, among others. On Thursday, communities bordering Tsavo in Taita Taveta said they fear the fire outbreaks may lead to more human-wildlife conflicts. "The government should swiftly come up with measures to contain fires,” resident Ben Mwabili said. Residents said strong winds hampered KWS efforts.