A youth group in a Bomet county village has invented an NHIF payment model of daily airtime deductions for low-income earners. The Wazi Share service, according to the youth in Ndanai village, has the potential to revolutionise access to universal health coverage by disadvantaged groups. The group with 70 members has partnered with Safaricom to create a platform on which low-income earners can pay for their health insurance cover using airtime. Through their platform, a daily fee of Sh25 is deducted from the beneficiary’s airtime. The amount can also be paid by several individuals in a family for another person, a grandmother, for example. The group’s director and lead innovator Charles Terer said they started the project after realising the difficulty or inability of most rural families to pay for NHIF cover. Terer said many families have had to sell property to pay hospital bills that would have been covered by NHIF. “For many ordinary Kenyans in rural areas, the process of paying for the health insurance is tedious or complicated. Depositing Sh500 at the end of the month for people without a steady income is a tall order,” he said. Wazi-share is the cheapest option as the person does not incur mobile money transaction costs, Terer said. The beneficiary receives a reminder at different times of the day about the scheduled payment. The group has leveraged on Safaricom’s huge subscriber’s base to reach more customers. Once a person subscribes to the service, he or she can top up the airtime on their phone, then simply follow the message prompts. The amount is automatically deducted and remitted into their NHIF account. Terers said many people have benefited from the service and avoided the hassle of getting Sh500 at once monthly for the cover. Started three years ago, the youth group is planning to help more subscribers in neighbouring counties. Group patron Mathias Langat said more than 1,000 members use the service. He said they intend to reach more customers throughout Bomet, Kericho and Narok counties in two years. Two or more subscribers can join up and raise Sh25 daily for a particular NHIF account. In a household of two, each can pay Sh13 from their airtime for one account holder. In a household of three, each can raise Sh9 from their airtime accounts to help one person. In a household of four, each subscriber contributes Sh7, while in a household of five, each pays Sh5 for an account. The group has also introduced a ‘compassion service’ whereby VIPs and well-off people can cover a minimum of 10 individuals. As the service is fast picking up, Langat urged Kenyans to adopt it, saying it will ease the burden of soliciting huge amounts of money to pay medical bills. “When you are covered by health insurance, you can rest assured knowing when you get ill you will not be going around requesting money from friends,” Langat said. He spoke to the Star in an interview in their office in Ndanai International Youth Day, August 12. Langat said more education is needed so Kenyans understand the importance of NHIF and easy airtime payment. (Edited by V. Graham)   