Cotu boss Francis Atwoli has said he will ensure two MPs who have challenged his weekend support for ODM chief Raila Odinga are voted out in 2022. Atwoli said that although he was not the Luhya spokesman, he was a respected elder with the right to support a candidate of his choice. He said that Lurambi's Titus Khamala and Likuyani's Enock Kibunguchy were in Parliament courtesy of his support and he will get them out for daring him as an elder. On Wednesday, Khamala and Kibunguchy told Atwoli off for declaring support for the ODM leader in 2022, accusing him of working for the interests of outsiders. They claimed Atwoli doesn't speak for the Luhya community. They vowed to rally the community behind either ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi or his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula who have declared to run for the top seat. But on Thursday, Atwoli said Western has yet to get a presidential candidate for the 2022 succession race. He said Khamala and Kibunguchy should ask Mudavadi and Wetang'ula to form a single political entity and agree on who among them is the candidate if they were serious about the presidency. "I'm not the Luhya spokesman, I agree with them. I'm a kingmaker and a kingmaker is not a leader. Mudavadi is the official Luhya spokesman but he is not speaking. He is on the fence, yet Kenyan politics is taking shape. I will ensure the two MPs are not leaders anymore," Atwoli said. But Khamala said his fate as an MP lies with the voters and not Atwoli. “He (Atwoli) is a stranger in Lurambi,” he said. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have vowed to stick together for the 2022 succession race after the implosion of the opposition coalition Nasa. Earlier attempts to merge ANC and Ford Kenya stalled after ANC raised suspicion that Deputy President William Ruto had infiltrated the deal. Atwoli said Khamala and Kibunguchy will prove that he has influence in Western region after they are voted out at the next General Election. But Kibunguchy said Atwoli’s machinations would fail as Luhyas are more enlightened than before and will not be used blindly. He termed Atwoli’s threats empty, saying he was ready to face “Atwoli’s protege” in 2022 and floor him or her. Edited by Henry Makori