Three public accountability lobby groups have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to reject a bill proposing hefty pension payouts for former MPs. Transparency Internal, the National Taxpayers Association and the Institute of Social Accountability said if enacted, the Bill has huge implications to the country's pensions cost. The organisations said that any proposal for review of pensions for Members of Parliament should be tabled before the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and justifications provided. “We strongly express our reservations as the Bill is a bold attempt to bypass the role of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission as expressed by the Constitution,” they said in a joint statement on Friday. They added, “We remind the President and leaders in Kenya that state and public servants only represent 17 per cent of the Kenyan population. Thus attempt to continue advancing disproportionate benefits to them at the expense of other Kenyans must be resisted.” They said that even as the President calls upon youth to take up technical skills and self-employ in the informal sector, the government’s policy choices must be in tandem with this. “Taxes that will fund these pensions are collected by both informal and formal sector, it is unjust to share the benefits with the formal sector only to the detriment of other hard-working Kenyans,” they noted. SRC is the body mandated by the Constitution to set and review the remuneration and benefits of all State Officers. The SRC Act, in Section 11(g), vests on SRC the mandate to make recommendations to the government on the review of pensions payable to current and past holders of public offices. “The Bill is therefore in contravention of Article 230 (4) (a) of the Constitution, as pension is an employment benefit, and therefore falls within the mandate of SRC,” the organisations observed. The organisations said the MPs' move would increase pension payable, trigger a spiral effect to pension payment in public service as well as set a dangerous culture of non-adherence to the principles of the Constitution. There are fears that increase in pension for the MPs is likely to put pressure on government to do the same for the civil servant. “A strengthened public service is the most equitable and sustainable strategy to provide safety nets to Kenyans of all walks of life,” they added. The National Assembly last week approved the Parliamentary Pensions (Amendment) Bill no. 45 of 2019 to confer some 375 ex-lawmakers a monthly pension of at least Sh100,000 for life. The beneficiaries served between 1984 and 2001. However, economy experts and the SRC have warned that the move would set a dangerous precedence over and above its huge implication on the Kenya budget. According to the lobby groups, the reasons advanced by the MPs for enhancing the pension are common to all Kenyans and not a direct result of low pension, rather of perennial disregard by the government to use taxes to strengthen public services. “Indeed, this is a misguided move that seeks to perpetuate the culture of white collar jobs that are limited,” they said. The country's pension wage bill rose from Sh27.9 billion in the financial year 2013-14 to Sh86.7 billion in 2019-2020 and is projected to cross the Sh100 billion mark in the current financial year. Further, the national debt stood at Sh6 trillion as of end December 2019. Over the period 2013 to 2018, interest payments as a share of tax revenue increased from 14 per cent to 26 per cent with any additional expenditure likely to potentially deepen the debt crisis. 