Nairobi doctors have agreed to go back to work after having their plight addressed by both the County Government of Nairobi  and the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. Among the top issues addressed in the return to work formula was promotion of doctors and providence of a comprehensive insurance cover under the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), re-designations among other issues. Addressing the media along City Hall on Wednesday, The Kenya Medical Practitioners , Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Secretary General Thuranira  Kuagiria  said that all their grievances had been met. “On behalf of doctors of Nairobi County, we have called off the strike and we shall resume work immediately and shall continue offering work as normal,” he said. Consultation between the three entities had started on Monday with the County Assembly leadership hosting the meeting at the chambers. The SG stated that NMS had agreed to have every doctor given comprehensive NHIF cover and should reflect starting next month. The medics had decried that their medical cover had not been active since early last month. On promotion, the union had raised concerns that close to 220 doctors had not been promoted for close to five years. The union was expecting the promotion of at least 220 doctors, however  only 187 are said to have received the promotion letters. CPSB acting chairman Thomas Kasoa revealed that of the  187 promoted doctors, 97 belong to the common cadres while the rest are consultants and specialists. SG Thuranira had emphasized that promotion needed to be done not only in one cadre but across the board for those with qualifications. On the delay of salaries, it was agreed that all payments should be done by the fifth of every month. “Failure to get the salaries, we shall strike on the 6th day. And no notice shall be issued,” Thuranira added. Speaking about victimization, KPDMU warned against its officials being oppressed because of standing up for the rights of health workers. Putting the county executive on the spot, the SG  accused it  of editing a return to work formula which was used back in 2017. “ We are used to signing documents but it will not stop us from calling another strike if our grievances are not implemented," Thuranira stated. “Let it be known that we will always fight for what is right for the doctors and that is why we had to strike,”  he added. In addition, NMS Deputy Director General Robinson Thuku urged the doctors  to  offer quality services to residents. “As NMS, we now ask the doctors to play their part and offer quality services to residents,” he said