Joyce Kariuki’s life of crime began with ‘small’ offences and relatively brief sentences. But she was determined. She graduated to more serious crimes and eventually spent 15 years in prison for attempted theft and forging cheques in the names of Ministry of Finance officials. She didn’t turn her back on crime. On Tuesday, 62-year-old Joyce Wairimu Kariuki was sentenced to 35 years in prison for robbery with violence – stealing vehicles, mostly lorries, in Nairobi Nakuru and Mombasa between 2018 and 2019. It was her seventh conviction. She was convicted in Loitoktok law courts, Kajiado county, where she had been arraigned in April last year. The rest of Kariuki’s life will be spent behind bars in all probability. She won’t spend time with her grandchildren, if she has any, but maybe they’ll visit her. She can appeal, though all her previous appeals for other convictions failed. The severity of her sentence was apparently due to her resolutely criminal past and six previous convictions. She served her last sentence of 15 years at Shimo La Tewa GK Prison in Mombasa. According to case records, Kariuki got a three-year sentence on October 16, 2006, in Kilifi, then a two-year sentence on January 10, 2007 in Nyeri. The third was a one-year sentence on November 6, 2007, at Kigumo followed by a two-year sentence on November 20, 2007. In one case, Kariuki was convicted alongside others of stealing cheque leaves and opening an account with Postbank using a fake name, that of a pensioner. They later wrote cheques for about Sh2 million each, forging signatures of Ministry of Finance officials and presenting them to the bank. The police arrested them at the bank in 2003. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations announced on Tuesday that Kariuki had been arraigned at Loitoktok Law Courts on April 23 last year on the charges of robbery with violence. Detectives said they narrowed down their search to her after investigating multiple reports of stolen vehicles. “DCI narrowed down on the suspect around whom the thefts revolved, despite [Kariuki] having been released from the said prison after completing a 15-year jail term,” the DCI said. In 2008, Kariuki tried unsuccessfully to appeal all convictions in a consolidated application before a Mombasa court. "This is a convoluted matter. Convoluted in the sense that the appellant's appeal is purported to be in respect of six (6) different cases from various courts all over the counjtry," Judge M. Muya ruled in dismissing the appeals. (Edited by V. Graham)   