ODM's Nairobi county chairman George Aladwa has clashed with national chair John Mbadi over summonses sent by the latter to MCAs. Mbadi summoned 12 MCAs to appear before the party’s disciplinary organ next Tuesday for allegedly violating the party's constitution. However, Aladwa, who is also the Makadara MP, dismissed the summonses, urging the MCAs to ignore the letters. Those summoned are Wilson Ochola, Maurice Gari, David Mbithi, Cecilia Ayot, Caroline Mayunzu, Hafsa Khalif, Jared Okode, Redson Otieno, Nicholas Okumu, Millicent Okatch, David Okello and Hajj Nimo. “ By this letter, you are hereby summoned to appear before the party’s disciplinary organ sitting at the party headquarters at Chungwa House on Tuesday, August 11, 200 at 9 am to show why disciplinary action should not be taken against you with regard to your violation of the Party Constitution, Code of Conduct, regulations and the law,” reads the letter by Mbadi dated August 4, 2020. The majority of those summoned had appended their signatures to the impeachment motion against Speaker Beatrice Elachi. Aladwa said he was yet to receive any complaint from the party's leadership. “My attention has been drawn to a letter by the National Chairperson of ODM John Mbadi to a number of ODM MCAs from the Nairobi City County assembly to appear before the party leadership and show cause for alleged violation of their party's constitution," he said. The Makadara MP noted that ODM has operational structures for addressing disputes arising from its members, and it was wrong for Mbadi to purportedly make overnight decisions on critical issues, without the input of branch officials. Although aware of the wrangles happening in the assembly, Aladwa said he is also in receipt of many complaints from ODM MCAs over the conduct of Minority Whip Peter Imwatok whom they claim has become a bully, to the extent of disrespecting even their Minority Leader. Aladwa also condemned the misuse of the President’s name, the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and his party leader Raila Odinga to advance personal interests by "emerging cartels". “As a county party chairman, we will not be party to an emerging cartel in the city, with the sole purpose of using our party's leaders name and the NMS to advance personal interests. The disputes at the assembly to my knowledge revolve around interests and it is wrong for some individuals to keep misusing and dragging the name of our party leader, the NMS and the president, every time they are questioned,” Aladwa said. Aladwa urged the summoned MCAs to disregard the letters from Mbadi until such a time when relevant party organs at the branch level have exhausted the matter beyond reproach. He also called upon Mabdi to cancel the 'irregular' summonses or he, together with other delegations and county officials, would storm the meeting next week. According to Mbadi, Imwatok on July 24 wrote a letter of complaint concerning the MCAs. The first letter was written to a section of the legislators, following the return of Jacob Ngwele to occupy the office of the assembly clerk, where some of the MCAs mentioned escorted him to the office.