The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is preparing for the 2022 General Election and advertising for 69 crucial positions, including ICT and Procurement managers. At the top of the list is replacing slain ICT manager Chris Msando who was tortured and murdered days before the 2017 General Election. He held the passords for ICT application systems, including servers. He had publicly declared the system, including for results transmission, was foolproof. No arrests have been made. Last month, former IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe said Msando was "led to the slaughterhouse” by commission insiders. She said she fled to the US for her life and is now working for the United Nations there. Akombe offered to testify in any inquest. The recuitment for all positions will be closely watched by political parties as many holders will be the custodians of the soft copy of the Voters Register, among other documents. The recruitment advertisment for the ICT manager reads: “The role oversees the Information systems security function in the Commission to safeguard information and the infrastructure assets of the Commission by developing and Implementing ICT security strategies and policies ... " It also says the ICT manager will be "advising the Commission and management on ICT security issues as well as carrying out security training and awareness, performing ICT security risk assessment and reviews, handling security incidents, and collaborating and integrating with partners to leverage on the best ICT security services available in the market". The IEBC is also recruiting two ICT assistants for Vihiga and Kwale counties. Another high-profile post to be filled is that of Supply Chain Manager for Procurement. In the run-up to the 2017 polls, there were numerous delays in the procurement of ballot papers for the August 8 polls, forcing the commission to opt for direct procurement, instead of competitive bidding for a printer.  The IEBC's decision to award Dubai-based Al-Ghurair the Sh2.5 billion tender to print ballot papers stirred a political storm. The Opposition Nasa coalition alleged the firm had close ties with the family of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The Procurement Manager will be responsible for ensuring timely procurement of goods, services and works; developing and implementing policies, and administrative systems in line with budgetary allocations in the Commission,” the IEBC advert read. It also has advertised for Supply Chain Assistants in six counties - Garissa, Mandera, Turkana, Samburu, Lamu and Marsabit. The commission is also recruiting a communications and public affairs manager and a communications officer. It is recruiting 19 consitutency administrative assistants. The constituencies are Lafey, Kesses, Malindi, Kasarani, Mwingi Central, Maara, Ikolomani, Kisumu Central, Kilifi South, Limuru and South Imenti. Others are Kipkelion East, Kajiado West, Mwatate, Kilifi North, Daadab, Uriri, Mt Elgon, Webuye West. County assistants will be recruited for Mandera, Turkana, Samburu, Lamu and Marsabit counties. The IEBC has also called for applications for 30 constituency election coordinators. They will be based in Baringo North, Yatta, Kirinyaga Central, Kacheliba, Wundanyi Ugunja, Mvita, Isiolo North, Pokot South, Suna East, Saboti, Rongo and Sigowet-Soin. Others will be deployed to Tigania East, Turkana Central, Sotik, Nambale, Laisamis, Samburu East, Kilgoris, Tetu, Kaiti, Mathioya, Turkana South, Chepalungu, Bura, Kitutu Masaba, Chesumei, Kieni and Mandera West, One administrative coordinator will be based at headquarters. From next year, the IEBC is expected to start the boundaries review and complete it before the 2022 polls. (Edited by V. Graham) 