Migori Governor Okoth Obado personally blogged from prison cells on Monday - before being released on bail - accusing Senator Ochilo Ayacko and other county leaders of planning his impeachment. Obado took to WhatsApp hours before he appeared before Milimani anti-corruption court magistrate Lawrence Mugambi alongside his four children and six other co-accused. The Star has confirmed that ODM has called all its MCAs in Migori to Chungwa House on Tuesday for a "consultative meeting". It is, however, seen as a move to impeach the beleaguered governor. A message from the governor’s official number in The M.R.C Original WhatsApp claimed Ayacko - his political nemesis - was coordinating the impeachment drive together with eight MPs in Migori. The message claimed the MCAs had been roped in. “Senator doing the coordination and bragging that once MCAs do their part, the remainder at the Senate is as good as done,” Obado posted. The message took other members by surprise, with some asking about the authenticity of the post and if Obado was allowed to use his phone while in the cells or one of his aides was using it. Contacted, Ayacko said through a text message that if the post was indeed “his personal post, it should not be dignified with a response.” He  texted: “Gov Obado should not show this level of desperation by attempting to blogging (sic) in person and getting his facts wrong.” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna did not not respond to calls and text messages. Neither did county chairman Philip Makabong’o and county secretary Joseph Olala. Migori assembly speaker Boaz Okoth refused to respond to the matter, only saying he was back in office after one year absence due to sickness. Okoth is a close confidant of Obado. His return to office on the day the governor was receiving bail terms and his refusal to talk about the Tuesday meeting intensified speculation about the impeachment. “Things are okay at the assembly and I am back. There are events happening  that I will not comment about for reasons I know best. Later, we will have to address that,” Okoth told the press. He refused to answer questions. Migori Majority leader and South Sakwa MCA Ken Ngoro confirmed the Tuesday meeting but said it had nothing to do with Obado. “We will have the Tuesday MCAs meeting at the party headquarters and we have already whipped members to attend. The main agenda will be spearheading development in Migori county and not to impeach Obado,” Ngoro told the Star by phone. “We will consult on Migori development and how best to move it forward,” he said. Obado, his children and  the co-accused were released on bail with a raft of strict terms. They were barred from the county office. The governor will be escorted to the office to pick his personal items. He and the co-accused have also been barred from leaving the country. Obado was freed on a Sh8.75 million bail or Sh20 million bond. Son Dan Acholla was freed on Sh2 million bail, daughter Scarlet Susan Sh3 million bail or Sh6 million bond, son Zachary Okoth Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond and daughter Everlyne Adhiambo Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond. Businessman Jared Peter Kwaga was freed on Sh8.25 million bail, Christine Ochola Sh3 million or Sh6 million bond, Joram Otieno Sh5.5 million or Sh10 million bond, Patroba Otieno  Sh6 million or Sh10 million bond, Penina Auma Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond and Carolyne Ochola Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond.