A white man recently claimed to have slept with a number of girls to prove something. Here is my biggest problem with that scenario (I have many by the way). That a white man can come to our land, claim to sleep with different young girls, our daughters, sisters, girlfriends and we (Africans) laugh, jeer and shame the women. According to the stories, he is still walking around our great nation. I think I saw a selfie of him on a boat with some African men. Now I do not know if the story is true, but what is apparent is our negative view of our women. This man obviously misrepresented his intentions when he approached these young women. I doubt he approached them by saying. “Hello, I am carrying out research to see how cheap and loose you are. Would you like to take part?” He obviously lied and connived and now he is spewing nonsense on social media and you are clapping like seals. The person who bewitched you must have already died. We are so quick to label women who thought they were entering a mature and consensual arrangement with a sane man and slow to castigate this deranged fellow. Let us do better by us, please. In as much as we are thinking it is just those women who look bad, those enjoying their shame look and are coonish. Nairobi has become a very tricky place. Everyone is looking to get rich as soon as possible by any means necessary. People are willing to lose their souls and lives over the mighty legal tender. No wonder we do not seem to fear Covid-19. Many live very dangerous lives, crossing others to get the money in order to buy flashy cars and live in expensive apartments, all for show off. I honestly think this pandemic has taught us nothing. It has instead exposed the rot and terrible greed most of us have. What does it profit a man to con people and live like a king for a few days and lose his life, gunned down in cold blood and carried like a carcass? Why do we fear hard work and process? Just work patiently on what is yours, run your own race. There is more satisfaction in being able to walk around this town without looking over your shoulder and being able to sleep peacefully at night. That is the new wealth, I tell you. Also, we really need to start having discussions around gun control. We are headed towards a very dark alley. Then there are the Christians. Please, I do not know if you will get a prize for getting me to heaven. Some time back I had to get my ID card from my wallet and calculate manually how old I am after confirming my date of birth. Listen, you cannot just order me around yawa! Ati, “I hope you pray and when churches open you must take your kids”. I am an adult, I can do what I want and I feel very little for what you hope for. Please write off the prize you were going to get for my soul and focus elsewhere. Thanks. Someone said one of the biggest problems we have as a country is religion. A person steals money, he repents in church and gives very handsomely to the church from his loot and we forgive for it is written. Another one decides to become a gospel artist and another opens a church while another writes a book that ends in salvation. We recycle corrupt leaders under the “these are the leaders God gave us” umbrella and they, in turn, spend their term in office not doing anything for us children of God. It is annoying, to say the least. I want to believe we can do more quality thinking and make better choices. Lastly, for today (I have many more things that drive me up the wall). Married men who have types they date. Dude, I hate to be the one to break it to you. Your type is your wife/wives and you are no longer in the dating pool. I find it so amusing when a married man announces, “I only date tall ladies”. fellyoyuga@gmail.com