The Murang’a county government has contracted three innovative youths from Kiambu to make 100 ICU beds. The beds will be installed in the ICU centre recently established at Murang’a Level 5 Hospital and other major health facilities in the county. The level 5 facility can hold 50 beds but currently has 35. The youths will sell each bed at Sh60,000. Health CEC Joseph Mbai said the three will be instructed to deliver the beds once the team meets all procurement requirements. He spoke on Friday last week after receiving a sample of the beds at the county headquarters. Mbai encouraged more youths to innovate to supply needs. Mungai Gathogo, one of the youths, said they have been working with engineers from Numerical Machining Complex (NMC) to improve the beds to international standards. He said their beds have been certified by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and are ready for mass production. Gathogo said the response from both the county and national governments has been positive. Already, three counties – Kiambu, Lamu and Murang’a – have ordered 100 beds each. The national government had earlier ordered 500 beds worth Sh32 million. The three innovators have engaged 65 youths to work on the orders. They plan to complete the work in 45 days. They will start work on Tuesday. “We will take other youths to the workshop to equip them with the skills so that they can replicate the sample bed on a mass scale,” Gathogo said. The project is a major boost to the manufacturing industry, which is one of the pillars of the government’s Big Four agenda. “Most developed countries have grown through their cottage industries. The Covid-19 pandemic fight is every Kenyans’ fight and presents a chance for people to showcase their abilities,” Gathogo added. He said their innovation will help each county government attain the 300 isolation beds recommended by the national government. Nominated MCA Stephen Chege said the county government will use one of the polytechnics to train welders to make such beds. He said welders trained through the Ufundi Kwa Vijana programme, which has provided free technical skills to over 40,000 youths, will help boost health services delivery in the county. Edited by A.N 