Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has said he will remain politically active after exiting office in 2022. He told residents of Teso South subcounty that he may vie for a political seat after his term as governor expires. The law does not bar governors who complete their terms from contesting other political positions such as senator, MP, Woman Representative and Member of the County Assembly. Ojaamong said he will not leave elective politics because of the experience he has garnered in the last 30 years. The governor spoke during a fundraiser for completion of the priest's residence at St Teresa of Avila Kwangamoru Church. “I am the governor and I have only two years left to leave office. After 2022 when I vacate office and I come back and ask you to give me an office, you promised me that you will support me,” the county chief said. “Where do you expect me to go when I am still energetic and with all this political experience? I will come back and talk to you so that we agree on the direction we will take.” This is not the first time Ojaamong is hinting at his plan to vie for a political seat in 2022. The governor has previously served as MP for Amagoro constituency for two terms between 2002 and 2013, On August 6, 2019, he said he may vie for MP in 2022 although he did not reveal which constituency in Busia. “When I complete my term as governor I can even come back and represent my people in Parliament,” Ojaamong said then. He made the revelation when he commissioned new wards at Kocholya Level IV Hospital in Teso North subcounty. The governor was first elected MP on an ODM party ticket in 2002 when he defeated then MP Albert Ekirapa who before joining politics was chief executive officer of Nation Media Group. Ojaamong was controversially re-elected in the bloody 2007 general polls after which he sailed through during the 2013 elections when he was elected the first governor for Busia county. The county chief hails from Okilidu village in Teso South constituency.  Edited by Henry Makori