The Commission of Administrative Justice has called on government agencies to make public all expenditure of coronavirus funds. On Thursday, the commission that investigates public administration demanded that agencies disclose amounts of money received through government allocations, loans and grants. It called for disclosure of contracts specifying the contractual sum and contract period entered into for the procurement of coronavirus related goods and services. “It should reiterated that the commission takes seriously cases of public officers disobeying their legal obligations, and works closely with relevant agencies to enforce legal and administrative actions to remedy such violations,” commission chair Florence Kajuju said. Revelations that Sh4 million was spent on tea and snacks from the Sh1 billion donated by the World Bank for emergency response elicited angry reactions from many Kenyans. As of April reports indicated that although the approved budget was Sh976.8 million, the Ministry of Heath had spent Sh1.3 billion since the outbreak in mid-March. “Although we have witnessed improved information disclosures, we are concerned with a creeping tendency by some agencies to operate in an opaque manner during this time of the pandemic,” Kajuju said during a press briefing at the Office of Ombudsman offices. The commission called on the Ministry of Health and county governments to provide timely information to the public on the number of quarantine, isolation and treatment facilities available, their capacity and protocols to be followed in admission and periodic occupancy percentages. The country has witnessed reports of hospitals admitting coronavirus patients without disclosure of treatment costs and discharge rules. Amid concerns about reopening of schools, the commission said: “The Ministry of Education being a critical service provider must provide cogent direction and leadership. “The ministry should therefore refrain from making contradictory and incoherent pronouncements on the resumption of learning so as to avoid heightening anxiety among learners, teachers and parents,” Kajuju said. She called on Ministry of education to put in place strategies and infrastructure to facilitate resumption of learning. “Our schools urgently require investment to expand existing facilities and teachers to meaningfully resume learning under the extraordinary times we find ourselves in,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori