Governor Mike Sonko has said he values Nairobians and development a lot more than politics. Speaking at Reuben FM, the governor said he will continue his usual county tours to inspect projects. Sonko said development and putting Nairobians at heart are his main agenda. The governor was accompanied by several MCAs among them Kyalo Mulyungi (Mukuru kwa Njenga), Evans Otiso (Mukuru Kwa Rueben), Wilson Ochola (Utalii Ward), Redson Otieno (Ngei), David Mbithi (Viwandani), among others. Meanwhile, Nairobi MCAs have rallied behind the truce between Sonko and NMS Director General Mohamed Badi. The legislators have expressed optimism that Nairobi will now operate in peace and experience unprecedented progress if the two leaders work together. According to Kariobangi South MCA Robert Mbatia, all that was needed was order and the desire to serve without politics. “Nairobi needs development. We have lost a lot of time fighting and now we have to reduce the politics and take development to the people,” he said. Mbatia said that the newly awaited speaker will help to inject harmony and peace among leaders and consequently enable the two leaders to serve residents without wrangling. Anthony Kiragu of Waithaka ward lauded the truce but said its longevity will depend on consistent adherence to the rule of law by every party playing their role as defined by the Constitution and the deed of transfer of functions. “It is a good start that gives us room to start a realistic conversation that will create understanding and specifically respect for the law,” Kiragu said. Minority whip Peter Imwatok also hailed the move, noting that it is a good sign for the county that everyone can sacrifice their pride and decide to work for the residents. “All we need is honesty and commitment from the Governor and the Director General that they will not turn their back on the promise they have made to Nairobi people,” Imwatok said. Badi and Sonko announced their commitment to work together on Wednesday after attending an event hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta at KICC. Sonko later toured six wards among them Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kayaba and parts of Kariokor.