Death, burial, birth and wedding dates —  all were the same for Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajebe’s daughter Langoni. Langoni Ramadhan Seif Kajembe died of Covid-19 on Thursday night and was buried on Friday, August 20, which was her also birthday and her wedding anniversary. The death and burial dates are the same in the Islamic calendar as a new day starts after 6.30pm. By custom, she was buried within a day of her death. MP Kajembe also died this month of Covid-19. Langoni was the third of the Kajembe family to die of Covid-19 in a month. In five months, the Kajembe family has lost four members, three to Covid-19. Kajambe’s first wife Aziza died of Covid-19 on late July, his second wife Zaharia of another ailment in March. Langoni was the apple of her father’s eye and his ‘heart’. So tight was the bond between father and daughter that the MP gifted her a logistics company bearing her name, in Mombasa’s central business district. She was the Kenya Ports Authority South Coast manager in charge of Shimoni Port. Langoni was born on August 20, 1974, and married on August 20, 2004, at the age of 30. She was the MP’s second born but his first daughter with his wife Aziza. She is survived by her widower, businessman Khamis Mwakizumo, and a son, Said Khamis Mwakizumo, 17. There were claims the husband’s family in Matuga was taken by surprise over her final resting place next to her father, but the family spokesperson said there was no disagreement. “The husband has not disputed the burial place. He has agreed to everything out of the respect for the late MP,” Mabruk Juma Mponda, the family spokesman, said. Langoni was buried next to her father at the family graveyard at Kwa Shee in Mikindani, Changamwe constituency. She was also an events organiser, bringing in Tanzanian Taarab musicians to Mombasa. Langoni had been hospitalised for more than three weeks. “She had fainted at home and first aid was administered before she was taken to hospital. She was put in isolation even before her dad died,” Mponda said. The burial was to take place at 11am, but the family had to wait for protocols to be finalised by health officers in Covid-19 deaths. Kajembe himself died of Covid-19 on August 7, barely two weeks after his first wife Aziza died of the virus. His second wife Zaharia died about four months before Aziza. The family held a press conference after their father’s burial, hitting out at Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for claiming that Kajembe’s son refused to self- isolate after testing positive, thus infecting his parents. They demanded an apology from Kagwe even as the Star confirmed four other siblings, apart from Langoni, had already tested positive. (Edited by V. Graham)