Moments after renewing their contract with Betika yesterday, Sofapaka head coach John Baraza revealed his plan of  shopping at least six players in readiness for the new season. The betting firm which also bankrolls the National Super League will be financing the 2009 league winners for Sh 77 million in the next two years. Last year, the firm which has been sponsoring the club from March 2017, upgraded their deal from Sh 15 million to Sh35 million per year after the initial partnership expired in May. Having gone for the past three months without pay,the financial boost saw Baraza open up on his plan to beef up his squad with six recruits in a bid to end their more than a decade trophy drought. "I am glad the deal has come early. This will give us sufficient time to prepare for the new season regardless of when it shall commence. I am targeting at least six players whom we have already identified and it is just a matter of time before we unveil them.We will equally part ways with an equal number of players. The deal is a motivation for us as we seek to win our second league title," he revealed. During the unveiling at the club's training base at Eastleigh High School, Betika's head of business John Mbatiah said that revamping the deal was engineered by their desire to inspire youths to earn a living out of their talent. The administrator said  with the funds, he expected the team to end Gor Mahia's dominance in the league. "We have come a long way with Sofapaka and our objective is to give hope to the youth and ensure they benefit from their skills. We hope this time round they will be aiming for the trophy  even as we promise to give footballs and uniforms as adds on," he said. Meanwhile, Sofapaka President Elly Kalekwa acknowledged that the deal was timely and promised to gradually clear the outstanding salary arrears. "The deal comes at a time when football is suspended and many players are struggling. We have heaped arrears and we will start to clear them and plan for new season. The sponsor wants our performance to improve and we will double our efforts to quench our thirst for silverware and in line with demands from Betika. We thank them for sticking and walking with us for all those years and hopefully, the partnership will run for long," he said