Food, the one thing we all need to survive and basically can't live without. Different foods play different roles in our bodies hence the reason why we are advisced to try as hard as we can to eat a balanced diet. Life changed drastically after Covid-19 hit the world hard and we have had to change our lifestyles like staying home and avoiding crowded areas. When it comes to food, we have had to switch it up a bit as the economy is not at a good place right now. But who said you can't enjoy a simple meal especially after a long day? Well, here are some simple meals you can easily prepare in minutes; Ugali and Sukuma wiki This is one meal that many of us love and quite the easy option especially after a long day at work or running errands. All you need to do is boil some water, add flour and in less than 5 minutes your ugali is ready. For sukuma wiki (Kales), you only need to chop some onions and tomatoes, let them cook and once ready, you add your sukuma wiki and spices of your choice. This meal prep will not last you more than ten minutes. Noodles Whoever invented noodles is the real one because they are the easiest meal you can make in less than five minutes. Boil water and add some salt, then put in your noodles and let it boil for a few minutes. Once ready, you can choose spices of your liking to give it some taste. Githeri In most Kenyan homes, githeri is prepared way earlier and stored in the fridge for future use. Since the githeri is ready, all you need to do is fry some onions and bell peppers, then add tomatoes and let them cook for a minute. Once ready, add your githeri to the sauce and stir until all the githeri is well coated with the sauce. Finish off by adding spices of your choice then serve with some greens or avocado. Fried rice Do you remember the left over rice from last night? Well, the rice comes in handy especially when you wanna make fried rice. All you need is onions, bell peppers, garlic, ginger and spices. Since your rice is ready, this meal will be ready in less than ten minutes. Chop all your vegetables and fry them in one pot, add your spices and let that cook for at least two minutes or even less depending on what you are using to cook. Once it has boiled, add the cooked rice to the pot and stir then let it cook for two minutes. When ready, serve with kachumbari or avocado or any other preference. Eggs Eggs can be made in so many different ways; you can boil them, fry, make an omelette or even a curry. If you want a curry to have with your rice or chapati or ugali, then egg curry is very simple and quick to make. You only need onions, tomatoes and other ingredients of your choice. Make a sauce from the ingredients then add some spices. After it simmers, add your eggs to the sauce and stir then let it simmer for a minute or so. Once ready, serve with any accompaniment of your choice. You don't have to go an extra mile when it comes to making a meal. These easy meals can save a lot of time. Try them out.