ODM leader Raila Odinga’s meeting at Cotu boss Francis Atwoli’s Kajiado’s home went far beyond talks on the revenue-sharing formula, multiple sources have said. It was Raila’s first public appearance since his return from surgery in Dubai. The former Prime Minister and current AU envoy has been absent from the political scene for several weeks. Anxiety over the delayed Building Bridges Initiative report, expected to call for an expanded Executive, is said to have featured prominently. A referendum would be required to change the Executive structure but that plebiscite appears increasingly unlikely. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, who was among those in attendance on Sunday,  said they discussed the revenue-sharing formula, among other issues. He told the Star their effort was to get Raila to whip ODM senators to support the formula that pegs counties' share of revenue to population size. He said Siaya Senator James Orengo,  Raila’s close confidante and the Senate Minority leader, was charged with bringing the lawmakers together to pass the contentious formula. “We all agreed the formula has to go through on Tuesday,” Kenneth said. The meeting was also attended by Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe and Igembe North MP Maoka Maore. Sources close to the group intimated to the Star that the gathering was not just an ordinary lunch meeting as described by the host. The place of the Building Bridges Initiative in 2022 politics reportedly featured in the meeting. The conversation reportedly went beyond the revenue-sharing formula, which was officially described as the basis of the talks. What sparked curiosity was that the meeting was convened barely days after Orengo publicly cried foul that President Kenyatta was no longer accessible. “We would not be here [deadlocked] if President Uhuru Kenyatta was accessible,” the Siaya senator said in a passionate appeal to unlock the revenue impasse. Murathe, Maore, and Atwoli were not immediately available to comment whether revenue sharing was the dominant theme of the meeting. Sources indicated the group is anxious the BBI process may not yield a national referendum, considering the tight timelines for the vote. The final BBI report, which is ready but has not been presented yet, is expected to call for an expanded Executive. The discussions centred on the challenges of holding a plebiscite between now and December, especially in the face of the Covid-19 effects on the economy. The feeling among the group was that it would not be possible to achieve an expanded Executive without a referendum. “It is turning out there could be no referendum. The proponents are trying to push through amendments where MPs will become ministers. We are looking at what to do if there will be no expanded Executive,” one sources said. Another issue at the meeting was said to be how to incorporate Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and President Kenyatta’s interests in the resultant line-up should the BBI fail. In what appeared to confirm the suggestions, Kenneth’s handlers said their boss’s presence was part of his attempt “to see how he can solidify his support in Mt Kenya for 2022 negotiations". They said Kenneth has been trying to put his house in order for the next election, whatever role he might play. “He is trying to be the [Mt Kenya] kingpin and also expanding his network across the country,” Kenneth’s personal assistant Evans Kipkoech said. The former Gatanga MP is therefore bidding for a post in the expanded BBI Executive should it materialise, or aiming to be a running mate of any prospective candidate. Kipkoech said since it is not clear how the Covid-19 situation would go, the two options are on the table. “We cannot say that the leaders reached a conclusive arrangement. Kenneth is keen on reaching out to all corners of the country to gain support. He is making inroads in the Rift Valley as well,” his PA said. Political observers restated that Kenneth’s presence at the meeting had everything to do with Raila’s bid to get a political force to consolidate the Mt Kenya vote. The prospects for Raila gaining the Mt Kenya vote, which the ODM leader has hinged on his handshake with Uhuru, is seriously threatened by Deputy President William Ruto's inroads in the region. “There has been intense lobbying among those seeking to attract Raila’s eye in the 2022 race. Kenneth is just seeking relevance, hence, his attendance at the meeting,” political analyst Martin Andati said. He said Kenneth’s effort may be futile as the front-runners in Mt Kenya at the moment are Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. Andati agreed the leaders could have met as a result of panic around the delayed BBI process and unlikely referendum since many of them had anticipated to benefit from positions in 2022. (Edited by V. Graham) 