Counties in the North Rift owe more than Sh7 billion in pending bills, following disruptions and lack of revenue collection due to Covid-19. The validity of some bills has been disputed. Many bill could increase following the suspension of mega projects in the past four months due to the pandemic. The Controller of Budget and Auditor General indicate most counties were yet to clear their bills by June. Turkana owes the most, Sh4.5 billion; West Pokot owes Sh1.5 billion. Trans Nzoia owes Sh420 million, Elgeyo Marakwet Sh97 milion, Uasin Gishu 97 million and Baringo Sh24 million. The eight counties in the North Rift Economic Bloc have incurred huge losses during the pandemic, as they have not been able to collect more than 50 per cent of taxes, charges and levies. Staff in most counties have been ordered back to work, except for those who are older and vulnerable to Covid-19, so collections and other operations can resume as normal. “We are working on economic recovery strategies to help us resume normal operations as we also ensure residents adhere to Covid-19 control measures," Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. He is the Noreb chairman. Mandago said counties will introduce economic stimulus packages to support key sectors hit by the pandemic. Nandi has paid Sh942 million bills that had been outstanding for more than three years. The county had Sh1.44 billion arrears. It complied with the Treasury requirement to clear all approved bills - the Sh942 million. Governor Stephen Sang says all the approved 2019-20  bills were cleared and the county was running smoothly. “We have paid all eligible bills, what remain are a few ineligible bills that must be cleared and approved by the Auditor General. We will pay once they are approved," he said. The inelegible bills to be paid amount to Sh505 million, he said. Sang told the Star the pending bills had affected county operations. All was runing smoothly, given the Covid-19 situation, he said. Goverors expect the pandemic to have long-lasting effects but say there's hope of recovery in most sectors starting next year. (Edited by V. Graham)