Interior CS Fred Matiangi is in Nyamira County where he is expected to hold a series of meetings in the county. The CS on Monday held a meeting with the Governor John Nyagarama and later with the County Commissioner Amos Mariba. Matiangi is later expected to meet MCAs after which he will hold a security meeting with the chiefs . The CS was accompanied by woman representative Jerusha Momanyi, Senator Okongo Omogeni, Speaker Moffat Teya County Commissioner Amos Mariba and a number of Members of Nyamira County Assembly. Other leaders present were Moses Nyakiongora, Nyamira County Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo, Youth leader Brian Mamboleo and the Nyamira County security team led by County Commissioner Amos Mariba. The CS will also later have a security meeting with chiefs and their assistants at Kebirigo High School in Kebirigo town. While addressing the public outside the county commissioner's office, the CS called for cooperation so that the county and the region can progress in terms of development. "We must say that cooperation is the key for us to move forward as a region. Its therefore our duty to respect our leaders whom we have given the responsibility to lead us," Matiang'i said. He said his tour was specifically for security reasons and to get updates on the development of the region. Senator Okong'o Omogeni said the region will continue rallying behind the CS in anything he does. "We have to say the truth. Let us respect our own son so that he can also be respected elsewhere as he is respected now," the senator said. Woman representative Jerusha Momanyi called for support of the CS from the region even after 2022, where she said the CS has done a lot in the country and deserved a thumb up from the region and the entire country. "We have seen what the CS has done for the country since he was given the docket by the President.Let us support him from now until 2022 and beyond.He is our son and we need to do everything possible to have him more than what he is today," the woman representative said. Governor Nyagarama on his side said the CS has done more for the Gusii region and hence required all the support from the residents of Kisii and Nyamira counties. The CS tour comes barely two weeks after it was postponed/ Matiangi is also expected to tour a number of projects in the county. This is the first meeting by the CS after they were given a 11-day leave by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The media was barred from accessing the county assembly chambers where the CS was addressing the MCA's and security bosses.