More than 12,000 homesteads from Kahuro subcounty in Murang’a will benefit from a Sh700 million water project funded by the national government. The Ichichi-Makomboki project will draw water from Karurumo area in Kangema and channel it to Mugoiri ward. Kahatia Water and Sanitation Company (Kawasco) general manager Ephantus Kamau said the project will boost water supply in its areas of operation and help expand connections. The company already supplies over 12,000 homes with water and the project will double its coverage. The project is one of the many being implemented in the county by the national government in a bid to increase water connectivity. In March this year, Water principal secretary Joseph Wairagu said the ministry had managed to increase water connections from 36 per cent in 2018 to about 60 per cent. He said that the government was in the process of implementing water projects worth Sh6.2 billion. They include the Sh2.4 billion Ithanga irrigation water project, Sh1.2 billion Kenol water supply and sewerage project, Sh800 million Maragua 4 dam and Sh250 million Gatango water project that will connect over 60,000 homes in Mathioya, Kiharu and Maragua subcounties. The general manager however appealed to locals to ensure they report those connecting their homes illegally as they push water charges up. “A fine of Sh15,000 is imposed on those found with illegal connections as a way of discouraging such activities but we are asking locals to help us stem them and reduce our losses,” he said. The company loses at least Sh198,000 to illegal connections every year, he said. Kamau spoke at Murarandia area where the company has connected water for free to 62 year-old Susan Wanjijku who is disabled. The company will also waive water bills under six units of water used. Wanjiku had her home reconstructed by a well-wisher in June after a motorist veered off the road and hit one side of her house. Even after pledging to help repair the house, the motorist who was well known to her disappeared, leaving her sleeping in the cold. It is until a neighbour took a video of Wanjiku’s damaged house and posted it on social media that Karanja Mburu Wamatangi came in and built her a new house. Wanjiku lived a normal life until a few years ago when her limbs grew weak and confined her to a wheelchair, making her dependent on her son who does casual work. The general manager noted that the availability of tap water had made it possible for a modern toilet to be constructed inside Wanjiku’s new house as the terrain of her compound made it hard to access a pit latrine. He pointed out that the company has made free water connections to over 50 homes during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have also lowered our connection fees from Sh5,000 to Sh2,000 so that more people can take advantage of the heavy infrastructure established by the government in our area,” Kamau said. 