Tanzania’s Vodacom Premier League is better than the Kenyan Premier League, according to Biashara United coach Francis Baraza. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, the former international said: “It’s a difficult question but the Tanzanian league is better than ours. It has sponsors and it’s run professionally. We should learn something from Tanzania if we want to grow our game.” The former defender added that Tanzanians support their teams. “The stadiums are always full and the fans are passionate about their teams. It’s not just during the derby between bitter rivals Simba and Yanga but most teams enjoy fanatical support," he said. "In Kenya, you can count the number of attending KPL games involving top teams,” noted the Baraza, who previously coached defunct Sony, Chemelil, Muhoroni Youth, Western Stima and Tusker. In Tanzania, he said, club officials give technical benches a free hand. “Here, everybody minds their own business. You don’t get club officials dictating you on what do but in Kenya, some officials who have little knowledge on the game want dictate to coaches even on fielding of players and substitutions,” noted Baraza. “The Vodacom Premier League is sponsored by Vodacom, KCB and Azam TV. This means that clubs get money to supplement their other sources of income to pay players and technical bench.” Baraza, who is assisted by former teammate Marwa Chamberi guided the Mwanza-based side from 17 on the log in November last year to finish ninth. The tactician is keen to strengthen the team by signing at least 10 players. “Tanzania is vast and sometimes you travel for up to two days for away matches. You need bench power because of fatigue. I have already identified some Kenyans and Ugandans to bolster the team,” he noted, adding that they have already started pre-season ahead of the 2020-2021 season. “My target next season is to improve by just a step. This is a very competitive and tough league,” he said. He said the only way Kenya’s game would improve is to end incessant wrangles and politics. “Sponsors will continue shying away if we continue politicking. Let us keep politics out of the beautiful game,” he said. Baraza also appealed to football stakeholders and those angling for seats in the Football Kenya Federation elections to agree on the road map instead of engaging in unnecessary politics which will at the end of the day affect the game.