The power wars in the troubled Nairobi City County are now threatening to split former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM party. The fresh implosion in the Orange party has ODM chairman John Mbadi on one hand and Nairobi County party chairman George Aladwa who is also the Makadara MP on the other hand. It all started with summons issued by Mbadi on Tuesday to 12 MCAs to show cause why disciplinary should not be taken against them for defying the party’s position during the recent recruitment of the Clerk of the Assembly. Apart from disregarding the party's stand  in the Clerk's recruitment, majority of those summoned had appended their signatures to the impeachment motion against Speaker Beatrice Elachi. The legislators include Wilson Ochola, Maurice Gari, David Mbithi, Cecilia Ayot, Caroline Mayunzu, Hafsa Khalif, Jared Okode, Redson Otieno, Nicholas Okumu, Millicent Okatch, David Okello and Hajj Nimo. Mbadi’s move appear to have rubbed Aladwa the wrong way and in retaliation, the Makadara lawmaker directed the affected MCAs to defy Mbadi’s summon and told the Suba North lawmaker to either withdraw the summons or they storm the disciplinary meeting scheduled for Tuesday next week. “Whereas the party had directed the minority leadership to ensure the process was done in keeping with the ideals of fairness, justice and meritocracy, you actively participated towards defeating this position,” read part of Mbadi’s letter dated August 4. “You are hereby summoned to appear before the party’s disciplinary organ sitting at the party headquarters at Chungwa House on Tuesday 11th august 2020 at 9 am to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against you with regard to your violation of the party Constitution, Code of Conduct, regulations and the law.” The letter was addressed to David Mbithi (Ziwandanii ward) But Aladwa in a swift rejoinder to Mbadi’s summons accused the ODM chairman of insubordination claiming that as the County party chairman his input was not sought as required before coming up with the summons. The Makadara MP told Mbadi to withdraw his summonses threatening ‘that any act that demeans our (County) leadership will be dealt with unapologetically’. “I therefore call upon the summoned members to disregard the letter from Hon Mbadi until such a time when relevant party organs at the branch level have exhausted the matter beyond reproach,” Aladwa said. “We are asking Hon Mbadi to cancel the irregular summons lest the county officials and delegates storm the meeting.” Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Mbadi maintained the Tuesday disciplinary meeting is on adding that the party will be tough on any one promoting rogue behaviour to disrupt the session. “I appreciate his concern but this matter was referred to me, we have handled so many disciplinary organs without consulting the county offices. Matters discipline is residence in the national office and with the national chairman within the party’s constitution. He would have written to me and he would have gotten our explanation,” Mbadi said. The Suba South lawmaker warned that the party will not tolerate any acts of hooliganism or attempt to storm the meeting. He added, “Our party officials need some discipline they are stretching this idea of disrupting meetings. Who tells them they cannot be listened to if they forward their complains in the right manner?” Minority Whip Peter Imwatok on July 24 wrote a letter of complaint concerning the MCAs. The first letter was written to a section of the legislators, following the return of Jacob Ngwele to occupy the office of the assembly clerk, where some of the MCAs mentioned escorted him to the office. Aladwa also raised concerns with the constant dragging of President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and ODM party leader Raila Odinga to advance personal interests by "emerging cartels" at the City hall. “As a county party chairman, we will not be party to an emerging cartel in the city, with the sole purpose of using our party's leaders name and the NMS to advance personal interests. The disputes at the assembly to my knowledge revolve around interests and it is wrong for some individuals to keep misusing and dragging the name of our party leader, the NMS and the president, every time they are questioned,” Aladwa said.