Construction of the Sh25 billion Koru Soin dam will start soon, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has said. The dam will be located in Kisumu and Kericho counties on River Nyando. Wamalwa said the multipurpose dam will control perennial flooding of the river. Speaking in Nyando subcounty, Kisumu, the CS said the dam will be used to increase rice production and other crops in the area. The tender for construction was advertised in newspapers on August 18. “I am happy to come back here today to confirm to you - and my sister [Water] CS Sicily Kariuki will also come here soon to also confirm - that the journey towards construction of the Koru Soin dam has started," he said. The government advertised the tender afresh after claims that bidders failed to meet the minimum standards. The first advert was done in July, with eligible firms invited to submit their bids by July 20. In the August advert placed by the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority, interested parties have 30 days to make their submission. Parties were cautioned that those who will quote above the estimated budget will be declared non-responsive. The tender placed by acting CEO Sharon Obonyo said bids must be accompanied by a tender security of Sh200 million from a reputable bank approved by the Central Bank of Kenya. The bids will be opened on September 18 at 9.30am. Once the process is concluded, the site will be handed over to the contractor to start work. Authority chairman Eric Okeyo said they will acquire about 2,500 acres for the dam. About Sh2 billion will be spent on compensation for land. Okeyo said part of the money will be released by the National Treasury. The rest will come from a supplementary budget in October. “The construction will take about five years, including  compensation, but before we start we shall hold a public consultation in two weeks’ time,” he said. Koru Soin dam is among the Vision 2030 flagship projects. Others include Maruba dam in Machakos and Siyoi Muruny in West Pokot. The dam was started in 1982 by the Italian government and taken over by NWCPC in 2009. The need to control the floods caused by the river was arrived at after a study. Flooding on lower Kano plains displaces about 5,000 people annually. The dam will also supply water for domestic, commercial and institutional use. The city of Kisumu and the emerging towns of Ahero, Chemilil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Koru, Awasi, Koitaburot, Katito, Masogo and Ombeyi will be the major beneficiaries. The current water supply for Kisumu and its satellite towns is approximately 18,000 cubic meters per day against a demand of approximately 66,000 cubic meters. The dam is expected to provide additional water supply of approximately 71,279 cubic meters a day to a population of 1.7 million people. This will supplement existing schemes and be sufficient for the next 20 years, according to the experts. The other benefits include expansion of irrigation schemes in and around Ahero and West Kano from 4,448 acres to 13,270 acres and power generation of approximately 2.5MW. Edited by Henry Makori