A protracted boundary tussle over Wusumbu ranch in Taita Taveta county has escalated further, with neighbouring residents advancing inside the ranch. The residents of Kasighau, Voi subcounty, claim a share of the vast ranch. They have started allocating themselves pieces of land inside the ranch, raising the spectre of clashes. The battle over the ownership of the 36,000-acre ranch has seen the ranch management lose property worth Sh15 million since October last year. The Kasighau community terms the ranch their ancestral land, while Wushumbu ranch claims to have genuine ownership documents. The ranch was registered in 1973. Ranch chairman Jimmy Mwamidi says authorities have turned a deaf ear on the wrangle, citing possible incitement by land cartels and powerful politicians. “We have coexisted well with the Kasighau community since this ranch was established over four decades ago. Recently, some people have been incited to derail our projects and destroy property,” Mwamidi told the Star in an interview. The tussle exploded on October 14 last year, when a group of youth armed with crude weapons invaded the ranch, taking with them 92 head of cattle. The cattle, Mwamidi said, have since then gone missing and have never been recovered, despite the matter being reporting to police. “This was a big blow to our operations. We recorded statements with police and identified the chief perpetrators of the attack, who are known people, but they have never been brought to book,” he said. Last month, the ranch was attacked again by the youth and its over Sh3 million solar-powered water pump vandalised. Other structures were also vandalised and workers assaulted. “The matter was reported to the police under OB number 25/26/07/2020. Again, nobody has been arrested,” Mwamidi said. The ranch owners are now seeking the intervention of Inspector General of Police Hilarry Mutyambai, DPP Nordin Hajji and Interior CS Fred Matingi to avert possible community clashes. James Mwang’ombe, the ranch secretary, said if unresolved, the tussle might trigger conflict within the community and other ranches in the county. Sources say the fierce fight might have been triggered by the ranch’s proximity to the Bachuma Livestock Export Processing Zone (LEPZ). The project is set to unlock the country’s entry into the international livestock and beef market. If operationalised, neighbouring ranches will boast of holding and fattening grounds for livestock before they are exported. Besides livestock keeping, Bachuma is gearing to undertake beekeeping, hay and sorghum farming. It also serves as a wildlife corridor between the Tsavo East and West national parks. “All our big projects have been derailed by the tussle, where we are targeting to offer solutions to the perennial food insecurity in this community,” James said.