Jubilee MCAs were on Thursday sent a message instructing them to report to the party's headquarters in Pangani at 1.45pm, from where they will be expected to vote for speaker. The message sent to the MCAs by Majority Whip Paul Kados read, "As we wait for further communication kindly be informed that ALL JUBILEE MEMBERS except the leadership will be expected to report at the Party Headquarters tomorrow Friday at 1.45pm. Virtual voting will take place from the same venue. Registration will be done at the main entrance." Earlier on Thursday, secretary general Raphael Tuju met MCAs at the  headquarters and announced that the party would be supporting former Makadara MP Benson Mutura's candidature. On why MCAs were told to report to the headquarters, deputy Majority Whip Waithera Chege told the Star that Jubilee had unfinished business. “Tomorrow morning Jubilee MCAs shall be having our in house meeting as agreed and since we might finish late we saw it best to vote from the headquarters to avoid wastage of time,” she said. Waithera also noted that former Speaker Beatrice Elachi had suspended physical sittings in the assembly and it will remain that way until the new speaker rules otherwise. Meanwhile, deputy assembly Speaker John Kamangu sent out a memo saying the  elections will be conducted virtually. This is said to be  in compliance with the Ministry of Health guidelines and directives issued by the Head of Public Service. “However, in compliance with the Ministry of Health guidelines and directives issued by the Head of Public Service vide letter Ref.OP/CAB.26/1/3A. dated July 20, 2020, and a previous communication by aforementioned sitting shall be held virtually,” reads an internal memo. “Members desiring to join the virtual sittings shall strictly log in using their email and official means as gazetted. The Standing Orders shall be applied in the manner they are applied during a physical,” reads the memo. The members who will be allowed in the chamber include The Leader of Majority and Minority with their deputies, Majority Whip and Minority Whips with their deputies, and two members of the board. According to the memo, MCAs desiring to join the virtual sittings shall strictly log in using their email and official names as gazetted. Internet bundles shall be provided by the Office of the Clerk and Members are encouraged to login from places with stable internet. The Standing Orders shall be applied in the manner they are applied during a physical meeting. Voting shall strictly be electronic using the features provided for in the Zoom platform. Members shall ensure that their background is calm to avoid disruptions of the proceedings. It is encouraged that members use still images as their background. “Members shall follow and participate in plenary proceedings virtually except the following who will be allowed in the Chamber for purposes of seamless transaction of business,” reads the memo. On July 2o, then Speaker Beatrice Elachi announced that the decision of the  county assembly plenary sittings to go virtual was arrived at during a special meeting of the County Assembly Board on how to implement Covid-19 guidelines. 