A section of senators on Wednesday criticised the move taken by the Senate's Security Committee to bar media from covering the grilling of Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. The sentiments come after journalists were kicked out of the committee’s meeting convened to find out the reasons behind the dramatic arrest of three senators on Monday. The CS was accompanied by Police IG Hillary Mutyambai in the meeting that started at 10 am. Journalists who had arrived in Parliament were ordered out by the chairman of the National Security Committee Yusuf Haji. "What are you doing here. I don't remember inviting you here. Go back we will call you back later," Haji told journalists Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior said the grilling should have been made in public for Kenyans to know why the three senators were arrested. “I disagree with the decision of the Senate Committee on security barring media from the grilling of the CS Interior, IG Mutyambai and DCI Kinoti on the unlawful arrest and detention of Senators Malala, Lelegwe and Lang’at. The public has a right to know,” Mutula said via Twitter. His Nandi counterpart Samson Cheragei said that the decision by the committee to kick out media is “retrogressive and illegal." Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen questioned the decision taken by the committee to kick out journalists. "If the committee cannot stand up for colleagues, the institution of Senate and democracy, then Something is really rotten in the state of Kenya," Murkomen said. The senators' lawyer and LSK President Nelson Havi said the move was taking the country back to the 'dark old days'. ".....The return to Kanu's despotic rule Ten Years after promulgation of The Constitution of Kenya and Liberation Speaker Honourable Kenneth Otiato Marende having allowed live broadcast of proceedings of Parliament as well as of its Committees," he said. Matiang'i and Mutyambai are expected to explain why Christopher Lang'at (Bomet), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), and Steve Lelegwe of Samburu were arrested the same day when the senate was to decide on the country revenue sharing formula.