A Senate mediation team on the controversial third basis revenue sharing among counties has promised a "white smoke" ahead of the expected special sitting next week. The 12 senators have been burning the midnight oil seeking a compromise on the disputed formula that has split the lawmakers down the middle. The legislators have failed to reach a deal on the formula in nine sittings with the warring camps maintaining hardline stances. Since their appointment on Monday, the senators have been meeting on a daily basis –  mornings and afternoons – in a race against time to save counties from a cash crisis. “We are going on with the negotiations. We have been meeting every day and the progress is good,” Nairobi's Johnson Sakaja said. He and Bungoma’s Moses Wetang'ula are the co-chairpersons. Sakaja did not divulge much of the negotiations but said the committee will pronounce itself once a deal is reached. Committee sources disclosed that the team has deliberated on the amendments fronted by various senators to the disputed Finance and Budget Committee formula. The sponsors of the amendments have already defended their proposals before the panel formed after a protracted standoff marred by bribery and intimation allegations and arrests. “We looking at how we can improve the proposals that we have on the table. We feel some of them are good enough and we just need slight improvement,” a committee member said. The committee formula has been at the centre of the bitter clash as a section of the lawmakers opposes it because it cuts allocations to 18 counties by Sh17 billion. The losing counties are mainly from the less populous regions of Coast, Northeastern, lower Eastern, Rift Valley and Nyanza. Their senators have opposed the formula and won the hearts of at least six other lawmakers from the other camp. Senators Sakaja, Petronilla Were (nominated), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu), James Orengo (Siaya) and Mithika Linturi (Meru) have all fronted amendments to the formula. Sakaja had proposed that the Sh316.5 billion allocated to the counties in the 2020-21 budget be shared equally (set as the baseline). Any extra allocation should be shared based on the parameters such as population, land mass, agriculture and health. Linturi amended Sakaja’s proposal, reducing the baseline from Sh316.5 billion to Sh270 billion with the remaining Sh46.5 billion shared according to the parameters. Wamatangi wants the baseline scrapped and the entire Sh316.5 billion shared based on the parameters. On her part, Were is pushing for the adoption of a proposal fronted by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. However, she wants the status quo to remain until such a time the counties will be allocated Sh348 billion. The proposal has the backing of the Council of Governors. Besides Sakaja and Wetang'ula, other members of the mediation committee are Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni), Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Ledama Olekina (Narok) and Steward Madzayo (Kilifi). The rest are Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Anuar Loitiptip (Lamu), Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Susan Kihika (Nakuru) and John Kinyua (Laikipia).  - mwaniki fm