Detectives on Saturday morning arrested a man suspected to have been involved in the fatal shooting of a 28-year-old businessman at Galana Suites in Kilimani. Robert Bodo was arrested and a mini Ceska firearm with 13 rounds of ammunition suspected to have been used in the shooting was recovered, DCI said in a tweet. The firearm, which has been kept as an exhibit, will be subjected to ballistic analysis as further investigations ensue to unravel the motive of the shooting. The businessman - Kevin Omwenga - is said to have been shot over a business deal went wrong. The killing was reported to the police by Wycliff Omwenga, his brother. Wycliffe reported that he was in the company of Kevin, Bodo and two other men and a woman. He said, while in the kitchen preparing supper, he heard a gunshot sound coming from Kevin's bedroom where he was with Bodo. On rushing there, he found Bodo in a hurry to leave. On entering the bedroom, he found Kevin lying on his back with blood oozing from his chest. He rushed him to Nairobi Women's Hospital Adams branch, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Wycliffe said Bodo joined them later at the hospital and they all proceeded to Kilimani Police Station. Officers from Kilimani Police Station and DCI Kilimani arrested Bodo, who led them to Senteu Plaza which is adjacent to Galana Suites where a Mini Ceska firearm s/no B156623 with 13 rounds of ammunition all in the magazine were recovered. It was found kept in a safe in an office which was alleged to belong to one Chris Obure who is also suspected to be the owner of the firearm. Later the scene of the incident was visited and processed by Crime Scene Support Services personnel. At the scene, a bullet head and empty cartridge of 9mm were recovered. The body of the deceased was taken to Montezuma mortuary pending a postmortem. The killing comes barely a month after a woman was found dead outside a Kilimani flat - Santonio flat. Sheila Njeri’s body was lying near a flower bed and had injuries on the back and bruises on the waist. Blood oozed from the nose and her clothes were torn. Preliminary investigations showed that the woman and some people, the suspects included, had been drinking and having fun in a house - No B03. The suspects, Shem Ng’eno, Christine Awour and Claire Chepkoech were all released on Sh100,000 bond or Sh50,000 cash bail each. Investigating officer Joseph Nderitu had told the court that police had obtained samples from Ng'eno’s DNA and that they were under examination at the Government Chemist. The suspects gave contradictory statements when questioned on Njeri’s whereabouts. The case will be mentioned on August 28. 