Growing up, I remember like it was yesterday, games were the one thing that kept us sane. Many were not privileged to grow up with video games so we had to recreate different games and the games made us really happy. In this era, a number of children have Play Stations and XBoxs But what exactly happened? Well, technology happened and most kids are aware of the tech we have and most are glued to the TV or their phones (how most of us wish we had phones back in the day). I once tried to teach my nephew a game we played while growing up (Bano), and he literally told me "This is so hard and boring. Can I go back to the house and play video games?" After that conversation, it hit me that today's children will never understand the games we played. So what games did we play a long time ago and would want the kids of today to learn? Well, let's get started. Do you remember Bano? So, this was a game we played using pebbles. We would use our fingers to push the pebble to a hole that was dug on the ground and when the pebble gets into the hole, that's a point for you. This game game really made us catch feelings especially when you lose to your opponent. Blada Now this game was quite exciting. We used to tie slim rubber bands especially from a car tyre. We would tie small strands together then one person would put the strand on their waist and on the other side someone would still do the same. Then there would be someone at the middle trying to make moves with the tyre strips. So every team would count how many times their team member did a right move. It was a really interesting game. Ball ya makaratasi This was a game that boys really loved. So this was a ball that was made out of recycled paper bags. Boys would collect paper bags and make circles with a either sisal ropes or rubber bands then form a ball. With these games, boys would form teams, (always made teams with their friends) then start a mini football tournament that would last for hours. The game always ended up in tears especially for the losing team. Basically, it was a football match but using a fake foot ball. Brikicho (Hide and Seek) This game is common in many homesteads. We would choose one person to close their eyes then count till 10 or the number everyone decided on, then everyone would go hide. Then this kid would go looking for the other kids who are hiding and when the kid spots the person hiding, that's a point for them. It was always exciting because looking for a hiding place was very therapeutic. Cha mama na cha baba (Playing mummy and daddy) Now, this game was beyond explanation. Kids would pretend to be a mother, father and child then they would make an imaginary homestead. The girl would pretend to cook (using a fake jiko) and the boy would pretend to be the man of the house. Then there was a baby who would constantly bug the parents, wanting to play games outside or want to know what the parents were talking about. More like a nosy kid. Skipping rope This was a game played mostly by girls. Girls would look for a skipping rope then form teams. One person would hold the rope on one end and the other person on the other end. Then they would role it with one person at the middle skipping the rope. Their was always a price for the winning team. But it was quite dusty at the end of the game because most kids would play on soil grounds. These are just but  few games we played while growing up, games that kids in this era will never understand the joy.