More people may be displaced by rising lake waters along the Great Rift Valley. At least 30,000 have already been driven out of their homes by severe flooding near Lake Baringo, caused by unusually heavy rains that began this month. In its latest seven-day forecast, the Meteorological Department says those rains will continue. Met director Stella Aura says the rains have been increasing since August 3 and there is a strong possibility the same pattern will persist this week, especially in the Rift Valley. "The highlands west of the Rift Valley, the Lake Victoria basin, the central and south Rift Valley and the northwest are likely to continue receiving rainfall," she said. "A few areas in the highlands east of the Rift Valley and the coastal strip may also receive occasional rains." Aura said the weather station at the Kabarnet DC’s office in Baringo county recorded the highest seven-day total rainfall in Kenya last week. The 10 wettest stations in Kenya were all in the Rift Valley. Lake Baringo is part of the Rift Valley system of shallow and interlinked lakes. The others are Lake Nakuru, Lake Elementaita, and Lake Bogoria. By Monday, the freshwater Lake Baringo had flooded three to seven kilometres beyond its shores and there was fear it could be contaminated by the saline Lake Bogoria, which is less than 20km away. According to the forecast, the Lake Victoria basin in Western Kenya will also be wet. Aura said the mornings are likely to be sunny although a few areas may receive occasional rains. "Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over several places throughout the forecast period," she said. The Mt Kenya region, including Nairobi, is likely to be cool and cloudy with a possibility of light rains over a few places. At the Coast, morning and early afternoon showers are likely to occur over a few places. "The rest of the days are likely to be sunny. Nights are likely to be partly cloudy although occasional showers may occur over a few places," she said. Northeastern Kenya is likely to be sunny during the day and partly cloudy at night. Currently, thousands of displaced people around the Rift Valley are in dire need of items such as clothes, tents, utensils and drugs to cushion them from the natural calamity. Water Rescue and Safety International chairman Joshua Chepsergon said the situation is getting out of hand. He noted the attractive tourists’ privately-owned multi-million hotels around Lake Baringo, like Soi Safari Lodge, Lake Breeze, Desert Rose Camp and Block Hotel, are all submerged, putting the county at risk of losing millions of revenue. Chepsergon listed other disintegrated premises in Kampi ya Samaki like Fish Factory, Childcare and the Ministry of Fisheries offices, and Anglican Church of Kenya. Furthermore, River Perkerra and El’Molo which feed water to the lake have also burst and changed their courses, escalating the floods. The situation is largely attributed to the choking by overgrown Prosopis Juliflora (Mathenge) weed. The most affected families are those living in Loruk, Ng’enyin, Komolion, Sintaan, Sandai, Lorobil, Ng’ambo, Ilng’arua, Loboi, Leswa, Nosukro and Lebunyaki and some shallow islands inside the lake. (edited by o. owino)