The Law Society of Kenya and Amnesty International Kenya are opposed to the push by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to amend the Constitution. To them, this is the time to fully enforce the supreme law and not to amend it. LSK president Nelson Havi and Amnesty International chair Renee Ngamau spoke during celebrations to mark the 10 anniversary of the Constitution. On his part, Raila asked Kenyans to acknowledge the failures of the Constitution and where it has not worked. “It is the wrong time to become defensive and proffer positions that do not give Kenyans practical solutions but rather seek to find fault and place blame,” Raila said. The opposition leader said the document was crafted after many years of push and pull, marked by violent confrontations. He appealed to Kenyans to embrace one another and seek consensus rather than conquest. “We must discuss the current challenges in that same spirit of engagement and consultation, not discord and confrontation,” said the former Prime Minister. On Wednesday, President Kenyatta said the time had come for Kenyans to review the Constitution and warned against rigidity. “We adopted it with a promise in future to make it better,” he said. LSK and AI (Kenya) leaders accused the Executive of finding the Constitution an inconvenience. They said Kenyans should be worried when the President is the one leading the clamour for a constitutional amendment. “We should be very worried when a President who has less than two years in office demands that we amend the Constitution,” Havi said. He, however, concurred that there is a need to amend the Constitution but that Uhuru and Raila should not be entrusted with that responsibility. “We can’t entrust the amendment of the Constitution to these two individuals. We do not like these two individuals. They will defile the Constitution more than they have in the last eight years,” he said. Ngamau took issue with the President’s remark that the Constitution is work in progress. “That suggests that, 10 years later, we’re still in draft format. Why is the Constitution up for amendment? I suspect it is re-consolidation of powers to power-bearers,” she said. According to Ngamau, the Constitution as a document cannot be blamed for inaction. “The argument for amendment of the Constitution is like arguing that because your child is stealing sugar, you hide the sugar. No, you stop the behaviour.” Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot said there is a need to review the Constitution to strengthen it. “There is also a need for Kenyans to pick leaders who truly believe in the Constitution,” Aukot said. He added, “For you to implement any constitution anywhere in the world, you must respect it, protect it and uphold it. This regime does not respect the Constitution. The President violated it by appointing politicians to the Cabinet.” Havi said the Constitution has fared well except for a few problems he blamed on elected and appointed leaders.  - mwaniki fm