Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has reached out ODM party leader Raila Odinga and Chief Justice David Maraga to step in to help resolve leadership wrangles in the county. In a statement on Thursday afternoon, Sonko who is in territorial wars with Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss Mohammed Badi, accused "dark forces in the system " for causing disharmony. "My humble appeal now goes to the Honourable Chief Justice, the Senate and Hon. Raila Odinga as great defenders of devolution in this country, we need your urgent intervention and rich wisdom in this crisis, before the county cripples down and is taken away by selfish individuals," he said. Sonko said, "The crisis and division being witnessed is sadly being created by some dark forces in the System who are doing divide and rule tactics so that they have a complete take over of the county through the back door, I promise you, very soon the truth shall be known to all." He said his decision to sign the deed of transfer of functions to the national government was in good faith and for the greater service delivery to Nairobians, but says it has since been hijacked by some people with partisan political interests. "I appreciate the great works NMS is doing, methodology of its existence notwithstanding. However, NMS, led by General Badi has conducted itself in a partisan political manner against the deed of transfer which was to complement and not compete with my administration," he said. Sonko took issue with Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who last week accused MCAs of being armed with guns. He went ahead to demand that Matiang'i release names of all 14 MCAs he claimed to have have disarmed. "If your very keen you will notice this is just to divert us from seeking justice for Hon (Patricia) Mutheu. There are clear guidelines on how firearms are handled within the assembly precincts under strict supervision of seargent-at-arms," he said. Mutheu, the Mlango Kubwa MCA, was clobbered by police at the assembly last week during chaos which broke out as a section of ward representatives attempted to issue Speaker Beatrice Elachi with a notice of impeachment. 