Lake region counties should put resources together to contain the coronavirus and boost economic recovery, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said. Matiang'i said the resources should be used to ramp up testing to ascertain the level of infection in the region. He also asked the region's governors to work together to address the  challenges caused by the pandemic that citizens now face. The remarks were made on his behalf by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa during the launch of the Lake Region Economic Bloc Resource Mobilisation and Advisory Committee at Jomo Kenyatta Sports Grounds in Kisumu on Thursday. He said defeating Covid-19 requires behavioural change among citizens and adherence to Health Ministry guidelines. The CS urged governors to remain committed to assisting each other to fight the pandemic. "Cross-county cooperation is very important in tackling the disease and the socio-economic impact on the livelihood of citizens," Matiang'i said. Eugene said Kenyans have capacity to defeat the virus if they follow the health directives in place. "It is time we must internally look at how to handle the virus and its effects on the lives of our people," Eugene said. He commended governors for setting up isolation facilities and meeting 300-bed capacity as was directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang called for more allocation of funds to counties to fight the pandemic. He noted that the Sh5 billion that had been given to counties was well spent. "It is in counties where the virus is being fought. We are able to prudently use the money and account for it," Sang said. LREB chair and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said they are focusing on a joint regional approach to combating the Covid-19. He noted that the public health challenge facing Kenya and the world has destabilised lives and hurt economies. "The reality is that we must act now in a very strategic and coordinated manner to minimise the suffering of our citizens from this pandemic," Oparanya said. "We have had our fair share of the Covid-19 challenges with Busia county leading the pack with 920 confirmed cases followed by Migori (350) and Kisumu (175)," he said. Kericho has had 162 cases, Bomet and Kisii 94 each; Siaya 65; Kakamega 54;  Nandi 52; Trans Nzoia 50; Bungoma 39; Homa Bay 34; Vihiga 25 and Nyamira 16. The imported cases, Oparanya said, have now evolved into increasing community transmission. He expressed hope that intergovernmental partnership will be vital in improving service delivery efficiency. The LREB Advisory Committee on Covid-19 Prevention, Control and Socio Economic Mitigation chaired by Khama Rogo will work out a plan on how the counties can combine efforts to fight the disease. They will also help slow down the spread of Covid-19 in the 14 counties. Oparanya said the team will also offer practical solutions to the socio-economic challenges facing businesses, households and the community. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o said the committee will guide and shape the bloc’s response through resource mobilisation, research and advocacy. He said the pandemic has rendered thousands of families  vulnerable. "These households are looking up to us leaders, to not only provide leadership but solutions to the situations they find themselves in," Nyong'o said. (edited by o. owino)