Kisii Governor James Ongwae has said he will seek assistance from the police to help cut eucalyptus trees from water catchment areas. Ongwae said he has requested county commissioner Stephen Kihara to assign officers to join his team to force residents to act to the order he gave in July last year. The governor told the Star on the phone that the cut trees will be supplied as firewood to the Kisii correctional facility and other needy areas. “I am urging those who have not cut the blue gum from riparian and water catchment areas to do so or else they will be compelled to do so,” Ongwae said. Ongwae said his administration will not sit and watch as important rivers dry up as a result of the effects of the trees. He noted that rivers Kuja, Nyakomisaro, Nyanchwa and Riana, among others were being choked by the trees. “I am reminding owners that they are going to make losses unless they willingly cut and sell the same on their own,” he said. The county chief said his office will not continue issuing notices to people who are out to spoil the environment they do not respect. “I will be working closely with the national government to ensure that the same is heeded to. Our people should learn to abide by the law when planting the trees. They should maintain 50 metres as required,” the governor said. On water supply to residents, Ongwae said the shortages experienced in the county will be resolved when the Kegati water project is completed. When complete, he said, more than 100,000 locals will be connected with clean piped water. Currently only 17, 000 people are connected, he said. “Kegati water project, which is 97 per cent complete, is going to produce  27 million cubic litres of water per year, which will see more residents receive the important commodity,” he said. Gusii Water and Sanitation Company will have no excuse as to why more residents will not be connected when the project is operational. “I am putting the management of GWASCO on notice that I will not allow any excuse in regards to water connectivity to residents because the 27 million cubic to be produced daily,” he said. The governor directed GWASCO managing director Hosbon Nanga to improve the billing system to enable it to collect more revenue. 