Nyeri county government has called on residents to renew their NHIF to continue enjoying uninterrupted medical care after the expiry of UHC piloting. Piloting of Universal Health Coverage by the national government ended in March leaving counties to fund the program. Nyeri was among the four counties that had been selected to pilot UHC. The other three were Machakos, Isiolo and Kisumu. But the county has been sending bulky SMSs to residents advising them to renew their insurance. “All residents are urged to renew their National Health Insurance Fund cover to continue receiving uninterrupted care,” the message read. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said on Friday that it will no longer be possible to sustain the free healthcare services without the same being supplemented by other health insurers. Kahiga said the county has insufficient resources to cover UHC fully with a burden of diseases facing the county. The burden includes Covid-19 which has strained resources in health facilities and non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes and hypertension. The success of UHC, Kahiga said, was in a larger extent affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. “However, we cannot say that UHC has failed because it had not been pointed out that UHC was a free medical service. But it was to be affordable and available healthcare,” he said. The governor said they had agreed that for the program to succeed, every county was supposed to raise the amount of its budget allocated to the health sector to 35 per cent. “The national government was also to increase county funding and ensure every Kenyan is in a certain medical cover. For now the only insurance cover we have is NHIF and it is, therefore, advisable that every Kenyan subscribe to NHIF so it can cater for medical bills,” he said. He advised all those who can afford to pay for NHIF to do so. But residents who spoke to the Star said UHC should not be discontinued but should instead be supported. Mary Wamuyu said stopping it at a time when there is a pandemic will deal a big blow to many people. She said most people are poor and cannot afford to pay for NHIF especially during Covid-19 when many businesses have been affected. Rachel Wairimu said the government should have waited until the pandemic is contained and the economy, affected by the diseases, to improve before releasing the announcement. “We cannot afford to update our NHIF accounts for now and especially now that we will be required to pay hefty penalties after stopping contributing following the launching of UHC,” she said. Residents called on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government to chip in and help counties continue with the UHC program until the pandemic is contained. Edited by R.Wamochie