Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi has cautioned Kenyans against making a ‘fundamental mistake’ in their choice of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s successor. The CS waded into the succession politics saying the country’s pace of growth and economic expansion rests on the options citizens would take during the 2022 presidential vote. In an interview on NTV on Saturday, Matiang’i Kenya would be the Singapore of Africa if the current economic growth trajectory is maintained. He hailed President Kenyatta’s administration as having set the path of reforms which he says would help the country achieve its dreams and aspirations. “If we maintain this trajectory and exploit all resources and implement the policy framework that has been set by President Kenyatta's administration and stay on the path of reform and economic development, in 50 years we will be the Singapore of Africa,” the CS said. "On staying on this trajectory...as long as we do not depart from this path where we are right now, challenges or no challenges, we are headed for greatness as a country," he said. The assertions come when more names are joining the list of people bidding to succeed Uhuru in the upcoming 2022 vote. Deputy President William Ruto is among the top contenders in the race which has also attracted Amani leader’s Musalia Mudavadi, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, among others. Matiang’i, for his part, was not categorical about his future ambitions saying the “future belongs to God”. The no-nonsense CS further dismissed perceptions that he was being used to undermine Ruto adding that their relationship is cordial. “I don’t know any perceptions. William Ruto is the Deputy President of Kenya. Asking me how I relate with him is like asking me what is my relationship with Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyongo yet he is the governor of Kisumu or Kakamega governor who is the council of governors chairman,” the CS said. On his role as chair of Cabinet Committee on Development, which was touted as to checkmate the DP, Matiang’i said the experience has been wonderful. The CS held that through it, he has been able to rediscover the country and that the arrangement has helped improve inter-ministerial collaboration. “Problems are now solved easily, people express their fears, concerns and consensus is built more easily. It has helped us manage resources sufficiently,” the CS added. He further assured Kenyans that each citizen would be assigned a Huduma Namba once the cleanup of data collected in the national listing is cleaned up. “We are at the tail end of organising our data to give people the numbers,” Matiang’i said of the highly-anticipated outcome. He also exuded the confidence that the country would beat Covid-19 and have its economy blossom in leaps in bounds once again. “The economy is rebounding and we are optimistic that we will get back to where we were before Covid-19 meaning those who were there will get their jobs.” Matiang’i urged Kenyans who have been raising queries over management of Covid-19 funds to wait for a review of the books of accounts. “I have no evidence of dissatisfaction with the management of resources. Why is it we cannot fight the disease, get done with it and look at the books later on?” he asked. On enforcement of Covid-19 protocols, the CS lauded the police for an excellent job saying some of the instances where police have fingered for abuses are exaggerated. “Ipoa has 70 cases; the Internal Affairs Unit has less than 100. This translates to about 12 cases per month. What I find unacceptable is the inaccurate things told about the police,” he said. Matiang’i further quipped that the state would not relent on the fight against gambling adding that no gaming licenses have been renewed this financial year. “We haven’t renewed any licences since Betting Licensing and Control Board has not agreed with MoH on Covid-19 protocols. Our resolve to deal with gambling will not change.”