The national and county governments through the Council of Governors have agreed to institutionalise the strong relations to form a transformative response towards future pandemics and all sectors of national life. This was agreed during the Covid-19 conference held on Monday and chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The national government and the county governments shall jointly develop a country post-Covid-19 socio-economic re-engineering and recovery strategy. Both levels of government shall improve community healthcare response by operationalising a health fund at the county level with oversight through the health facility committees and ensuring community ownership in pandemic response. They resolved to strengthen preparedness and response to pandemics through the establishment of Regional Infectious Disease Centers and Research Institutions by the County Regional Blocs. They agreed to establish the Kenya Center for Disease Control (CDC) in order to strengthen national and local early warning systems, and investment by both levels of government in preventive care. Both levels of government agreed to strengthen healthcare systems and fully roll out the Universal Health Coverage, an action which will be taken by the national government, parliament, and the county governments. Strengthen accountability and actively fight corruption They also resolved to strengthen accountability and to fight corruption by embracing open government and publicise tenders and awarded contracts on the county and national government websites. This will also be achieved by ensuring agencies tasked to fight corruption coordinate their work in order to minimise duplication. Both levels of government work with health workers’ associations in order to improve psychosocial support for frontline staff, survivors and families of those who contract Covi-19. Also, both levels of government agreed to build resilient food systems by investing more in technology with respect to food production. Both levels of government agreed to mainstream climate change within annual budgets to promote community resilience during pandemics. The meeting agreed that the Public Health Act will be reviewed with a view to aligning it with the current constitutional dispensation. The resolution will also see National Youth Service producing masks for all school-going children and all teachers as the country waits for schools to reopen. State agencies at the national level and county departments will strengthen their capacity to undertake rapid research synthesis mechanisms and deliberately seek to harvest local knowledge for decision-making. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) and county departments in charge of statistics will generate quality and usable data for evidence-based planning and budgeting. Both levels of government agreed to stimulate local manufacturing of Covid-19 commodities in order to meet the local demand, promote industrialisation and create job opportunities. The national government and the county governments agreed to keep the momentum of coordinating and collaborating in the post-Covid-19 recovery period.