The government has directed the Kenya Medical Research Institute to manufacture coronavirus testing reagents as a global shortage persists. The testing capacity has declined because of the shortage and the Health ministry has been seeking the help of embassies to secure reagents. The Ministry has begun rationing tests, with the old, those with underlying health conditions and patients presenting with symptoms given priority. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said during Monday's Covid-19 situation update that the government is doing everything it can to get the reagents. “You know what is happening in the U.S. They have got a serious problem there. So, obviously, what they are doing is using the reagents for testing their own people before they release the reagents to us,” Kagwe said. The Health ministry warned of stern action against hospitals testing patients for the Covid-19 but failing to report the results. Kagwe said some hospitals see patients with Covid-19 symptoms, test them, find them positive and then fail to report to anyone, not even the patient, to avoid stigma. He said such hospitals do a serious disservice the people they test and put their families and those they come into contact with at risk. “If there are such institutions, especially private institutions, that are doing such kind of things, and some of them have been flagged out by our medical teams, I think it is not fair and let us stop that practice,” he said. The government wants all cases reported to the Ministry of Health's Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee in the shortest time possible. “We cannot allow unscrupulous behaviour that is harmful to our public health to continue. As the ministry, we are committed to taking serious action against such violations,” he added. Data from Monday’s briefing showed that 492 more people tested positive for the coronavirus. The country has now confirmed 26,928 cases. The new cases were from 4,063 samples. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is 358,330. Some 534 people recovered from the disease: 478 from home-based care, while 56 were discharged from hospitals. Total recoveries are 13,485. In age distribution, the new cases were between 11 months old and 83 years. In gender terms, 331 were males and 161 females. Of the cases, 357 are from Nairobi, Garissa had 52, Kiambu 37, Kajiado 14, Machakos 10, Busia five while Baringo, Embu, Mombasa and Murang’a had three cases each. Kilifi had two cases, while Isiolo, Makueni and Uasin Gishu had one each. Three more patients died, raising deaths to 423. The CS reaffirmed his commitment to breaking cartels, which have hampered efforts to fight corruption in the ministry. “On the issue of cartels in the ministry. I would like you to be patient during the fight. Cartels are not beaten overnight, they fight back,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)