All markets in Siaya were reopened Monday for business but traders will resume paying levies to the county after a five months' waiver was lifted. Governor Cornel Rasanga said the county has lost Sh56 million since market activities and revenue collection were suspended in March to cushion traders from Covid-19 shocks. “We can no longer continue with the closures particularly when our small-scale traders are properly sensitised to observe and comply with the Covid-19 measures,” he said. Market traders, kiosk owners, boda boda riders and other small businesses in the county will start paying taxes again so the county can meet its revenue targets. Revenue clerks will be deployed to market centres, bus parks, plots and kiosks, boda boda sheds to collect levies. “In short all other business activities involving the exchange of goods and services, revenue collection will continue as before,” Rasanga said on Sunday. He said market closures had made small-scale traders struggle to meet their daily needs and the county economy had been shaken. The governor said the closure of all market-related activities was to avert the possible spread of the virus among residents. But a prolonged closure of markets is not good for the economy, the county chief said. Residents have acclimatised with the health guidelines like social distancing, handwashing or sanitising, wearing masks while in public places and avoiding crowds, hence his decision to reopen markets, Rasanga said. Siaya county has registered 68 Covid-19 cases to date with three deaths. “While these deaths and infections are unfortunate, the low numbers compared to other counties in Kenya can largely be attributed to the measures we took to significantly reduce market activities in good time,” Rasanga said. He reminded residents that they are not yet out of the Covid-19 woods and it will be prudent to continue observing the Ministry of Health directives. Rasanga said that the revenue, trade, and public health directorates and other relevant authorities will ensure compliance with the directives. He said his administration will continue to provide handwashing stations, thermoguns for screening in all markets and clean water for public use. (edited by o. owino)