A protracted battle over a hotel property estimated at millions, is still the subject of a legal suit after it was confirmed that police are finalising investigations into vandalism and theft allegations. On August 5, police raided a go down reportedly owned by Pride Inn Hotel where they carted away furniture, electric items and plumbing materials and other hotel fittings while effecting a court warrant order. The go down and workshop is situated along Serena road in Mombasa, adjacent to Pride Inn Flamingo Beach. At the middle of the controversy are Mohamed Shabbir Kassam, Pride Inn chairman and Mohamed Hasnain Shabbir Noorani, the CEO, of Pride Inn Hotels and Investment Limited with the accuser being Brookhill Crescent Investment Limited. On Monday, Brookhill Crescent Investment Limited lawyer, Emmanuel Wetangula, confirmed that police had notified him that investigations are being concluded, and the file will be forwarded to the Director of Public prosecutions, as they seek approvals to charge the two directors. “We expect the feedback by end of this week, over whether there will be basis to charge the duo with the criminal charges,” said Wetangula. The incident arose after a complaint was reported at Gigiri Police Station on June 30, by the investment company, who are the owners of two properties in Mombasa and Nairobi occupied by Pride Inn. They entered into a lease agreement with Pride Inn Hotels and Investments Limited and the lease agreement was to be renewed after every five years. In the year 2018, according to court documents filed at a Kiambu court, the tenant allegedly started delaying and renegotiating in rent payment for the property situated in Westlands along Raphta road. The lease agreement, the court heard, was commencing from April 2015 and year 2016, the directors are said to have made several requests through letters and emails to the complainant requesting for funds so that they could do hotel expansion, and furniture fixtures for the Westlands property. Court documents indicate that on diverse dates between June 2015, and March 2016 some Sh210 million was sent from Brookshill Crescent account at Imperial Bank to Pride Inn account at Diamond Trust Bank Limited. “The suspect occupied the property upon the lease expiry date until July 1st 2020. While at Mombasa, the complainant received information that the tenant had vandalised the property and carted away the property,” a supporting affidavit filed by police constable Sheban Baraka read. In the application for a search warrant, which was effected on August 6th, the police wanted to search recover and carry as exhibit, the furniture fittings, electrical items and equipment. “The property belongs to Brookshill Crescent Investment Limited and was used by the suspect which are material for evidential value relating to investigations,” said Baraka. After the order was issued, two lorries picked the items at the godown in Shanzu, with the supervision of detectives from Gigiri police station and Mombasa’s Dog Section on August 6. The General Manager Pride Inn Flamingo said he had no comment over the issue.