Water levels in Lake Naivasha have been rising during heavy rains, causing fears that another 4,000 families are likely to be displaced by flooding. The government has warned families living near the shores to relocate as rains pound the lake's catchment area. Three months ago, more than 2,000 families mainly from Kihoto estate were forced to relocate due to flooding. The water has not subsided and many houses have been vandalised. Scientists and health experts have warned that waste from flooded estates and fertiliser runoff from flower farms threaten health and the ecosystem. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said Kihoto Estate, home to hundreds of flower farm workers', was the worst affected. Even the police post was flooded. “In the first phase, around 2,000 were displaced by rising water levels and we expect another 4,000 to be affected, causing more problems,"  he said. Speaking after receiving foodstuffs from Safaricom Foundation to help those hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Mbogo said that they had started to assist families affected by HIV-Aids. “In the first phase of relief, we had forgotten those living with HIV-Aids and we have already identified 320 families to receive support from the national government," the commissioner said. Thanking Safaricom, he said five informal settlements in the subcounty had been hardest hit by the pandemic, though the Kazi Mtaani initiative has helped many people. Naivasha assistant county commissioner Janet Jawa said job losses in flower farms and hotels had pushed the workers to Lake Naivasha. “Due to the high number of people who lost their jobs in Naivasha, many people have problems feeding their families and this donation helps," she said. Safaricom regional manager Patrick Wanjau said that 280 families would benefit in Naivasha from the latest food donations. He said that Safaricom had raised Sh4 million to buy food and supplies for 2,500 families throughout the country. “Last month Safaricom donated Sh1.5 million PPEs to Nakuru county. Wheelchair-bound Sammy Mbugua called the donation a God-send because people were suffering during the pandemic. (Edited by V. Graham)