Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has warned that she will not tolerate delay or laziness by the contractor building the Ol Kalou Municipal sewerage system. She said the Sh684 million project must be completed by August next year for official commissioning by the President. She said she will personally follow up on the implementation to ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta’s desire to have all his projects completed in time is achieved. “I will not require a visa to visit the site to monitor progress. I will pass by on my way to and from home. I will pass by even while going to church,” said the CS, whose rural home is in Tumaini, Ol Kalou. Kariuki spoke on Friday in Ol Kalou during the groundbreaking ceremony for the project. She noted that Ol Kalou Municipality is expanding rapidly in terms of population, development and business, hence the need to take care of its water and sanitation needs. The sewerage project, which is funded by the African Development Bank in partnership with the national government and being undertaken by the Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency, will directly benefit 25,000 people. It will be upgraded in future to serve 60,000 people. The project will also see improved water supply in Ol Kalou to satisfy the current demand. The current supply in Ol Kalou is 1.7 million litres against a demand of two million litres. Kariuki said this demand is expected to double in the near future. She urged the contractor to ensure only residents are employed to work in the project, unless in the case of expertise that is not available locally. “I also urge the residents to own and support this project. Any land that will be touched will be adequately compensated for,” she said. Kariuki also commissioned three community boreholes in Rurii, Mirangine and Kanjuiri wards. They will benefit more than 17,000 residents alongside churches and schools. She said her ministry, in collaboration with partners, will drill more boreholes to benefit 33,200 people across Nyandarua county. The ministry is also focusing on dams to give enough water for farming and livestock. “We have already identified 269 colonial dams which will be de-silted to ensure this goal is achieved,” she said The ministry, through the National Irrigation Authority, has, in collaboration with local leaders, identified places where water pans will be built at household levels in the coming months to open up 1,100 acres for irrigation. Kariuki was accompanied by Nyandarua Deputy Governor Cecilia Mbuthia, Ol Kalou MP David Kiaraho, Nyandarua assembly speaker Wahome Ndegwa and county Water executive Milka Wanjiru, among other local leaders and national government officials. Mbuthia said the Nyandarua government will provide the needed support, including facilitating the provision of required maps for the project. “We are also committed to supporting the valuation of any land that will be acquired in the process,” she said.