Former Senator Lenny Kivuti has been promised support to clinch Embu governors seat in 2022 by 25 Embu MCAs, a teachers group and religious leaders among others. However, the groups, led by the County Assembly Speaker Josiah Thiriku, assured Governor Martin Wambora they will continue to support him in the remaining two years to secure his legacy. The running mate of Cecily Mbarire in her 2017 bid, also dumped her and joined Kivuti team. Mbeti North MCA Peter Muriithi said come 2022 the Ward Representatives would support Kivuti and campaign for him to ensure he becomes the next governor for the next ten years. The county has 33 Ward Representatives. “Just like Wambora, we shall support Kivuti to retain the seat for the next ten years and then it can be decided whether Morris Collo, who has said he would to vie for it after ten years, or other interested person can take it,” said Muriithi. Leaders from the local chambers of commerce branch, farmers organisations, and youth groups, speaking during a consultative meeting at the University of Embu, argued that after Governor Wambora retires, his successor should now come from Mbeere sub-counties. The MCAs said that Kivuti was always concerned about development. However, the MCAs asked Kivuti to ensure that if he clinches the seat, he does not discriminate against any region. Kivuti, who lost to Wambora in 2017, said  he would continue supporting the governor for the remaining two years. The former senator, who was accompanied by his last election’s running mate and former Manyatta legislator Emilio Kathuri, promised to equitably distribute development in the county if he is elected. Kivuti further said he supported President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration its endeavour to fight corruption. Embu and Mbeere Kenya National Union of teachers’ (KNUT) executive secretaries Josphat Kathumi and Dickson Murunguma, respectively, pledged to support him. Murunguma was the running mate of Cecily Mbarire in the last election, and has now abandoned her. Religious leaders said Kivuti had greatly supported churches through funds-drive and therefore they would support him. KNCCI chairman John Mate pledged support for Kivuti the from business people. Kivuti appears to have kicked off gradual campaigns for the seat after forming ten-members committees from each of the 20 wards in the county, comprising of 200 members through which he will be carrying out his activities.