Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru has said EACC raiding her homes and offices on Thursday morning is all about 2022 politics. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission raided her offices and Nairobi homes over an alleged Sh23m travel allowance. She questioned where the EACC got the Sh23 million figure from. "The amount was Sh10 million. Why do they see the need to shore up numbers? This is not about the travel imprests but a wider scheme to shape 2022 succession politics in Mt Kenya," she said. "...and to detract from critical allegations against a multitude of persons on various multimillion corruption cases." In a statement, Waiguru said she has been used as a decoy before and will not allow the plot to thrive. "..wild allegations are thrown around only to come empty of even the basic proof. Investigations must never be about side shows, politicking and image shaming, " Waiguru said. Waiguru said the search for documents in support of an investigations into travel imprests was basic. "All these documents evidencing travel or refunds have been presented to the EACC. Most of these documents were also given to the senate hearing on my impeachment in the full glare of TV," She said. "There is therefore nothing you can look for in someone's house to evidence imprest management." Waiguru said it was a shock to be woken up by a 'battery of fully armed officers raiding her house' "You did not need a battery of machine gun carrying policemen in darkness to get my cheque book. This could have been easily availed with a simple request," she said. Waiguru's homes in Nairobi and her Kirinyaga offices  were on Thursday raided by EACC detectives. EACC said it was conducting investigations into allegations that the Governor and other officials of the County Government of Kirinyaga, were irregularly paid travel allowances of Sh23 million. CEO Twalib Mbarak said the monies were reportedly spent on non-existent trips. "EACC is in the process of establishing whether the trips were actually undertaken and whether the documents were genuine," he said. The EACC sleuths are said to have raided her homes saying that they had a warrant for the search. The search warrants were issued by the Chief Magistrate’s Court in Nyeri.