A group human rights activists camped at Central police station in Nakuru after their colleagues were arrested for taking part in a peaceful demonstration. Vincent Tanui, John Onyango and David Opingo were arrested during a protest against Covid-19 corruption. Police lobbed tear gas at the protesters to disperse them as they walked along Kenyatta Avenue toward the county government offices. The activists wanted audience with Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya. The activists who joined their colleagues in other towns in protesting against theft of Covid-19 cash demanded an explanation from Governor Kinyanjui on how Sh478 million set aside by the county has been spent. Efforts to disperse the demonstrators were, however, fruitless as they managed to regroup and get to the gate of the county offices where they read their memorandum to the media. Speaking at the police station, Center for Enhanced Democracy and Good Governance programmes manager Masese Kemunche said it was unclear what the activists would be charged with. He was, however, optimistic that they would be released after they were joined by a team from the Independent Police Oversight Authority. “The team from IPOA has assured us that they will be released on police bond but we have not been allowed to communicate with them,” he said. Kemunche further demanded that the county government explains how Sh210 million forwarded from the national government was spent. "We want the governor to present himself for a public audit where constituents will ask questions about the implementation of the Covid-19 programme and how he was dealing with corruption in his administration," he said. He said it was unfortunate that county enforcement officers were colluding with the police to solicit money from the public. "County askaris and the police have taken advantage of the pandemic to arrest people who do not wear masks or those who have not worn them properly yet they (the officers) cannot afford sanitiser," he said. He added that it was unfortunate that the global fund has withdrawn aid due to corruption in the country. Edited by EKibii