The Senate has been urged to broker a deal that will end the crisis over the basis for revenue sharing among the counties. Speaking to the press in Garissa, the Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey regretted that it had taken weeks but the senators were yet to agree on something he termed simple. On Tuesday the House adjourned debate on contentious county revenue sharing formula. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen successfully sought an adjournment to give room for further consultation. It was the seventh time the Senate had failed to agree on the formula proposed by the Finance committee chaired by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru. Amey said that the country has enough money to allocate additional resources to the so-called developed counties without reducing the allocation to marginalised ones. “The bone of contention has been that we have counties that will lose in the new formula while others will gain. The best thing to do would be to retain part of the old formula and add a clause that will increase revenue for those counties with high population,” he said. He added: “It is only wise that the senators blend the two formulas so that all the counties benefit. But one thing that they should not deviate from is a formula that will benefit the common mwananchi.” Amey said senators eyeing governorship positions in 2022 want to increase the shares for their counties for their selfish gain. He said Northeastern's three counties of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera should not lose under the new sharing formula. If anything, their allocation should be increased. “We have been marginalised by previous regimes and we cannot allow the Senate that should be protecting devolution and ensuring fair distribution of resources to be the same starving marginalised counties." He called on President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to marshal their troops and ensure that come Tuesday the country will have a solution to the stalemate. On Wednesday, Speaker Ken Lusaka appointed a nine-member committee to spearhead negotiations on the contentious issue. Edited by Henry Makori