Patients with non-communicable diseases have called on the state to facilitate emergency transport for them to access healthcare services such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy and dialysis. Under the NCD Alliance of Kenya, they noted that access to treatment and care has been compromised by closure of clinics as the focus has shifted to Covid-19 response. In addition, supply chains have been disrupted while transportation costs have increased. This, they said, has led to shortages and stock out of essential NCD medicines and commodities in public health facilities. They further want the government to embrace use of telemedicine for continued care and management in health facilities during this Covid-19 pandemic. The main types of NCDs are cardiovascular diseases like heart attacks and stroke, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. Speaking in Nairobi on Wednesday, persons living with NCDs (PLWNCDs) noted that they are at a higher risk of severe complications and death from the virus. Given the evidence linking NCDs and Covid-19, the government should urgently address the drivers of the NCD pandemic that is fuelling Covid-19 mortality, they said. Data from the Health ministry shows that more than 50 per cent of those who have succumbed to the virus had underlying health conditions, majorly NCDs. “We, therefore, ask the government and related agencies to prioritise the needs and care of PLWNCDs by placing them at the centre of the Covid-19 response in Kenya,” Leah Kilenga from the caucus said. In Kenya, NCDs account for 55 per cent of hospital admissions, 50 per cent of hospital deaths and 33 per cent of total deaths. Patients want the government to build a resilient supply chain of essential NCD medicines and commodities to ensure their availability and affordability at primary health facilities. “We ask the ministries of Health and Labour through the National Emergency Response Committee to include PLWNCDs among the vulnerable population eligible for the Covid-19 kitty and social protection benefits and clarify the criteria for selection of Covid-19 kitty beneficiaries,” Kilenga added. John Gikonyo said the government should ensure continuous education of healthcare providers on triaging and best practices for management of NCD related emergencies and respond to PLWNCDs as a priority during this pandemic. “With Kenya easing restrictions, we ask the government to inform the public of the availability of services in these clinics and encourage positive health seeking behaviour,” Gikonyo said. “PLWNCDs are experiencing disruptions in NCD healthcare services which puts them at a higher risk of developing life-threatening NCD complications and severe Covid-19." People living with NCDs as well as older persons above 60 years are more likely to be severely ill when infected with Covid-19. Early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of NCDs must be a cornerstone of the Covid-19 response in Kenya. Following the onset of the pandemic, there has been a significant drop in hospital visits by the public due to fear of contracting the virus. Dr Ephantus Maree of the Ministry of Health, however, said some of the measures that the ministry has put in place include ensuring all NCD clinics at the county health facilities remain open so that patients can get the services they need including medication. “Strict infection prevention and control measures have been put in place at the clinics to ensure that patients and public are protected even as they seek care,” Maree said. Edited by Henry Makori