The newly appointed officials to National Elections Board and the Disciplinary Committee of ODM Party are expected to be sworn into office today. The ceremony to be presided over by a judge of the High Court is expected to be witnessed by the Party Leader Raila Odinga. This comes after the party's largely discredited National Elections Board was kicked out in a grand housecleaning. The purge also saw the disciplinary committee overhauled to revamp the party ahead of 2022. Raila on Tuesday fired the Judy Pareno-led elections board that had been accused of bungling party nominations, leading to ODM's poor showing in the 2017 General Election. In the overhaul at Orange House, Raila tapped former commissioner in the now-defunct Constitution Implementation Commission Catherine Mumma as the new NEB boss. Also appointed to sit in the board are former Wajir South MP Abdulahi Diriye, Richard Tairo, Syntei Nchoe and Emily Awita. Prof Ben Sihanya takes over from city lawyer Fred Athuok as chairman of the disciplinary committee. The panel will have other new faces, including  Ramadhani  Abubakar, Mumbi Ngaru, Seth Kakusye and Dr Florence Omosa. Raila's decision to appoint Mumma is aimed at tapping her extensive legal experience to implement far-reaching recommendations of the team that conducted an internal audit last year - with devastating conclusions. Mumma chaired the five-member team that delivered a harsh verdict on a number of party organs, including the NEB, accusing it of staging poll violence to rig in their preferred aspirants. The new elections board is expected to plan and conduct the party's much-awaited grassroots elections, which were suspended because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The new NEB must quickly settle in and begin preparations for the Party Grassroots Elections.  The new Disciplinary Committee likewise is expected to settle down quickly and dispense with urgent pending disciplinary cases involving our MCAs from Nairobi, Bungoma and Nyamira counties," ODM said in a statement.