 Ukambani political buddies turned foes Kalonzo Musyoka and Johnson Muthama clashed on Friday with the Wiper leader telling off the former Machakos senator over his support for DP Ruto. Kalonzo told Mutahma that he was focussed on being on the ballot in 2022 and that he does not need people like the former senator to negotiate for him. Muthama had ignited Kalonzo's fury when he said he will support Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 presidential election and urged the Wiper boss to join them and become the DP's running mate. But when Kalonzo spoke, the former Vice President said he will be on the ballot and asked Ruto backers to be prepared to face him in the elections. He said it was Muthama who negotiated the deal between Wiper and ODM that saw Kalonzo become Raila Odinga's running mate in 2013 and in 2017. "This time I don't want anybody to negotiate for me. I will be the negotiator on my own behalf," Kalonzo said. He added, “I am tired of being used by other people. My friend Muthama, you took me to Raila twice, and the results are what we are seeing now. I will not be calm again, the time has come and you cannot block Athi River water with thickets.” Muthama had earlier said Ruto is the ideal candidate to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said he was supporting the DP because he is a man with a stand, who fights on despite intimidation. He said those threatening politicians supporting Ruto will be chased away from Ukambani and "forced to accept democracy as their votes are not enough to make someone president.“ But Kalonzo hit back, saying "I'm ready and equipped to fight for the presidency against Deputy President William Ruto come the 2022 General Election, and that I do not need politicians such as Johnson Muthama to do it.” The two leaders were addressing mourners during the burial of the son of late veteran Ukambani politician Mulu Mutisya, Samuel Mutuku in Mwala constituency. It was the first time Muthama and Kalonzo came face to face since the former senator ditched Wiper Party and announced his support for Ruto. Muthama accused Kalonzo of not doing enough to influence state appointments in favour of Ukambani residents despite his support for the Jubilee administration. "I am not with Ruto because I need anything but because of the people. I was in Wiper but I am in shock that the government you are supporting removed the leadership at Nairobi county,” he said. Kalonzo dismissed the claims and urged leaders to respect each other. He accused Mutama of planting seeds of discord among community members. Kalonzo also declared his intention to run for the presidency in 2022 and said he will not rely on anyone and will instead use his 2007 template when he ran for the country's top job and came a distant third behind Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga. "I refuse to be sold like cows in the market. It is as simple as that. Be ready because I am tired of disrespect by those always undressing me in public, enough is enough," Kalonzo said. The Wiper boss told Mutahma to forget about negotiating for him to become someone's running mate again. “This is my riddle to Muthama; do you think Kalonzo can be Ruto’s vice president? This is my question to you. Do you think my respect can allow me to deputise Ruto?” The former Mwingi North MP told politicians opposing him and have declared their support for Ruto to be prepared for a tough race in 2022. He said he had no grudge against anyone but promised to give them a run for their money. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau warned those campaigning against the Wiper party and its leader. “Kalonzo is our leader, respect him, you have a long way to go,” Makau said. He said constant wrangles among Ukambani top leaders will deny the community a chance to lead the country in 2022. "For our community to one day lead the country, we must have a focussed unity. If we don't then we will continue to be spectators in the politics of this country,” he said. “We cannot accept someone who got political mileage through Wiper Party to disrespect our leader,” Makau said in an apparent attack at Muthama. Other leaders who attended the burial included MPs Vincent Musyoka (Mwala) Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town) and Julius Mawathe (Embakasi South) and former Machakos Deputy Govermor Bernard Kiala.  Edited by P.O