A Kibera court Monday deferred to Tuesday a ruling on whether police can detain for 14 days two suspects in the killing of a businessman in Kilimani. In the affidavit filed before senior principal magistrate Derrick Kuto, police sought 14 days to detain Robert John Bodo and Chris Philip Obure to allow them to complete their investigation in the murder of Kevin Ombati Omwenga. Prosecutor Allan Mogere told the court the suspects were arrested on August 22. The offence occurred at Galana Suites within Nairobi county. "Preliminary investigation shows that businessman Kevin Ombati Omwenga, 28,  and a resident of Galana Suites was with his relatives when the first respondent requested that he was ready to go to his home after having dinner. Omwenga got up from his seat and went to the bedroom together with the first respondent (Bodo) for a talk," Mogere said. The prosecutor said that after some time, a gunshot was heard from the bedroom and Bodo came out and said he had to leave. "But he was restrained by Omwenga's brother while others went to the bedroom to find the owner lying in a pool of blood on the floor," the court heard. The court heard that the firearm belonged to the second respondent (Obure) who is a licensed firearm holder. "The investigating officer is yet to record statements from the key witness, taking of fingerprints, photo filing, taking the respondents' for DNA sampling for analysis by the government chemist, taking the respondents for medical assessments, taking the firearm for ballistic experts and to obtain a record of the firearm, " Mogere said, as the reason to detain the suspects. He added that police also needed to retrieve CCTV footage from the scene of the crime, to obtain footage showing the movement of the motor vehicle that was used by the first respondent and the deceased, to perform phone analysis from the service providers and to forward the same to the cyber-crime unit DCI headquarters. A postmortem has not been done on the body to establish the cause of death, he said. However, Bodo, through lawyer Patrick Lumumba, told the court that the two days they were in custody were enough. Kuto directed the matter to be mentioned on Tuesday at 2.30 pm for the ruling. Edited by R.Wamochie