There is nothing strange with regard to the happenings in Nasa. It is only political newbies who are taken aback by the fact that Nasa is struggling to hold together as the 2022 election approaches. What is lost to such naysayers is political formations are only avenues for going to elections and sharing power. In the event the coalition fails to take over the mantle of leadership, there is nothing to share. As the next election approaches, new political formations are bound to be formed. No one should be surprised when our foes in the last election become our friends. Politics is about interests so our new partners must be individuals and parties who will agree with the ODM manifesto. It is this understanding of the fluidity and frivolous nature of Kenyan politics that has made Raila Odinga be referred to as the enigma of Kenyan politics. After every election, he is always open to new formations. In fact, his cooperation with President Uhuru Kenyatta has made him the front-runner in the 2022 election. Many had thought he would 'retire to Bondo' after losing the 2017 presidential election but what we now see is a rebirth of Raila. This is something that has endeared him to many Kenyans, including those who did not vote for him in the last election. Anyone writing off Raila as a strong presidential candidate in 2022 can only be compared to a bull at a slaughterhouse that is still in denial. As a matter of fact, all Nasa members need his endorsement. I am confident that when push comes to shove, the Nasa principals will not find it hard to support him again. However, should the Nasa principals opt to go it alone or engage in other political formations, then Raila will engage new friends and partners. Therefore, the notion that Raila's chances of running for president dim with the collapse of Nasa can only be considered as street talk by naysayers and political newbies who have refused to study his brand of politics and the fluid nature of Kenyan politics. The 2022 election is do or die for the son of Jaramogi to lead this country to the Promised Land. The nominated senator and member of Speaker's panel spoke to the Star