The county government of Lamu in partnership with the Safaricom Foundation has commissioned  a Sh16.8 million maternity and newborn unit and a Mother and Child Health-MCH clinics in the two major hospitals in the region. The Maternity High Dependency and Newborn Unit worth Sh.11 million has been set up at the King Fahad hospital in Lamu island while the fully equipped Sh.5.8 million Mother and Child Health-MCH clinic is situated at the Mpeketoni sub-county hospital. The new investments are expected to boost the County Government's strategy on maternal and neonatal health services in the County, in line with its social health pillar. While the facility at the Mpeketoni hospital is fully equipped, the clinics at the King Fahad hospital are being equipped before commencing operations. Lamu County Health Executive Anne Gathoni said once operational, the new clinics will help reduce neonatal mortality rate in Lamu and ease the complications faced by women during and after birth. She lauded the Safaricom Foundation  for their effort, reinforcing increased access to maternal, neonatal and improving infrastructure and referral systems in the country. "This partnership is a prime example of the private and public sector working together to solve universal health issues affecting Kenyans and Lamu County public for a while, " said Gathoni. Safaricom Foundation Trustee Rita Okuthe said under the same initiative, girls aged between 10 and 19 years across the county will receive free sanitary towels supply for the next eight months. “We will continue to extend our long-term healthcare partnership with the Lamu County Government in ensuring improved health service delivery and infrastructure for the people of Lamu,” said Okuthe. Lamu County Government, in its health agenda, under the County Integrated Development Plan (CIPD) 2018, committed to improve access to and quality of health care, utilization of health services and addressing financial protection of the population, through registration of 20,000 households to the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) and Digitisation of all health services to support quality of care. Currently, the 20,000 households and their dependents in Lamu are now able to access medical care free of charge through the NHIF card, while Digitisation of health services is ongoing. The Safaricom Foundation had in previous years established maternal health shelters in Witu, Lamu Town and Faza hospitals,a move that has enabled pregnant women to easily access skilled birth attendants.