Jacque Maribe says she was at the peak of her career before life turned around. The former Citizen TV news anchor and senior political reporter was named one of the suspects in the murder of Monicah Kimani, 28. Maribe's fiance, Joseph ‘jowie’ Irungu, was singled out by investigators as the prime suspect. The murder case is still ongoing. Monicah was found murdered in a bathtub with her neck slit at her posh house off Dennis Pritt Road on September 20, 2018. Maribe has opened up on her new online show, 'The Hot Seat', about the effect that murder charge had on her rising career. “I was at the peak of my career and then all of a sudden, life just happens," she said on Sunday night. “Getting into 2018 was an interesting year for me being one of the voices that could actually be heard and taken seriously in the political sphere. Until one day you have no idea what the world just decides to do. Like literally a standstill. “Have you ever felt like your world just stopped? You stop breathing. You stop understanding what is happening to you.” "It brought my journey as a journalist to a halt so unexpectedly. It is something I cannot go into details about because legally I’m not allowed to do that. But I hope it is a conversation we can have in the future. “What I have learnt from it as a woman is that life can just give you blows and it becomes extremely difficult to understand what has just happened. “You feel like everything is falling into place and everything makes so much sense until one day, you have no idea what the world just decides to do, like literally, a standstill.” She added that her career and her aspirations all vanished into thin air. “Something that you love doing so much it’s… I don’t know. It has been a roller-coaster ride this past year. Just trying to take it all in, trying to smile when you know you can’t (deep sigh).” Maribe continued, “But instead of allowing yourself to be down, you know what you do? Get back up and you take it by the horns.” Edited by T Jalio