Political expediency and construction of the SGR and Southern Bypass have trumped conservation of the Nairobi National Park, a lobby group has said. They have seriously damaged the environment and their environmental impact assessments were rushed for political purposes, shoddy and useless, it said. Friends of Nairobi National Park (FoNNaP) said on Saturday in a webinar meeting that the integrity of Nairobi National Park is being undermined and wildlife habitats destroyed. Further development, as envisaged in some plans, would doom the park, the lobby said. FoNNaP is a non-profit organisation founded in 1995 to assist the Kenya Wildlife Service nurture and preserve biodiversity in the park and its broader ecosystem. Former board chairman Akshay Vishwanath said the Environmental Impact Assessments of the mega projects were substandard. “Those projects… the standard gauge railway and Southern Bypass were political and that is why they were rushed. The studies were poorly done as the idea was to stamp the project [with approval]. The studies were quite useless,” Vishwanath said. An EIA examines the effects of a project on the environment, both the positive and negative impact of developments, how they affect people, their property and the environment. EIAs also identify measures to mitigate the negative impacts, while maximising the positive ones. If a proper EIA is carried out, then the safety of the environment can be properly managed at all stages of a project - planning, design, construction, operation, monitoring and evaluation as well as decommissioning. Vishwanath said habitat was destroyed by the mega projects. No baseline studies were done to indicate the magnitude of habitat destruction of the projects, he said. “There was no conditional clause on what rehabilitation means. Mitigation measures were not helpful,” he said. Vishwanath said the studies did not give in detail who is to be held accountable for destruction caused by various contractors on the projects. “We are trying to get all the wrongs right through advocacy,” he said. The Nairobi National Park is Kenya’s oldest national park, established in 1946. The park is only seven kilometres south of the centre of Nairobi and covers 28,963 acres. It contains more than 100 species of mammals and more than a dozen reptiles. The park has more than 45 lions, plus leopards, cheetahs and hyenas. Hippos inhabit the Mbagathi River while crocodiles live in the dams. An estimated 400 permanent and migratory bird species have a home in the protected area. The park is also home to the African buffalo, baboons, the Eastern black rhinoceros, the Southern white rhino, the common zebra and Grant's gazelle. Other species roaming the park are Thomson’s gazelles, Masai giraffes, elands, impalas, ostriches, jackals, warthogs and water bucks. During the webinar, conservationists and nature lovers discussed the park’s problems. They include human pressure, the deteriorating state of the park due to climate change, human-wildlife conflict and pollution. The park, which is almost completely surrounded by development, is also faced with the problem of blocked wildlife corridors and dispersal areas. Tourism CS Najib Balala has directed a team to examine the viability of some corridors. The China Road and Bridge Corporation, builders of the Nairobi Southern Bypass, were contracted in November 2010 by the government through KenHA to design and build the road. The bypass starts from the junction of Mombasa Road interchange and ends at Kabete-Limuru road in Kikuyu town. The bypass utilised 53 acres belonging to the KWS. The SGR mega project on an elevated track also cuts through the middle of the park for six kilometres on a viaduct. The track is on pillars rising eight metres at the entrance of the park; the tallest pillar is 41 metres where the SGR exits the park. Conservation groups opposed the new path and unsuccessfully demanded the government reroute the project and remove it. President Uhuru Kenyatta flagged off the inaugural Nairobi-Suswa SGR passenger trip on October, 16, 2019. (Edited by V. Graham) 