A prominent businessman at the centre of the Covid-19 cash scandal is said to have engineered several health scandals before. The man is said to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Sh63 billion leased medical equipment that the Senate has been investigating for months. The man with no more than a secondary school education has grown so wealthy that he calls the shots in many high places. His office in the plush Lavington area is where big deals are cut. He has a thriving business in Westlands. It’s not clear why the Senate ad hoc committee on health chaired by Senator Fatuma Dullo (pictured) has delayed the report that should reveal those who ate taxpayers' money. Still on health, why do cartels dominate the health sector? Sources whisper to Corridors that billions of shillings of donor cash have for years fed the cartels. A head of department and two ladies working as officers under him are said to be among the graft network in the ministry. The three are said to have multiple proxy companies that do business with the ministry and parastatals under it, including the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The three are said to have survived the mass transfer of nearly 60 people by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. The power dynamics of a popular county could have taken a political twist in the face of a recent meeting between two opposing sides that have been embroiled in a fight over development projects. Well, Corridors is informed the two leaders met along Mombasa Road to seek ways of appeasing and winning over locals in areas where the projects are implemented. One of the leaders reportedly is not impressed by the fact that despite hitting the ground to launch the projects, residents are not excited or overawed by his presence. Don’t be surprised next time you see the two fellows launch projects together. An official who together with her husband were drawing allowances from the same board of a State corporation has resigned. The woman reportedly left at the height of a controversy over the manner in which they almost turned the board’s operations into a family affair. Corridors is told that the board has also quietly asked the woman’s husband to exit the scene by September. Staffers at the agency, who were aghast at the couple's brazen behaviour, especially the impunity with which the two operated, are in a celebratory mood after getting wind of the expected exits.