AFC Leopards winger Jaffari Owiti will be relying on the inspiration from his two siblings to net more than 20 league goals in the new season. Owiti is set to face off with his two brothers; Faraj Odenyi and Aziz Okaka who ply their trade with Tusker and Nairobi City Stars respectively in the new campaign. The stocky player says the support which he has been receiving from his siblings will provoke him to give the best on the pitch and meet his targets for the new season. Owiti enjoyed the rare privilege of playing with Okaka at Leopards for almost two years but the latter decamped to City Stars in January. Odenyi joined Tusker in June 2018 from Chemelil Sugar. Owiti, who also featured for  the relegated sugar millers, revealed that before any match,his brothers call him to wish him well and he  returns the favour. This , he said has strengthened the bond between them despite playing for different employers who are perceived as rivals in the trade. "I am privileged to play with them in the same league and the new season is an opportunity for me to hit my targets. "We normally motivate and challenge each other to set new records at the start of the season. Before any match,they do call me to wish me best of luck and I also return the favour. "Football is our primary job and we do it to raise the status of our family and inspire those behind us. The bond keeps us going even though we don't play in the same team," he said Meanwhile, Owiti says he is hoping to return to the national team once football activities resume. Owiti was last summoned for international duties in February last year when coach Sebastien Migne named a 25-man local based squad for the Africa Cup of Nations and Chan qualifiers. He also featured for the national U23, Emerging Stars in 2018 during the Olympic qualifier match against Mauritius. "I didn't have a good season, thanks to the recurring  injuries but I believe the new season will be devoid of setbacks. Due to the upsets, I lost my place at the starting team at club level but I  am ready to fight for it. I am also seeking to return to the national team for various assignments," he added.