Oil exploration in the rich fields of Lokichar basin, Turkana county, could easily become a curse to the residents. A new report by conservation organisation World Wide Fund for Nature - Kenya and the Kenya Oil and Gas Working Group says the exploration is likely to induce environmental, economic, social and cultural changes. The report titled, ‘Preliminary Threat Analysis: The Foundation Stage Development of the South Lokichar Oil Basin’, was launched on Wednesday. It warns that the move if not managed well will result in massive changes in land-use patterns which will have direct consequences on pastoralism. The value systems will also change due to population influx. The study sought to identify major environmental threats and socio-economic implications associated with the Foundation Stage Project. WWF-Kenya is a locally registered conservation NGO and an affiliate of World Wide Fund for Nature, an independent conservation organisation that is active in nearly 100 countries. The Kenya Oil and Gas Working group is a public interest network advocating for sustainable development and governance of the oil and gas sector. The key components of the South Lokichar Foundation Stage Project include new well pads in different fields within the South Lokichar basin and well-drilling activities, buried interconnecting flow lines to transport oil and a water pipeline from Turkwel dam. It also includes the construction of a central processing facility, construction and use of new access roads and support facilities and infrastructure, including construction camps and waste management infrastructure. The damage to the environment will be massive, the 40-page report warns. This includes contamination of soil and ground and surface water as there will be increased production of hazardous waste like chemical lubricants, wastewater and solid waste. If not properly managed, wastewater seepage and oil lubricants mixing during construction and operation phases are, particularly of great concern. This might result in contamination of both underground and surface waterways such as sand dams which provide water for livestock and human consumption. The release of harmful gases into the atmosphere such as carbon dioxide, methane and sulphur will also increase, negating commitments made by Kenya to curb the same under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. The report says the trends could worsen because exploration and appraisal of the Turkana fields was initially done before the Community Land Act, 2016 which would regulate negotiations with the communities for compensation. “Pastoralist communities view the shrinkage of pastoral land as systematic displacement and loss of livelihood means that can only be supported by such a fragile ecosystem which they have depended upon for centuries,” the report says. This, the report says, has led to resource conflicts. It is estimated that the South Lokichar basin contains at least 560 million barrels, with the potential to produce more. The country has witnessed increased efforts in oil exploration particularly in the South Lokichar basin (blocks 10BB and 13T) with a total of 40 exploration and appraisal wells having been drilled in the basin to date. Extended well tests, water injection tests, well interference tests and water-flood trials have been conducted by the joint venture partnership - Tullow Oil, Africa Oil, Total and the government to obtain data on reservoir capacity. This has proven critical in informing planning for the development and commercialisation of the oil fields. As a result, Kenya is now steadily shifting from oil exploration to development and production. The planned Foundation Stage Project envisages developing 321 wells consisting of producer and injector wells in Ngamia, Amosing and Twiga. Once the crude oil has been processed and stabilised it will be transported via a buried export pipeline to Lamu for sale to the international market. The Front End Engineering and Design (FEED) was completed in 2018 and submitted to the Ministry of Petroleum and Mining while Final Investment Decision and Environmental and Social Impact Assessments for the Foundation Stage Project is targeted in 2020 with the First Oil production, approximately 36 months after the final investment decision. The report says there is a possibility that residents will lose land tenure rights and possible loss of ownership, access and control of pastoral livelihoods. The report says lack of regulations on hazardous waste management might result in contamination of both underground and surface water. It says there is a need for adequate environmental monitoring. The report says during the production phase, gas flaring is likely to increase within the Amosing, Ngamia and Twiga oil fields, releasing high volumes of harmful gases into the atmosphere such as carbon dioxide, methane and sulphur. These have direct implications on air quality and health of the communities living in the vicinity of the flare sites. The report recommends the implementation of cleaner technologies to mitigate climate change impacts such as carbon capture and storage technologies as well as gas re-injection as an option for reservoir stabilisation. It recommends environmental and social impacts assessments of all components of the Foundation Stage Development project and strategies to mitigate negative impacts on pastoralists. Edited by Henry Makori