The construction of a regional peace, heritage and cohesion centre to ease tension among communities living along the Kenya-Somalia-Ethiopian triangle has started. Regional Inter-peace representative Hassan Ismail said the centre is set to build co-existence among pastoral communities living in the area. Ismail said the centre will archive inter-peace historical documents that will help in future conflict resolution. The conflict has protracted since pre-colonial Kenya. He said Germany has donated Sh32 million grant to help in the construction of the centre, which was demanded for by the local communities. Another Sh60 million will be added in the second phase. Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha said the centre will help solve inter-country conflict and bring peace in the region. He noted communities living along the border have fought over meagre resources but said he is optimistic that at long last, peace will be achieved. Cohesion and integration executive Mohamed Sheikh said the centre will deescalate tension in the region. Sheikh noted that communities have been fighting over pasture and water and said it is time the centre helps reduce conflict. There has been tension among the Garre and the Murule communities who have been fighting over the control of the Yedho region in Mandera South subcounty. Area leaders have developed resolutions to ease tension in the region, which in the past has seen deadly clashes with displacement of persons, killings and suffering of locals. At the weekend, a committee was formed to end a boundary row and fighting between the two communities. The 21-member team comprising of elders from the two communities, officials from the county and national governments and the cohesion commission was created after four days of peace talks. Among the issues agreed on were contestations over electoral and administrative boundaries. The stakeholders resolved that full implementation of the 2005-08 Umul and related accords should be implemented immediately. Edited by EKibii