Some Nyanza residents have warned ODM leader Raila Odinga against solely banking on the promises of individual politicians for his 2022 presidential hopes. The residents said politics is a game full of twits and false promises that should not make Raila sit pretty awaiting endorsement. Kisumu Residents Voice Association chairman Audi Ogada, head of Homa Bay Bunge La Wenye Nchi Walter Opiyo and Migori county ODM chairman Philip Makabongo said it was not yet time to start celebrating. Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe was quoted as saying Kenyans should prepare for a Raila presidency come 2022. Murathe argued that Raila has struggled for the country and he should be rewarded. The Jubilee official compared Raila to Nelson Mandela who struggled to liberate South Africa and eventually was elected head of state. Ogada told Nyanza residents not to peg their desire to make Raila the president on Murathe’s remarks. “Many Kenyans know the changes Raila has done to the country. He needs to be rewarded but his win should come from the majority of Kenyans,” Ogada said. Speaking to the Star, the KRVA chairman asked Murathe to start selling Raila among the people of Mt Kenya. He said mere endorsement would not make the ODM leader get to State House. “We’ll treat Murathe’s remarks as true should he begin meeting the Mt Kenya mafia who make decisions on behalf of the Central Kenya people,” he added. Opiyo called on Raila to chart his own political courtse and bank his hopes on the Kenyan majority should he want to be president. The head of Bunge la Wenye Nchi asked the government to reform the electoral agency. “It’s Kenyans who should be allowed to rubber stamp Raila’s presidency and not any single individual. Kenyans will vote in 2022 and we expect IEBC to declare the genuine winner the president,” Opiyo said. Opiyo appealed to President Kenyatta and people of Mt Kenya to return a favour to Raila, noting that he and his father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga supported them wholeheartedly. Raila supported former President Mwai Kibaki by declaring him" Tosha" while Jaramogi demanded that Independence would be meaningless without Jomo Kenyatta. Makabongo said Raila has not declared his candidature for 2022 presidential election. The Migori ODM party chairman said Uhuru said he would surprise people with his preferred successor. “President Kenyatta has not talked about the person he wants to succeed him. We don’t think Murathe can speak for the President,” Makabongo said. The trio urged Raila to tame his allies  whose remarks could ruin his chances  should he intend to contest the country’s top leadership. They expressed concerns over remarks that Raila will use the "system" to propel him to the presidency. “We want to remind our leaders that pride comes before a fall. Let our politicians desist from utterances that may scare people away from Raila,” Ogada said. Edited by Henry Makori