The National Treasury will release 50 per cent of equitable funds to county governments if Parliament passes a motion sponsored by Minority leader John Mbadi. The motion is intended to avert cash crisis in the counties occasioned by the deadlock over the revenue sharing formula at the Senate. The intervention by the National Assembly will allow Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani to release 50 per cent of the equitable share to the counties as advised by the Supreme Court. However, an advisory by Attorney General Paul Kihara, who is the government’s principal legal adviser, said it would be illegal for the Treasury to disburse the funds without the approval of the National Assembly. The AG noted that the stalemate is not about the Division of Revenue Bill but the County Allocation Revenue Act. “What is clear from the foregoing provisions of the Constitution is that there can be no withdrawal from the Consolidated Fund without the authorisation of Parliament,” Kihara advised. “... there is no legal basis under the current legal architecture, upon which the National Treasury can administratively advance funds to the county governments.” The AG's advisory is what prompted the Suba South MP to sponsor the motion which will give Yatani the green light to release the much needed cash to ensure critical operations at the counties do not come to a standstill. “Aware that therefore the law contemplates a continuation of provision of services by county governments; this House resolves that the Cabinet Secretary for the National Treasury does release to each county government 50 per cent of the equitable share allocated to the respective county governments in the County Allocation of Revenue Act 2019/2020,” the motion reads. It will be tabled and discussed when the House resumes sittings. Mbadi told the Star on Thursday that his intervention was informed by the need to avert paralysis of the devolved units. “The counties are grinding to a halt. We are stepping in within our mandate because it is the National Assembly with that mandate,” he said by phone. “The estimates only allow 50 per cent up to December, so that should sort out the counties. They will spend 50 per cent until the Senate agrees on the formula,” he said.   - mwaniki fm  