A law firm has written to the chairman of the National Irrigation Authority affirming suspension of appointment of Gitonga Mugambi as its CEO for another term. In a letter dated August 17, lawyer David Riungu from Riungu and Co Advocates wants the chairman to note a court order issued on August 11 by Justice Hellen Wasilwa suspending Mugambi's reappointment for a three-year term. He said the matter was certified urgent in an application filed by activist Okiya Omtatah on August 7. “The Court issued Orders on 11th August 2020 granting leave to the applicant Omtatah, to have his Chamber Summons application heard during the High Court Vacation, marked the application as urgent and granted prayer two of the Notice of Motion in the Application," the letter reads. Omtatah seeks to have the court suspend the letter appointing Mugambi as CEO of the National Irrigation Authority for a further term of three years effective on August 1. Mugambi’s appointment had been recommended by the board of the National Irrigation Authority and CS for Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Sicily Kariuki. “As a consequence thereof, the appointment of Mugambi as the Chief Executive officer stands suspended," lawyer Riungu wrote. Last week, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Wasilwa suspended the Mugambi's reappointment as CEO of the National Irrigation Authority. Judge Wasilwa, sitting in Nairobi, halted the reappointment pending hearing of Omtatah's case filed against Kariuki and the NIA. “The applicant has proved there is an arguable case and therefore directs it be heard inter partes  on August 25,” she ruled. Omtatah said CS Kariuki through a letter dated June 23 purported to act on the Board’s recommendation to reappoint Mugambi. The activist asked the court to declare the action null and void since there is no valid board in office as the terms of members appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta under the repealed Act expired in 2018. He said the only independent member of the board is Eng. Joshua Toro, who was appointed by the President as chairman for a three-year term beginning January 9, 2019. The court was told the board ought to have to had nine members to make such a recommendation. Mugambi was reportedly appointed in May 2016 in an acting capacity pending  competitive recruitment of the substantive office holder. In August 2017, Mugambi was confirmed in the position for a three-year term, without a transparent, competitive, inclusive, and merit-based recruitment process open to public participation, Omtatah said. He said Mugambi’s appointment was contrary to the Public Service Commission Act, 2017. (Edited by V. Graham)