Lack of navigation buoys and lights along Indian Ocean channels in Lamu is to blame for increased maritime accidents, the Lamu Sea Transport Users Association says. Many lives have been lost at sea through accidents the association says would have been avoided. The association has accused the Kenya Ports Authority and the Kenya Maritime Authority of failing to erect the two crucial devices on sea routes. They should shoulder the responsibility for all the accidents, the lobby says. On Friday last week, the body of 24-year-old fisherman Mohamed Rashid was recovered on shores of Takwa area in Manda island. The fisherman drowned after his boat was overpowered by strong winds at Shella channel in Lamu island. LSTUA chairperson Ali Yusuf said on many occasions sailors and fishermen have lost their way at sea, wandered off and ended up on the most dangerous channels where many have died. According to the association, most of the devices that were erected years back have since been damaged. “There are no buoys of lights on most of these channels. Whatever was there was destroyed. We are appealing to the KMA and KPA to help us by erecting others. This lack of devices is, unfortunately, the major cause of accidents here,” Yusuf said. The association also wants the county and national governments to form special diving rescue teams to help save lives whenever accidents occur. Association deputy chairperson Hassan Bakari said it was unsafe for counties bordering large water points like the Indian Ocean to be without such units. He said many of the persons who have died at sea could still be alive if such units and proper support amenities were in place. “We can save lots of lives just through such mitigation measures. Lamu has been experiencing many sea accidents and people perish in locations where had there been such units, they would have otherwise survived," Bakari said. The association is also pushing for the formation and operationalisation of a disaster response team to handle marine accidents. Edited by Henry Makori