Where there is a will there's certainly a way. It is still possible for Kenya to make amendments to the 2010 Constitution before the next general election. I find it very strange that some Kenyans think it may not be possible to hold a referendum before the election yet in other jurisdictions and countries, people hold referenda almost yearly. I personally do not see any difficulty in making amendments to the Constitution before the 2022 election. As President Uhuru Kenyatta pointed out during celebrations to mark Madaraka Day on June 1, this could be the constitutional moment for the country because of the fact that he is leaving office and therefore does not have much at stake. I know there are leaders who have said the constitutional moment would be for the political elite and not for ordinary Kenyans. Their argument has been that there is lack of commitment by the political class in the implementation of the law. There are also those who argue that Kenyans, in general, are at the moment concerned with other issues. But the constitutional moment the President was talking about was that this could be the right moment for Kenyans to reflect and review those sections of the Constitution that could not have not served them well. It is important to note that in the County Government Act, the law under which the 47 county governments are established, there is a provision for a referendum. Voters in a particular county can hold their own referendum presided over by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on issues they think are contentious or a policy decision, even a development matter that may require the approval of all residents of the devolved unit. If you ask me, I will tell you that there is really nothing out of the ordinary in people saying, yes we have had a Constitution for 10 years and there are areas that may require a bit of panel beating so as to capture the aspirations of Kenyans and to address challenges experienced during the period. Suba Churchill, the coordinator of the National Civil Society Congress spoke to the Star