Nyamira residents have lamented that dens of illicit brews are hampering the fight against poverty in the county. Most remote villages have been experiencing slow economic development, a problem they blame on widespread production, sale and supply of brews, which have left many low-income households in ruins. Despite several calls against the illegal trade, local brewers have refused to quit. Days on end, men and young people are on drinking sprees and that has taken a heavy toll on their families and society. The situation has been worsening. Concerns abound that some schoolchildren have been visiting such dens since institutions of learning were closed in March. Others use drugs. Hence, to forestall further devastations, the county security team has intensified the war on illicit brews. Led by county commissioner Amos Mariba, it has stepped up patrols to weed out such illegal businesses. The team has brought on board subcounty officials, chiefs, assistant chiefs, elders and Nyumba Kumi officials. According to Mariba, more than 1,000 litres of illicit brews is destroyed in a day across all villages. “We are fighting hard as a government to ensure we do away with such businesses as we cannot sit back and watch our county rot in the name of such businesses. This operation continues without pulling back,” he said. Mariba said the liquor problem has tainted the image of the county as many lives are destroyed. The Star established that in the villages, brewers have teamed up to help one another in case the administrators destroy their equipment and arrest some of them. This has emboldened them in the face of the onslaught. During raids, the officers have also recovered stolen items used by drinkers are collateral. They have also seized bhang. The crackdown has, however, come at a challenging moment when the country is fighting Covid-19, which has also affected court operations. Every day, perpetrators from nearly all subcounties are arraigned. Mariba, however, assured that they will not relent. “We will not allow brewers to bring out a picture of failure of government efforts in fighting the production of alcohol. We will not have sudden deaths, stealing of property and underdevelopment because of this illegal business, the crackdown continues,” he said. Edited by F'Orieny