Mombasa County Government has denied reports that they stopped testing for Covid-19 because of the minimal numbers reported in the region daily. County Health Executive Aisha Abubakar said they are testing an average of 400 people per day. However, she said the daily reported cases of Covid-19 in Mombasa have gone down because the people in the county have taken the utmost precautions. “Numbers have really gone because of the precautions people have taken. There is no magic about it. We urge people to continue taking precautions,” she said. As of Friday, over 34,982 people had been tested in the county. “We are still conducting tests daily. At Miritini, we are testing at least 150 long-distance truck drivers daily. We also do targeted testing in hospitals and institutions; therefore, we are testing an average of 400 people per day,” said Abubakar. The region has recorded over 2, 114 positive cases of Covid-19. Abubakar said at least 474 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 are on home-base care and an additional 437 who came into contact with the infected persons have also been asked to self-isolate at their homes. “We have not stopped testing people for Covid-19. We want to urge the public to come out for testing for their own good,” she said. Last Thursday, the Mombasa County Government launched targeted testing for the elderly at Mji wa Salama in Tudor area. Mji wa Salama is a centre owned by the county government. A section of it serves as a refuge centre for the elderly and another section as an orphanage for children. During the exercise, at least 21 elderly persons; 17 men and four women were tested. Staff who work at the facility were also tested for Covid-19. “The elderly person might not be leaving this centre, but majority of the staff who work here reside outside in the community. They report daily to work, therefore there is danger of brining infection from outside,” she said. Abubakar said most of the elderly people at the centre have underlying illnesses.