Deputy President William Ruto has said he is not afraid and his 2022 presidential ambition will not be derailed by the so-called 'deep state' or 'system'. The DP, who has been relegated to the periphery after a falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta, said he will rely on his supporters and God for victory. In a message to his supporters who fear the 'system' could thwart his grand march to State House, he said he will emerge the winner. “We are being told there is the system, deep state or people who will steal our votes. We are waiting for them,” Ruto said. The DP made the remarks when he met a delegation of leaders from Kajiado county at his Karen residence on Tuesday. The delegation was led by Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito and Senator Mary Seneta. The DP recollected how he and Uhuru defied all odds to win the race to State House in 2013, despite being faced with a case at the International Criminal Court. “I used to be intimidated. If I was fearful, we could not have formed the Jubilee government. If President Kenyatta was fearful, we could not have formed the government because we were told a lot of things  - choices have consequences, you do not fit because you have a case and it was a fabricated case,” he said. During the burial of his slain bodyguard Kipyegon Kenei in March, he claimed that the system was plotting against his presidency. Speaking in Nakuru, Ruto had claimed the fake arms deal whose investigation is believed to have led to the death of Sgt Kenei was part of a wider scheme by the 'deep state' to scandalise him. “Those in this scheme are boasting that I will not be there soon. Since the system cannot elect anybody, they can only kill. But there is God in heaven,” he had said on March 7. Two weeks ago, opposition chief Raila Odinga's brother Oburu, publicly claimed that they are assured of winning the 2022 polls because they have 'the system or the deep state'. The East Africa Legislative MP, who said Raila will run for the presidency in 2022, said they now own the 'system' through Uhuru and this will enable Raila to succeed Uhuru. “This is now the stage of making strategies for winning elections. We have won elections three times but every time we win the elections, we are robbed of that election. That victory is known to the whole country but we never go to State House,” he said. Oburu said this is because the 'system was missing'. "Some people are saying system is not important but system is very important. Now we are with Uhuru Kenyatta who is holding the system. But on Tuesday, Ruto urged leaders and Kenyans to stay firm and believe in God to defeat such machinations. He said the same propaganda being employed now is the same one that was used against them in the run-up to the 2013 elections. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, an ally of the DP, dismissed the notion that 'deep state' has a role to play in a presidential race. “If indeed it had a role, Uhuru would have won the 2002 election since he was being backed by the then President Daniel Moi. Moi was the holder of the system but his choice was defeated. President Kibaki too was said to have been preferring Musalia Mudavadi but the so-called system never helped him,” he told the Star on the phone. He challenged Raila to look for votes rather than wait on the system to help him. “Let him prepare himself very well. We are ready for him on this side and he better be in a position to accept defeat this time round. In all the elections, Raila who is known to be a perennial loser has claimed that his victory is always stolen,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)