Some allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga now claim Deputy President William Ruto is preparing his supporters for defeat and chaos in 2022. This as Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho rubbished Ruto's claim that there exists a 'deep state' in Kenya seeking to block his ascension to power. On Wednesday, proponents of the Uhuru-Raila political marriage said Ruto was whipping emotions in a desperate move to assuage his restive supporters apprehensive of his declining victory chances. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu alleged that Ruto was preparing his supporters to reject the 2022 presidential results and cause mayhem. “He (Ruto) is trying to build a siege mentality among his followers so that when he doesn't make it, he says the deep state or the system rigged him out and then that can be a catalyst for violence as it happened in 2007,” Ngunjiri said. According to Ngunjiri, Ruto has sensed defeat as his rivals coalesce around the handshake. Ruto had on Tuesday dared the “system” to bring it on, saying, he has God and the majority of Kenyans to back what he said was an unstoppable 2022 presidential campaign. Kenya’s second-in-command likened the roadblocks on his 2022 presidential bid to similar efforts to block him and President Kenyatta’s candidature in 2013. “I just want to tell them: We’re waiting for you. This system, this deep state we are being told about, we are waiting for it,” Ruto said at his Karen home. The 'system' or the 'deep state' is believed to refer to powerful bureaucrats, political operatives and tycoons that informally control the State. ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire termed Ruto's remarks as desperate kicks of a dying horse, saying the DP, by virtue of his office, is part of the 'system'. “The statements cannot be taken seriously. He is obviously not in control of his way forward,” Bosire said. The ex-Kitutu Masaba MP challenged the DP to resign if he is unhappy with President Uhuru Kenyatta's leadership. “The only way we can take him seriously is if he isolated himself and spoke from outside,” Bosire said, alleging that Ruto's remarks amounted to the DP addressing himself. But speaking on Spice FM on Wednesday, Kibicho said he is yet to understand what 'deep state' is. "It is a term used by people loosely to mean probably bad things. When you are told deep state, you don't think those are preachers and pastors. This definition is outrageous as it can get." Kibicho said there is no 'deep state', adding that the government is structured in a manner that everyone can see. "There isn't any deep state. We have facilities that you can interrogate things that you think about," he added. However, Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Ruto's de facto spokesman on party matters, said they are aware of machinations by the “system” to threaten, harass and intimidate Ruto and his allies ahead of 2022. “We know that the DP's remarks have not boded well with some forces whom he has exposed. They now feel scared and would do everything to frustrate the DP,” Kositany alleged. According to Kositany, the DP is building a national political support base that will easily deliver a staggering blow to the 'system' that is desperately fighting him. “Our system is the millions of Kenyans who are ready to vote for the DP as the fifth President of Kenya,” he said. Kositany, however, revealed that they are aware and prepared for any machinations by the 'deep state' lined up to cut the DP down to size. “We know they want to bring trumped up charges to frustrate the DP's allies but we are more than prepared to pay the ultimate price,” he added. Ndung'u Wainaina, executive director of the International Center for Policy and Conflict, told the Star that the DP did not make the statements out of the blues. He said Ruto having played a key role in the 2013 transition elections and the 2017 polls understands how the system works and has come to the realisation that this time it is against him. “Ruto is speaking as an insider. He knows all the secrets. He can't speak without something up his sleeves,” Wainaina said, adding that Ruto was building a political force to counter the system in 2022. In 2002, Ruto was among the Kanu stalwarts who rallied behind Uhuru, then President Moi's chosen successor, but lost to a united opposition front led by Mwai Kibaki. As the DP in 2017, Wainaina says Ruto was part of the system that mobilised all that was possible to vanquish Raila's opposition force. However, Wainaina warned that Ruto must be careful on how he executes his political force to avoid losing out to the same 'deep state'. "Raila is a living example of a leader who built a massive national political force but was outwitted by the deep state,” Wainaina said. He said Ruto may decide to use his massive political following to prop up a different presidential candidate to beat the system in their own game. “Ruto knows that the system fears him because he knows all their secrets. He can use someone else to dismantle the system in 2022 and snub the ballot.” Edited by Henry Makori