The way you face a challenge says a great deal about you. While some people struggle to overcome challenges, others seem to handle them with confidence. Facing challenges head-on can bring a sense of satisfaction and can be very fulfilling even in matters sports. If you are someone who has a tendency to shy away from hardships you better try the impossible because only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly. It is said that our  very survival  depends on our ability to stay awake, adjust to new ideas, remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change. This is exactly what Lynn Mwangi has had to do despite being just 21. The United States International University USIU-A Spartans marauding right-back is adjusting to life with her new team. Mwangi played for Kenyatta University Titans last season before the Richard Wandera-coached side was relegated to the women's Super League. Mwangi was a permanent figure for Titans and stood out even when the team was on its knees. Mwangi is a product of Kerugoya Girls High School in Kirinyaga County. She joined the institution in 2013. Her elder sister was in the same school and her friend Rachael Njogu, who was a hockey player, took her to the field and started training her. "I was taken on a tour of the field by Rachael and I appreciated what the girls were doing in training. I joined them afterwards and that's when I caught the coaches eye due to my determination. I knew how dangerous playing hockey  was but I had to accept the fact that my heart was passionate about it," said Mwangi. "In our school, Form One students were not allowed to travel for national and East Africa Games but I was the first. It may look like an awkward thing but that is how I managed to change the perception about newcomers in school games." In December 2013, she was called up to the national Under-16 team, the Simbarettes. The following year, Kerugoya failed to reach the national level. In 2015 and 2016, they were  runner ups at both national and regional championships. Little known Trans Nzoia Secondary School won the national title in 2015 as Sinyolo were triumphant on the regional front. In 2016, Sinyolo made a clean sweep. "Considering in 2015 we lost so many players, it was an achievement in 2016 to be in the finals," said Mwangi. "I chose hockey because it's the first game that met my eyes. I saw it as an abnormal game and saw it challenging. I love challenges so I went and tried it.  Since I joined hockey I never felt comfortable having a boyfriend in high school. Hockey was love. I always looked forward to training and games. I dream of playing international hockey and that is what I am working towards." Mwangi was to join Loreto Girls in Limuru in 2014 an institution she described as her choice but her early promise in the game made the hockey teacher stand firm. She was left in a dilemma. After consultations, she felt it wise to stick with Kerugoya because she was not sure if Loreto had hockey. "Actually, I was to transfer but since my coach saw potential in me, denied me the opportunity to study in my dream school. He was, however, very supportive not only as a coach but as a father because we could discuss anything. It was a tough decision because I was not certain if Loreto had hockey but at the same time, I was happy to stay put." "To be honest, my sports life has been challenging. After high school, I wanted to continue with my hockey career but my mum was opposed to that. She wanted me to just stay at home. I would call friends and relatives to talk to her so that she could allow me to come to Nairobi to play but my pleas fell on deaf ears," she narrates. "I engaged my high school coach in the discussion and he hooked me up with Rhoda Kuira. Kuira told me about USIU. Mum  later relented and allowed me to meet Kuira and we talked. USIU was my dream university but my grade (C Plain) worked against me," she revealed. Kuira is a Kenya international who plays as an attacker for the Willis Okeyo's Spartans team. Mwangi trained with the Spartans but quit just after just a week. "I trained with USIU for a week but was called back home because mum still believed I was not benefiting. It was discouraging and disheartening in equal measure because I did not want to play for money. What I wanted was to play because hockey was my passion and I could do everything to quench my thirst for the game. But what was not in doubt was that I declared I will pass through USIU irrespective of how long it would take." Mwangi played for Amira Sailors in 2017 before joining Kenyatta University the following year, playing for the Titans. She enrolled for a Diploma in Sports Administration and Management because of her passion for sports. The varsity side was playing in the women's Super League before winning promotion to the top tier league in 2019 alongside Kisumu-based side Lakers. She described her two year stint with Titans as a development stage where she learnt a lot. "KU was fun with teammates playing university hockey. The game was fun at the university level because there's not too much pressure. They helped me grow into a dependable player. With the young blood, we met for bonding so the team also helped me to have long term friends.  It was unfortunate that the team was relegated last season. We fought hard but results were hard to come by," she observed. "Institution teams face a rough time especially during long holidays. The long holiday really messed us because half of the team travelled to the villages.  Then the games came thick and fast, there was no mode of training since we couldn't access the school. It was just disappointing. We would literally walk into the field on a match day only to find that we are only 11 players playing against a team like Blazers and none on the bench," she revealed. Upon the completion of her two year course at KU last year, she was in limbo, again. Mwangi had adapted well with life at KU and wanted to continue with her studies there but a scholarship offer from USIU was hard to turn down. Her dad, she said, was ready to pay for her degree but because it was her dream institution, she saw it as a heaven-sent opportunity. She enrolled for a Bachelor in International Business Administration, an opportunity she describes as timely and a dream come true. "Finally the desires of my heart were fulfilled. My diploma grades were outstanding and USIU has given me the chance to study. Having had a good diploma certificate, it was time to venture into the business field," the jovial player revealed in an online interview with The Star. Even though she only trained with USIU for less than two months before the coronavirus pandemic struck, she admits that the right-back slot is competitive. "I haven't been at USIU for long but so far the experience is awesome. My friends are welcoming, they are jovial, the same energy and I cannot complain since Spartans is now my home. I have only played one match against Blazers but given that we lost, there was positive energy. The game was tough, we had our own chances but wasted. We worked so hard, trained well but it happened to be 1-0. We'll just work perfectly on our conversion before the league resumes. Woe unto our next opponent," Mwangi warned. "My competition with Phanice Ayieko is healthy. Phanice is a good player and has been there for some seasons now. Being new, I have to work extra hard to prove myself.  The challenge is hard but it is working extra hard I have to do to be in that position. I have repeatedly said I love challenges and I will fight for this one too by all means. Spartans is a big team with quality players therefore nothing is given, positions are earned,"she categorically explained. Even as she targets a senior national team call up, she says the sky is the limit. With the mission of the team firmly on her mind, she believes overall improvement will aid her realise her dreams. "My target is first to meet the mission and vision of the team. I also have to sync with the team, bond more because apart from being teammates, they are my family. I also want to improve my game and be better so as to grow and have more opportunities. After one full season at USIU, I will be ready for the national team," she observed. Willy Otieno was one person who has helped hone Mwangi's skills. Otieno is the USIU Mashujaa coach who worked with her while at Sailors. Her spontaneous growth, she said, was because she took the criticism positively and was keen to progress. "Willy is an amazing coach. He is one person who doesn't know how to paint mistakes. He is no nonsense, unfavoring and always truthful. Working with him was a pleasure. He is the reason why I have never given up despite my initial struggles," she said. Internationally, Argentina's great Luciana Aymar is Mwangi's idol.  The 43 year old was declared 'Legend of Hockey' by International Hockey Federation in 2008. Aymar won the 2002 and 2010 World Cup titles. Others include three Pan-American Games titles, six championship trophies and three Pan-American Cup gongs. Locally, Mwangi admires Blazers experienced defender Terry Juma. "She has always corrected me after matches provided she's watching the game. Juma is a winner and I want to follow in her footsteps." "The best lessons I have learnt in life is to stand up for what you believe is right for you. The decisions you make determines who you are and can be a springboard to your future. Be firm but decisive," she advised. Even though none of her two sisters love sports, she's optimistic that her niece, Scarlet  Nyawira, will follow in her footsteps if her dribbling skills is anything to go by. "Scarlet is promising since she supports me and always wants to come watch me play and keeps dribbling so she's next in line," she concluded. 