Construction of a Sh2.2 billion cancer centre in Kisii is expected to start in February next year, Governor James Ongwae has said. Once complete, he said, it will be the largest cancer diagnostic and treatment centre in the country. The centre will be established at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. The project is being funded through loans from the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) and the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). “Our dream of setting up a cancer centre in the county is also becoming a reality, as we strive to cushion our people from the prohibitive cost of cancer treatment. Cancer has become one of the major causes of death in the country. We expect to hit the ground in February,” Ongwae told the Star. He further said KTRH has increased the bed capacity from 300 to 700. “Currently, the construction of a 200-bed standalone Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) to be opened next year is also on course. This will increase the number of beds to 900. We have a 64-slice CT scan, which is supplementing a 16-slice CT scan,” he added. On Friday, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe visited the county to assess the level of Covid-19 preparedness. Kagwe, his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri praised Ongwae for improving facilities at the hospital. “Our visit is also a hallmark because we are in a county that demonstrates clearly the advantages of devolution. Devolution is working as stipulated in the 2010 Constitution,” Kagwe said. Matiang’i attributed the developments in the health sector to the good working relationship between the state and county government of Kisii. Other developments at the hospital include a 100-body capacity morgue and a furnished 50-bed hostel block for interns and doctors on exchange programmes. “The new modern 100 Body Capacity Mortuary with histology and anatomy laboratories has been of great help in aiding the institutionalisation of the Kisii University medical school whose 30-member pioneer class was inaugurated in September last year,” Ongwae said. Edited by A.N