The demarcation and remodelling of Thika Superhighway to accommodate bus rapid transit is expected to take eight months. Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority CEO Francis Gitau told the Star on the phone it could, however, go no further than 12 months. “The project is under implementation. We have a company already developing the corridor from concept design to detailed design,” Gitau said. Namata was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a counties. The authority is mandated to establish an integrated, efficient, effective and sustainable public transport system. A Chinese firm known as Stecol Corporation secured the Sh5.6 billion contract to construct special lanes for high capacity buses in July. The buses are to operate between Thika Superhighway and Nairobi city centre and Kenyatta National Hospital. BRT will be a reliable mode of commuter transport planned to decongest the central business district, ease transport woes, reduce travel time as well as reduce air pollution. Traffic snarl-ups in the Nairobi metropolis is estimated to cost the country Sh2 billion annually. In November 2019, the government floated BRT tender saying it intends to improve the infrastructure of the Thika Superhighway to accommodate the project. “The improvement will be undertaken as a design and build contract with a construction period of 18 months,” the tender notice said. The project will be carried out in two phases under one contract. The first section will be between Clayworks to the Nairobi CBD while the second phase will start from Clayworks to Ruiru. Namata said it expected the successful bidder to sign a fixed contract. “The bidders are therefore expected to have experience and capability in both design and construction of BRT facilities and are encouraged to associate as construction firms and consultancy firms to enhance their capabilities in this area.” Gitau said fare collection system will also be in place. “Passengers will pay before they board,” he said. Gitau said a communication plan had been developed and that all stakeholders will be involved. He said once the corridor is complete, close to 100 buses will be deployed. The buses must be easy to access by children, the elderly, and people with disability. They are fitted with an intelligent transport system as well as a technology that allows for cashless systems. The government also plans to import 11 units of commuter railways to complement BRT. The units are expected in the country by September. Gitau said the programme delivery unit which involves Kenha, Kura, NMS, Namata and Kenya Railways was working towards integrating BRT with the railway. The government has identified five corridors in its bid to decongest Nairobi roads. Line 1 is to run from the James Gichuru Road and Waiyaki Way junction to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, a distance of 20km. The 31-km line 2 will run from Lang’ata Road to Ngong Road, Juja Road, Komarock Road to Ruiru with major stops at Dandora, Kariobangi and the Gikomba Market. Line 3 will run from Githurai through Thika Road to Moi Avenue in the CBD, terminating at Kenyatta National Hospital. 