Kenya's Covid-19 infections curve is not flattening yet, the Health Ministry has warned. The ministry has however acknowledged a delay in relaying of results from the testing centres, an issue that has led to lower cases being reported in the recent few days. On Tuesday, the ministry announced that 271 people had been confirmed positive for the virus from 4,019 samples tested in 24 hours. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 30,636, from a cumulative sample of 398,585 tests since the first case was reported on March 13. "As a ministry we are aware of a delay in results and as a ministry we have addressed this and we are developing new guidelines. It is a matter of how samples are arriving in the labs" Director Public health Dr Francis Kuria said. Reports indicate several patients who had been quarantined at KMTC Karen have spent more than 10 days at the facility without any communication. "We must be very cautious when saying that our curve is flattening. Let us not take it with a pinch of salt and let us not believe that our curve is flattening. The tests are not as many as we were testing few weeks ago," Kuria said. The medic however noted that there are good indicators in terms of reduction in fatalities especially in Mombasa county."The best indicator is the number of cases that are in hospital. When this starts going down and the deaths start going down then we can probably start saying that our curve is going down." The ministry has noted that the positivity rate has remained the same at five per cent. Health CAS Rashid Aman noted that the emphasis on the fact that the risk is high among the elderly and those with preexisting medical conditions has made many youth reckless, with the ministry now planning to restrategise on the messaging to target all the age groups. Already, data from the ministry shows that despite the vulnerable populations being at a higher risk of contracting severe disease, young patients with no preexisting conditions have succumbed to the virus. Similarly, infants as young as one month have been infected with the virus. "The disease doesn't distinguish between the age. We have seen healthy people with no cormobid condition die from the virus. Additionally, youth are also spreaders of the disease," Aman said. The number of Kenyans who have so far succumbed to the virus now stands at 487 after five more patients passed away on Tuesday.On a positive note, 208 patients recovered from the virus, 161 from the Home based care while 42 were discharged from various health facilities. The total recoveries in the country now stand at 17,368. The youngest is a one year old baby while the oldest is 80 years old.Nairobi continues to lead in the number of new infections after recording 99 new case followed by Kiambu and Laikipia with 20 cases. Migori and Uasin Gishu 18 cases each, Busia 12, Lamu and Samburu 11 cases each,Turkana 10, Kajiado nine, Makuein, Garissa and Nakuru fur cases each. Mombasa, Machakos,, Muranga'a. Kisumu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Tana River each recorded three cases, Nandi, Marsabit and Nyeri two cases each while Kirinyaga, Vihiga, Embu and Kitu had one new case each.