Sofapaka have seemingly thrown in the towel in their pursuit of striker John Avire, who controversially joined Egypt's Tanta SC last year. Initially, the club wanted Fifa to force Tanta to pay them an undisclosed amount in transfer fee as well as slap them with hefty fines for possible player tapping. Club president Elly Kalekwa on Sunday confirmed that negotiations between his office and the Egyptian side are underway in finding a solution to the year-long impasse. Kalekwa said the talks revolve around what percentage he will pocket should Tanta decide to sell the former Bandari player to another club. Last year,Kalekwa revealed that a senior Zambian club was among those eyeing Avire's signature. The two clubs have been at loggerheads over the ownership of the Harambee Stars striker, who controversially switched allegiance triggering protests from Batoto Ba Mungu, who lodged complaints with both Football Kenya Federation and Fifa for possible player tapping. The Kenyan Premier League side alleged that Tanta illegally acquired their contracted player, without following transfer procedures. Their petition to FKF earned them a temporal reprieve after the player was denied the International Transfer Certificate a move which meant that the Egyptian club could not field him. However, the former Shield Cup holders suffered a major blow after Fifa cleared the Egyptian federation to provisionally register the player early in March. He would later make his bow for the club in the month against Pyramids FC much to the chagrin of the Kenyan side. "The Egyptian Federation is authorised to provisionally register the player John Avire who is affiliated to club Tanta with immediate effect," read part of the letter from Zurich. Having lost grip on the player, Kalekwa has moved to lessen the demands as he is now anticipating that negotiations will see his club bank a certain percentage should Tanta sell the striker. “They agreed to talk to us unlike before where they gave our correspondences a cold shoulder. The player is partly ours and we are looking to come up with a percentage on how we will share money from his sale  should he move elsewhere. Tanta are not doing well financially and may consider listening to offers," said Kalekwa. Besides, Kalekwa said Tanta will bear the financial burden of securing Avire's replacement in the ongoing transfer window. He added: "We also want them (Tanta) to purchase for us his replacement. If Avire's shoes  will be filled by a player who will cost one million, then it is upon Tanta to meet the cost."