The Kenya Women Parliamentary Association –KEWOPA, has accused male MPs of duping them during the vote on the two-thirds gender rule. The association on Friday said their male counterparts had promised to stand with them only to abandon them on the d-day. Chairperson Gathoni Wamuchomba said it was unfair for women to spend a lot of resources on their male counterparts in efforts to rally support for the passage of the bill for them to only to turn their back against them. Wamuchomba was speaking during a policy dialogue for women’s political participation in Kenya at a city hotel. “These men you see joy rid and tricked us women. They lied they would support us and we spent money on them as we negotiated and bargained for the bill,” Wamuchomba said. She added, “We even bought them flowers and put them in their coats but when the date came they all abandoned us." By October 2018, women MPs started putting on white ribbons and scarfs to raise awareness that the two-thirds gender bill had not been passed eight years after the promulgation of the Constitution Under the banner of KEWOPA, the lawmakers put up a spirited campaign trying to convince their male counterparts to support the bill. But in February 2018 for the third time in a row, parliament failed to pass the bill which sought to align the membership of the National Assembly with the Constitution, which requires that not more than two-thirds of seats in the appointive and elective bodies should be of the same gender. The bill also sought to create special nomination slots for women in the National Assembly and the Senate to bridge the gender gap. Drafters of the 2010 Constitution did not want a situation where one gender is overly represented in parliament. As such, they stipulated that the National Assembly and the Senate should not have more than two-thirds of members of the same gender. “Not more than two-thirds of the members of elective public bodies shall be of the same gender,” says Article 81 (b) of the Constitution. However, the passage of the bill faced many hurdles with male MPs expressing reluctance in supporting it - they say it will be abused by party leaders to nominate their "girlfriends". This is despite President Uhuru Kenyatta having directed that the house be rallied to support the bill. Wamuchomba said time has come for the women leaders to ask themselves hard questions regarding the bill. “We must ask ourselves are we packaging issues around the bill in the wrong way or is it that we have no political goodwill?” she posed. “We must interrogate ourselves on whether we are in the right time of implementation because the narrative has always been the bill is progressive and shall come to pass. The question should be when is when,” she added. Wamuchomba said it is worth noting that the KEWOPA membership has tremendously grown its membership a sign that its awareness are coming on board. She said currently there are 29 MPs, 47 woman reps and 21 Senators both elected and nominated. She said the association has played a critical role in the passage of several family bills including the Marriage Act 2014, protection against domestic violence bill, prohibition of FGM and Sexual Offenses Act among others. Wamuchomba’s sentiments were echoed by Narc leader and former Justice Minister Martha Karua who said it is unfortunate that the three arms of government have not complied with the rule a decade under the new constitution. Karua said for instance the Supreme Court has two women out of five men which is way below the minimum. She said the low requires at least 3 women on the lower side and 4 on the higher side but all has not been adhered to. “If we looked at the composition of the current Cabinet, representation of women is at 31 per cent when the law requires a minimum of 34 per cent on the lower side and 66 per cent on the higher side,” Karua said. Karua said both the National Assembly and the Senate have not been keen to comply with the rule despite the fact that they are in a position to lead the process. According to her, only 8 County Assemblies out of the 47 have complied. “To me this is an indication that as women we are sleeping on the job. We have not pushed hard enough. We have not knocked on institutions like the IEBC and the executive to compel them to adhere to the rule,” she said. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo said the rule has suffered a double tragedy with a false notion that women must be violent to get what they want. “It is even shocking that women are still fighting women instead of adjusting on how to deal with new dynamics that never existed especially when going for the elective positions,” she said.