@robertomollo3 The Senate has been asked to investigate how Sh98 million allocated to Homa Bay to fight Covid-19 has been spent after health workers went on strike on Monday over unpaid salaries and allowances. The county government has not paid health workers their June and July salaries. The Senate has also been asked to establish the state of intensive care units (ICUs) in Homa Bay, including the number of beds and the number of qualified health workers assigned to work at the ICU. In a letter to the Senate Standing Committee on Health, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang' said on Wednesday that the team should investigate why a nurse who died of Covid-19 had to be taken to a hospital in Kisii. Nurse Marian Awuor died on Sunday morning at the Kisii County Referral Hospital. The nurse was working at Rachuonyo South Subcounty Hospital in Oyugis. Kajwang' questioned why the nurse had to be transferred to Kisii when all county governments were directed to equip their hospitals with life support machines to help critically-ill patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to the committee, Kajwang' asked the Senate to establish how the county government spent Sh98 million it received from the national government. The state released Sh5 billion to 47 counties to enable them to improve health services in public hospitals as they combat the pandemic. Governor Cyprian Awiti had announced that his county received Sh98 million. “We’re going to use some money to pay allowances to our frontline soldiers helping us combat Covid-19 at the centres,” Awiti said. The governor said there are nine isolation centres in the county. Awiti directed Health executive Richard Muga to ensure part of the money is used in rehabilitation of health facilities that were converted to Covid-19 isolation centres. According to Muga, some money was going to be spent on equipping the centres with ICU machines. “Homa Bay has attained the 300 beds capacity required for handling patients with Covid-19,” Muga said. But Kajwang' said health workers at isolation centres had stopped working due to unpaid allowances. “I wish to seek a statement from the Senate Committee on Health regarding the strike by health workers in Homa Bay in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic as well as the general state of health services in the county,” the letter reads. Kajwang' said frontline health workers should be motivated through adequate compensation, training and provision of personal protective equipment. “Explain measures taken by Homa Bay to provide services to citizens following the conversion of high volume health facilities and critical facilities like blood bank into Covid-19 isolation and treatment centres,” he wrote. Health workers in the county have complained that there is a shortage of PPE. Edited by A.N 