Deputy President William Ruto has blamed the opposition party ODM for suggesting how the ongoing Kemsa scandal should be handled. Through his Twitter account, the DP said that the move by ODM to defend the ongoing investigations at Kemas ‘is not shocking.’ "The pretentious (former) Opposition, now turned Lords of corruption, attempted defense of the Covid19 grand larceny is not shocking," Ruto said. Ruto has alleged that the ongoing investigations regarding the loss of Covid-19 donations indicate that handshake was never interested in the people's good. “It confirms the worst of Kenyan's fears that their side of the handshake was never interested in the people's good but opportunity to loot. What a shame,” Ruto said. Ruto was responding to the statement issued by ODM on Saturday, where the party criticised him for saying at least he is not linked with the scandal. The statement signed by ODM party secretary-general Edwin Sifuna stated that: “It is disheartening to hear no less a senior government official than the DP go public with the juvenile and improper statement that at least now nobody will blame me for stealing Covid-19 funds.” The party said that Ruto’s words suggested that it is okay for funds to be stolen provided that he is not involved. Sifuna had also blamed the DP for not helping the president to crack the whip on corruption cartels within the government. Amani National Congress party (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi urged the president to set up a judicial inquest to probe the alleged theft of Covid-19 funds, adding that loss of money at MoH is a threat to his legacy. Mudavadi said on Sunday that the country may lose the support of the donor community if proper measures are not put in place to act against graft. He said the Office of Auditor General may take too long before it embarks on investigations into the alleged loss of funds. the scandal has led to the suspension of Kemsa CEO  Jonah Mwangi following allegations that the authority flouted procurement regulations. Kemsa has been in the spotlight after it emerged that officials dished out tenders to mysterious entities under the cover of the Covid-19 pandemic. This came hot on the heels of an audit that exposed procurement and financial irregularities that put at risk more than Sh100 billion of donor funds and taxpayers' money.