With schools in Kenya only set to reopen next year, here are some of the best kids TV shows and movies on Showmax to keep the little ones (and not so little ones) busy and entertained. Showmax also allows you to set up a Kids profile so that you can monitor and control the type of shows and movies your kids can access. Watch the video below for more info about Showmax kids’ mode. Toddlers and Preschoolers Tinga Tinga Tales S1 A perfect way for curious kids to learn about the animal kingdom, Tinga Tinga Tales is a Kenyan animated series that’s inspired by African folk tales and tells the story of the origin of various animals. Using captivating stories, colour and songs, Tinga Tinga Tales explains how animals came to be how they are today – why does the lion have a trunk, why the eagles rule the sky, why a chameleon changes its colours and more. Watch it now. Akili & Me S1-2 Akili and Me is an animated edutainment series set in Tanzania that is perfect for preschoolers. The series follows the young Akili as she escapes to the magical dream world of Lala Land where animals can talk and where Akili together with her animal friends get to learn about language, letters, numbers and art. Watch it now. Paw Patrol S1-5 and PAW Patrol: Mighty Pups Kids are never too young to become motivated to be heroes in their own little worlds. Paw Patrol follows Ryder and his group of pups as they work together to save the day in their hometown of Adventure Bay, and have some fun while they’re at it. Watch it now. From 20 August, the kids can also stream PAW Patrol: Mighty Pups, the movie. A meteor crashes to Earth and gives the pup superhero powers – but will they be enough to defeat villains determined to take over the world? Lower Primary Schoolers Mr Bean Animated Series S1-2 Mr Bean Animated Series packs just the right amount of comedy and quirk for kids looking for a good laugh. This animated sitcom follows the adventures and mishaps of Mr Bean as he tries and fails through life, even in the simplest tasks, of course with hilarious consequences that all kids can find delightful. Watch it now. Abominable (2019) Three teenagers encounter a young Yeti and want to help him find his way back home to the highest point on Earth. But a cunning businessman and an evil zoologist, who want the Yeti for themselves, are hot on their heels. Watch it now. Henry Danger S1-4 Henry’s friends think he’s just a timid guy. But under all that timidness is Kid Danger, sidekick to superhero Captain Man. With the help of their team members, Charlotte and Schwoz, the two embark on a whirlwind adventure that involves high-tech gadgets and saving the world from the bad guys. Watch it now. Top Chef Junior S1-2 Need some help in the kitchen? Kids can cook too as seen on Top Chef Junior, a reality show where 12 young chefs between the ages of 9 and 14 battle it out in a series of culinary challenges to determine the best chef. With this kind of inspiration, the kids will be whipping up some delicious family recipes in no time. Watch it now. Tweens and Teens Supa Modo (2018) Perfect for family viewing, this multi-award-winning Kenyan film, Supa Modo, tells the heart-warming story of Jo (Stycie Waweru, Lusala), a terminally ill nine-year-old girl whose last wish is to become a superhero, a dream that comes true when her strong-headed big sister rallies the whole community behind her. Despite its emotional plot, Supa Modo has an uplifting message for children of all ages. Watch it now. Supa Strikas S1-5 Who can forget the comic Supa Strikas, the Saturday Nation pullout that introduced us to the great football team Supa Strikas and stars like Shakes Makena, El Matador and Dancing Rasta? Adapted into an animated series, Supa Strikas follows Shakes and his teammates on their quest to become the greatest football team in the world. Watch it now. Find Me in Paris S1-3 A young ballet dancer from 1905 is transported into the 21st century with the power of a magical necklace. While her boyfriend looks for a way to bring her back, she must find a way to fit in and dodge the sinister time agents. Watch it now. Avatar the Last Airbender S1-3 In a war-torn world of elemental magic, Aang, a 12-year-old boy with the power to manipulate air, awakens from a 100-year sleep to undertake a dangerous quest. As the Avatar, Aang’s destiny is to restore peace by ending the Fire Nation’s imperialistic war against the other nations and bring peace to the world. Watch it now. Why should you get Showmax for your kids? Well here are four good reasons: Watch more of the best kids shows on Showmax now: http://shw.mx/2x8owYw What is Showmax? Showmax is an online streaming service, with all your local faves like Selina and Monica, plus the biggest international shows, like Insecure and Little Fires Everywhere, plus loads of movies and even live sport! How to get Showmax Subscribe to Showmax for as little as KSh 380 per month to watch on your phone, and yes, you can pay with M-Pesa. Sign up today.