A Kisii MCA wants South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro arrested and his gun withdrawn after the lawmaker allegedly assaulted him at a church function. Moticho MCA Evans Mokoro has reported the alleged assault to Nyamarambe police station where he recorded a statement. The incident occurred when the MP’s bodyguard drew a gun after chaos erupted at Nyamarambe Catholic Church. Mokoro was surrounded by youths who had accompanied Osoro to the event presided over by Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekial Mochogu. The MCA was beaten up by the youths moments after Osoro warned him against criticising him in the media. Earlier, Mokoro while addressing the residents had challenged the MP to focus on developing the constituency instead of fighting other leaders in the region, seemingly provoking the lawmaker. “The MP called me as we were walking away after the event. He then held my hands, at first I thought it was friendly. He then started quarrelling, claiming I have been criticising him on social media and through vernacular radio stations. He drew his gun and started shouting at me,"  the MCA said. He added: “The youths who accompanied him started beating me up. They only fled after the residents joined in to chase them.” Mokoro claimed that the South Mugirango MP slapped him before the youths joined in the attack. The MCA went to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital for treatment following the Sunday assault in which guns were drawn. “I want to appeal to the police commissioner (sic) to withdraw Osoro’s gun because it is being misused to threaten and to bully innocent people. If not withdrawn then this gun will one day kill someone," he said. The incident happened following a recent petition against the MP by  Bernard Merongo, a resident who wants Osoro investigated over claims of corruption and misappropriation of funds at the National Government Constituency Development Fund. Merongo petitioned the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe Osoro for alleged corruption in tenders involving school projects awarded to proxy companies linked to the MP. “Most of the projects are being done across the constituency through Syticon Company associated with the MP’s brother George Kengere Onyiego and Mochari Mogaka,” the petitioner said in a letter to the EACC dated August 24. But Osoro denied the claims, insisting his operations at the NG-CDF were above board. He responded by posting pictures of successful CDF projects on social media, though he did not respond to the specific queries raised by the petition claiming he was ready to face the EACC over the matter. Edited by Henry Makori