The Embassy of Iran in Kenya, in collaboration with the University of Nairobi, and East African Cartoonists' Society (KATUNI) recently held a virtual cartoon festival competition dubbed Africa and Covid-19. It was aimed at creating a synergy between art and activism in addressing the ongoing Covid-19 global pandemic. The festival offered a platform to African and Iranian cartoonists to utilise their potential in illustrating the Covid-19 pandemic phases, while sharing practical and uniquely tailored concepts on how to keep safe during this period and after the pandemic. The Covid-19 outbreak has made all borders redundant as it infects people without discrimination. It does not differentiate between nations or cultures. Such pandemics often alter the course of history and disrupt most predictive global indicators. Africa, within this context of Covid-19 pandemic, has to play its role just like the other continents. It goes without saying that most African states have taken deliberate steps to boost their people’s well-being by providing social transfers to the millions whose livelihoods have been affected. This remains a powerful and fast-acting initiative that will do much to safeguard the lives and livelihoods of millions of the most vulnerable populace. However, this begs the question, which trajectory will these countries take in the next six months, a year or 10 from now? It is incumbent of leaders, institutions, corporates and those in position of influence to utilise the most relatable and effective tools that people have, such as art. Through art, cartoons are some of the most vibrant tools that are fundamental in raising public awareness and developing problem-solving paths. This is not only in a comical manner but also through the contextual educational lenses. In this respect, youths resonate with various artistic talents that can be utilised in illustrating what needs to be done during Covid-19 pandemic period as well highlighting what the new world order in post-corona era would look like. That’s why the Embassy of Iran decided to hold a virtual African cartoon festival on Covid-19 pandemic as a way of enabling the populace share practical and homebuilt concepts on how to keep safe during this period and after the crisis ends. Mohamed Khamis, Nairobi