"It wasn't me". That is Deputy President William Ruto's response to who said the 2007 election was rigged. "It was (Electoral Commission of Kenya chairman Samuel) Kivuitu himself who was running the election and he was saying he had no clue where the returning officers were, what the numbers are... what do you do if he arbiter doesn't know the outcome..." This is in contrast to his stand back in 2007 when his then party ODM said the election was stolen from it. At the time, Raila Odinga - his now archrival - was running for President. "When elections are rigged, they go to court and they overturn them... the best way to determine is to subject it to a process... From where I sit, it's not easy to rig an election and get away with it..." Ruto said. "The courts decided otherwise that we hadn't won.. so what did we do, we submitted... and that's what should be the case." Ruto said those calling for the amendment of the Constitution on the premise that the current one leads to a winner takes it all scenario should know all competitions have winners and losers. "The ultimate of an election is there will be a winner and a loser... the process should make it possible for us to arrive at that outcome credibly... and if there's any issue with that outcome, there's a course of action to take" On being relegated to the backseat of the Jubilee government, Ruto said he has no problem with President Uhuru Kenyatta's decision to build new alliances which have seen him take a 'back seat'. "In the second term, the President decided to do things in a different way, which I respect.. which you see, I take a slight back seat because we want to build the legacy of President Uhuru because for a long time we had UhuRuto.. and some people got concerned and said maybe it should be Uhuru because he is the President," he said. "So for Uhuru to stand out, maybe we should scale down the UhuRuto so that Ruto can take a back seat, do less, so that we can project President Uhuru as the leader of government which is the case... I am the deputy president and I know my place." Ruto said he was willing to take a 'backseat' for the sake of Uhuru's legacy. On whether he was confident about Uhuru's legacy, Ruto hesitated, saying what was built during his first term was solid in the area of infrastructure and other areas which could have been built on during the second term. He however said the Handshake brought in different dynamics. Ruto said Jubilee party is not functioning well because of 'busy bodies' who have no idea about the party's philosophy. "The party has been hijacked by busy bodies and con men and brokers like Murathe and company," he said. Ruto said he has not given up on the party and it would be 'tragic' if he had to look for other options given the 'investment' he put in the party.