What you post on social media can return to haunt you as blogger Pauline Njoroge learnt recently. The government revoked her appointment to the Tourism board over an old Facebook post. It’s said a senior leader from Northeastern has suffered a similar fate. The man being considered for a plum job in the anticipated government changes has been dropped. The former politician has been writing stinging attacks on the government, especially on the revenue stalemate in the Senate. It’s whispered a former official of an investigating agency from the same region is being considered. President Uhuru Kenyatta is said to be working on a reshuffle. However, the changes have been taking a long time and hopefuls are getting jittery. Who will save Kenyans from a cartel syphoning thousands of litres of oil from depots of a major transport agency? The agency is losing fuel to a businesswoman who reportedly collects it in tankers and sells it to petrol stations. The trader works in cahoots with rogue officers at the agency, said to be with full knowledge of some bosses. Corridors hears a female police boss receives Sh20,000 weekly from the businesswoman to look the other way. The agency’s operations have been marred by hitches from time to time as the cartels line their pockets. The dealings of a cereals businessman in one of the border towns is cause for concern. Those in the know are asking just how powerful is the man. The trader has reportedly made work difficult for KRA officers controlling border imports from Ethiopia. Reports indicate he always wants officers do things his way. Corridors has learnt the man threatens the officers, claiming he can influence their transfer. He drops names of senior KRA officials in Nairobi while threatening junior border officers. It has emerged the man, who has been in business for a while, has dominated the cereals market by edging out competitors through demands to be given a break by the KRA officers. CS Mutahi Kagwe has a lot to deal with. Some employees at the Health ministry have written to the CS, complaining about their head of department. They have accused the boss of incompetence, intimidation and verbal abuse. It's said the  department head has revised the division's goals making them harder to achieve without providing the required leadership, environment and resources. The boss is also being accused of favouritism and preferring to work with inexperienced junior staff who don't question him. Surprisingly, the letter was authored by senior officers. To them, the only viable and lasting solution is to have the head transferred. The division is among the most funded by donors.