Kenya on Saturday recorded 699 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 25,837, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has confirmed. The new positives were drawn from the 7,175 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. This brings the country's cumulative total tests close to the 350,000 mark. From the new cases, 675 were Kenyans while 24 were foreigners. Speaking during the daily Covid-19 briefing from Kakamega, Kagwe said in terms of gender, 427 were male and 272 were female. Age wise, the youngest was a one year old infant while oldest was 85 years old. Some 781 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 11,899. 656 of those discharged were from the home-based program while 125 were discharged from various health facilities. However, five more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities in the country to 418. Kagwe revealed that some people are still in denial about the existence of coronavirus in the country. He referred  to a son who tested positive and refused to self isolate because he believed the virus was a myth. "The boy went home, infected the parents and sister and as we have seen in most cases the parents had underlying medical conditions," Kagwe narrated. Unfortunately both the mother and father succumbed to the virus just two weeks apart. The distribution of the cases by Counties is as follows; Nairobi 414, Kajiado 81, Kiambu 54 Machakos 30, Nakuru 21, Uasin-Gishu 15, Laikipia 11, Mombasa and Busia nine, Bungoma seven, Kericho zero. Others are Kisii five, Homabay four, Bomet, Garissa, Meru, Migori, Nandi have three cases each while Kisumu, Murang’a, Nyandarua and Taita Taveta  have two cases each. Marsabit, Siaya and Trans-Nzoia have 1 case each. The cases are distributed in sub Counties as follows; in Nairobi the 414 cases are in Lang’ata 81, Starehe 52 Westlands 40, Dagoretti Nolh 30, Embakasi South 20, Embakasi West and Kasarani 22, Makadara 21, Embakasi East 20, Embakasi  Central and Kamukunji 18 each. Mathare and Ruaraka 13 each, Roysambu 11, Dagoretti South, Embakasi North and Kibra all have nine cases each. In Kajiado the 81 cases are in; Kajiado East 43, Kajiado North 25 and Kajiado Central three. In Kiambu the 54 cases are in; Thika 17, Kabete eight, Kiambu Town six, Kiambaa and Kikuyu five cases each. Lari and Ruiru have four cases each. Githunguri three, while Juja and Limuru have 1 case each. In Machakos the 36 cases are in Athi River 35 and Machakos Town one. Nakuru’s 21 cases are in Naivasha nine, Nakuru East seven, Nakuru West three, Nakuru North and Rongai have one case each. In Uasin-Gishu 15 cases are in Ainabkoi and Turbo with five cases each, Kapseret three, Kesses two. In Laikipia the 11 cases are in; Laikipia East seven, Laikipia West four. In Busia, the nine cases are in; Matayos four, Teso North four and Butula one. In Bungoma, the seven cases are all in Kanduyi. In Kericho, all three cases are in Anamoi. In Kisii, all the five cases are in Kitutu Chache South. Homabay’s four cases are in; Homabay Town two and Ndhiwa two. In Garissa the three cases are in Garissa Town. In Meru, the three cases are in; Imenti North while the three cases in Migori are in Kuria West, Nyatike and Suna West with one case each. Nandi’s three cases are in Emgwen two and Chesumei one. Bomet’s three cases are in Bomet Central two and Bomet East one. Kisumu’s two cases are in Kisumu Central while. Murang’a’s two cases are in Gatanga and Kandara with one case each. Nyandarua’s two cases are in Kinangop while Taita-Taveta’s cases are in Taveta one and Voi one. Marsabit’s one case is in Saku, Siaya’s in Alego-Usonga and Trans-Nzoia’s in Kiminini.