Residents of Khorof Harar in Wajir East have a reason to smile after the area was elevated to a subcounty. This means the area becomes a decentralised unit through which the government will provide many services to the people. Offices that will be set up include a full security committee led by the deputy county commissioner, OCPD, NIS and DCI. Other offices are the registrar of persons and the registrar of births and deaths. The subcounty administration headed by deputy county commissioner Ibrahim Muchangi will be responsible for the coordination, management and supervision of government services including development activities to empower the community and collection of revenue. The subcounty will also perform other essential administrative functions such as registration of voters, supervision of elections, keeping records, provision of police protection and administration of health and welfare services. Speaking on Thursday during the commissioning of the  administration unit officiated by county commissioner Jacob Narengo, area MP Rashid Kassim said the residents can now access services without traveling long distances. Kassim has been at the forefront pushing for the creation of the subcounty. “It gives great pleasure to be here today to join residents in witnessing this historic day. It was one of my campaign pledges to the residents and which I thank God I have delivered in time,” he said. The MP said security of the area, which has in the past witnessed terror attacks leading to loss of lives, will greatly be boosted with the presence of a fully-fledged security post. "I can only imagine how the fortunes of this area will change, more so in terms security being improved. All I want is to appeal to the residents to fully cooperate with the security chiefs in building the subcounty,” he said. Narengo said bringing services closer to the people was top on his agenda. He said the national government will work closely with the local leadership and residents in ensuring that all the offices are operational. He said the government was determined to wipe out the militants and called for continued cooperation between the security officers and the public. “I want to make a humble request to members of the public to continue cooperating with our security forces and agencies in order to fight these militants who do not mean well for our county and country,” he said. Resident Abdi Mohamed said that they could never have imagined that the remote area that is 200km from Wajir town could be elevated to a subcounty. “This is one the things that you only dream of but in reality, you know it cannot happen. I still can't believe that we are now a subcounty. It will take time before this sinks in,” a visibly excited Mohamed said. Edited by Henry Makori