The Nairobi county assembly has called upon the Senate to resolve the revenue sharing formula, noting that county operations risked coming to halt. The Senate held its ninth sitting to decide on the third basis for sharing revenue among the 47 counties. Majority leader Abdi Ibrahim Hassan stated that the Senate’s decision should ensure that no county is left behind in terms of development. “As an assembly, we are pleading with the Senate to fast-track passing the formula so that counties can go ahead and roll out their budgets for the 2020-2021 financial year,” he said. The MCAs joined the Council of Governors and want the Senate to pass the revenue sharing formula proposed by Commission on Revenue Allocation with amendments fronted by Nominated Senator Petronilla Were to increase the allocation to Sh348 billion. Were recommended that the Treasury increases the allocation and it is shared based on CRA's formula. Defending their stand, the legislators pointed out that Nairobi has the highest poverty index in the country and the formula would ensure that more people in the capital benefit. “ All counties should get money for development but as legislators, we cannot support Nairobi to lose money for other counties to benefit,” the majority leader said. Deputy minority leader Patrick Musili said the CRA formula with amendments will ensure funds will be directed towards ongoing and planned development projects across 85 wards. “We want to implement the development projects we had promised our constituents and the CRA formula is what will ensure that the right funds are utilised,” he said. The MCAs also want Senator Johnson Sakaja to declare his interest and why he wants the capital to lose millions. Sakaja had suggested that the entire Sh316.5 billion allocated to the 47 counties in the current financial year be shared equally. Deputy speaker John Kamangu urged Sakaja to push for the agenda that will benefit the county that elected him. “How can we have a senator voting against Nairobi which voted for him to be in office? We expect more from Sakaja and he should push the agenda that will see Nairobi residents benefit in terms of services,” he said. Majority Whip Paul Kados condemned Sakaja’s statements that there was no poverty in Nairobi, suggesting that the senator had never approached the MCAs and enquired about the challenging issues. “We have never had a sitting with our senator, where he can give us the platform for MCAs to put on the table the major issues affecting our wards. He should not act on the interest of other people other than those voters who are Nairobi residents,” he said. Last month, the county assembly froze development projects for the 2020-21 financial year until the County Revenue Allocation Bill is passed. The revenue allocation formula deadlock has stalled the passage of the Bill and cash disbursement schedule to allow the counties to access funds. The two were to have been passed by June 30 for disbursement to start by July 15 to enable the counties to pay salaries and perform other functions. Edited by Henry Makori