It is true that former Vice President Moody Awori has landed a role in the Inter-County Covid-19 Committee. Awori is among a 21- member team picked to spearhead resource mobilisation for Covid-19 response in the Lake Region. Blogger  Robert Alai, had on his Twitter posted that Awori, 92, had been picked among the team which will be part of a new fundraising approach being taken by 14 counties under the Lake Region Economic Bloc – LREB in the fight against coronavirus. The tweet generated a debate among his followers, with some questioning why Awori at his age would be picked for such a role. Another user wondered if Covid-19 had existed in Kenya before if the former VP was picked on the basis of experience. The Star’s fact-check desk moved in to establish the claim. We established that it was true Awori, well known as Uncle Moody, had been picked following a meeting held between several governors under the LREB. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who doubles up as the LREB and the Council of Governors Chairman said together with his Kisumu counterpart Anyang Nyongó and Vihiga’s Wilberforce Otichilo had a meeting and picked the team on August 19. The meeting happened at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports Ground where the team was later announced. Oparanya said the team referred to as the LREB Covid-19 Resource Mobilisation and Advisory Committee will be in charge of mobilisation and monitoring of funds in the Covid-19 fight. LREB comprises Kakamega, Kisumu, Bungoma, Vihiga, Homa Bay, Busia, Bomet, Siaya, Nyamira, Migori and Kisii counties.   The 21-member LREB Covid-19 resource mobilisation team comprises of prominent philanthropists, industrialists and professionals. Among them is Esther Akoth, popularly known as Akothee, Sports personality Eliud Kipchoge,  Sanjay Patel, Prof. Khama Rogo and Catherine Mumma. Others are Rev. David Chuchu, Bath Ragalo, Jayesh Patel, Dr. Paul Mitei and FCPA Edward Ouko. According to Oparanya, the team will work under Covid-19 protocols as they aim to achieve their targets.