ODM party leader Raila Odinga has criticized the state following the arrest of three senators on Monday. Raila said in a statement on Tuesday that the state needs to "pull back and abandon actions that can take away the gains made on our path to democratisation". "The warlords need to stop beating the drums of war or financing the divisive rhetoric and our legislators involved in this matter need to search their souls in all honesty and put public good above private gain," Raila said. The arrest of three senators on Monday triggered a political storm in the Senate that saw angry lawmakers rail at the state for trying to circumvent the will of the people exercising their mandate through their elected representatives. Emotions ran high during the debate with senators pointing an accusing finger at state functionaries for unleashing terror on their colleagues holding divergent views. In a night of long knives, contingents of DCI detectives arrested Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Christopher Lang'at (Bomet) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburu). Raila said the divisions witnessed in the Senate over the appropriate formula to share revenue among the counties should not be allowed to tone down the ethnic and regional rhetoric and diffuse the tensions that bubbled to the surface over the matter. "At a time that we need to come together to confront monumental problems including a struggling economy, schools whose gates are shut for children and a chronic health care crisis, we cannot afford to push positions that cause more divisions in the hope that such can boost our chances in competitive politics." He has also said that the country should desist from actions and utterances that have the potential not only to widen the ethnic divide but also to denigrate the country's young experiment with devolution of resources and services. Raila has also called upon the state and politicians to work together for the benefit of all Kenyans. " Both the politicians and the State organs need to inspire confidence rather than sow doubts in our future as one people. It begins with leaders being honest and embracing integrity in all their transactions on behalf of the people." He has further said that the disagreement over the formula continues to hold back the country in terms of development. "The twin sins of failing integrity among a section of elected representatives during this whole affair and the instinct by agents of the State to resort to strong-arm measures to get things accomplished continue to hold our country back, reducing our citizens to mere watchers in dramas whose scripts are written far from public eyes." Bomet senator Christopher Lang'at was arrested on Monday morning at his house in Nyayo Estate, Embakasi by the DCI sleuths before being transported to Bomet Police Station where he recorded statement. Lang’at was released on the same day after denying the allegations that he had assembled about 200 youths on August 12 to take an oath and turn against the neighbouring community. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala was also arrested on Monday in Nairobi and driven to Mumias by the DCI officers. Malala spend the night at the police station before being released on Tuesday without any charges. During his arrest, the detectives said that he was being arrested for contravening Covid-19 containment measures in his county over the weekend. Senator Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) on Tuesday presented himself at the Maralal police station for questioning by DCI detectives over cattle rustling in Samburu County. The senator was also questioned by the officers for one hour on Monday before he was released at 7 pm and directed to report back to the DCI office today at 10 am. He was quizzed on Monday evening over incitement.