Kenyans and all music lovers on Saturday were treated to a live concert dubbed 'Kenya Ni Yetu Live'. The concert was graced by artistes Suzanna Owiyo, Sauti Sol, country musician Sir Elvis, Sammidoh, H-art the band and Gramps Morgan of celebrated Jamaican group Morgan Heritage. The virtual concert's aim was to uplift the spirits of Kenyans and unify communities across the country at this time of social separation and anxiety. Kenyans received the concert positively and took to social media to express their views and feedback during the live concert. Suzanna Owiyo thanked her fans for tuning in and supporting not only her but the other artistes as well. "Thank you for watching the show. Yetu Live was amazing and the lineup had great artistes. And I also want to thank you for the support always. I do not take it for granted because we have come a long way," she said. The artist also pointed out that she has been asked what exactly she does to look young because her fans keep complimenting how she's aging gracefully. "One thing that came out strongly from the comments was Suzanna you don't age. I have been hearing almost every other day. I'm happy and I would like to acknowledge and thank you for that compliment," she added. "The secret is all in the mind, I would like to believe that. What I have tried to do is try and live with positive energy even when I'm in the house or walk out, I just want to attract that positive energy in everything I touch or do." Don't be so much concerned about your age. Take it a day at a time. That should not bother you. Age is just a number," she advised. Gospel singer Kambua applauded Eric Wainaina for his electric performance. "@EricWainaina sounds just as good as he did when he first released this song  maybe better. #KenyaNiYetuLive," she tweeted. The late Bob Collymore's wife Wambui Collymore said, "There's something beautiful about a musician who plays live regularly. A guitar and drums and it sounds like 5 people. @SamSamido on #KenyaNiYetu. Then I am just loving @SuzannaOwiyo. Kiss FM presenter Kamene Goro appreciated how the concert made her feel. DJ Soxxy also praised Eric Wainaina for his amazing performance. "This song #DaimaMKenya by @EricWainaina never gets old. It gives me the same effect every time i listen to it. #KenyaNiYetu," he tweeted. Another fan tweeted, "Erick wainaina just proved why he is the legend he is." Aunt Africa said, "We really need such more live concerts to remind us that we stand for peace, love and unity as a nation. This has really made a great weekend vibe!" Norah said, "#KenyaNiYetuLive People like you huuuuuuuuhu @grampsmorgan @Classic105Kenya what a performance." "What a collection of amazing talents and voices. No matter what we are going through as country,this brings us together as One Nation One Country Kenya," Hanifa tweeted. Another fan tweeted, "Where words leave off, music begins. Indeed kenya is a beautiful and unique country. #KenyaNiYetuLive is real Kenyan entertainment concert. Am enjoying every minute of this amazing concert." The artistes also surprised their fans when they all performed 'Amazing Grace'. About the beautiful performance by all the artistes, Dennis said, "This is the best thing I have watched in a long time." Check out more responses from fans across the country;