Increased community transmission of Covid-19 in the North Rift has caused alarm as more than 570 cases have been recorded. In the last one week, Nandi and Trans Nzoia have each reported more than 30 cases. Governors and other are worried about the near-collapse of containment measures - mask wearing, social spacing, hand washing - and general laxity among residents. County commissioners said they would strictly enforce all Covid-19 containment protocols, incuding closure of bars. “We have noted increasing laxity among residents and many people are now taking the situation as normal yet we are recording increasing infections," Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abrisack Jaldesa said. He said many residents were not using face masks and warned that business as usual will cause a surge in infections. The eight counties in the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) have recorded more than 570 cases, with Uasin Gishu having more than 362 cases, Turkana  67 cases, Nandi 46, Trans Nzoia 45. Baringo has 26 cases, Samburu 14, Elgeyo Marakwet five and West Pokot six. Jaldesa said teams had been formed to ensure all bars are shut down as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The order is total closure and we will ensure it's full closure. No one will be allowed to joke around by operating underground," Jaldesa said. Governor Jackson Mandago, who is the Noreb chairman, said governors would meet this week to review enforcement of the control measures and align them to economic recovery strategies. “We must ensure we work on economic recovery as we comply with control measures," Mandago said. Each economic sector will have additional measures to ensure work continues under safe conditions. “The agriculture sector, business and matatu sectors are among those we will focus on to ensure work continues with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols," Mandago said. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba urged residents not to relax Covid control because the disease was spreading within communities. Deputy Governor Daniel Chem of Uasin Gishu on Sunday said counties would step up support to vulnerable families. He spoke as he flagged off food aid. (Edited by V. Graham)