Seven years on, the Sh21 billion Bosto dam and water project in Bomet county has yet to begin. On Friday, Bomet Governor Hlllary Barchok begged the national government to get started, saying his people were suffering from a water shortage. The Jubilee administration flagship project was approved in 2013 and was to be completed in about three years by the former National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC). The project in Konoin was to reduce 65 per cent of the perennial water shortage in Bomet and neighbouring Kericho counties. Seven years later, the residents are still suffering from a water shortage. Politics and environmental issues have been blamed for stalling the project. Feasibility studies, surveys and designs have been completed for Sh9 million. Former chairman Julius Kones of the now-defunct NWCPC said the project was to be undertaken with a donor partner contributing 85 per cent and the Kenyan government 15 per cent of funding. The dam, with a reservoir of 29 million cubic metres, was to be built in the southwestern part of Mau Forest. It was initially to serve 600,000 million people. Some leaders from the region blame the delay on differences between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui and others have claimed the Rift Valley region - Ruto’s home turf - is being sidelined and deprived of promised development projects. They cite succession politics and rivalry between the Uhuru and Ruto camps. In a recent interview, Kones disclosed that the project only requires the President’s approval for it to take off, saying, “The challenges that existed have been addressed.” “It is only the President who holds the key to having this project launched…we obtained all the necessary documents from relevant authorities,” the former official said. Residents had feared displacement and adverse environmental effects of the dam. The National Environmental Management Authority and the Kenya Forest Service have cleared the project. On Friday, Bomet Governor Barchok pleaded with the national government to implement the Bosto Dam project, saying it is desperately needed to solve the water problems. He addressed a meeting with officials from the Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency. Present were the agency’s chairperson Rosemary Rop, CEO George Odede and Silas Mutia, representing the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation. It was also attended by county commissioner Geoffrey Omoding, Water CEC Peter Tonui and Bomet water company officials led by Patrick Langat. “We have several water projects ongoing in parts of the county but if we can have this Bosto dam project initiated we will be able to rest, knowing our people have water as it will cover most of the remaining areas,” Barchok said. He said, “If it is implemented, I will go home and rest, returning in 2022, knowing I have realised my dream.” The county is seeking collaboration with the Lake Victoria water agency to implement the Bomet-Longisa water supply and sanitation project. It would supply water to 200,000 people next year. The agency donated 10, 10,000-litre water tanks and hand-washing stations to the county. (Edited by V. Graham)  