Pastor Davis Injendi had just arrived at Kaburengu market in Kakamega, parked his motorbike and went to take lunch from a roadside stall. "I had just been served chips when I saw a lorry coming at high speed. It was so fast that no one could escape because we didn't know where it was headed," he said. Injendi was knocked down and broke both legs. He was rushed to Webuye Hospital where he narrated the tragedy to the Star from his hospital bed. As he lay on the ground in pain, he saw the lorry causing havoc, knocking down other people. Eight were killed and 13 injured after the vehicle's brakes failed, the lorry hit a matatu and then ploughed into the roadside market. It struck traders, customers and passersby. The victims included many women traders and customers. The area is considered a notorious black spot where numerous accidents occur, some involving roadside traders. Injendi said it was not the first time accidents have occurred at that spot and said the government should do something to ensure lorry drivers don't lose control, their trucks ploughing into traders. The driver jumped from the moving vehicle on Monday and survived. Ann Malikia, who sells onions at the Kaburengu market, narrowly survived after running away from the lorry that rammed into her friends and fellow traders. “Most of those who perished were traders, we worked together and sold our different goods together. The memories are terrifying," Malikia said. When she saw the lorry rushing towards them, she screamed and ran away, along with boda boda riders. “I was just lucky, I saw it smash my friends as I escaped and fell into a nearby ditch," she said. Esther Khavakali from Kakamega county told the Star she lost her beloved husband, Geoffrey Kubasali. “He was the only hope for the family as we all depended on him. He worked as a tout. Now I don't know how I will survive alone with the kids," she said. She described how her husband had left home that morning in a jovial mood, heading to the nearby bus park for his usual duties. She heard of his death from a neighbour. Dr Simeon Kisaka confirmed on Tuesday that one more person had died, raising the death toll to eight “It is unfortunate.  The lady died while undergoing treatment at our facility but the rest are responding well to treatment,” he told reporters. Residents have protested against increasing accidents in the area. Police have urged motorists plying the northern corridor to be careful and vigilant while approaching Kaburengu.  (Edited by V. Graham)