ODM party leader Raila Odinga has appealed for the withdrawal of a case that led to the suspension of the leasing of the five state-owned sugar factories. The factories include Chemelil Sugar, Miwani Muhoroni (under receivership), Nzoia Sugar and South Nyanza Sugar company. Raila said the petitioners should consider withdrawing the case for the leasing process to proceed. Raila supported the government's effort to make the factories more vibrant saying leasing the factories is meant to help the people, particularly the farmers. “If the process is stopped then it is the farmers and wananchi who are going to suffer,” he said in Kisumu on Friday. Raila criticised the Employment and Labour Relations Court for issuing an injunction stopping the leasing on Thursday. “I am shocked that the court can easily issue an injunction without inviting the government to shed its side of the story,” he said. “This is a very serious matter that requires both arms of government to work in unison. I believe strongly that the rule of law must be observed but there must also be consideration of several other factors.” He added that stopping the government from doing what is right for citizens will not augur well for the development of the country. “We need to cooperate because the money owed to the workers will not come unless the factories are working,” Raila said. The ODM chief said employment will only come when the plants are operational. He said ,“Rather than stopping the process to be paid you would rather get a job and work then demand what is rightfully yours.” A Kisumu court stopped the processing pending the hearing and determination of a case filed by a workers’ union. The order issued by Justice Nduma Nderi suspended any business in relation to the leasing after the Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation and Allied Workers said they were side-lined in the process. They also cited Sh5 billion owed to them in salary arrears. “Pending the hearing and determination of this application, the court issues an order stopping the leasing of the factories and/or conducting further business in relation to the leasing of the firms," Justice Nderi ruled. Union Secretary-General Francis Wangara accused Agriculture CS Peter Munya of ignoring their concerns despite writing a letter to his office. He said they do not oppose leasing but want the concerns of more than 5,000 workers to be considered. Wangara said the arrears have accumulated over the years. He also alleged that workers had not been engaged in the tendering process and in picking the team to spearhead the process. “We feel workers have been ignored. We are ready to listen to the government but they must pay our arrears before the process continues,” he said. Munya recently formed a team to guide the process as it seeks to revitalise the sugar sector which is on the brink of collapse. Among those interested in managing the firms are two firms linked to tycoon Jaswant Rai, West Kenya Sugar Company and Sukari Industries. Others are China CAMC Engineering Company Limited, Shenzhen Start Instruments, Mehta Group, Kibos Sugar, Butali Sugar Mills, Mini Bakeries and Kuguru Food Complex. Successful investors are expected to lease, redevelop and operate the sugar complexes at sufficient processing capacities to support diversification into cogeneration of export power, production of bioethanol and allied coproducts. The efficient management of the factories is expected to play a significant role in the country’s socio-economic development including food security, job creation, rural development besides being a source of livelihood for over eight million Kenyans. Edited by R.Wamochie