Has an influential official at the Jubilee Secretariat been fired? Corridors of Power understands the whip has been cracked at the Pangani office that has claimed the top director. He is accused of leaking official and confidential information to a faction allied to Deputy President William Ruto. The official documents leaked to Ruto's camp were traced to the director. It has also emerged that a major shakeup that would affect other sectional heads is in the offing as President Uhuru Kenyatta's faction assumes full control of the Jubilee Party. The situation is set to be difficult for the DP's allies following the purge. *** A senior official of the Wiper Party could be in trouble in the coming days. The official is said to have contradicted Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka on sensitive strategy matters. The official's outbursts imputed some negative motives to the Wiper leader as he pursues a coalition agreement with Jubilee. Corridors of Power understands that a furious Kalonzo no longer picks the official's calls amid simmering tension within the party's National Executive Council. The embattled official is now said to be plotting to resign in the coming days following immense pressure from Kalonzo's inner circle. He has already confided in one of the friends that his stay in Wiper is untenable following his falling out with the party leader. *** Was an ODM legislator mobilising senators to scheme how to demolish the revenue sharing formula altogether? It has emerged that the opposition lawmaker could have employed uncouth means to prolong the debate that finally saw a vote on a crucial amendment by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja deferred. He is said to have been in constant communication with some senators whom he asked through WhatsApp messages to rise on numerous points of order. There are also claims that the senator worked closely with two other colleagues to frustrate a bid to extend sittings beyond curfew time. A faction allied to Sakaja now says they have learnt there's lack of goodwill on the part of the faction quietly opposed to any revenue formula before the next polls. *** A governor from the North Rift has gone into isolation after four members of his security detail allegedly tested positive for Covid-19. It is feared the county boss may have spread the virus beyond measurable levels, having attended various events accompanied by the security officers last weekend. So serious is the situation that the governor had to cancel a Monday appointment with senior government officials. Sources intimated to Corridors that some of the county boss’s domestic workers also tested positive during a mass testing at the governor’s home and county offices.  