More than 1,000 displaced families have received Sh2.7 billion compensation to kick-start resumed construction of the Eldoret Southern Bypass. The 80km project costing Sh5.6 billion has been stalled for more than three years by compensation disputes. It is financed by the African Development Bank. Families said, however, they still intend to go to court for more money as the cost of land has increased in three years and they need more compensation. They said for three years they were also deprived of their use of the land and income from it, while they were not paid. The payout was made by the National Land Commission. The affected families had threatened to go to court to terminate contracts they signed with the Kenya National Highways Authority (KenHA) and the NLC for their land acquired for the project. “The government has now sorted out most of the problems related to compensation and the contractor is now on site to complete the project within the next year,” Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa said on Monday. He said the families already had received Sh1.4 billion while the NLC was paying another Sh1.3 billon this week. Jaldesa said the contractor had already completed more than six kilometres and two major interchanges on Kisumu Road and Bungoma Road were almost complete. He said three of seven bridges on the road had also been completed. “This is a major government project and we will follow up to ensure it’s completed to benefit residents of the region and other Kenyans,” the commissioner said after inspecting progress. The bypass will decongest Eldoret town. It is to run from Ngeria along the Eldoret-Nakuru highway and pass through Kapseret area near Eldoret Airport before rejoining the Uganda Road at Maili Tisa. Eldoret is badly congested as most vehicles including long-distance trucks use the main Uganda highway which cuts across the town. The trucks will be diverted to the bypass. “We waited so long for compensation but we will still go to court because land costs have risen in three years while we were not compensated and our land was taken,” Simon Samoei, chairman of the affected families, said. He said they had complained to the DCI and the EACC over financial irregularities in the process because the families were only given photocopies of the contracts they signed. He alleged that fake and unqualified landowners had been included to benefit from the payouts. “We already asked the DCI to speed up the probe because what is happening is an open scam aimed at conning people of their property. Cartels in government colluded to deny us our rights,” Samoei said. Landowner Jane Kirwa said they have not used their land for three years since it was demarcated by the NLC and KenhA though they were not been paid. “This has caused us economic problems because we have not been farming as usual and now it is time to pay fees but we are unable to do so. “We want to be told why we couldn’t be paid for all this time,” Kirwa said. Commissioner Jaldesa said, however, most complaints by landowners had been sorted out. (Edited by V. Graham) 