President Uhuru Kenyatta has bowed to public pressure and ordered that investigations into the suspected loss of public funds to fight coronavirus be concluded in 21 days. He also said that the time had come to conduct a review of the 2010 Constitution, which, he reiterated, was adopted with the promise that in future it would be made better. Kenya marks 10 years today since promulgation of the Constitution on August 27, 2010. In his first public reaction to the alleged Covid-19 scandal, Uhuru said heads would roll irrespective of those involved if culpability is established. The country is said to have been robbed of billions of shillings of state and donor funds through an intricate graft web staged by cartels at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The agency is accused of having bought drugs and Covid-19 personal protective gear at inflated prices in a mega rip-off. The Covid-19 multi-billion scandal has turned into a hot political potato that now threatens to dent the President's anti-graft credentials. Seen as a reaction to public outcry, the head of state said those found culpable should be hauled to court to take personal responsibility for the theft estimated to be in region of Sh40 billion. “In line with our stated public policy on zero tolerance to corruption, all persons found to be prima facie culpable as a result of those investigations should be brought to book, notwithstanding the public office they hold or their political or social status,” Uhuru said. In his 11th state of Covid-19 address to the nation from State House, Nairobi, the President warned that he would not tolerate graft in his administration especially at a time the country is “at war.” “Given the compelling public interest on the matter, the relevant agencies should expedite the ongoing investigations and conclude the same within 21 days from the date hereof,” Uhuru said. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are expected to lead a multi-agency team to probe the scandal whose beneficiaries are said to be well-connected. The Covid-19 billionaires scam had offered a new political battleground between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The DP has accused Raila of using the handshake to 'sanitise' the 'lords of graft' at the national medical supplies agency and their collaborators at the Ministry of Health. However, Raila and his ODM party have maintained that it is only through a special audit of the Covid-19 funds that the truth would be unravelled, saying any other investigations would be a cover-up. Regarding the review of the Constitution, Uhuru warned Kenyans against going for what he termed as a “populist path.” “Let us choose the bold path; that path that will assure Kenyans of sustained peace and security and shared economic prosperity,” the President said on Wednesday. He went on, “Ten years later, the moment to improve on it is now. And as I said in my Madaraka Day Speech, we must not succumb to the paralysis of constitutional rigidity.” According to the President, 10 years after the “progressive Constitution” the moment calls Kenyans to do better. “Instead of a ceasefire document that enforces a zero-sum game in which the winner takes all, the moment calls us to create a constitutional order that will long endure,” he added. The President said the country's Covid-19 curve has started to stabilise, saying experts have indicated that levels of positivity rate countrywide have fallen from 13 per cent in June to eight in August. “This is very encouraging and it means that if we keep our civic responsibility high, we have a chance to reach the five per cent positive rate recommended by the World Health Organization for total reopening,” Uhuru said. The President announced the Covid-19 confirmed cases had risen by 213 in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 33,016. He said that his directives to cushion the economy and enhance the purchasing power of Kenyans had put Sh47.8 billion in the pockets of Kenyans through tax cuts. A further Sh14 billion shillings in VAT refunds had been realised, Uhuru observed, adding that despite the Covid-19 situation the economy has grown by 4.6 per cent compared to 5.5 per cent in the same period last year. The inflation rate, Uhuru said, is lower today at 4.4 per cent compared to 6.3 per cent during the same period last year. The President directed Interior CS Fred Matiang'i in conjunction with CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya to convene an inclusive national consultative conference to review the national and county Covid-19 response and together with all stakeholders and chart Kenya’s post-Covid future. “We note the good progress we have made so far in fighting this enemy, but this positive news is no licence for us to drop guard and backslide from our path of responsibility,” the President said. Amid the Covid-19 tragedy, the country recorded 241 recoveries in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of recoveries to 19,296, which represents a recovery rate of 58 per cent. The President said the closure of bars and nightclubs shall continue for a further 30 days while the prohibition against the sale of alcohol by licensed hotels with residences will end. The closing time for restaurants and eateries was varied by one hour from 7pm to 8pm effective today while the maximum number mourners and those attending weddings was set at 100 from 15. Uhuru extended the nationwide curfew in force between 9pm and 4am daily for a further 30 days. He lifted the ban on importation of mitumba. Edited by Henry Makori