The 2016 world 1,500m Under-20 champion Kumari Taki edged world 800m indoor champion Collins Kipruto in 1,000m time trial race held at the newly-laid synthetic track Green Stadium in Kericho county on Thursday morning. The race came a few hours after Kenyan athletes were given the green light to travel to Monaco, France for the opening leg of the reschedule Diamond League series slated for August 14. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, there were fears that Kenyan athletes could be locked out of the meet due the travel restrictions to Schengen countries. The development were indeed confirmed by Athletics Kenya (AK) executive committee member Barnaba Korir, who said it is a win for Kenya that came as a result of serious diplomatic talks. “We could have wished to have more athletes going for the Diamond League meet in Monaco, but again when you look at the challenges we face, then one  has to appreciate the numbers that have been cleared. For the athletes, who were issued with Visas, one condition is that they have to be tested for the virus 72 hours before departure,” he revealed. In the race that was organised by coach Jacob Langat of Nyahururu Athletics Club assisted by his counterpart Gabriel Kiptanui of Kericho Teachers Training camp and Charles Mutai of Ngong, Taki out-sprinted inform Kipruto on the homestretch to carry the day in a time of 2:19.02. Kipruto took second place in 2:19.68 with Tony Kemboi coming placing third in 2:19.96. While Taki might be on the waiting list for a number of races in the Diamond League, Kipruto was confirmed for the season opener on Wednesday evening. “God willing I will be traveling to Monaco on Monday. I am delighted to be among the 11 Kenyans who have been cleared to travel to Europe for the race. Since I was in the waiting list, it is even more joyful,” disclosed Kipruto who was cheered by world 800m bronze medalist, Ferguson Rotich from the stands, coincidentally, Rotich too was handed his visa on Wednesday. He added: “I think it will be prudent for us athletes to adhere to the strict protocols which are aimed at containing the pandemic.” Taki, who hails from Olokurto ward, Iltuati village in Narok County, said it was great to get back to competitive running having been inactive since participating at the indoors championships back in February. “I want to thank my coach and management for making this possible. For me, today was even assuring to run on this surface since most of our training was done on the road. To post such times is also encouraging,” said Taki, who is one of the athletes who have been confirmed for the Kip-Keino classic in Nairobi on September 26. With no athletics events and more so the weekend meets that are usually used to gauge athletes’ preparedness, coach Langat said the the trial couldn’t have come at a better time. “The year has been very challenging for everyone. For us coaches, we can’t even tell which athlete is ready. The innovative event has helped me confirm that I have a number of athletes ready to compete,” he noted. Four-time Kenya Defence Forces 800m champion Nicholas Kiplagat and his counterpart Cornelius Kiplangat (1500m) are some of the 12 athletes who took part in the time trial event.