The introduction of VAT on clean cooking energy sources will force millions of poor people to resort to paraffin stoves and expose them to respiratory illnesses and deaths, says clean cooking experts. Clean Cooking Association of Kenya chief executive David Njugi said millions of households will not afford the price of LPGs and cookers as it will be passed to consumers by manufacturers. “The addition of VAT to clean cooking energy is not a pro-poor move. Many households will be forced to turn to paraffin, which is cheaper but causes more household air pollution,” Njugi said. His Burn Manufacturing counterpart Peter Scott urged the government to emulate Zambia and Malawi and remove duty on raw materials for making clean cooking energy. “Use of clean cooking energy can save Africa approximately $8 billion per year spent on charcoal. Removing VAT will reduce the price of clean cooking drastically and make it affordable to millions,” he said. The Finance Bill 2020 introduced VAT to solar energy equipment, cookstoves and LPGs, adding 14 per cent expenses to manufacturers. Previously, the zero-rating of these products had accelerated the use of LPGs in Kenya from 0.6 million to 3.7 million households in 20 years. By 2022, CCAK hopes to assist approximately 10 million households in Kenya to embrace clean cooking energy. Njugi warned that this target may not be achieved if the right policies are not enacted to stimulate growth in the clean cooking energy sector. “There is need for more investment in this sector. The government needs to enact policies to encourage innovation, support SMEs and encourage research and development activities,” he said. He and Scott spoke yesterday during the opening ceremony of the Clean Cooking Week 2020 at Serena Hotel, Nairobi. The one-week event will take stock of the gains made in the clean cooking energy sector and the challenges ahead. A 2018 Ministry of Energy study titled National Cooking Sector Study showed that 64.7 per cent of Kenyan families cook with wood while 19 per cent use LPGs. Due to socio-economic effects of Covid-19, experts predicted that the number of household using LPGs may further reduce. “With the expected increase in price of LPGs due to addition of VAT, we expect that more people will start using paraffin or charcoal. It is possible that that is happening already,” Hivos Kenya project manager Maimuna Kabatesi said.  - mwaniki fm