Mt Kenya leaders have warned that a win-win revenue sharing formula should not mean populous counties lose. They said in interviews with the Star that their irreducible demand is counties with higher population must receive more cash to provide better services to their people. The government should stop using old data on revenue allocation and adopt the 2019 census results. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi said that those pushing the narrative that  only Mt Kenya will benefit are misleading the country and should first understand the proposed revenue allocation formula. “It is bad to say that Mt Kenya is the only beneficiary in the new revenue allocation formula proposed in the Senate. Bungoma and Kakamega among other counties with high population will benefit in the new CRA formula," Wamatangi said on Sunday. "Currently, one person in Kiambu or Nairobi is receiving Sh3,000 for services  while another person in Tana River is receiving Sh21, 000 as per the old revenue allocation formula.” Their remarks come at a time the Senate is divided over the proposed revenue allocation formula, which favours population. Previously, marginalised regions were allocated more funds. The leaders said that the national census data released in 2009 was questionable and that the 2019 census provided better data that will correct the old mistakes on revenue allocation. “In Kiambu, Nairobi, Bungoma and Kakamega among others, you can see between 2009 and 2019 the population grew higher by more than 300, 000 to one million people. In Mandera, the population went up by only 30, 000 people and this tells you something,” Wamatangi said. “Let us provide service and money to the people by using the latest data.” Nyeri TownMP Ngunjiri Wambugu said that a win-win situation should ensure all regions get the amount they deserve. “Numbers and presence must be respected. It is wrong to assume that a win-win to people is where Mt Kenya and other deserving counties should lose,” Ngunjiri said. “Mount Kenya is still facing numerous problems such as disease, unemployment and other challenges and it deserves more funds." They said that the new formula must promote a scenario where all regions gain by ensuring the right amount is allocated. “Populous counties are unable to set aside more than 20 per cent of their budget on development because of the skewed CRA formula. However, others are even able to build a headquarters so that they provide good services to the people," Wamatangi said. Wamatangi called on Parliament to enact laws that support the Equalization Fund. Edited by Henry Makori