About 15,000 households in Homa Bay and Kisumu counties have sighed with relief following an end to their water problems, thanks to Sh21 million solar-powered projects. The projects were implemented in Suba and Ndhiwa subcounties in Homa Bay and Nyakach in Kisumu. The East African Breweries Limited, Kenya Red Cross and the Lake Basin Development Authority drilled boreholes and piped water to improve access. Water is pumped from a borehole to an elevated steel tank from where distribution networks deliver it to kiosks through gravity. The organisations say the project has saved women and children long trips to seasonal and often polluted streams. The Magunga Central SDA and St Clementine Women Group projects in Homa Bay are near Magunga and Ndhiwa in Homa Bay manage the projects. In Nyakach, it is implemented at Olembo Primary School in Pap Onditi, the administrative hub of the subcounty. Community committees are in charge of the projects, ensuring sustainability. The LBDA mobilised the community and trained them in the management of the projects. Residents noted that they always walked for long distances in search of safe water for domestic use. Tunia Akoth, a beneficiary of the Magunga project, said their situation had been worsened by seasonal nature of the streams. "We had to walk to far away ponds and streams and carry heavy buckets back home,” she said. The project had come as a big relief as she does not mind paying a small subscription to get clean water close to home. Other residents said the water project will reduce cases of cholera, which used to be rampant in the area. “For the weeks we have used this water, there is a decline in cases of waterborne infections,” Peter Owuor said. EABL Group corporate relations director Eric Kiniti said the projects in Olembo, Magunga, Okiki Amayo and St Clementine Women’s Group were part of the firm’s commitment to helping strengthen access to clean water, sanitation and hygiene. Kiniti noted that the projects target schools, hospitals and communities in water-scarce but growing areas. He said they are committed to building thriving communities.  The company has reached close to two million people over the years through these projects, he said. "In our last financial year, which ended in June 2020, we partnered with the Lake Basin Development Authority to develop projects in the Lake Basin Region," he added. Kenya Breweries Limited, EABL’s subsidiary, financed the projects at Sh20.73 million and Kenya Red Cross was the implementing partner. The firm also partners with Amref Kenya in delivering such projects. LBDA managing director Raymond Omollo said the community had been trained in management and sustainability of the project. He noted that they want the community to own the projects through independent management to enhance their sustainability. Omollo said their objective is to achieve some of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda such as food security and affordable healthcare. Besides improving the health of residents through provision of clean water, the projects will promote forestation and food crop farming.  (edited by o. owino)