Bribery allegations have once again rocked the Senate amid a protracted standoff over the third generation revenue-sharing formula. The Star has learnt that some senators pocketed millions of shillings after secretly negotiating with the state to change their stances. A senior government official and up to six governors allegedly contributed millions of shillings to ‘buy’ some six senators to push their side in Senate talks that collapsed for the ninth time on Monday. Some of the counties reportedly contributed Sh10 million to secure the support of the six senators in rejecting the formula. To this war chest, the senior government official added Sh50 million, putting at the disposal of six senators about Sh60 million to oppose the formula. The official, the Star learnt, badly needed a rejection of the government-backed revenue-sharing proposal. He sought ways to ensure that the 18 counties that were seen to be losing what they have been allocated to date defeat the government formula. “That is a public secret. The official has been coming here nearly every day. It is not a secret anymore. That is why you are seeing some senators changing their stand as late as Monday,” a senator said off the record. The state plans to share with the public the communication between the senators and police leadership. This series of negotiations and compromise was the reason ODM leader Raila Odinga, while condemning the action against senators, made references to lack of integrity among elected leaders, a fact he said was compromising the ability of the MPs to check the state. The formula, developed by the House Finance and Budget Committee, cuts allocations to 18 counties by Sh17 billion. The formula has deadlocked in the Senate for more than two months. It has been opposed by the senators from the counties that suffer cuts with the support of seven senators from the gaining side. Among the winning counties whose senators voted against the formula were Kakamega, Kajiado, Nairobi, Lamu, Elgeyo Marakwet and Kericho. Other political leaders, including governors and MPs from the losing regions, have opposed the method and have been lobbying against it. The losing regions are Northeastern, Coast, lower Eastern, parts of Nyanza and Rift Valley. However, it has been supported by senators and other political leaders from the gaining counties, especially Central Kenya, Nyanza and Rift Valley. In a statement on the arrest of three senators on Monday, Raila criticised a “lack of integrity” among the lawmakers. “The events have also laid bare the so-far unsuccessful struggle to make integrity and search for public good over private gain the basis of our politics and holding of public offices,” he said. Raila added, “The twin sins of failing integrity among a section of elected representatives during this whole affair and the instinct by agents of the State to resort to strong-arm ….. reducing our citizens to mere watchers in dramas whose scripts are written far from public eyes.” However, some of the lawmakers who spoke to the Star dismissed the claims as hearsay, rumours and politics aimed at diverting the attention from the real issue. “I am not aware of bribery on the part of senators supporting the formula. I can’t speak on behalf of those opposing,” said Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata, who is leading the camp supporting the formula. Laikipia Senator John Kinyua said, “I don’t think those are true claims. People will talk about many things that are not there. I have never heard of any bribe.” Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said it was not practical to bribe senators whose counties are losing, but indicated there were attempts to influence senators. “Why should I be bribed to lose Sh432 million in Makueni. If somebody gives me that money, I would be very happy. In fact, as far as we are concerned, the people who are being influenced are not the people who are losing,” he said. Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina said, “Can you climb a tree and then you start cutting that tree when you are up? If there are those who have been bribed, then it those who want this formula to pass. “But I have to be honest with you. Why are other senators changing tune now? But where we have reached now, we want consensus." However, this is not the first time senators have been implicated in bribery allegations. In 2018, the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee fought off bribery claims by Nairobi businessman Francis Mburu. Mburu had claimed that a committee member solicited Sh100 million bribe from him during investigations into the Ruaraka school land.