There is growing hope among leaders at the Coast that the region is closer than ever before to finding unity. Last Thursday’s threat by a section of Coast MPs to ditch Raila Odinga’s ODM party for a local-based one over the revenue-sharing formula has elicited excitement among champions of the region’s unity. The unity campaigners feel the big parties in Kenyan politics have a stranglehold on the region, making its leaders unable to make independent decisions. However, some elected leaders say the group of about 10 MPs was sponsored by someone who has selfish interests and not that of the region. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire on Tuesday said the group, led by Kilifi North MP Owen Baya has a hidden agenda, which is not the unity of the region. “We know the group was on Wednesday at 4pm in a house-cum-office in Karen. They were under instructions. We were not surprised that they came out attacking one individual and one party. They are not genuine,” Mwambire said on phone. Mwambire said he is in full support of the region’s unity but not with sinister motives. “The issue of revenue allocation has very little to do with our political affiliations but the people we represent and our respective counties. “That is why we don't dwell much on blaming our outfits but working on numbers to support our position at the Senate,” Mwambire said. However, Umoja Summit Party of Kenya secretary general Naomi Cidi said she is glad Coast leaders have started “seeing the light". USPK, a brainchild of Cidi and other die-hard Coast region supporters, has been championing for unity of purpose. The national party, whose roots are from the Coast, has been in the frontline advocating for issue-based politics at the Coast which serve the interests of the whole region as opposed to party politics. “I never thought I would see unity of purpose at the Coast in my lifetime. I am glad I am beginning to see it and I am still alive,” Cidi said. Former Kaloleni MP Gunga Mwinga said the discussion on the region’s unity is healthy and the search for unity within the region on the right track. “I’m in total support of the conversation. I appeal to leaders to stay on course and support this bid to have the region speak as one voice,” said Mwinga, who is an advocate and the Devolution Party of Kenya leader. The former legislator, however, warned that the road to unity has a lot of hurdles because of party affiliations and the selfish interests of outsiders. “But it will serve the greater good to speak with one voice as opposed to how it is right now. This is a clarion call,” he said. Mwinga noted that the ‘revenue-sharing thing’ is but a by the way. It is a symptom. Behind the scenes the conversation has been there. Many meetings have been held, he said. On Sunday, Voi MP Jones Mlolwa said cutting ties with ODM if the Senate passes the disputed revenue-sharing formula will not bring the Coast unity as desired. He said there has not been a decision, as a region, to ditch the opposition party, which enjoys massive support at the Coast. “The move is selfish and might not stop the bill from being passed. We are strongly opposing the formula. However, we did not say that we are ditching our party. We are in ODM to stay and we shall fight from within,” Mlolwa said. He was among some legislators from the region who on Thursday threatened to decamp the Raila Odinga-led party, accusing it of abandoning them at their hour of need. Others were Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Michael Kingi (Magarini), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Sharif Ali (Lamu East), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Paul Katana (Kaloleni) and Benjamin Tayari (Kinango). Mwambire, however, said the group is made up of close Deputy President William Ruto allies who have been bashing Raila and ODM thus making their claims insincere. “Unity of the region requires addressing issues, not personalities or parties,” he said. Cidi said the region will be much stronger and have greater say in national politics if its leaders speak with one voice. “Our unity is our strength,” she noted. She said that most negotiations are done without the Coast leaders being consulted. She cited the handshake, revenue-sharing formula, the SGR and the port decision that directly affect the Coast region. “By 2022, we should have a roadmap,” Cidi said. Edited by R.Wamochie