The government has started peace talks between Kiambu and Kajiado counties to seek a lasting solution to cattle rustling. This is after leaders from Kiambu were on Sunday attacked and chased away by a group of youth from Kajiado, who were armed with bows, spears, rungus, whips and other crude weapons. The leaders were waiting for government officials from Kajiado to arrive for talks on the cattle rustling problem. They included Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga and county police commander Ali Nuno. Ndeiya MCA Gideon Gachara on Monday said they were whipped and chased away, near the SGR station, soon after arriving. He called for investigations, saying the attackers must have been incited by to cause chaos. “We suspect there is involvement of some individuals. All we want is peace and an end to cattle rustling,” he said. On Monday, officers from the General Service Unit, Anti-Stock Theft Unit and regular police were deployed in Nachu, Ndeiya, to restore peace and look for stolen animals. Nuno said they have started peace talks, which involve village elders, church leaders, Nyumba Kumi officials from both counties, as police help them to look for the stolen livestock. Among the stolen animals from both counties are cows, sheep, goats and donkeys. Some have been recovered. Nuno said the Kajiado team has recovered 44 out of 81 cows and 37 out of 77 sheep. They are at Ewaso police post. The Kiambu team, Nuno said, has recovered 54 out of 72 stolen cows. “Once we finish the recovery, we shall call for an exchange meeting and each team will hand over the animals to their rightful owners,” he added. Timo ole Korian, a Nyumba Kumi official from Ewaso Kedong in Kajiado, said they do not know the cattle rustlers. “These are criminals and thieves. They have tainted the Maasai name in Kikuyu land. They should face the full force of the law,” Korian said. Another meeting attended by county leaders to broker peace happened on Tuesday between Kiambu, Kajiado and Narok counties at the Bomas of Kenya. Edited by A.N