The government has launched out-of-class learning for technical colleges after the planned September reopening flopped. The closure of learning institutions in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic affected 430,000 TVET students. In efforts to ensure continuity in teaching and learning, primary and secondary schools and universities adopted some form of home-based learning. However, polytechnics, technical colleges and vocational centres remain in limbo with out-of-class learning options failing to properly deliver skills to students. Now there is hope for resumption of learning in TVETs as the ministry unveils alternative learning platforms. The online learning platforms allow users to save content and interactions while on the internet and use it later when internet is not available. Users can also submit their content for uploading to the servers. The platform allows fresh and ongoing learners to enrol for new courses, uploading course content and materials alongside providing access to all vocational training centres. The programme is supported by the Education ministry in partnership with the non-governmental organisation CAP-Youth Empowerment Institute Kenya and the MasterCard Foundation. The platform was launched by Education Chief Administrative Secretary Zack Kinuthia, who described it as a panacea for TVETs whose studies had been suspended in the wake of the pandemic. “Whereas primary, secondary schools and universities have an alternative online learning, TVET institutions do not have," Kinuthia said. The CAS further called on the affected institutions to follow suit and adopt the out-of-class learning mode to help learners proceed with their training and skill acquisition during this challenging period. "We urge all TVETs, polytechnics and VTCs to join this form of content delivery and come up with ways of reaching students," he said. The MasterCard Foundation representative said their organisation is working closely with the Education ministry and CAPYEI to empower five million Kenyans with skills development in a bid to create opportunities for them particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. The application is a highly flexible and scalable multi-college system that will allow different vocational training centres to access digitised curriculum content, deliver training, assess, track and grade trainees. It entails management of different types of users, for instance students, instructors and managers of the institutions. Learners can access recorded lectures for different trades, practical demonstrations, illustration and images, assessments, reading materials, forum and group discussions beside trainee-instructor virtual meetings and trainings. The Learning Management System application development comes in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which prompted the government to shut down all learning institutions across the country as part of precautionary measures to curb the spread of the virus. Edited by Henry Makori