Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said that the ministry is looking into investing more in Covid-19 research in the country. Speaking during the daily press briefing on the status of the Covid-19 in the country, she said the country is participating in several clinical trials and has also conducted  Covid-19 gene sequencing. “We are looking at investing further in research and development in the country. It is important to note that Kenya is participating in several clinical trials,” she said. Genome sequencing is ostensibly the process of determining the complete DNA sequence of an organism's genome at a single time. This entails sequencing all of an organism's chromosomal DNA as well as DNA contained in the mitochondria and, for plants, in the chloroplast. Mwangangi added that the ministry continues to collaborate and contribute to global research platforms with the key aim of learning from the current pandemic response in order to ensure that the country is better prepared. "The global responses we are taking for this new virus draws on the lessons learned from other disease outbreaks over the past several decades such as Ebola and SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-CoV," she said. The CAS pointed out that the two main goals of the global Covid-19 response are to accelerate innovative research to help contain the spread of the epidemic and facilitate care for those affected. The other goal is to support research priorities that contribute to global research platforms in hopes of learning from the current pandemic response to better prepare for the next unforeseen epidemic. Kenya on Wednesday recorded 379 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 31,015, Mwangangi confirmed. This was after a sample of 3,867 was tested in the last 24 hours. From the new cases, 372 were Kenyans while seven were foreigners. A total of 223 were male and 156 were female. Mwangangi said age wise, the youngest was a one -year-old infant while oldest was 87 years old. Some 244 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 17,612. A total of 168 of those discharged were from the home-based programme, while 76 were discharged from various health facilities. However, 19 more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities to 506.