The government on Wednesday will start verifying the correct land ownership in five group ranches bordering the Maasai Mau Forest in Narok South subcounty. It will then verify the boundaries of individual plots and title deeds. The process is expected to take month. Narok South deputy subcounty commissioner Felix Kisalu said on Saturday the expansive land in Ololulunga ward has been the bone of contention and the root cause of occasional violence, sometimes deadly. He was speaking at Pimbiniet police post at the forest border during the launch of the title clean-up. Kisalu urged residents to cooperate so the verification goes smoothly and swiftly. The five group ranches are Olombokisho (1,500 acres), Oloshusho (2,854 acres), Olololpangi (2,760 acres), Enakishomi and Letian Leboo (1,482 acres). The administrator requested group ranch officials to work closely with land officials and show them their borders to facilitate fast and transparent verification. “Many people have lost millions of shillings pursuing legal action for their land and it is time to find lasting solutions to these problems. We hope the process will satisfy all individual landowners,” Kisalu said. He said they will begin by establishing the correct boundaries of group ranches before they establish boundaries of individuals’ land. The group ranches were issued with land ownership documents in the 1970s by the former county council but a caveat was imposed after it emerged the divided land was overlapping. Resident Alice Cherotich, who has lived in the area since the early 1990s, said the land issue has been a thorn in the flesh as no one has a valid land ownership document. Resident Nayieyo Sirma of the Ogiek community said he went through all the correct government processes and was given a title deed in 1997. A few years later, titles were suspended due to  claims of land overlapping. The meeting launching the clean-up was attended by National Cohesion and Integration Commission commissioners Abdinasir Farah and Danvas Makori, Narok county Land Registrar Tom Chepkwesi and surveyor Jacob Shadiva. Shadiva said the work will be completed in a month. “You all know land does not grow. We are determined to clean up mistakes that occurred in the past,” the surveyor said. Makori said the clean-up will help build peace and cohesion. The area has been plagued by violence. In April, seven people were killed, a number injured and houses torched in a week of clashes between the Kipsigis and Maasai communities. (Edited by V. Graham) 