Residents living around Lake Baringo have panicked following cases of tremors as water levels rise because of ongoing downpours. They say they have experienced tremors every night for the last two weeks. “Our lives are at risk, something needs to be done urgently to research the causes,” Loruk resident Alex Sarit said on Sunday. The tremors of undefined magnitude were felt by people living as far as seven kilometres from the lake. The hard-hit areas are Loruk, Sintaan, Moinonin, Kampi Samaki, Ng’enyin, Kampi Turkana, Salabani and Ng’ambo. More than 30,000 residents, including children, have been displaced owing to the rising levels of the lake, which is second largest in Rift Valley after Lake Turkana. Business premises, schools, churches and dispensaries have been submerged. Sarit, however, said the tremors occur daily, hence endangering their lives. “It strongly makes the earth surface to shiver, making people feel like everything is about to fall down,” he said. Reuben Kandagor from Ng'enyin village said the natural phenomena have left them worried that their homes would be destroyed and their lives put at more risk. “Research scientists should visit the area urgently to ascertain the cause. Such rare cases have never been reported before as the lake and its surrounding has been calm,” he said. Kandagor said every time a tremor occurs, utensils, furniture and roofs shake terribly. "Now that the lake has extended its shores to displace us, who knows, the 'earthquake' may be as a result of water masses covering the hollow ground?” he said. He said they cannot tell what is beneath the ground as it "the entire place could sink." They, therefore, appealed to experts to visit the area to assess the situation and advise accordingly. “This is possibly a looming danger,” Saimo-Soi MCA Richard Cheserem said on Sunday. His sentiments were echoed by his colleagues Joseph ole Parsalach(Ilchamus), Nixon Lemlem (Marigat) and Maria Losile (Loyamorok). Last week, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa visited the lake and attributed the rising water levels to climate change. He, however, said the government was committed to doing everything possible to help flood victims rebuild their lives.