Old Town residents in Mombasa want the government to compensate them for the losses and suffering they endured during their one-month lockdown between May and June. They say there was no justification for the lockdown after a survey by Muslims for Human Rights and Okoa Mombasa disputed the statistics of deaths and Covid-19 cases provided by the government. Through Old Town Residents Association chaired by Mbwana Abdalla, the residents said the lockdown was a punishment meted out to them by the national government through influence of the Mombasa government. Before the lockdown, Governor Hassan Joho lost his cool and lashed out at the residents, saying they would be tested by force. The residents had appeared to defy pleas from the county government to get tested and blocked a county Covid-19 ambulance from picking a patient in the neighbourhood. “First, neither we nor our political leaders were consulted before the rash decision. Then, we did not get information on the statistics regarding the cases in Old Town despite seeking it through Muhuri and other means,” Abdalla said. Muhuri chair Khelef Khalifa said the secretive manner in which the government held the information about Covid-19 cases made the residents doubt whether the disease existed. “With lack of information, people will always speculate. We do not understand why the government has failed to respond to our inquiries about all the relevant information that we needed,” he said. Khalifa and Abdalla said the county and national government officers were invited for the launch of the survey report but none showed up. The residents now want the national government to provide justification for the cessation of movement directive, considering that other neighbourhoods both in Mombasa and Nairobi, which are similarly densely populated like Kibera and Kawangware, were not locked down. The cessation of movement orders against Old Town in Mombasa and Eastleigh in Nairobi was effected on May 6 for 15 days. On May 20, the order was extended for a further 15 days before it was lifted on June 6. “Although the Cabinet Secretary [Mutahi Kagwe for Health] indicated how many positive cases were from Eastleigh and Old Town, there was no evidence presented to justify identifying these two areas as hotspots or necessitating cessation of movement,” the report reads. The report was done by Okoa Mombasa in collaboration with Muhuri. Abdalla said many businesses suffered losses as a result while families of those forced into quarantine were forced to cough up more than Sh1 million cumulatively. Old Town has 1,500 shops and other business outlets. “When Mzee Karama died, his whole family was rounded up and quarantined and after 14 days were slapped with a Sh475,000 bill,” Khalifa said. He said the survey, which took four days, involved about 1,015 respondents who filled in questionnaires distributed by 30 volunteer youths from the area. Edited by Henry Makori