ODM has summoned two Nyamira MCAs to appear before the party’s disciplinary committee and show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. Bokeire MCA Callen Atuya and Township's Duke Oyagi have been accused of defying the party and declining to respond to party communication on changes in house leadership. They are also being accused of violating the party’s constitution, code of conduct, regulations and the law. Oyagi is accused of failing to transmit house changes to the speaker, while Atuya is accused of purporting to hold the position of the majority leader. They are expected at the party’s headquarters on Tuesday,  according to a letter by party chairman John Mbadi. “In default of your appearance, appropriate action will be taken against you as provided for in the party constitution without any further reference to you whatsoever,” Mbadi warned. The party leadership and MCAs met on March 6 and agreed to replace Atuya as majority leader with Nyamaiya MCA Laban Masira, while Oyagi, a former majority leader, was to take the majority whip's position. However, Atuya has declined to step down from the position while speaker Moffat Teya has declined to communicate the ODM position to the assembly. This is despite receiving communication from ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. “On March 6, members of majority party or coalition resolved to change their leadership. The decision was communicated to you on March 17. We are deeply concerned that you have refused to communicate the same to the assembly according to standing orders,” Sifuna said in a letter to the speaker. The speaker still recognises Atuya as majority leader to the chagrin of the party. “We are tired of the wrangles and constant change of house leadership. If our MCAs continue with wrangles, they will be de-whipped,” the party source said. Nyamira ODM chairman Richard Kaka said, “As a party, we have made a decision after wide consultations. The speaker has no option but to implement the party decision.” Edited by A.N