A 40-km road project that started in 2012 in Mathioya, Murang’a, has finally been completed. The St Mary’s-Gitugi-Mioro road had been allocated Sh2.1 billion and it was to be completed in 24 months. The tender was awarded to Nyoro Construction Company. But residents had to wait eight years for it to be completed. Construction work dragged on for years, making it impassable and sparking numerous protests from residents. The company blamed rough terrain and delays in the release of funds by the government. Residents claimed the contractor had taken up too many tenders. The protests attracted the attention of the National Assembly in 2015 and members of the Transport and Public Works team toured the project to establish its progress and get locals’ views. Committee chairperson Maina Kamanda led the visit. Residents, however, jeered the team and denied the then Mathioya MP Clement Wambugu a chance to address them. During the meeting, legislators pledged to push for the road’s completion by the end of the year. But this was not to be. In 2016, residents organised more protests, accusing the contractor of taking up too many tenders that delayed the road's completion. The company, however, denied claims that the project had been abandoned, insisting that it was 67 per cent done. Later in the year, the President ordered the company to complete the project in one month and end resident’s agony. In 2017, Transport CS James Macharia threatened to cancel the contract over failure to complete it in the stipulated time and failing to heed to the President’s directive. By then, Macharia said the contractor had only done 40 per cent of the work, this is despite the company claiming it had done more. On Tuesday, company director Michael Kamau said the project faced a myriad of challenges, including delayed disbursement of funds by the government. He said the tough terrain in the area had compelled the company to have the road redesigned. Kamau told journalists there were also challenges in land compensation and relocation of water pipes and power poles. “We have tried to stay within the budget and have done quality work,” he said, lauding the Presidential Delivery Unit for helping fast-track the completion of the project. Residents said the completion of the project would ease transport services in the area. They said for a long time, they have had to contend with the muddy road, especially during the rainy seasons. They, however, appealed to the government to ensure development projects are completed within the stipulated time, so they can serve Kenyans better. Edited by A.N