The United Nations Children Fund has donated water purifying chemicals to Taita Taveta Water and Sewerage Company to support a steady supply of clean water. The 400 bags of aluminium sulphate will enable the firm to supply enough water across the county as one of the measures in the fight against the coronavirus. Wundanyi, Wesu and Mwatate are expected to benefit from the initiative. County Water, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources executive Esther Mwanyumba said the consignment will last the firm for 26 months. "The donated compound is a vital ingredient in the water purification process. Residents in Wundanyi and Mwatate will continue enjoying purified water at low cost,” she said. She underscored the need for access to clean water as a way of forestalling outbreaks of waterborne infections. Studies show that water and sanitation-related diseases are one of the leading causes of death. They include diarrhoeal diseases such as cholera and dysentery. “Access to clean water is in line with Sustainable Development Goal 6, which calls for ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all,” she added. Speaking while receiving the consignment at Tavevo offices in Voi, Mwanyumba noted that the county government is focusing on collaborative efforts with the national government to ensure more donors come on board to accelerate development at the county level. "It is with gratitude that I commend the county’s drive towards making strides to enable residents of Taita Taveta county to have easy access to clean water," she said. Unicef technical officer Masden Mwangemi said the water firm had recorded low income in the wake of the coronavirus as most customers were unable to timely pay their water bills. The agency has also been supplying water for handwashing across the county. Mwangemi said the donation will help cut the firm’s operation cost. “Water service providers have been playing a key role in the provision of clean water in all handwashing points. Most customers have also not paid their bills,” he said.