Sugarcane farmers and millers from Busia county have opposed calls by the Kenya Sugar Manufacturers Association for the lifting of the sugar cane import ban. Through its chairman Jayanti Patel, Kesma had written to Agriculture CS Peter Munya saying Busia Sugarcane Industries is facing low supply of sugarcane. “The miller has requested that the sugarcane ban be lifted with regards to the row cane for milling as they need to supplement their sources so as to be able to mill their capacity, " Patel said in the letter dated August 4,2020. Kemsa said the situation of low sugarcane supply is as a result of low uptake of sugarcane farming in the Busia region. “Busia Sugar Company is already working on enhancing sugarcane farming in the country. However, in the meantime they need a solution,” Patel said. The farmers, however, on Friday claimed this was a well-orchestrated move to kill local sugarcane production. They claimed this was also to benefit sugar cartels that seek to smuggle cheap sugar and cane from neighbouring Uganda at the expense of Kenyan farmers who have toiled and secured loans for cane development. George Okwara, a sugarcane farmer, disputed claims that there’s shortage in the region. “Busia Sugar Industry didn’t develop cane production since it was heavily importing the commodity from Uganda thereby not supporting local farmers at all,” said Okwara Moses Ouma, a farmer and Amakura Central MCA, questioned the sudden turn around to support importation of cane from Uganda, which would affect local cane development. In the letter, Kemsa says that lifting the ban on the supply of sugarcane from Uganda won't result in conflict of interest as local supply is currently insufficient. They also note that the situation is only temporary and once enough cane has been developed and available, importation of the same will be unnecessary. However, Olepito Sugar Company general manager Gerald Okoth criticised Patel, saying the association members were not consulted and don’t support the lifting of the ban. Okoth said there is a lot of cane in the country developed by local farmers and allowing importation will kill the local production because a tonne costs Sh2,000 in Uganda compared to Sh3,700 in Kenya. The GM also questioned the sudden calls to allow importation of the cane by the chairman of the association. “Busia Sugar Company were among those fighting for Zoning. So what has happened between last year and today? Was Uganda part of their Zoning?" he said. The farmers also called on the government to investigate operational licenses of companies that don’t have cane but import cane from Uganda. In July, Munya banned importation of brown sugar to tighten the measures on illegal sugar imports in order to close the loopholes. Edited by EKibii 