Thika MP Patrick Wainaina has called on the state and county governments to give special preference to people living with disabilities to ease the hardships they are facing during the Covid-19 period. Noting that few people think of the challenges and economic hardships that the handicapped go through, the MP said there is a need to empower them economically by making deliberate efforts to boost their income. He spoke on Friday in Miteero village, Gatundu North, while donating 30 wheelchairs to the physically handicapped through his Jungle Foundation. Among those who benefited are children with severe cerebral palsy conditions. “For instance, counties should have special areas for PWDs at public markets or matatu stages for them to sell their wares and earn a decent living. Again, they should exempt taxes for their ventures,” he said. “There’s dire need to intervene in any way and help the physically challenged during this hard period. We know they are at a high risk of contracting coronavirus since many of them do not wash their hands and crawl on the ground most of the time. They need equipments to aid their mobility, decent income and food to cater for their families. It’s a noble cause,” he said. He also said Jungle Foundation will assist the handicapped in the region to form groups and help them start income-generating activities. At the same time, the MP asked parents not to hide their handicapped children from the public, saying this was a great disservice to the young ones. The beneficiaries expressed their gratitude to the MP and called on the state, county and other well-wishers to act on their plight. They decried that they have been given a blind eye by the state as well as the regional governments despite grappling with a myriad of challenges including economic hardships since the onset of the virus. Jane Wanjiku, 68, said their situation has exposed them to dangers of contracting the virus. She said most of them who hail from poor backgrounds have been having difficulties putting food on their table and that they rely mostly on well wishers. “We’ve heard that a lot of resources have been spent to help people cope with the current pandemic situation. Food is being distributed but we are getting nothing. Our cries for help during these hard times are falling on deaf ears,” Wanjiku said. “Let’s be included in the weekly stipends programme, relief food distribution programmes and also we plead with well wishers to assist us with mobility equipments because there are hundreds of handicapped persons suffering in silence in the villages,” she added. Josephat Wainaina, whose legs were amputated after an accident, said that the wheelchair he received will ease his mobility. “I will be able to operate my hawking business at Mang’u centre conveniently. We are happy that some of our leaders are still remembering us and assisting us cope with the hard economic times brought by the virus,” Wainaina said. Resident Evelyn Kalekye said she has not been working to take care of her five-year-old who suffers from cerebral palsy. “I had no one to leave my daughter with. The situation was worsened by the fact that she didn’t have a wheelchair. But I’m glad that she has one and she will be able to move out and mingle with other children,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie