Gusii Water and Sanitation Company MD Osbon Nanga has deplored illegal water connections and vandalism of water pipes. Nanga cautioned residents against engaging in the illegal connection saying that those who will be found will face hefty fines or jail. He urged residents to report perpetrators for arrest and prosecution, stressing that the company is losing a lot of unmetered water through the connections. “I am urging residents against engaging in illegal connections and vandalism of water pipes. Those who want to be connected should visit our office for guidelines,” Nanga said. The MD told the Star in his office that the company has received a major boost after the African Development Bank gave it a Sh126 million grant to repair the Keroka water project. The grant, Nanga said, will help enhance water security and thus will see many residents connected to clean piped water. “The funds will be used to foster connectivity, metering and modernise billing to boost the company’s revenue collection,” Nanga said. The MD noted the company aims to raise its revenue from Sh120 million per year to Sh250 million by the end of June next year. “In order for us to comply with our performance contract signed, we need to increase our revenue collection,” he added. Counties and the national government, Nanga said, directed water firms across the country to cease billing consumers owing to the outbreak of Covid-19. “We have since cushioned Kisii and Nyamira residents from paying their water bills because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We will begin to charge them after the disease has been combated,” the MD  said. “Revenues for the water firms dropped drastically in March after the outbreak of the disease. The counties are paying for electricity to avoid disconnections and suffering from consumers,” he further said. He said a task force comprising officers from Lake Victoria South Waterworks Development Agency (LVSWWDA), Gwasco, and the two counties, has been formed to source for funds from donors to connect more consumers to Kegati water project - which is nearing completion. Water from the project funded by a German Development Bank (KFW) at Sh1.2 billion will be channelled to Suneka, Kiogoro and Nyamataro to benefit more consumers. Nanda said the donors will aid the water firm to raise connectivity, improve billing and digitize metering to enhance the company’s operations. Edited by R.Wamochie