Olympic marathon champion and record holder, Eliud Kipchoge will spend his weekend at the Maasai Mara National Reserve even as he prepares for the London Marathon which is tentatively scheduled for October. The event, which will be broadcast live on social media pages, coincides with the date which would have been the 2020 Olympic Marathon weekend but has since been postponed to next year. Kipchoge would have been in Japan this weekend to defend his Olympic marathon title but instead, he will be watching a different type of race across the Mara River—the Great annual Wildebeest Migration. The event will be graced by among other dignitaries, Tourism Cabinet Secretary, Najib Balala. During the Masai Mara tour, Kipchoge will engage in light training session as part of his preparations for London Marathon. Speaking ahead of the trip, Eliud said: “I am happy I am visiting Maasai Mara as this will be my first time. I want to witness this event live because I know it is  among the seven new wonders of the world.” Kipchoge recently signed a partnership with the Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) to assume the role of Kenya’s destination ambassador. The engagement, which commenced last month, will see Eliud promote Kenya as a preferred tourism destination both locally and internationally through various campaigns. KTB CEO, Dr. Betty Radier, said the board is pleased to have Kipchoge committed to promoting ‘Destination Kenya’. He said Kipchoge and other marathoners are Kenya’s greatest assets as they have put the country on the global map. Kipchoge added: “I am passionate about my country and I love it dearly. It is, therefore a big honour to partner with KTB on projects geared towards propelling Kenya as a preferred tourist destination globally. Kenya has a lot to offer and I urge local and foreign visitors to come and get first hand experience. ” The government has lately turned to sporting activities and top local personalities to profile Kenya as a preferred tourism destination in Africa. 