@alalmaurice Council of Governors chair Wycliffe Oparanya has urged the government to expedite testing of samples collected from police stations and prisons. Oparanya said counties are committed to supporting the police and prison departments to control infection among suspects in cells and jailed inmates. He said counties are mandated to provide laboratory technologists to collect samples from suspects for testing. “We are providing support to ensure that the remandees and prisoners are not endangered by this pandemic,” he said in Kisumu on Wednesday. Oparanya also called for partnership between county governments, media, and civil society organisations to conduct civic education on the coronavirus. The Kakamega governor said creating awareness on the virus will equip the public with the much-needed information. “We have strived to create awareness on coronavirus through radio and TV programmes conducted on a weekly basis," Oparanya said. However, he said they have noted this is not enough hence the need for complementary effort from stakeholders. Oparanya said counties have enhanced their response measures against Covid-19. He said 40 counties have reported active quarantine facilities. Currently, there are 818 people in these facilities and 1,044 people who were quarantined have been released. Cumulatively in 40 counties, he said, 10,498 tests have been carried out of which 1,106 people have tested positive. Of this number, 177 are healthcare workers. He said counties have trained and sensitised an additional 1,272 healthcare workers and 1,505 community health volunteers. Oparanya said in 37 counties, there are 630 patients under home-based care. “In the last one week, 183 patients confined in home-based care have recovered,” he added. The counties, he said, have continued to support Covid-19 patients through nutrition assessment and psychosocial counselling to help them manage the disease. He said the governments have ensured water connection and installation of handwashing facilities with soap in the isolation wards, markets and bus stations to help curb the spread of the virus. The CoG through the support of the UN Women is distributing dignity packs to women in isolation and quarantine facilities. “This initiative will ensure that women in these facilities have the necessary supplies to manage their menstrual hygiene with dignity,” Oparanya said. He appealed to stakeholders to support counties in the provision of dignity packs for vulnerable women and girls during the pandemic period. (edited by o. owino)