A Form 1 student in Ganze is nursing serious injuries after he was attacked by his stepmother and stepbrother. Andrew Kalama, 21, suffered two deep cuts after his stepbrother cut him on the back while his stepmother hit him with a wooden chair on the back of his head. The matter was reported to Bamba police station. Ganze police boss Timothy Muasya said they are waiting for the victim to get better for action to be taken. Speaking on Sunday at Bamba Subcounty Hospital where he had gone to receive treatment, Kalama said he had a disagreement with the two after he refused to take his stepmother’s goats to graze. “That day I refused because every time I take them, my stepmother claims I do not take good care of them and I return them home while still hungry so she takes them back to the grazing field. I felt humiliated and decided I won’t graze the goats again,” he said. Kalama further said he did not see the need to argue with her over the goats yet the goats belonged to her and her children. “My father used to have goats which I took for grazing together with my stepmother’s goats but two weeks ago, my father took his goats to another place and left only 22 goats,” he added. Kalama's uncle Karisa Charo said that day, Kalama had gone to play football around 6pm but he was summoned by his stepmother after she had an argument with her 15-year-old son. “I was in the kitchen with my wife around 7pm when I had Kadzo Masinde was arguing with her son over the goats. He then called Kalama and after an exchange of words, she shouted, 'do you want me to smash you?' We then heard a fight and rushed to the place. We found Kalama down yelling that he had been cut. Blood was oozing from his head and his back. We organised for a motorbike and he was taken to hospital,” Charo said. Kalama's mother Sidi Karisa said she left the children in 2003 after she was branded a witch by Kadzo who was then the second wife. “I was married for over 10 years before my husband married a second wife. We lived together without any problem until she gave birth to her third born. She said I stole the umbilical cord of her child and that I am a witch. The accusations went on for about a month and I reported the matter to my parents who asked me to leave. I went back to my parents with my two children but after some time, the father came for them,” she said. According to Charo, the stepmother has been mistreating the two children after their mother left. “She gives preference to her own children. Everyone in the family hates her. She sometimes denies them food and they have to get food from other family members,” Charo said. After the attack, Kadzo took all her goats and poultry and left the home with her children. Kalama 's father Garama Katana termed the incident as unfortunate and called for justice for his son. “They are my family and all I want is justice to be done. They have been living together and I wonder what came of them,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie