Trade unionist Francis Atwoli has asked Deputy President William Ruto to step down. The Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary-general said Ruto does not believe in the government he is serving. He added that Ruto does not respect his peers in government and has undermined state officials a number of times. “Ruto is a daytime dreamer. He is dreaming. He will never be the president of this great country,” Atwoli told the Star on phone on Wednesday. “In fact, no one will stand in his way to stop him. We will see where he will get votes.” Atwoli was responding to Ruto’s remarks on Tuesday that he was not afraid of powerful people in government calling themselves the 'deep state'. Ruto’s remarks followed his relegation to the periphery of state power after falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta after the March 9, 2018 handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. “We are being told there is the system, deep state or people who will steal our votes. We are waiting for them. There is God in heaven,” Ruto said. “I used to be intimidated. If I was fearful, we could not have formed the Jubilee government. If President Kenyatta was fearful, we could not have formed the government because we were told a lot of things - choices have consequences, you do not fit because you have a case and it was a fabricated case.” The Deputy President spoke on Tuesday when hosting a delegation of leaders from Kajiado county at his Karen residence in Nairobi. “This young man should not be rude to his bosses who are the taxpayers. He needs to understand that he is using the taxpayers’ funds for security, transport and hosting delegations and must respect them,” Atwoli said. The Cotu SG said that Ruto has no integrity to run the government since his appointees were fuelling corruption in government. “My role is to protect the wages of workers in government. I can confidently show you where money was stolen by Ruto’s appointees,” Atwoli said. He added that the state saved Ruto from the International Criminal Court. “I will not go into details but I can also tell you that it is former President Mwai Kibaki who saved Ruto from ICC. He should stop boasting and making useless noise around,” Atwoli said. He said that Ruto is focused on succession politics at a time Kenyans want good services from the government. “Ruto is interested in politics instead of serving Kenyans. He is number two and if he is not comfortable he should resign,” Atwoli said. Edited by Henry Makori