Equity Bank Equity has rolled out a universal number for all outbound communication to its customers and other external stakeholders. Moving forward, customers will be contacted by one outgoing number from Equity, 0763 000 000 under Equitel’s main prefix ‘0763’. The rollout of the universal number is part of the Bank’s recent rebranding, it said yesterday, where the company now presents itself as One Equity-a unified brand one stop shop offering integrated financial services. The number embodies this goal by unifying all its outbound communication to customers and external stakeholders. This measure is also aimed at promoting safety measures in an era where fraudsters have taken advantage of unsuspecting customers across the banking sector, to rob them. Equity Group Managing Director and CEO James Mwangi said:“ All our customers and stakeholders will easily now identify when their bank is calling them whenever they see 0763 000 000 number displayed on their phone.” He said Equity has been continuously investing in secure platforms and capability to fortify relationship with customers. Equity has obtained the prestigious global Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard 3.1 (PCI DSS 3.1) becoming the first bank in the country and one of the first banks in East Africa to do so. According to Mwangi, the certification affirms Equity’s adherence to international security standards related to the protection of customer information. Meanwhile, he has called on customers to be wary of calls asking for confidential information. “Customers should be very alert of any caller that asks for confidential information such as passwords or Pin Numbers. Such callers are fraudsters,” Mwangi said. Equity continues to make inroads in its innovation and digitization strategy that has seen its mobile and internet banking channels process 83 per cent of all transactions. Its agents and merchants processed 12 per cent of transactions by June 30, 2020. Currently, 98 per cent of all its transaction takes place outside the branch, solidifying the Group’s position as a digital financial service provider. The lender has over 14 million customers across the region.