Public universities may soon host police posts if a new proposal to secure the institutions is adopted. The proposal to have the police presence in the universities is contained in an inter-ministerial working group report seen by the Star. The document identifies drugs and substance abuse, sexual abuse, gender violence, radicalisation and gangsterism as top vices in the institutions. The reform proposal comes at a time when there is growing concern that the institutions of higher learning are not doing enough to ensure the safety of students. “The Interior ministry to enable universities have joint community security meetings and enhanced security patrols within and around the university," the team recommends in the State Department for University Education and Research Governance of Public Universities report. The document also recommends the installation of CCTV cameras in all entries and exits and other installations "to monitor movement and identify and mitigate threats”. Further, it says the institutions should introduce biometric registration and management of students’ records. The recommendations have been welcomed by a section of university bosses, among them University of Nairobi vice-chancellor Stephen Kiama who says they are long overdue. “I think if we had a police force on the campus (it would be) more attuned to our student body … our community,” Kiama told the Star. His argument is that a police force in campuses will not only cut down on crime but also lead safety among other university communities. The document calls on the institutions to develop anti-sexual harassment, bullying and counter violence, extremism and radicalisation policies in partnership with relevant agencies. It says there should be mandatory annual security audits and assessment of universities to mitigate emerging threats. The report asks the government to support universities to erect perimeter walls to create gated communities. "This will also protect encroachment on university land." The other recommendations are facilitation of the development of institutional policy on students’ accommodation affairs and the provision of a framework for public/private partnerships on students’ accommodation within and outside the university. A number of recent incidents has been subject of security concern in higher education institutions. One of the most worrying concerns happened in 2015 when gunmen stormed  Garissa University College, killing 148 people and injuring scores of others. In November 2019, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology students protested increased attacks. In February 2020, the University of Nairobi was in the spotlight due to increased  cases of attacks on students. A report by the Commission for University Education in 2018 indicated that universities have become hideouts and convergence points for criminals, especially in hostels. “There are cases of active radicalisation cells in universities. Students are colluding with each other in hiding crime,” the report said. The report also censured politicians for encouraging ethnic and divisive alliances among students during political campaigns. It noted that there was little attention given to security concerns in public universities.  - mwaniki fm