A governor from Nyanza is desperately out to overturn the transfer of a county commissioner with whom he was 'cooperating' on matters involving Covid-19.  The county boss, who assigned the administrator numerous contracts to renovate hospitals, has been trying to reach out to Baringo Senator Gideon Moi (pictured) for help in reversing the transfer Having failed, the man made several frantic calls to a State House official  to prevail upon Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to intervene and rescind the transfer. The commissioner's transfer seems to have unsettled many people on the radar of investigative agencies over the misuse of Covid-19 funds in the county. *** A senior official of a county assembly that recently witnessed chaotic scenes is under fire over claims of greasing the palms of a senior politician for protection against an ouster motion. The man has reportedly been bragging to everyone who cares to listen how he managed to make his way to the politician and "bought him tea" to save his skin from the sack. Consequently, an MCA in the assembly is also under fire from a section of youths after he allegedly pocketed huge sums of money from an MP with clout in his party. The man was to hire young men to disrupt the session and stop MCAs from debating the controversial  motion to remove him. *** Are officials from one of the 47 counties paying members of the public to be listed as Covid-19 positive? A source in the Rift Valley county has told Corridors officials are paying as much as Sh10,000 for each one turning up to be tested. The source went on to say there is thirst for the millions of shillings the county has been allocated to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. It is clear the unscrupulous officials are making calculated moves that will see them line their pockets with the Covid-19 millions. They are using the increasing numbers of 'positive' patients as a personal conduit of funds intended to help the needy. *** While some MPs have been genuinely pushing for the allocation of more funds to their counties, it is emerging that a legislator from Kiambu county has other motives. The MP has been going round his constituency drumming up support for the 'one man, one vote and one shilling' campaign. A bird whispers to Corridors that the man’s supporters have learned he does not really care about the revenue formula but is simply taking advantage of the fray to secure his reelection. Locals are astute, they say the move won’t win their hearts, as there is nothing else the MP has done that justifies returning him to office.