Hundreds of small-scale fisherfolk in Vanga, Lunga Lunga subcounty, are reporting booming fishing business. They have devised new ways of food preservation and value addition. When the coronavirus outbreak was confirmed in the country in March, the national government imposed stringent measures to curb the spread of the infection. Fishing at the Coast dropped drastically, forcing the fisherfolk to shift to farming after recording massive losses. But some took the outbreak as an opportunity to transform into new modes of survival. The Indian Ocean Water Body Programme that supports fisherfolk was started by the national government to provide entrepreneurship skills to coastal women and improve fish value chains. They received Sh2.3 million funding from UNDP to run the 16 months programme. Programme supervisor Mercy Mghanga said the project targets over 100 women in the Shimoni-Vanga seascape. She said the training has also benefited men who solely depend on the sea. Mghanga said 112 women have so far benefited from the programme and have in turn assisted their husbands. Mwanatumu Kalau said new technology of storage and packaging has enabled them to reap huge benefits. The new methods include icing in cooler boxes, hygiene management, different types of frying and innovative marketing. When the Covid-19 restrictions were imposed, fisherfolk resorted to storing fish, drying them to last longer and looking for new markets. Traders said they used to sell at throwaway prices and often the buyers set the price. “We had a lot of fish but no customers due to the restriction of movement and closure of hotels. We were desperate for the little money,” Kadau said. Six 10-litre buckets of fish would be sold at Sh800 but now it is at least Sh3,000. Mwanamvua Kassim said she has been able to save and sustain her family through the pandemic due to improved prices. She uses solar energy to preserve her fish. Kassim can now store her stock and look for customers at her convenience without recording loss. Major markets for fish from Vanga are Mombasa, Taita, Kilifi and Tanga in Tanzania. Edited by Henry Makori