Kenyans should expect a drier October-December season, which will also be hotter than usual. Weather experts said the 'short rains' which come during this season, will be depressed and begin late - in November - in most parts of the country. The season will contrast heavily to last year's when heavy rains displaced 161,000 households and killed more than 200 people. The experts said they hope a new wave of locust infestation will not come this time and it would devastate food security. "A drier than usual season is expected in most parts of the region," the experts from the Dagoretti-corner based Igad Climate Prediction & Applications Centre (ICPAC) said in a statement. "Warmer than usual temperatures are expected over most of the region," they added. The region covered by the forecast comprises Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan and Ethiopia. However, the short rains will begin earlier than normal - in the first or second week of September - in entire western Kenya, along the border with Uganda, South Sudan and Ethiopia. But the rains will still be depressed across the country. "Probabilities for below normal rainfall are 40-50 per cent over most parts of the region," Icpac said in a statement. Icpac programme manager Zachary Atheru advised the country to prepare adequately because it is already facing emergencies like Covid-19 and locust invasion. "Desert locust invasion is ongoing and completing the cycle with the hope that there will be no new cycle in case of depressed rainfall," he said. Climate scientists from the entire Igad region have been meeting since Monday to develop the forecast. UK climate scientist Dr Richard Graham, who joined the virtual meeting, explained what might be behind the dry weather. "There is an expectation for continued negative Indian Ocean Dipole as well as 65 per cent chance of La Niña, favouring dry conditions," he said. Last year's October-December floods were triggered by a strong positive Indian Ocean Dipole, which dumped heavy rains along the East African coast. The unusually heavy rains killed at least 237 people, according to Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. Weather experts said although this year will be drier, occasional floods cannot be ruled out. "It is likely that episodic rainfall events leading to flash floods might occur even in areas with an increased likelihood of near and below normal rainfall," Icpac said. "Also, dry spells may occur in areas with an increased likelihood of above and near-normal rainfall." Historically, the short rains season is unpredictable and the rains are not guaranteed to fall widely every year. Most parts of Kenya experience two rain seasons: March to May’s 'long rains' and October to December’s 'short rains'. June to August are mainly cool and dry over most parts of the country except for some parts in the western region that report some rains. September will likely be wetter than average in Western Kenya, Icpac added. Dr Timothy Njagi, a senior research fellow at the Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and Development, said the regional forecast needs to be broken down into Kenya’s different climatic regions. “The KMD (Kenya Meteorological Department) needs to scale it down further so that we know what to expect in each counties or climatic regions in Kenya,” he told the Star. “The extension officers should then issue relevant advisories to farmers. This needs to come early, ideally at least one month before the rains begin so that farmers can have time to look for seeds of the right crops to plant.” Edited by R.Wamochie