Sauti Sol guitarist Polycarp Otieno says his love for guitars started after clearing high school. Speaking in a recent episode on Engage Talks, Polycarp says he hard a tough time opening up to women. The first thing he did was to try and get the attention of people in his church with his musical skills. "In high school, all I could think of and dream of was guitars. I excelled in my O-levels with an A- and that raised my confidence the more," he said. "I was now becoming a young adult. My voice had broken, shoulders broadened; I would spend several hours admiring myself in the mirror." But that still wasn’t enough for him to get noticed by women. "I noticed that something was missing, there was an edge I was looking for," he said. He thought it was cologne. He tried it out but his father’s reaction made him quit wearing the perfume for good. He then decided it would be better to chase guitars and not women, which he did. Polycarp says he was a frequent visitor of music stores in Nairobi town. "I went into one of my favourite music stores and there, I saw her (guitar)," he explained. "She was so beautiful, she stood out, dressed in wine red from head to toe. Had a long neck, curves at the right places. I wanted to go home with her." "In fact, I wanted a relationship and not just any relationship, a relationship with strings attached and that is how I ended up with Cecilia." Polycarp concluded that walking around with the guitar eventually built him some confidence with the girls. He is currently married to Lady Mandy and together they are expecting their first child. Together with other Sauti Sol members, he will be participating in the biggest virtual concert, Kenya ni Yetu Live, which is taking place tomorrow at 8pm. Sponsored by Stanbic Bank and powered by the Media Owners Association, it will be the biggest live show since the coronavirus pandemic hit the country. The show will be broadcast in all major TV stations, including Kiss TV, Citizen TV, NTV, KTN, K24, Switch TV, Kass TV, Family TV and Three Stones Media. It will also be aired on all the top radio stations in Kenya, including Kiss FM, Classic FM, Radio Jambo, East FM, HomeBoyz, SMooth FM, Capital FM and Hot 96. The concert will also be streamed live on www.yetulive.com.