The process to elect a new speaker at the County Assembly of Nairobi has started hours after Beatrice Elachi resigned from the post amidst assembly wrangles. In one of the local dailies today, Acting Clerk of the County Assembly Pauline Akuku moved swiftly to notify the public of the vacancy, inviting all interested but qualified persons to apply for the position. “Accordingly, the office of the Clerk invites interested persons, who qualify to be elected for the position of the Speaker of the County Assembly to download nomination forms from the Nairobi City County Assembly website," reads the notice. This was in pursuant to Article 178(1) of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 which provides that each County Assembly shall have a Speaker elected from among persons who are not Members of the County Assembly as read together with Section 7 of the County Governments (Amendment) Act, 2020, Section 25 of the Elections Act, 2011 and the Nairobi City County Assembly Standing Orders. Akuku also announced that the election of the Speaker shall be held at the County Assembly Plenary Chamber, this Friday at 9.00 am. Elachi was elected as the Speaker of the County Assembly  on September 6, 2017  and got 90 votes with her closest rival Ali Abdi getting 27 votes. George Wainaina got four votes while Karen Nyamu only  got one vote. Application Criteria Persons interested in filling the Speaker’s  position are required to submit duly filled and signed nomination forms, clearance Certificate from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and Clearance from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and clearance Certificate from the National Police Service Also required are certified copies of academic certificates, clearance Certificate from the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), compliance Certificate from the High Education Loans Board (Helb), certified copy of the National ID or passport and a copy of the CV. According to Akuku, the documents are to be delivered physically  at the assembly. “The aforementioned documents are to be hand delivered  to the Office of the Clerk of the Assembly, in a sealed envelope so as to reach her at least 48 hours before the day of the sitting of the Assembly pursuant to Standing Order 6 (2) of the Nairobi City County Assembly Standing Orders,” reads the notice. Qualifications Only persons who have met the  qualifications under Article 193 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 and Sections 22 and 25 of Elections Act, 2011 are to apply for the positions. These requirements are that the applicant must be a registered voter and satisfies any educational, moral and ethical requirements prescribed in the Constitution. For the education background, a post-secondary school qualification recognised in Kenya according to Section 22 (1) of the Elections Act 2011 is also required. Disqualification However, the Acting Clerk also laid out some of the categories of persons who cannot be elected as the Speaker in accordance with Article 193 of the Constitution An applicant shall be disqualified from being elected as Speaker if one is a state officer or other public officer, has at any time within the five years immediately before the date of election, or held office as a member of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission; Also if one has not been a citizen of Kenya for at least the 10 years immediately preceding the date of election, is of unsound mind, is an undischarged bankrupt or  is serving a sentence of imprisonment of at least six months will be disqualified. Others are; if one has been found, in accordance with any law, to have misused or abused a State office or public office or to have contravened Chapter Six of the Constitution cannot qualify.