Soapstone mining in Tabaka subcounty, Kisii county, is an important economic activity, providing income to more than 7,000 residents. A local artisan has developed a plan to curve sculptures of legends and renowned politicians from the 47 counties. He plans to approach the counties for funding, in what could generate millions of shillings for the local economy. Shem Oroo Mogendi, 55, started with a sculpture of Gusii Prophet Sakawa, which earned him Sh2 million from the Kisii government. The sculpture, which is now placed at the entrance to the county government headquarters, has motivated him to do similar projects for other counties, beginning with western Kenya. In Bombware village, Tabaka ward, Mogendi proudly reveals his current work, which came as a result of a deal with the local county government. PRESERVING HISTORY He is working on a sculpture portraying the unity of Omogusii, popularly known as Mwanyagetinge. Mogendi explains that the sculpture, which looks like a combination of wild animals sewn together, is about the unity of six Omogusii sub-tribes including Omogetutu symbolised by an elephant (enda ya echogu), omonyaribari and omachoge both symbolised by a gorilla (engoge), Omogirango by a leopard (engo), Omonchari hippopotamus (engubo) and Omobasi zebra (enchage). He will make two such sculptures with soapstone and green granite, which has been located in the nearby Bomonyama village, Bogetanga ward. The father-of-five says the two sculptures will fetch him Sh4 million when they are delivered before the end of this year. The granite sculpture, which can withstand harsh weather including scorching sun and heavy rain, will be displayed in the open, while the soapstone one, which is more delicate, will be placed at the entrance of the county assembly. Mogendi says the idea to make monuments of legends, politicians, sports personalities or cultural issues was informed by his desire to preserve historical information for future generations. Next he plans to make sculptures of Musa Nyandusi, the late senior colonial chief, and Nyantika Manyioro, the first African to compete in the Commonwealth Games in 1956. The carvings will be placed at the Gusii Stadium. LEGENDS He will then approach Vihiga county to make a sculpture of legendary footballer Joe Kadenge and Joseph Daniel Otiende, a member of the first post-Independence Cabinet. Mogendi says he will then approach Homa Bay with a sculpture of Gor Mahia, the medicine man from whom the Gor Mahia Football Club derives its name, and Siaya with the carving of Odero Akang’o’s, a former colonial chief who encouraged formal education. Others are Nandi with Koitalel arap Samoei’s sculpture. Koitalel led the longest and bloodiest resistance against British colonialism, as well as Eluid Kipchoge’s, who recently entered the Guinness World Records for being the first man to run a marathon in less than two hours. He will also approach Kisumu to do a caring of Ramogi Ajwang’ who is believed to be the forefather of the Luo community. Mogendi also plans to make a sculpture of ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kakamega’s Nabongo Mumia and Masinde Muliro. The ambitious artisan is however anticipating many challenges. The current Senate stalemate on revenue allocation, which has delayed dispatch of funds to the counties, has delayed payment to artisans, suppliers and contractors.