The Universities Act, 2012 provides for the development and application of the differentiated unit cost in allocation of funds. The current DUC was extensively researched and developed in consultation with the chairpersons of councils of public universities. It considers teaching staff, supporting infrastructure, student-staff ratio and scaling factor. Students are allocated funds based on the courses they pursue. Government allocation has been around 60 per cent of DUC resource requirement. To ensure sustainable and responsive university funding, the following recommendations are made: Government-sponsored students should be admitted in programmes that are the niche areas of the individual universities as stated in their philosophies. Universities should be categorised in major thematic areas such as science and technology, research, sports and creative arts and general areas. Under this model, centres of excellence for special needs education may be created, especially for visually impaired and deaf students. This will make universities consistent with the needs of the competence-based curriculum and enable government to make targeted investment. There is also need for centralised data on university use. The data management system will promote public access to information on universities and improve the management of disbursed funds. It will also enhance public accountability and transparency, self-improvement and performance-based funding. The institutions should build a powerhouse to generate more resources to supplement government funding. They should set up a separate unit with the objective of promoting revenue-generating activities, including valuation of services and consulting with relevant stakeholders. This can be done by providing a mechanism for the establishment and management of enterprises within the university and restructuring existing  business enterprises, if any, to a fully commercial basis. Proper risk management of all commercial activities in the institutions, to achieve a limited liability status of universities business enterprises, should be carried out. Further, there is need to develop a policy on placement and sponsorship of students in private universities. This should be on the basis on strategic interests and government's financial capacity. The number of government-sponsored students in private university has been on the rise since the institutions cut a deal with the institutions in 2016. Consequently, the resources allocated to private universities are being spread too thin to be effective. The former Commission for University Education CEO and engineering professor at Moi University spoke to the Star.