Kenya on Wednesday reported 671 new cases of Covid-19 bringing the total to 23,873, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. Kagwe was at Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, where he witnessed the launch of an ICU and HDU beds. This is out of 6,200 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the cumulative number of tests done in the country to 329,123. Of the cases reported, 633 are Kenyans while 38 being foreigners. In terms of gender, 413 are male while 258 are female. As of ages, the youngest is a three-year-old while the oldest is 94 years old. The country has also witnessed 603 recoveries bringing the total number of recoveries in the country to 9,930. However, the country has lost three more people, bringing the total number of deaths to 391. "When you wear your face mask, you slow the spread of the disease so that our health system is not overwhelmed," Kagwe said. "The government cannot get sick... you and I can. It's not a government responsibility." The distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi 376, Kiambu 112, Machakos 20, Kisumu and Kajiado with 16 cases each, Busia and Uasin Gishu with 15 cases each. Nyeri has 13, Narok and Nakuru 10 cases each, Bomet and Kericho with nine cases each, Meru seven, Mombasa six, Embu, Nandi, Kisii with five cases each, Garissa, Tana River with three cases each. In others, Kilifi, Murang'a, Tharaka Nithi, Trans Nzoia, Vihiga, Baringo have two cases each while Kakamega, Nyamira, Samburu and Taita Taveta have one case each. Kamukunji and Kasarani 23, Makadara 22, Embakasi East and Starehe with 21 cases each, Dagoretti South and Ruaraka with 20 cases each, Embakasi South 19, Roysambu 17, Embakasi North 15, Embakasi West 14, Embakasi Central 12, Mathare 11. In Kiambu, the 112 cases are in; Kiambu Town with 36, Ruiru 28, Thika 16, Juja nine, Kikuyu eight, Kiambaa seven,Kabete six, Gatundu North and Limuru with one case each. In Machakos, the 20 cases are from Athi River with 19 cases and Kangundo with one case, while in Kisumu West and Nyando have one case each. In Kajiado, the 16 cases are Kajiado North with seven cases, Kajiado East five and Kajiado Central with three and Kajiado West with one case. In Busia, the 15 cases are in Matayos with eight cases, and Teso North with seven cases. In Uasin Gishu, the 15 cases are in Turbo with seven cases, Ainabkoi six, Kapseret and Soy with one case each. In Nyeri, all the 13 cases are in Nyeri Central and in Narok, the 10 cases are in Narok North with eight cases and Trans Mara West with two cases. In the case of Nakuru, the 10 cases are in Naivasha with nine cases and Nakuru West with one case while the nine cases in Kericho are in Ainamoi with six and Buret with three. In Meru, all the cases are in Tigania West while the six cases in Mombasa are in Nyali with three cases while Changamwe, Kisauni and Likoni have one case each. In Embu, all the five cases are from Mbeere North while the five cases in Nandi are all in Emgwen and the five cases in Kisii are all in Kitutu Chache South. In Garissa, all the three cases are in town while the three cases in Tana River are in Galole. The two cases in Kilifi are in Kilifi North and the two cases in Murang'a are in Kigumo and Kiharu. In Tharaka Nithi, the two cases are in Chuka and Igambangombe. The two cases in Trans Nzoia are in Cherangani and Saboti and in Vihiga, the cases are Sabatia and Vihiga and the cases in Baringo are in Baringo Central. The case in Nyamira is in the town while the case in Samburu is in Samburu Central and the case in Taita Taveta is in Voi.