Harambee Stars holding midfielder Roy Okal says the ambition by Sofapaka to win the title next season was enough to convince him to ditch 2008 champions Mathare United for the club. Okal yesterday penned a two-year long deal with Sofapaka who declared interest in claiming the top flight honours last week after renewing their contract with their shirt sponsor, Betika. Okal, who joined Mathare three years ago from National Super League side, Ushuru, revealed that his contract with the Slum Boys was set to end this month and offer from Sofapaka proved hard to ignore. The stocky midfielder said joining the John Baraza-coached outfit will quench his thirst for his first winners medal. He, however, acknowledged that walking to the starting team is not a guarantee, thanks to the competition from other midfielders who include Nigerian national Sebastian Ikhekai. “Sofapaka is one of the biggest clubs around and it was tough to turn their offer down. They announced last week that they will be gunning for the title and for this reason, I made up my mind to join them. I am aware there are other talented midfielders at the club but through hard work, I am certain I will make my way to the starting team,” he said. Meanwhile, the Laiser Hill alumnus disclosed that quitting the 'Slum Boys' was tough owing to the chemistry he had with his teammates. He heaped praises on the management and technical bench of the club for giving him the platform and their guidance. “Leaving Mathare was a tough decision to make. The club has been my second home for all those years and we have been living like brothers with my teammates. Mathare is one of the best managed clubs locally but football is business and at the end of the day, we have to make choices no matter how tough they are,” he added. Besides snapping Okal, Sofapaka confirmed the arrival of former Wazito and Sony Sugar goalkeeper Kevin Omondi. The latter was among the 12 players released by Wazito last month and he is expected to fill in the void left by axed Ugandan custodian Nicholas Sebwato. Initially, Omondi was linked with a move to Tusker who were on high alert after South African giants Orlando Pirates were reported to be courting their first choice glove-man and Rwandese national Emery Mvuyekure. Elsewhere, Wazito continued with their transfer business after capturing Edwin Omondi from Western Stima. Omondi joined the power men at the start of last season from Chemelil Sugar.