A 30-year-old man who has been on the police list of suspects for the murder of a police officer in Lamu surrendered on Wednesday. Arafat Abdalla has been on the police radar since the June 8 gruesome murder of police constable Rodgers Odhiambo in Tchundwa, Lamu East. Odhiambo, who was attached to Tchundwa police post, was lured to his death by a phone call from a civilian friend who requested to meet him. In civilian clothes and unarmed because he was not on duty, Odhiambo went to the supposed meeting place just outside a house in the Tchundwa village. He was then accosted by machete-wielding thugs who hacked him to death before leaving his lifeless body on the ground. Abdalla got wind he was one of the suspects being sought by police for the murder and went into hiding a week after the incident. His wife had just delivered their first child when he left them to hide from the police. Three weeks ago, Abdalla’s relatives reached out to Muslims for Human Rights through Lamu field officer Ali Shee, asking them for help. Muhuri advised them to talk to Abdalla and let him surrender so that justice takes its course. They agreed but later went back on their word, fearing for his life. “They said police would execute their son,” said Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma. Auma said such is the image that Kenyans have of police officers because of past incidents where suspects have been executed extrajudicially. However, Muhuri managed to convince them that Abdalla’s safety would be guaranteed, something Lamu East subcounty police commander Emmanuel Okanda confirmed. With everything arranged, Abdalla on Wednesday emerged from the forest, his father-in-law in tow, hands raised in surrender as they walked towards Okanda, who was in the company of two other police officers and the Muhuri team led by Auma and Shee. Abdalla was handcuffed before being driven to Lamu East police station where he was booked. Speaking at the station, Abdalla revealed he had been hiding in the forest for over two months, living on handouts from passersby and well wishers. He said the beating of innocent people by police as they tried to force residents to produce Odhiambo’s killers made him decide to run away. “I thought if the people who are not on the list of suspects got that kind of beating, what would happen to me, who, as I had heard rumours, was on the list of suspects? I could not wait to see for myself,” he said. He, however, pronounced his innocence saying he had nothing to do with the murder of police constable Odhiambo. “But now I am back because I want to know whether I will get justice or not,” said Abdalla at the police station. “If I am innocent. God will bear me witness. But if I am not then let Him judge me,” he said. He said he missed his young family while in hiding in the forest and was tempted many times to sneak to the house just to see them. Auma said: “Abdalla has confirmed to us that he is in good health with no injuries. So we hand him over to the police in perfect health.” He urged those in hiding to surrender and let justice take its course. “Police have no enmity with anyone. We want to bring harmony and peace in our villages in Lamu,” said Auma. Okanda said Abdalla’s human rights will be protected and his safety guaranteed. He told residents that they have no problem with them so long as they maintain law and order. “Our main duty is to prepare evidence and take them to court,” he said. He urged the others in hiding to come out and follow Abdalla’s example. “The others who we are pursuing should not fear. We are here as law enforcers and nothing else,” Okanda said. Auma said the fear of police makes many suspects go into hiding because they do not trust police officers. Shee said they will be monitoring Abdalla’s case and condition closely through area paralegals. He appealed to residents to cooperate with police so as to improve security. “When we cooperate, everything will be much easier,” he noted. Edited by Henry Makori