The National Treasury will from next January be raiding civil servants purses to raise Sh3 billion a month in mandatory pension contributions. Each of the about 333,400 civil servants to be enrolled into the new scheme will be required to contribute 7.5 per cent of their take-home pay while the government will complement this pay 15 per cent. Public Service Commission employees - teachers, police officers and any other service as will be determined by the Treasury are targeted. The current Public Service Pension arrangement will be closed to all new employees and all serving employees below 45 years-old. Employees aged 45 years and above as at that date will be given an option to join the new scheme or remain in the old scheme. The Treasury expects to generate over Sh30 billion a year from the contributions - monies Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani says will help deal with revenue shortfalls. Earnings from the pension scheme, hailed as the largest fund, are touted as shot-in-arm for the President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four legacy projects. In a brief on the Public Service Superannuation Scheme Fund, the CS was optimistic of raising sufficient resources to stimulate the economy. Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia, Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya, Treasury officials and chairpersons of PSC, TSC, SRC and NPSC were briefed of the plan. Yatani is looking up to the funds to help stimulate the economy “that has been negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.” The Treasury says that over time, the resources from the current scheme “would be freed to finance the development of other critical sectors of the economy.” The government, in pitching the new scheme, says the return on investments undertaken by the Fund will help sustain contributors’ income in old age. President Kenyatta’s administration has been keen to utilise pension contributions to fund infrastructure projects, a move that gave the Fund managers cold feet. Civil servants, the proponents said, will not lose their pension benefits in the event they are transferred to other departments. Those who exit government service before retirement will be allowed to access their own contribution and 50 per cent of the government portion. Monthly contributions of up to 30 per cent of their basic salary- or Sh20,000, will be deducted from pay before tax is calculated. “This will reduce the tax level and improve employees’ pay as well as avoiding double taxation of pension contributions and payouts,” Yatani said. The government is keen on shedding the pension burden, which is projected to cross the Sh100 billion mark this financial year. Treasury data shows that Sh126 billion has been allocated to pensions for retired civil servants, former presidents and vice presidents as well as retired prime minister. In a warning shot about it being unsustainable, Yatani said there was urgency for the roll-out of the contributory scheme. In what exposes the laxity that has greeted the process, the Cabinet passed the proposal in 2003 amid concerns of rising pension wage bill. The scheme is currently governed by the Pensions Act Cap 189 and operates on a non-contributory basis. The benefits from the non-contributory scheme are budgeted for and drawn directly from the Consolidated Fund. This is argued to have increased the wage bill in the government with the latest actuarial studies showing that the liability has increased to Sh990 billion. The Treasury projects the cost will hit the Sh1 trillion mark if nothing is done to salvage the pension situation. According to the Treasury, the cost of pension has risen to alarming levels from Sh27 billion as of June 30, 2014, to the projected Sh100 billion this financial year. Yatani said this will be countered by the contributory Fund tipped to help the growth of capital markets and “bring meaningful growth in unlocking value in real estate.” More than Sh5 billion has over the past five years gone into retirement benefits for retired presidents, vice-presidents and former prime minister. MPs on Wednesday voted to increase to Sh100,000 monthly pension for their colleagues who served between 1984 and 2001, translating to roughly Sh180 million annually.   - mwaniki fm  