Fast-risingHarambee Starlets' goalkeeper Judith Osimbo wants to work on her aerial balls abilities in a bid to cement her position in the national team. Osimbo has played second fiddle to Annet Kundu who has been undisputed Kenya's shot stopper but her move to Cyprus early this year handed Osimbo the opportunity to claim a starting role. Osimbo was part of the Starlets squad that won Cecafa tournament last year.  The team didn't  concede a goal and Osimbo featured prominently in their match against Djibouti. In the Turkish tournament in March this year, Kenya finished third in the four-team tourney behind leaders Chile and second-placed Ghana. Osimbo, who plays for Gaspo FC in the Kenya Women Premier League, kept a clean sheet against Northern Ireland as goals from Janet Bundi and Jentrix Shikangwa downed the European side. Starlets were thrashed 5-0 by a rampant Chile side as the team used the tournament as part of their preparations for the African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Tanzania that was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The 21-year-old said there is room for improvement as she focuses on cementing the harder to Kenya One spot in the  David Ouma-tutored side. "I have had opportunities to don the Kenya jersey which is thrilling. I am good at sweeping the ball and also very quick but my aerial prowess is wanting. This is an area I am trying to work on and I believe I will be good to match anybody. I learnt valuable lessons against Chile and I will only get better with more playing time. The competition between Stellah Ohono, Monica Odato and I is healthy," she said. Osimbo won the Chapa Dimba tournament with Nyakach Girls in 2018. She was also voted the best shot stopper at both regional and nationals and had the opportunity to travel to London where they played in five matches. She has also been part of the under-20 national team for the World cup qualifiers, where they were eliminated in the quarter final stage. Her target for the coming season with Gaspo is 10 clean sheets. She believes Gaspo have what it takes to win the WPL should the striking force  fire from all cylinders.