Residents across Mwingi West sub-county in Kitui will benefit from the de-silting and construction of earth dams, water pans and sand dams. Area MP Charles Nguna said the exercise to ensure residents are water sufficient is in collaboration with the National Irrigation Board and African Sand Dams. More than 10 earth dams across the sub-county that constitutes of four wards are set to be constructed while others will be desilted. “African Sand Dams have so far erected over 20 sand dams and we expect them to do more along our rivers,” said Nguna. “The construction of over 300 water pans in Nzatani and Itoloni areas has also started,” he added. Nguna said he wants to ensure no resident across his sub-county suffers water scarcity stating he has donated his salary to ensure the earth dams are done as the function is a devolved one. “I will not sit and watch locals suffer from water shortage because the function is devolved. That’s why I decided to donate my five-year salary to ensure Mwingi West is water sufficient and also lobbied support from NIB and African Sand Dams,” he stated. Speaking at Katuyu village in Nguutani ward where the construction of Katuyu earth dam is ongoing, he also called upon the county government to step up and ensure they formulate ways of ensuring Mwingi residents are water secure. Lauding the exercise, area residents said they walk up to ten kilometres to fetch water from the nearby water point where they parted with 15 shillings per jerrycan. Vincent Kituka, a resident, said the initiative was noble as water is life. “During the dry season, we incur a lot of water challenges as seasonal rivers dry up forcing us to get water 10 kilometres away,” he added. John Kasangi, another resident, said it was prayers answered as area locals can now smile. Lucy Kathini, another local, said she will embark on vegetable farming after the earth dam is complete as a way of enhancing her family’s livelihood. “I always wished to plant and sell vegetables but water scarcity in this area has been a challenge as I used to fetch water with the aid of a donkey ten kilometres away,” narrated Lucy. The excited local stated that those who did not have donkeys carried water jerrycans with their backs, something quite challenging.