The Ministry of Health has asked hospitals to ration beds to patients aged below 60 years, who are at lower risk of dying of Covid-19. Acting Director General of Health Patrick Amoth has said old people should get priority, while younger patients with mild symptoms should be advised to try home care. "Hospital-based care should, therefore, be prioritised for cases that have the highest probability for poor outcomes, that is, patients with severe and critical illness and those with mild disease and risk for poor outcomes, age 60 and above," he said in an advisory to all Health CECs, dated August 3. He also advised that hospitals should quickly discharge patients from isolation and treatment facilities when their state improves. "This necessity for discharge once it is safe to do so aims to maintain healthcare capacity for severe and critically-ill patients," he said. This move was expected for Kenya because the healthcare system is slowly becoming overburdened and some doctors have reported making heart-wrenching decisions about how to ration care. Amoth said widespread community transmission and shortages of laboratory reagents have affected testing and put pressure on the health system. "In order to minimise transmission in these facilities, the ministry has developed guidance to aid decisions around safe discharge and release from isolation," he said. Amoth said to aid public health prevention measures, it is paramount that at the time of discharge from isolation, patients are no longer transmitting SARS-CoV-2. "Safe home care should be considered for patients suspected to have Covid who present as asymptomatic or with mild symptoms," he said. For the symptomatic patients, before discharge, they should be given at least three days after recovery to check if they still have the symptoms. They should be given at least 10 days since the date of their first positive cover diagnostic test and that they have not developed symptoms since their positive test. Last month, CS Mutahi Kagwe cautioned the youth against travelling to their rural villages, saying they will expose the elderly people to the virus and spread it. He said global statistics indicate that the youth contract the disease, but recover as compared to the elderly whose immunity is weak and easily succumb to the disease. “Travelling upcountry means you are going home to kill your parents or grandparents,” Kagwe warned. Edited by R.Wamochie