The Homa Bay County Government is awaiting a medical report to ascertain the disease that killed a nurse at Kisii County Teaching and Referral Hospital. The county health executive Richard Muga urged nurses to stay calm as they wait for the postmortem results from the hospital. Nurse Marian Awuor is said to have died on Sunday morning due to other complications she developed after fully recovering from Covid-19. Two weeks ago, Awuor was transferred and admitted to an ICU at the hospital after she contracted coronavirus. The 32-year-old health worker who was attached to Rachuonyo South Sub County Hospital in Oyugis was also three months pregnant at the time she contracted the virus. On Monday, nurses in Homa Bay requested to know what caused the death of their colleague. Under their umbrella of the Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN), the nurses through their secretary general George Bola argued that Awuor’s delivery through operation was successful. He said the death was a surprise to them since they were waiting for her to get discharged. “As nurses we would want to know the disease our colleague died of after we were told she was doing well with treatment,” Bola said. Speaking to journalists on Monday, Bola described Awuor as a dedicated union member who championed for the rights of members. They urged the Homa Bay Government to provide them with more Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to avoid contracting the virus. “We have raised the issue of shortage of PPEs with the health department. Nurses also want allowances be paid as they agreed with the employer,” he added. But Muga said they working closely with the hospital management to establish the cause of death of the medic. “A postmortem would be conducted to reveal the cause of death. We want to know whether she developed other complications since she had previously tested negative for virus twice,” Muga said. The CEC said Awuor's seven-day old baby is doing well under the incubator at the Kisii Referral Hospital.