@alalmaurice Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Sunday warned doctors in private practice against undermining the fight against Covid-19. He noted with concern that some doctors were derailing the process of protecting families whose relatives have died from the coronavirus. He spoke in Kisumu while updating the country on Covid-19 situation. The country recorded 599 new cases. Kagwe said a few doctors have been behaving strangely, especially those in the private sector whom he accused of undermining measures aimed at containing the virus. "We are aware that there are doctors in the private sector undermining the process of protecting families by exploiting their emotions and colluding with some of them to ensure burials are done normally," he said. Kagwe said some doctors withhold positive results to family members or people who die from Covid-19 complications. “When a person succumbs to Covid-19, they do so at their most infectious state, shading the virus at a very high level. Therefore, when buried as a regular fatality without the protective measures in place, everyone closer to them is exposed,” he said. The new cases were drawn from the 4,420 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. Kagwe said the new cases bring the country's cumulative total tests to 353,727. Of the new cases, 593 were Kenyans while six were foreigners, and 373 cases were male and 326 female. Education CS George Magoha, acting Health Director-General Patrick Amoth and host Governor Anyang' Nyong’o were also present. The new cases included a one-year-old infant, with the oldest being 82 years old. Kagwe said 1,062 patients have recovered from the disease. “Our total recovery so far stands at 12,961 in the country,” the said. A total of 983 people discharged were from the home-based care programme, while 79 were discharged from health facilities. However, two more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities in the country to 420. Kagwe warned that everybody is not safe, including doctors, hence Kenyans must strictly follow Health ministry directives in burying victims. “Let us all be honest because anybody can die of Covid-19. There should be no absolute reason why a doctor should issue a negative certificate to a positive death so the deceased can be buried normally to avoid stigma,” the CS said. He appealed to Kenyans to stop stigmatisation against individuals who test positive. He said stigmatisation has pushed the bereaved to force doctors into manipulating death reports. "You can get the coronavirus and anybody can get it, so let's not stigmatise. How do you issue a negative certificate when you know the person has died from the virus, knowing very well that anybody who comes closer to that body will be infected?” Kagwe said. He urged counties to acquire the correct personal protective equipment for their health workers. Kagwe cautioned that there is a rise in low quality face masks being distributed in health facilities. He further noted that masking and following government directives are not a favour to a law enforcement officer. “All Kenyans are vulnerable to Covid-19. Take the disease seriously. Wearing a face mask is not a favour to the law enforcers, county and national governments. It is for your own good,” Kagwe said. "Bidding loved one’s farewell is important to all of us but it should not end with greater pain or loss of more lives.” The CS called for mutual recognition of medical research carried out in Kenya in partnership with other countries, adding the outcome should be meaningful. “We are impressed with research going on in Kisumu and Kilifi. But we want the data being created in Kenya with the support from foreign institutions recognised,” he said. Kenya is cooperating with the British scientists in Kilifi and Americans under CDC in Kisumu. “The findings that we get in our labs, Kemri in Kisumu or any other facility in our nation must be mutually recognised,” he said. "We cannot carry out research in Kenya using the brains of our people then export that data somewhere else. A medicine or a vaccine is discovered and then it is not attributed to Kenya just because the research was being funded by someone else.” He also told off those calling for his resignation saying they are dreaming. "The issue of people asking me to resign is a pipe dream. They can continue to dream on," he said. He made it clear that he has no son who is under 18. This is after a video went viral of his son at a party despite the directives given to exercise social distancing and avoid crowded areas. "On the issue of the video footage showing my son at a party, I do not have a son under 18 in my house, meaning they are adults. You can follow them and ask them," Kagwe said.