Traders in Garissa have welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to probe impropriety at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa). They demanded thorough and truthful investigations saying it should not be an exercise to manage public anger. On Wednesday in his address to the nation, President Uhuru said that due to compelling public interest on the matter, the relevant agencies should expedite the ongoing investigations and conclude the same within 21 days. Addressing the press at a Garissa hotel on Sunday, the Kenya National Chamber of commerce and industry (KNCCI) officials led by national director Omar Sadik, said business was badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The most devastated business community by Covid-19 pandemic and corruption are our members. Our situation was already on a downfall before the coronavirus. The situation has been worsened even more following the pandemic that has seen several businesses close shop,” he said. Sadik said that small and medium enterprises, who are their members,  are most affected when corruption takes place. “It is  well documented that SMEs are the backbone of Kenya’s economy. Unfortunately, this group suffer the most and that is why we are calling on the President to make sure those found culpable are prosecuted irrespective of their status,” he said. Mohamed Salat, the chair of Garissa KNCCI branch, said as much a they fully support the investigations, it should not be another public relations exercise. “It is in the interest of Kenyans that the Covid-19 funds are prudently spent. It is the role of the government to ensure that money meant to curb the spread of the virus and protect the frontline workers is properly utilised. We as KNCCI do not condone corruption,” he said. “As we welcome and encourage big corporate entities to invest into the country, we also demand for a level playing field for the SMEs to cushion them from undue competition and subsequent closure,” he added. Rukia Mohamed, the women representative of KNCCI Garissa branch, called on the executive to allocate funds to the revolving funds kitty whose allotment was re-allocated to the Ministry of Health to fight the virus. Rukia said the beneficiaries had been trained and were only awaiting the funds when the pandemic broke out. “The 150 million that was supposed to fund these groups could have made a huge impact on the groups, majority of whom are women and youth who don’t have the collateral to secure loans from banks and other lending institutions,” she said. She further appealed to the county administration to continue paying contractors who offered services to the county during the last regime, saying that their lives had been worsened by the virus.