The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed completion of the World Bank-funded upgrade of infrastructure in Kapsabet town at a cost of Sh177 million. Contractors have requested for an extra two months to complete the projects initially set for completion by the end of last month. Residents have complained over delays in finalising the projects. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang’s administration has committed to ensuring the projects are handed over within the next two months. “We have actually achieved more than 90 per cent of the work on the projects and only a few areas delayed because of effects of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Nandi county officer coordinating the projects Kiplagat Keter. He said the contractors were forced to cut down on staff to avoid crowding as per health requirements to control the spread of Covid-19. The assembling of high mast lighting material in Thika had also been delayed due to the same problem. Keter, however, expressed satisfaction with the progress of the projects expected to benefit more than 200,000 residents and visitors to the town that is the headquarters of Nandi county. Work on almost all the major components of the project is in the last stages and residents are upbeat that the projects will help transform lives in the town. Kapsabet is among several towns selected to benefit from the urban economic and infrastructure development project financed by the World Bank. Several projects are being undertaken in town at a total cost of Sh177 million. Already contractors have completed a new sewer line at a cost of Sh12 million. More than 200 jua kali artisans will benefit from a new centre that will have stalls for them within the town at a cost of Sh39 million. The county is completing a five-kilometre walkway for pedestrians running along the Eldoret-Kisumu road. Under the project, the county is installing streetlights and high mast lights. Street lights are being installed at Kwa Wanja area, Citam and along Nandi Primary School road among other areas. The lighting projects will cost millions. “We have had serious insecurity problems in our area but with the street lighting, we will enjoy better security and can do business up to late hours,” small scale trader Jane Chemeli who lives along the Citam route said. The county is building fabricated jua kali sheds at Namgoi, Chebarbar, Chepterit and Barato areas. At the Kapsabet matatu park contractors have completed a toilet block and sheds for travellers at a cost of Sh9 million. “We intend to privatise the public toilets by giving the project to an organized group of residents to run it at a fee as part of empowering them and sustaining the project,” Keter said. High mast security lights will be erected at Kapsabet market, Baraton, Segut, Cheptiret, Chebarbar and near the jua kali centre. Edited by Henry Makori