The judiciary will establish a Small Claims court in Murang’a County to ease the backlog of cases. Chief Justice David Maraga said the court will facilitate fast resolution of cases while ensuring small-scale traders resume their businesses within a short period of time after the cases are concluded. Maraga instructed the County Presiding judge Kanyi Kimondo to liaise with the local leadership to establish the location of the court. He also noted that the Judiciary is putting in place modalities that will facilitate alternative dispute resolution, especially in regard to land succession cases. This, he said, will offload the cases from the courts and further serve to ease the backlog while preserving the unity of families. “When cases are heard through arbitration, families go back home happy as opposed to when one family member is directed to pay costs in court cases. I want to encourage judges and magistrate to refer such cases to arbitrators and court mediation to reduce their work load,” he said. The Judiciary will also establish a magistrate’s court at Kenol town in Maragua sub-county. Maraga confirmed this after he was informed by Justice Kimondo that a building has been identified where the court can be set up. Justice Kimondo said many people from far-flung areas such as Ithanga are forced to travel long distances to access the available courts in Murang’a, Kangema, Kigumo and Kandara. The judge further noted that they are working with area MP Mary Waithera and the county government for construction of a medium level prison, a police station, and Directorate of Public Prosecution’s offices to serve the court, and that it will ease the pressure on the existing courts. The Chief Justice said his office will mobilize resources and have a magistrate posted to the court, noting that the town’s location along the highway makes it a prime area for cases. Maraga said this while commissioning a modern block at Kangema law courts on Friday where he noted that the Judiciary aims to establish a High Court in every county and at least one magistrate’s court in each of the 290 sub counties. “The new courts we are constructing are modern with ablution blocks that have room for mothers to breast feed as they attend court sessions,” he said. Kangema law courts that had colonial buildings and only two court rooms has been refurbished and an extra court room and modern chambers constructed. Maraga however appealed to court workers to exercise caution as they serve Kenyans to avoid contracting or spreading Covid-19. Governor Mwangi wa Iria on his part said he has allocated two acres of land for the construction of a new High Court in Murang’a town. The governor handed over the title deed to the land saying a new facility will make delivery of justice better. “We are committed to work jointly with the judiciary to set the project in motion,” he said. The governor reiterated the need for alternative disputes resolution saying most families in the county are entangled in land succession cases that cause conflicts. Justice Performance Improvement Project (JPIP) coordinator Nancy Kanyago said the World Bank has issued a grant of Sh12 billion towards the enhancement of services in the sector, out of which Sh. 8 billion has gone towards improving the infrastructure. She Kangema law courts had only one court that was shared by both genders and that that remandees had to use a bucket as a toilet. The cells have now been segregated and refurbished. “We hope with the new infrastructure, the experience of court users will be improved,” she said. Area MP Muturi Kigano appealed to the judiciary to thin out court procedures which he said poses the biggest impediment to delivery of justice. Muturi, also national assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs committee chairperson however asked Maraga to consider using other ways of resolving issues facing the judiciary without publicizing them. Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege said the courts should create a friendly atmosphere to the numerous expectant teens that will be embroiled in defilement cases. “Teenage pregnancy has been an issue in the county and may increase during the December festivities,” she said.