The government has cut by three hours the 4pm to 7am curfew order in Transmara West imposed to stem violence between Isiria and Uasin Gishu clans. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya during a tour of the area said the four-month-long curfew will now begin at 6pm and end at 6am. A parallel curfew to contain the spread of the coronavirus starts at 9pm and ends at 6am nationwide. The extended curfew hours were announced to check growing lawlessness after armed militia raided, killed and destroyed property in Transmara West. At least 70 houses were torched while six lives were lost at the height of the mayhem. Two students out of school over Covid-19 closures were among those killed. Natembeya said he was happy the situation in the region was slowly returning normal in the restive Nkararo area. "During the meeting today, the elders have agreed that they will continue to rein in the youth and foster unity among them as part of the efforts to end the frosty relations," Natembeya said. Natembeya met the clan elders at Ildoisho area and promised a further review if no violent incident is reported in the next month. "Of what need shall there be for further curfews if you agree to live in unity? Nothing. We will suspend it save the one set by the President to contain Covid-19," the regional boss told the elders. The conflict, traced back to 1976, worsened after militia began fighting with guns and torching houses. Some political leaders from the area say more than 200 guns are in the wrong hands and are being used to fan animosity. Subcounty Peace Committee chair Julius ole Maki said that elders from the two clans held several meetings at Ildolisho, Nkararao and Enoretet areas three weeks ago and decided to end the skirmishes. He said the community has lost dozens of lives in the "senseless and needless conflict". “We have decided to hold our own meetings without involving the national or county governments or politicians. This is to ensure that we arrive at a home-grown solution to the perennial land disputes," Maki said. The elders gifted Natembeya a cow by for the peace efforts.  (edited by o. owino)