Flower farmers and environmentalists around Lake Naivasha have petitioned the World Bank to withdraw its funding for the controversial Malewa Dam in Kinangop, Nyandarua county. The group says the Sh40 billion dam could lead to the death of the lake. Their protest comes barely two weeks after senior government officers met some stakeholders who pledged to support the project. But in a turn of events, farmers and the experts have warned that the dam spells doom for the troubled water body whose level has been on the rise. According to Lake Naivasha Water Resource Users Association chairman Enock Kiminta, they had agreed that the project should stop. Addressing the press after a meeting in a Naivasha hotel on Thursday, he noted that initial reports by scientists indicated that the dam would leave nearby water bodies in ruins. Kiminta said they were ready to seek legal redress to stop the project, which is meant to supply water to Gilgil, Naivasha and Ol Kalou towns. “We have petitioned the World Bank to come clean on this dam and, if possible, pull out from funding it as it will have adverse effects on Lake Naivasha,” he said. Kiminta added that it would take more than seven years to fill the 45,000-litre capacity dam with water from rivers, including the Malewa River, that flow into the lake. “The biggest fear is that diverting water to fill this dam will lead to the death of Lake Naivasha which employs thousands and contributes billions to the exchequer,” he said. He said stakeholders were concerned over senior government officials efforts to arm-twist them into supporting the controversial dam. Earlier, Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency CEO Hosea Kipyegon defended the dam, adding that they were already conducting a feasibility study. Eng Kipyegon said the dam, whose construction would take three to four years, is viable and would have minimal effects on the lake and neighbouring communities. “The dam would come in handy in controlling the current flooding that has been witnessed in Lake Naivasha forcing tens of families to relocate,” he said. Kipyegon said the government is keen to work with the stakeholders to address emerging concerns before construction works start. “This project is very crucial to the economy of this country and we are keen to engage all the stakeholders so they can approve it,” he said. Edited by F'Orieny