The Constitution is not a rigid document that cannot be amended, ODM party leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila was speaking on his position to push for a referendum as the constitution marks its 10 year anniversary. Raila said the current constitution was a fire fighting one and deserves a re-look on the chapter on the executive among others. He said changing the law will in part deal with the issue of election credibility. "The law has proved to be wanting thus need for amendment," he said during an interview on Citizen TV aired on Tuesday. On the issue of whether it is financially and logistically possible for a referendum before 2021, Raila said what is important is whether it is necessary. "Europe can do two elections in one year so this issue of the time is too short is completely missing the point in my view," he said. The former prime minister said President Uhuru Kenyatta shares similar views on the referendum. "Me and the president are in complete coherence on the issue of BBI," he said. He reiterated that 2022 politics has nothing to do with the push for the Building Bridges Initiative. He said he will reveal his political move after the BBI is implemented. The BBI recommends a raft of proposals to alter the structure of governance including creation of the prime minister's office with two deputies. Raila said the BBI recognizes the line of friction between the two houses, the Senate and the Nation Assembly and has proposed structural changes. "There is a structural disconnect in the house that the Naivasha Accord did not do justice to it. It is something that needs to be re-looked. The roles of the two houses needs to be redefined," he said. "I believe that most legislation should originate from the National Assembly and and taken to the senate for amendments before returning to the National Assembly for approval. that is not the case now." The BBI task force chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji completed writing its final report on June 30 and has been waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila's availability so it can be presented. Some politicians have said the window of a referendum in 2020 to implement BBI recommendations is slowly shutting.