Former Garson MP Danson Mungatana and businessman Paul Collins Waweru on Wednesday denied forgery, obtaining money by false pretence and unlawfully making documents. The two were charged after Kibera chief Magistrate Abdulkadir Lorot declined the application to settle the matter out of court. Lorot ruled that the application lacked merit and dismissed it. "They had an agreement but the prosecution to charge them was arrived at because it met the prosecution threshold," said Lorot. Through their lawyers on Tuesday, the two had requested the court to defer the plea taking on the ground that they had reached a settlement with the complainants, but the magistrate on Wednesday ruled that the state was a complainant too. The charge sheet  read in court says on diverse dates between July 13 and August 11, the two conspired to defraud and obtained Sh930,000 from Ann Wairimu Thumi by pretending they could assist her win a tender to supply food and construction materials to the Department of Defence. They were also charged with forging letters of acknowledgement for expression of interest for the supply of dry foodstuff in favour of Beni Trading Company Limited on July 22. The tender offer was purportedly signed by C.K. Mundui. The charge sheet also says that they allegedly forged a local purchase order in favour of Beni Trading Company purportedly for signature by the chairman of the ministerial tender committee, Ministry of Defence. Further, they allegedly forged a letter of acknowledgement for expression of interest for building works dated August 3 in favour of Derrow Construction Company Limited purportedly signed by C.K. Mundui. Waweru was to be charged with uttering false documents to the two complainants. Apart from forgery, they were charged with counts of unlawfully making documents in favour of Beni Limited and Derrow Limited purporting to be genuine letters of acknowledgement for expression of interest from the Ministry of Defence. The magistrate released them on Sh200,000 bail and directed the case be mentioned on September 10. Mungatana has maintained his innocence, saying he was arrested in the line of duty.