A parent wants the government to reopen all learning institutions next month and not in January as earlier communicated. Joseph Aura has moved to court seeking to compel Education CS George Magoha to reopen schools countrywide. The father of three schoolchildren argues that since March when schools were closed, his children and millions of others have been unable to go to school for in-person classes. “I have lodged these proceedings as a parent on behalf of my children and on behalf of millions of voiceless children enrolled similarly in learning institutions across the country,” Aura says. He says in-person learning is the best method for children rather than virtual or any other method. Aura also wants Magoha barred from implementing the community-based learning project across the country he announced on July 30. He further wants the court to compel Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to reopen all play areas and recreational centres for children. “The oppressive psychological and mental torture inflicted on the school-going children because of the open-ended closure of schools effected by the ministry from March till now has gravely injured them,” court documents read. Through lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, Aura says many countries that had high numbers of Covid-19 cases have since reopened their schools and Kenya should follow suit. Some of the counties cited are France, Japan, Nigeria, Tanzania, Senegal, Gambia, Namibia and Ghana. Some opened partially for finalists. “All the countries cited cannot be said to hate their school children or be recklessly wishing death on the children by reopening their schools for in-person learning,” he argues. Aura says that Magoha violated the law when he issued a decree that there would be no learning without any legal or scientifically justifiable reason. He also avers that to date there is no gazettement of the decision to close schools, yet the decision has been implemented by Magoha without consultation with the National Education Board or the parents Aura says Kenyans' rights to education pursuant to Article 43(1) of the Constitution has been infringed by the arbitrary and draconian closure of all institutions of learning.  Edited by Henry Makori