Private medical practice and dentistry are supposed to be lucrative but one empathetic dentist, Dr David Otieno Awange, sometimes treated needy patients at no cost. He even enquired about patients' families and some patients became his friends for many years. Dr Awange died late last month at the age of 65. When Robin Njogu lost his only child in August last year, he also had a terrible toothache. Both pains made him weep. A friend referred him to “a kind and polite Luo dentist in Nairobi” based at Aga Khan Walk. That was Dr Awange who not only treated his gum infection with skill and compassion, but also did it for free. All Njogu, from Kenol, Murang'a, had to do was explain his twin pains and the amount of money he had. “I was prepared to pay. I had borrowed money so I could afford the consultation, the procedure and the prescriptions, though I had a burial to pay for," Njogu told the Star. Dr Awange’s assessment did not stop at his gum pain. He asked about his family and what he was going through. That's how he learned of the death of Njogu's son. “He declined to receive my payment. He said I should use the money to take care of my grief,” Njogu said. The bill came to Sh30,000. The doctor let the money go, a rare kindness at a time when money is the goal in life for many people. Dr Awange was a senior lecturer at University of Nairobi’s School of Dentistry where he headed the Division of Oral Pathology and Oral Medicine for many years. He practiced oral medicine for more than 35 years. Patient Dr Ruth Waweru said Dr Awange was her dentist for 35 years and was not only her doctor but her friend. "He was committed to quality service to his patients. He was full of compassion and served his patients without putting money first," she said. Joseph Ochiel Okola, one of Awange's friends, called him a "person who chose a profession he loved. He was not bothered about money." The two were classmates at Liganwa Primary and Ambira Primary schools in Siaya county. Kennedy Kipkorir, another patients said he learnt about the death of Awange while going to his office to book an appointment. "He has been my dentist for 24 years. I had never met a person so humble like Daktari. A doctor who put the health of his patients before his own," he told the Star over the phone, his voice breaking. A death announcement by his family described him as "a great humanitarian who would not profit from the pain and anguish of his patients". "It was his norm to assist patients who needed medical services free of charge...[He] was dedicated to duty and service. He worked with humility and great distinction until his untimely demise," the announcement said. Dr Awange died barely six months after his wife Margaret Lavender Atieno died in February. They are survived by six children, including one at Kenyatta University and one at the University of Nairobi. (Edited by V. Graham)