Civil society groups have demanded he government publishes the names of companies awarded tenders to supply materials used in the Covid-19 fight, their owners and amounts paid. Twenty lobby groups led by Transparency International on Sunday said the lack of transparency in the manner in which donations and loans, public funds and other resources have been used not only allows corruption to thrive but also fuels speculation and anxiety. "We have noted with great concern  gaps in transparency and accountability by government agencies charged with managing Covid-19 resources. These loopholes have led to the overpricing of commodities, purchase of substandard Personal Protective Equipment and embezzlement of commodities including donated PPEs," the groups said in a joint statement. The said the opaqueness in managing the public resources has seen many  materals fail to reach the intended recipients, including frontline healthcare workers. The lobbies demanded that "all government agencies must proactively publish the names of companies and their beneficial owners, and individuals awarded any contracts for Covid-19 related commodities or services and the contract amounts, at national and county levels on the Public Procurement Information Portal." They also demanded the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority publishes a market price index of all essential drugs and commodities required for the management and response to Covid-19 to guide procuring entities on price ceilings and provide safeguards against the inflation of prices. The groups also want Treasury CS Ukur Yattani to publish detailed expenditure information "on all funds advanced for the Covid-19 response efforts through donations, donor grants, loans, salary cuts for civil servants, reallocation of budgets...to the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund Board". The activists also want Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to publish a report on the level of preparedness to respond to the pandemic at the county level, including "the number of ‘functional‘ bed capacity, availability of oxygen supplies, PPEs and medical professionals to provide health services to the public." Kagwe should also "provide a report on what the government has done to assess and address the occupational health and safety of medical practitioners, as a guarantee to their protection and put in place a life assurance cover and compensation package for their dependents in case of death in the line of duty," the statement said. Edited by P.O