The Ministry of Agriculture has launched an electronic voucher system that uses a mobile delivery and tracking system to distribute subsidised inputs through agro-dealers to targeted farmers. The e-voucher will help the government to deal with the cartels that undermine the Digital Strategic Roadmap and the National Value Chain Support Programme as part of the government’s Sh53.7 billion Economic Stimulus Programme aimed at spurring growth and cushioning families from Covid-19 economic shocks. During the launch in Kisumu on Friday, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said the fifth element of the stimulus programme is focused on farming and the government has prioritised Sh3 billion in addition to the budgeted Sh1.5 billion for the supply of farm inputs through e-vouchers targeting 200,000 smallholder farmers. Beneficiaries will enjoy a 40 per cent subsidy on the inputs package and incur only 60 per cent of the cost. This, according to the CS, will also ensure the recipients use the provisions responsibly and only towards productive farming. The programme will be implemented through a network of localised agro-dealers and relevant value chain actors. Thus, beneficiary producers will have access to the inputs almost at their doorsteps. Primary target crops covered under the e-voucher value chains are maize, rice, Irish potatoes and coffee. They have been identified as priority food security commodities under the Big 4 Agenda as well as the Agricultural Sector Transformation and Growth Strategy. For a start, Munya said they are piloting in 24 wards in 12 counties. The selection was agreed upon in conjunction with the Council of Governors, with 200,000 smallholders to be reached at the initial stage. "In subsequent rollouts, the government will target an increased variety of value chains, including livestock and fisheries needs, and the number of producers reached scaled up in those phases,” he said. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, also present during the launch, noted that food production is poised to double with the rollout of the new venture. “We are going to see the doubling of rice production in Ahero and South West Kano. We will, as we do it in Mwea, also increase rice production in this area. This launch has come to the right place at the right time,” he said. Governor Anyang' Nyongo welcomed the initiative, saying they were honoured to be one of the 12 pilot counties in the programme. "Our focus in this pilot was the rice value chain in the wards of Ombeyi and East Kano Wawidhi," he said. "I'm happy to report that since the commencement of the farmer registration exercise in March 2020, we have since registered 3,000 farmers, despite the country grappling with the effects and containment measures of Covid-19." Nyong'o said the 40 per cent subsidy the farmers will enjoy will go a long way in supplementing his government’s food security agenda, especially at this time they are implementing the post-Covid-19 Economic Recovery Strategy. He said the uniqueness of the programme in bringing together farmers, private sector players and governments will help bring to the fore a holistic view of agriculture and agro value chain development among smallholder farmers. "I'm convinced that with our highly skilled extension officers, the carefully chosen agro-dealers, the extensive network of KCB — the participating bank — and the end-to-end secure and reliable network of Safaricom Ltd, the programme has only two options — either succeed or succeed," he said.