In the nearly abandoned corridors of Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi, Janet Samba withstands the glaring threat of contracting coronavirus to attend her renal session. She is among tens of patients suffering from kidney failure who seek services at the county’s only dialysis facility. She says the strictly-adhered-to safety protocols at the facility have helped win patients’ confidence to seek medical attention. Even as most patients in other parts of the country with existing chronic diseases are having it rough accessing medical services due to Covid-19, Taita Taveta marches on. The renal unit manned by Cuban nephrologist Dr Heriberto Roda offers specialised services to patients with kidney failure during the pandemic period, when many healthcare workers have been deployed in Covid-19 isolation wards. “Attending my two weekly session is a breathtaking experience altogether,” Samba said. “People are afraid of coming to hospitals. However, the renal services have been well coordinated, with close adherence to safety protocols. This gives us hope.” Samba, 56, is a peasant farmer at Kirutai, Voi subcounty. She said her acute kidney failure condition has improved after following the doctor’s advice. “Initially, I had been booked for three sessions a week, but my body is responding well to medication. Over the last few months, my sessions have gone down to two per week,” she said. Undergoing treatment inside the dialysis facility, however, has been expensive, as she parts with at least Sh9,500 per session. LONG TRAVEL The facility has attracted patients from far and wide, with some travelling from the neighbouring Makueni and Kwale counties. Twice a week, Peter Mruttu travels more than 100km from his Taveta home to attend his dialysis sessions at the hospital. He said the posting of a nephrologist at the renal unit has saved him an expensive journey to Nairobi, where he initially sought treatment. “It is not an easy thing to undergo, but one thing that keeps my hopes high is that I am sure of a warm reception and better services from the nephrologist,” he said in an interview. “I feel so happy that we have a specialist at Moi Hospital, where I can get services without queuing for a long time.” The jovial police officer said his life took a brutal turn after the ailment struck, cutting short his lifelong dream of actively working for the police service and running other personal income-generating errands. “I attend dialysis sessions every Tuesday and Friday. After the session, my body is always very weak and I cannot work like before. My bosses can hardly believe I am ailing, so I am forced to resume duty immediately after dialysis. It is a difficult moment for me,” he says. Peter’s distressing story is a replica of Dismus Maulo's, who also hails from Taveta Mjini in Taveta constituency. Dismus, 71, a retired teacher, had been receiving treatment in Moshi, Tanzania, before the renal unit was opened in Voi. Lack of dialysis services in Taita Taveta county made him deplete his resources and savings to cater for his medical expenses. Before the facility was opened, Dismus said many patients missed their sessions due to the extra travel, long queues, among other complications. "Some of the patients were unable to regularly attend their sessions due to abject poverty. Consequently, their situations worsened," he said. CUBAN HELP More than a year since specialised Cuban doctors were deployed in Taita Taveta county, they have risen to the occasion, despite the language barrier. The two specialists, family physician Dr Yanelis Ruiz and nephrologist Dr Heriberto Roda, have been offering services at Taveta Hospital and Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi respectively. They are among the 100 Cuban doctors deployed across the country in June, 2018. Dr Heriberto, 50, with more than 27 years in the profession, has quickly transformed service delivery at the dialysis unit, resulting in increased number of patients. In the wake of the coronavirus, Dr Heriberto said management of patients with non-communicable disease has been a key focus in the facility. “There is actually no secret to managing kidney disease. It is just about attending dialysis sessions and following all doctor’s instructions,” he said. He said proper management of dialysis patients will help ease pressure on the already overstretched healthcare system. The Cuban nephrologist has learnt English and a little Kiswahili, an aspect that helps him communicate with patients. “Initially I found it difficult to communicate with patients because even renal nurses could hardly understand me. However, I am now learning to speak better English. We speak Spanish in my country and here we have to learn a new language,” Dr Heriberto said. He said the dialysis centre has been a strong pillar for patients who used to travel miles to get dialysis services. The five-machine state-of-the-art centre can comfortably handle 10 patients a day, saving them the hustle of travelling to Mombasa and Nairobi, he said. Dialysis involves the use of a special machine to filter harmful wastes, salt and excess fluid from the blood. The process replaces many of the kidney’s functions. Dr Heriberto said chronic kidney diseases are increasing among the youth, urging people to take a balanced diet and seek regular medical check-ups. “Chronic kidney disease has five stages of kidney damage, from very mild damage in stage 1 to complete kidney failure in stage 5,” he said. Diabetes and high blood pressure are the most common causes of chronic kidney failure. UNDERSTAFFING Nephrologist nurse Daniel Matano said the centre is overwhelmed by the increasing number of patients. “We have patients from as far as Kibwezi in Makueni county and Taru in Kwale county. They are impressed by the services offered by Dr Heriberto,” he said. Matano and four other nephrologist nurses attached to the renal unit have been playing a key role as translators for Dr Heriberto. “Some patients are only conversant with Kiswahili or their respective vernacular dialects, so we are tasked to translate to the doctor,” he said. “We are few in this department and it is one of the challenges facing this facility. The county government should consider deploying more nephrologists.” He applauded Dr Heriberto for his vast experience in the profession, saying they are learning from the successful Cuban healthcare system. Health executive John Mwakima said resumption of treatment of chronic diseases at the referral hospital was key in ensuring a healthy community. “The Health department has laid down strategies to ensure those with non-communicable disease can safely access medication, thus reducing chances of contracting the coronavirus,” Mwakima said. He said the two specialists have positively boosted specialised healthcare in the county. The executive promised to support the medics and urged them to share their knowledge and skills with local medical practitioners. Mwakima further acknowledged that the department is understaffed, promising to increase staffers. The government is also finalising plans to open a new renal unit in Taveta Subcounty Hospital. Edited by T Jalio