The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee has refused to reschedule a questioning session with Nandi Governor Stephen Sang who had requested to have the meeting set for Monday postponed. Clerk to the Senate JM Nyegenye wrote to Sang asking him to prepare to appear before the committee as planned. Nyegenge said the committee had met and considered the request for re-scheduling of the appearance by the governor and his team. He said the committee had already approved and published a schedule of appearances by county executives and county assemblies in the coming months. “In light of the above, the committee requests that you appear before it on the date and time stated in the earlier communication. This is therefore to inform you of the resolution of the committee and to request that you to prepare accordingly,” Nyengenye’s letter said. Nandi county secretary Francis Sang had written to the Senate requesting that the appearance be moved to a later date. “This request is made in order to allow us to make further consultations with your office on the particular areas of interest bearing in mind that we appeared before the committee in August 2019 over the same issues”, he said in his letter to the Senate. The Nandi executive is to be grilled on audited accounts for the financial years 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18 which the county secretary argues had already been dealt with. “Nandi county is willing and ready to cooperate with the committee in all areas with a view to ensuring that accountability is achieved,” Sang said. He had suggested that if the appearance was rescheduled the gaps identified during last year’s grilling would have been used as a basis by the county executive to prepare for the later date of the meeting. The senator for the area, Samson Charargei, who is a member of the committee said it was important for the governor and his team to appear before the committee and finalise pending matters instead of seeking a postponment. “Since the committee has rejected the request to postpone the appearance, they have no option but to abide by the directive to appear”, Cherargei said. Edited by Henry Makori