At 54, Kenya Prisons Service Inspector Stephen Mwaniki is still groping for the elusive Olympic gold medal he has been yearning for over the years. He has vowed not to retire until he attains his ultimate dream. Mwaniki is already an achiever by all standards. He is one of the few sprints coaches in Africa who have nurtured outstanding world beaters in various events. His exceptional coaching ability has taken him to all corners of the world not only as the Kenya national team coach but also as the Africa-select team coach. Yet, despite his already obvious successes, the urge for an Olympic medal still haunts him. Inspector Mwaniki was born on August 2, 1965 in Nairobi. He attended Lang'ata Road Primary School and sat for his Certificate of Primary Education (CPE) exams in 1981. Upon completing his elementary education, he  proceeded to join Maralal High School in Samburu where his interest in athletics blossomed. He did his ‘O’ levels in 1985 and in 1989, he was recruited by the Kenya Prisons Department and posted to King’ong’o Prison in Nyeri to work as an officer. After 12 years of diligent service he was redeployed to Nairobi and got elevated to the position of KAA Prisons public relations officer at Magereza House headquarters. “I have been the public relations officer for quite sometime now.” It wasn’t long before he thought it wise to enrol  for a coaching course in athletics. In 2002, he enrolled for the IAAF Level 1 coaching course and three years later advanced to level 2 to specialise in sprints and hurdles. In 2008 he went to Pretoria South Africa to pursue a Diploma in sprints and hurdles. Previously, he had been an athlete specialising in the 1500 meters race but his dream to conquer the world on the track was cut short by a nagging injury he sustained during a competition. “I started coaching in Nyeri In 1993 where I deputised Adrian Musonye. He also happened to be my mentor.” When he came back to Nairobi, he was assigned duties by Kenya Prisons Department to work as a sprints and hurdles coach. “I’ve been with the team since 2002, and I remember the major achievement of the prisons team is winning the sprints, especially the relays and also won the individual events as sprinters.  We are the national champions for relay.” Inspector Mwaniki says he’s been able to produce great sprinters in different competitions, including the All Africa Games, the African Championship and the World Championship and even the Olympics. He has also been assigned duties as the Kenya national team coach on numerous occasions. “My most famous assignment was when I was assigned duties to be the head of the Kenyan team during the successful African Championship campaign in Nairobi in 2010 which Kenya won.” He later led the Kenyan team for the world relays to the Bahamas in 2015 and 2017 and again in 2018, he was assigned as the head of the Kenyan team to Abuja, Nigeria, where Kenya won the championship once more. “For the first time in many years, we were able to win a gold medal in the 4x400 relays, and the women’s 4x100 team clinched bronze which was after a long time.” “I also went to Japan in 2019, where we won the bronze medal in the mixed relays and we got a bronze medal as a team, which was no mean achievement.” Mwaniki was at one time appointed as  coach of the Africa select team that featured in the continental championship, finishing third overall. He is already enumerating his gains as an athletics coach. “I’m proud to be a sprints coach because through sprints I’ve achieved a lot. I’ve been able to prepare athletes, I’ve seen them growing up to the level of achieving honour for this country.” In 2010, he presided over another milestone in New Delhi, India where Mark Mutai got a gold medal in the 400m. Kenya also won a silver medal in the 4x400m relay race. “What I can say is that it’s been a long journey. We’ve been able to push our sprinters and there is still much more to achieve.” Mwaniki believes that a lot of potential still lies idle in the country and points out that next year being an Olympic year, Kenya can still have sprinters on the national team donning the national colour. He says for Kenya to leave an indelible mark in sprints, the government must invest heavily in facilities that can help sprinters compete effectively on the international stage. “If you look at our infrastructure, there is nothing to enable us produce good sprinters. We need to invest heavily in sprints and I’ll call upon the county governments to take up the challenge of putting up facilities.” He is, however, specific that such investment should be prioritised in the Nyanza, Western and Coast regions which have the potential to produce good sprinters owing to physiological and climatic factors. “Our top sprinters are from Western and Nyanza. Dan Kiviazi is from Western and Mark Otieno is from Nyanza. They have these big muscles. The bigger your muscles, the better you can be able to sprint.” “You look at people from the Rift Valley they have lean muscles that can be able to carry their bodies for a longer period. It’s very difficult to find somebody with lean muscles sprinting especially in the 100 and 200 races which are explosive events.” Success in the sprints is also dependent on the athletes’ geographic location. “At the sea level, there is a lot of oxygen. So the athletes can train there, recover quickly and be able to do more work. Here at the high level, the oxygen is less and so this is not the best place to train sprinters.” “Where the oxygen is high you can be able to train sprinters because the muscles need to recover quickly due to the intensity of training.” Mwaniki says the middle and long distance runners prefer training at higher altitudes so that they can be able to task their muscles, task their lungs and build a lot of red blood cells. “When they go to run at the sea level, they’ll have a lot of blood in their system and they’ll be able to run,” he says. That notwithstanding, the country ought to put its act together by providing adequate facilities and essential training equipment especially to upcoming athletes who still don’t have deep pockets to stand on their own. “Recently when the Athletics Kenya went to donate food to athletes from the coast, there was  one boy, who ran barefooted yet he went on to win on the day. You see, that’s what I’m talking about.” “For example, we need a gym either at Nyayo Stadium or at Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani as this will allow our young upcoming athletes to access such facilities. To access a gym is very expensive. The minimum cost is Sh500 a day. Where will the upcoming athletes who are still in school get that kind of money?” At Kenya Prisons, we have a gym where sprinters belonging to our team can come and train. Mwaniki thanked the government for embarking on a countrywide program to upgrade local stadia, saying such a move was long overdue. “The other thing we need to do and which the government is doing now is to upgrade our stadia. We need tracks with good traction where athletes can work with high intensity.” Efforts should also be put in place to establish the right structures that will provide a conducive environment to tap talent in schools. “We need more sprint coaches in schools just the same way we have them in short and long distance races.” Mwaniki, however, decried the folly of Kenyan athletes abandoning sprints to join the middle and long distance races in a bid to earn quick money. He says with such mentality, the country cannot hit a jackpot in the sprints. “Transition is not good simply because we have young people coming from poor families and are therefore tempted to join other races especially the 800m and 1,500m so as to earn money quickly. Athletes and coaches need to exercise control and patience.” Still on patience, Mwaniki categorically states that athletes should not expect any miracles because success calls for nothing short of hard work, consistency and persistence. “I like comparing the training of an athlete with that of a pilot. A pilot who has 100 hours of training will only manage to fly the light aircrafts. Somebody with 1000 hours will be allowed to take these big jumbo planes,” he quips. But wait a minute! There is a bug in town that could easily cause a major setback if not carefully addressed. Doping is becoming a major challenge to athletes who wish to have a shortcut to money and success. Has Kenya fallen a victim? “It’s unfortunate and sad story to have our athletes doping. Some of our athletes have been caught up in doping mire because of information of their whereabouts to World Athletics,” says Mwaniki. Mwaniki says that Kenyan athletes have been caught up in the web mainly due to oversight. “This is a tricky because according to the rules, if you miss three tests, then you are banned for one year. Some of our athletes don’t remember to fill their whereabouts.” “Some of them use other people to do that. For example, you tell your coach or manager and they fail to update the Athletics Integrity Unit.” He says apparently, there are people who are ripping big from the vice and that’s why it is entrenching roots even further. The good news is that World Athletics and relevant authorities have all rolled up their sleeves to fend off the culprits. “Doping is like a cartel, something that has gone deeper into the athletics world. The World Athletics is trying to fight it and that’s why we have organisations like the Anti-Dopind Agency of Kenya (ADAK), which is trying to make sure that everyone is tested. He appeals to Kenyan athletes to believe in their natural abilities and keep their hands off performance enhancing drugs. “We Kenyans can run naturally. We’ve proven that since 60’s and we can still do it even now. The only thing is that some people are looking for shortcuts which is unfortunate. People don’t want to go the whole hall to try and train.” The coaches, he says, are also trying all they can to nip the vice in the bud before it digs heels in the country. “As coaches, we are trying to fight this, we are trying to talk to our athletes and AK has also organised seminars for athletes to enlighten them on doping.” “We’ve been having seminars every year in Eldoret for this purpose. Even during track and field weekend meetings, we usually have people from ADAC coming to talk to athletes.” Mwaniki reminded athletes who want to indulge in the vice that their days are numbered. “The bad apples are always there. They’ll choose to use other means to achieve success. The world is a small global village and you can run but can’t hide. My advice is that you stop all this nonsense and concentrate on what we are known to do best.” “We should not indulge in things that affect our integrity and image and even the athletes themselves. We’ve heard people dying and even footballers collapsing during matches as a result of using drugs to enhance their system.” In response to claims coming from certain quarters that Kenyan coaches allegedly favour some athletes when selecting traveling parties, Mwaniki said: “In athletics, favouritism is non existent because competitions are held in broad daylight. The question is: have you qualified? Do you have the qualifying time? Once you satisfy the federation and fall into the selection criteria, you are home and dry.” He believes that if the government pumps more money into sports quite a lot can be achieved.  BIOGRAPHY  Name: Stephen Mwaniki Date of Birth: August 2, 1965 Position: Sprints coach 1975-1981: Langata Road Primary 1982-1985: Maralal High School 1989-2001: King’ong’o Prison (Nyeri) 2002 to-date: Kenya Prisons Headquarters    