@alalmaurice The ODM party has fired Kisumu county vice chair Kennedy Ajwang', alias JegeJege, who allegedly led a recent assault of members of the County Public Service Board. Former Railway MCA Isaiah Onyango takes over his position after he was unanimously elected on Tuesday at the regional office. He will deputise Ayiecho Olweny who is the Kisumu county chair. Kisumu Central subcounty organising secretary Evans Ofula was elected as vice-chairman. The subcounty position was also held by Ajwang'. Assistant organising secretary Obungu Owich was promoted as the subcounty organising secretary. He plans to vie for Kondele MCA seat. Ajwang' had been suspended over the attack by armed youths on the County Public Service Board. The youths, allegedly led by Ajwang', raided the board office and injured five employees over jobs. Board chair Babu Karan was among those roughed up. They were treated at a local health facility and discharged. The subcounty party executive office and its ward officials suspended Ajwang to allow an investigation into the attack. Ajwang also served as a political liaison officer. Following the attack, Kisumu Central subcounty ODM chair Seth Ochieng distanced the party from the youths' actions. “It is regrettable and unfortunate that the lead member is the deputy chairman both at the subcounty and county office. At no time did we resolve to attack the board members,” Ochieng said. Ochieng said the changes are aimed at restoring order and maintaining discipline in the party. “We are committed to party’s ideologies and championing for democracy and good governance,” he said. The party had also expelled members who attended a meeting at Deputy President William Ruto’s close ally Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi's home in Eldoret on Saturday. “Those members cease to be members and officials of the ODM party as stipulated in our constitution forthwith,” said Samuel Nyabinda, Kisumu Central subcounty secretary general. They include Owino Mahawa (Kondele), Maurice Omolo Mbero (Railways) Peter Owuor (Railways), Maina Ochieng (Migosi), Dan Nyamor (Kondele) Richard Ogendo (Migosi) and Francis Juma (Migosi), among others. The delegation christened itself Nyanza Movement for Ruto 2022. Ogendo, a former Kisumu Business and Cooperatives executive, was sacked by Nyong’o. Ochieng has directed for a thorough investigation to establish more names. The delegation, mostly from Kisumu, travelled in buses and presented a memorandum ahead of a visit to Ruto’s Sugoi home. Sudi told the delegation they would open a new chapter of politics in Nyanza and other parts of the country  (edited by o. owino)