 Mothers in Vihiga will now enjoy free maternal healthcare after Governor Wilber Ottichilo signed into law a bill that allows the women to access free services in public hospitals. The Vihiga County Reproductive Maternal, Neonatal, Child and Adolescent Health Bill 2020 was signed into law on Wednesday. Vihiga is among counties with rising deaths that are attributed to complications during pregnancy and shortly after childbirth. The county says the bill is part of measures to ensure proper healthcare for pregnant women before and after delivery. Ottichilo said the health of the child and the mother will be taken care off even after delivery. The bill was developed from the "Ottichilocare programme" that was shot down by MCAs and allocated funds diverted to the kitty meant for combating the coronavirus pandemic. “Once the bill becomes operational, mothers will be assured of free prenatal clinics for expectant mothers, free skilled delivery, immunisation services, nutrition support and family planning,” Ottichilo said. He said the law will ensure mothers receive quality maternal healthcare services as well as health education at all county health facilities. The governor said the new law to curb reports of deaths arising from birth complications. He encouraged mothers to register to the programme so that they are well monitored and managed during pregnancy and after childbirth. “Mothers and Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) will receive stipends on time since the law will legalise the process and enable the department budget for the same,” Ottichilo said. Vihiga health executive Amos Kutwa said maternal health has seriously improved since the launch of the "Ottichilocare programme." “Antenatal clinic visits had improved from the previous 30 per cent to 70 per cent and skilled labour delivery is currently at 62 per cent from the initial 23 per cent,” Kutwa said. Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi encouraged mothers to seek services from facilities closer to them saying the county had equipped all hospitals to offer better services. The new law will become operational after 14 days.  Edited by P.O