The government will on Wednesday make public the names of companies that have expressed interest in investing in five state-owned sugar mills. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said once the names of the prosective investor have been anounced, they will be required to detail their capacity and skills in running a sugar mill. After that, the investors will be taken through a 28-day evaluation process. He spoke on Monday at Kilimo House while announcing the progress in leasing the state-owned sugar mills, implementation of the Sugar Regulations 2020 and the Sugar Imports, Exports and By-Products Regulations 2020. Munya said the ministry received Cabinet approval to invite investors to take long-term leases on the mills including Chemelil, Muhoroni, which is in receivership; Miwani, also in receivership,, Nzoia and Sony Sugar companies. He said the procurement process for those leases is on track in line with the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015. “An International Expression of Interest was advertised on July 10 and closed on August 3. Thereafter, we shall send out a Request for Proposal, RFP, to all the firms prequalified at the Expression of Interest stage,” the CS explained. “We want to attract and finally secure only those investors we think serious and worthy enough to partner with the government in the revival of the sugar industry in Kenya. The Ministry has had consultations with the governors in the sugar belt on this issue and the leasing process is on course,” Munya said. He assured Kenyans the sugar reforms are ongoing to help stabilise the industry. In February, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Sugar Taskforce Report and implementation began immediately. The Sugar Regulations came into force on May 27 whilst the Import and Eexport regulations came into force on July 10. He said the regulations seek to address sugarcane development plans, the milling capacity of millers, the establishment and functions of the sugarcane pricing committees and the implementation of sugarcane testing services and standards. On July 2, the government temporarily suspended the importation of sugar due to a massive influx of imported sugar in the first half of the year, which led to serious market distortions and falling prices. “Imports that undermine the local industry and depress farmers’ incomes are neither desirable nor sustainable. These regulations will govern the registration of sugar importers and exporters, the determination of sugar distribution in the market, re-packaging and re-branding of sugar consignments as well as curbing contraband sugar,” he said. The CS advised importers to get and study both the regulations and the guidelines as they begin to apply for registration and apply for the annual permits. “Going forward, no sugar will be imported or exported outside the framework of these regulations and guidelines,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie