The Judiciary has temporarily closed Nakuru and Nyahururu courts after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19. Chief Justice David Maraga said on August 9 that the patient is a critical member of staff at Nakuru law courts and had contact with the majority of other members. “To minimise the spread of the pandemic, protect public health as well as the health of members of staff, court users and justice partners, the Judiciary leadership after consultation with key stakeholders of Nakuru law courts as well as Nakuru county department of public health has taken necessary steps to suspend all in-person court operations and services,” the letter by the CJ reads in part. However, he said, virtual court sessions will continue without interruptions. A similar letter was sent to Nyahururu court on August 10. With the closures, courts affected by the infections have risen to seven so far. Others are Mombasa (which has since resumed sittings), Milimani, Makadara, Bondo and Githongo courts. Last Friday, suspects who had been brought to Makadara court for miscellaneous application and plea taking were returned to police stations. Others were moved to Kibera law courts after staying for hours without being attended to. Makadara chief magistrate Heston Nyaga told the Star he was not aware of the prosecution's reason for failure to show up as there was no prior communication to him. “We don’t know why they have not come to work. If they were asked not to, as a court we are not aware as there has not been any communication,” Nyaga said. Makadara law courts were reopened on Thursday following closure on July 21 after two staffers tested positive for Covid-19. The courts were closed to allow for fumigation and staffers to self-quarantine. Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji told the Star on the phone that his office has set out guidelines that must be met before allowing prosecutors in courtrooms. “We demand that all players in the justice system including the police, prisons and Judiciary put measures in place geared towards protecting all court users,” he said. He said there has to be mandatory testing of all officers involved in court proceedings. 