The number of Kenyans who have succumbed to Covid-19 rose to 548 on Sunday after six more patients were reported to have died. In a statement by the Health ministry, CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed that 246 more people had tested positive for Covid-19, raising the total caseload in the country to 32,364. The new cases were from 4,179 samples tested in 24 hours. The cumulative tests conducted in the country since the first case was reported on March 13 now stand at 421,983. The ministry on Friday warned that the curve is yet to flatten despite the low numbers being recorded, attributing them to the stalling of four labs that have the capacity to run at least 16,000 tests in 24 hours. The ministry, however, noted that the curve is expected to flatten around December, with the current data from epidemiologists showing the curve continues to be steep as the number of infections rise. The ministry on Friday held a meeting with the modelling teams to review the current Covid-19 situation in the country. “We are still at the escalation phase of the curve. Usually, when you are looking at an epidemic curve you need to see it in terms of a time series so that’s what we are getting from the teams that the curve continues to peak,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. The new cases comprised a one-year-old, with the oldest patient being 87. “Eight that are foreigners, 157 are males and 89 females,” Kagwe said. Nairobi continues to lead in the number of new infections after recording 78 new cases on Sunday, followed by Kajiado with 24 cases while Kiambu recorded 22 cases. Nakuru had 20, Busia and Trans Nzoia 17 cases each, Machakos 16, Kirinyaga 12, Kisii 11, Kisumu eight, Mombasa six, Embu three, Garissa and Nyeri two cases each while Nyamira, Kakamega, Isiolo, Kitui, Kericho, Murang’a, Kilifi and Tharaka Nithi each recorded one new case. “Today, 217 more patients recovered from the disease, 178 being from the home-based care programme while 39 have been discharged from various hospitals. The total number of recoveries now stands at 18,670,” Kagwe said. Nairobi’s Starehe Estate recorded the highest number of infections at 17, Dagoretti North had 10, Lang’ata had seven, Embakasi East and Westlands five cases each, Embakasi Central, Kasarani and Kibra each had four cases each. Other states that recorded a case include Dagoretti South and Embakasi West, Makadara, Mathare and Ruaraka with three cases each, Embakasi South, Kamukunji and Roysambu had two cases each while Embakasi North recorded one case. Edited by R.Wamochie