Many disabled children in West Pokot county have been hidden away by their parents who fear community stigma. The county plans, however, to employ nurses to travel around and identify children living with disabilities. Doctors from Kijabe Hospital recently held a free medical camp sponsored by Governor John Lonyangapuo's wife, Dr Rosemary. Following the one-week camp and visits by doctors around the county, it was decided to hire nurses to identify more disabled children in need of free corrective surgery. Doctors identified 167 children who will receive surgery at Kijabe Hospital. The children have been grouped according to their needs and will be travelling to Kijabe on various dates. Speaking in Kapenguria while seeing off the first group, Governor Lonyangapuo said the county has many physically challenged children but parents hide them because of shame. Many people believe that a physically or mentally disabled child is the result of parents being cursed. Lonyangapuo said that the nurses will visit homes to identify children in need of help, both those already identified and find those who have been hidden away. “Many parents have decided to hide the children because of stigma. The children can add value to the community if we bring them out and help them,” he said. The governor urged people not to hide children and others living with disabilities because of cultural practices. He urged them to report any cases of disabled children hidden by their families so they can receive education and support. He praised CURE International for helping disabled children. CURE is a US-based nonprofit organisation that provides medical care and surgery for children suffering primarily from orthopaedic and neurological conditions. “Everyone is entitled to life and integration in society and we shall help empower these children because you do not know what they will be do for society tomorrow,” he said. Lonyangapuo said people living with disabilities have rights like everyone else. “Thirteen children are travelling to Kijabe for corrective surgery. We have plans in place to ensure all children identified during the camp have been assisted so they can lead a normal life," Dr. Lonyangapuo said. She urged parents not to hide their disabled children but get help for them. “Many children are still at home. Please bring them out since we want to help them live a normal life and go to school,” she said. She urged doctors to identify disabilities at birth since they are easier to correct while children are young. (Edited by V. Graham) 