Former Gor Mahia holding midfielder Tobias Otieno says he is still  focused on jetting out to start his professional career amid reports that he is likely to join Sofapaka. Otieno severed ties with Gor in January after landing a deal with United States of America third-tier club Union Omaha but the Covid-19 situation seems to have complicated matters for him.  Otieno joined the record Kenyan champions at the start of the past season on a one- year contract from the relegated side, Sony Sugar. The player had earlier disclosed that the delay in flying out was as a result of the tortuous process of acquiring a visa which has been worsened by the spread of the virus. Having been club-less for almost eight months and with the local transfer window open, Sofapaka are rumoured to be courting the stocky midfielder but he says he has his eyes on the American dream. The talented player says he has no intentions of joining any local club locally or in the region. “I haven’t met or discussed with Sofapaka or any other local club. I am fully focused on switching to Omaha even if the delay will persist. I have not heard from the embassy but I am patient enough and hopeful,  I will secure my visa and realise my dream to play abroad,” said the former National U23, Emerging Stars midfielder. Elsewhere, newly elected Gor treasurer Dolfina Odhiambo hopes  the process of recruiting a new Chief Executive Officer will begin soon. The club’s chairman Ambrose Rachier had earlier announced that the seat fell vacant on August 8 during the club’s polls. The immediate former office bearer, Lodvick Aduda is among the candidates gunning for the FKF top seat. “We are looking to advertise the job soon and in the interest of fairness, it will be open for all to apply,” she said. Meanwhile, the FKF Electoral Board has published the final list of clubs eligible to vote at both the county and national level in the forthcoming elections. This comes after the lapse of a disputes’ resolution window by the board last week. The board will tomorrow publish the final register of delegates eligible to vote at both levels. Aspirants seeking elective positions at the county level will today and tomorrow start to to submit their nomination forms. County elections are set to be held on September 19 while national elections will take place on October 17