It was an overnight change in fortunes for Mary Muthakye, 32, when a local pastor gifted her a two bed-roomed self-contained house on Saturday. Muthakye, who has a disability lived in a small house measuring six feet by four feet in Ngungani area in Mumoni subcounty. The house's roof had fallen off; she had no bed to sleep on; no kitchen and there was no latrine for her to use. Because she didn't have a wheelchair, she used to crawl to get to anywhere she needed to. Pastor Peter Muthui said he was moved by her poor living conditions and decided to help her. Muthui handed Muthakye the keys to her new house on Saturday. It comes equipped with furniture, a 5,000- litre water tank to ensure she never lacks water, a kitchen and an ensuite master bedroom for her comfort. Muthakye was overjoyed as since her parents passed on in 2011, she has been living with her younger sister who also has two children with disability. They depended on well-wishers to feed them. “Ever since my parents passed on nine years ago, I have always been depending on neighbours and well-wishers for survival,” Muthakye said. She sometimes does laundry for neighbours, among other chores to earn something little. Before he constructed the house for her, Muthui always gave Muthakye food that he donates weekly to those with disabilities, orphans and widows. One day after he visited her, he decided to change her life completely. “Muthakye saying she goes to the bush when night falls for long calls made me step in to help her now that the rain season is approaching and her house was unfit,” the pastor said. He also urged other persons in a position to help to always extend a helping hand to the needy in the society. Muthakye's neighbours also showed up in large numbers to gift her household equipment as her house was officially being launched. She was also gifted a motorised wheelchair to aid her in movement. Her brother John Muthengi was happy that his sister had finally got the help she needed in life. “It hurt me so much that I could do nothing to help my crawling sister. I’m so overjoyed that she finally got a wheelchair and above all, a house to live in,” he said. John Kalua, a neighbour said, Mary and her sister lacked all basic needs and he always stepped in to help where he could. “Mary has been going through a lot of challenges and we are happy as the neighbours to see that she will now live comfortably,” he said. 