Nearly all retail pharmacies reported reduced income during the three months of Covid-19 lockdown in Kenya. A survey led by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board says 95 per cent of them were hurt in different ways, with the majority reporting reduced income. The main effect was reduced number of customers, a problem experienced by 75 per cent of all the pharmacies sampled. Only four per cent said there was no effect on their businesses between March and June. Increased prices of medicines and other medical supplies was reported by 45 per cent of all pharmacies. The survey was carried out in June by medicines' regulator PPB and Phillips Pharmaceuticals Limited, a local distributor unrelated to the global medical equipment manufacturer with a similar name. "In total we were able to get respondents from 448 retail pharmacies across Kenya," said Philips CEO Newton Siele when he presented the results on Thursday in an online press briefing. There are 5,840 registered pharmacies (traditionally known as chemists) in Kenya, according to PPB. Siele added: "A majority reported disruption of business leading to a slump in business turnover to complete closure of some pharmacies and, loss of employment in others." As a main coping mechanism, 41 per cent responded by reducing their stock. PPB boss Dr Fred Siyoi advised operators to focus on staying afloat rather than making profits. Pharmacies are profitable and an outlet in a small town can generate between Sh6,000 to Sh20,000 profit daily, according to one survey. "It's not about making profits but existing, breaking even with what you have," Siyoi said. "Registration of medicines has also tremendously gone down. This affects revenue streams," he added. Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya President Louis Machogu called for training in management of pharmacies to support the sector. Dr Joseph Kathare, a professional medication therapy management pharmacist, said the survey reveals key gaps in the practice. He called for specialisation by pharmacists even at the community level. According to the Ministry of Health, the pandemic has affected uptake of all health services. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on August 15 said data obtained from the National Hospital and Insurance Fund (NHIF) shows surgical procedures in hospitals have also reduced. She said as compared to five months before the Pandemic, there were 44,528 major surgeries while five months into the pandemic only 32,717 were reported. Mwangangi said minor surgeries administered within the two periods indicate that there were 16,952 cases during the five months pre-Covid which declined to 11,432 cases five months during the pandemic. "The data show that there were 2,756 specialised surgeries prior to Covid as compared to 1,934 cases reported five months later in the period cited," she said. The CAS said in response to the Presidential circular of March 17, Kenyatta National Hospital scaled-down numbers of patients in clinics and restricted surgeries to emergencies and malignancies only. She said the travel bans and curfew also contributed a lot to the reduced numbers.  (edited by o. owino)