Lamu county has recorded fewer terror attacks and reduced insecurity as the construction of the Sh10.8 billion Lamu-Garsen road nears completion. Previously, when the road had potholes and the roadside bushy, it had become easier for al Shabaab militants to waylay and ambush security officers and PSVs as they moved slowly owing to the poor state of the road. There were at least two terror incidents on the road every week. Areas such as Milihoi, Mambo Sasa, Lango la Simba and Nyongoro had become notorious terror hotspots that have witnessed hundreds of deaths of civilians and security officers in vehicles plying the route. Because of the project, however, roadside bushes were cleared, giving drivers a clear view of the immediate vicinity. The general state of the road now makes it easier for them to flee in case of an attack. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia, who is also the county security chairperson, said insecurity on the road had reduced by 90 per cent since the road works began taking shape. With the ease of movement, security officers can now easily conduct road patrols. “The road is a simple infrastructure that has changed the security situation here. We are grateful for the peace and stability,” Macharia said. The last terror attack was on January 2 when militants attacked a bus heading for Lamu from Mombasa. Three people died and three others were injured. The Association of Lamu Drivers has expressed confidence that the completion of the road will lead to a significant decline in terror attacks. Said Swaleh, a member, said previously it was impossible to flee whenever they encountered trouble as the road was dilapidated. “It’s the reason the militants would target certain places on the road as they knew it was impossible to drive off as the road was too bad. But now even though the road is incomplete, the driving experience is different. We can now move faster. It leaves you with a feeling of being in control,” Swaleh said. Construction of the 135km road started in March 2017 and is being undertaken by H-Young East Africa Limited in partnership with GIBB Africa Limited. The project includes tarmacking the 113-kilometre Garsen-Witu-Lamu road and an additional 19km of the Mkunumbi-Mpeketoni loop road, both of which are upgraded to international trunk roads. The project is 58.4 per cent completed and is expected to be ready by June 2021.