More than 400 health workers who were sacked by the Nandi government want to be compensated for what they term illegal termination of contracts. Fifty-one workers, acting on behalf of their former colleagues, filed a suit at the Kapsabet Principal Magistrate’s Court where they accused the county administration of firing them illegally. They have sued the County Public Service Board, the chief Finance officer, the chief Health officer and the county secretary. The county owes those on contract about Sh25 million in wages, but the disgruntled former employees are demanding more than Sh250 million for "premature termination of contracts". Those who filed the suit included Judith Chepchumba, Mark Kirwa and Nelly Chepngetich. All the county officials sued have been served with a notice from the court and directed to file their responses within 21 days. “Take notice that unless you file your response within 21 days of service and appear, the case will be heard and determined in your absence,” the court said. The county sacked the workers citing a ballooning wage bill, which Governor Stephen Sang’s administration said was unsustainable. Earlier, MCAs had raised concerns that more than 60 per cent of the devolved unit's budget was being spent on recurrent expenditure, mainly salaries, leaving little for development programmes. Some of the affected workers told the Star that they were recently given notice to leave without pay. It was issued by the medical superintendent at Kapsabet Referral Hospital. “We were hired last year and deployed to various health facilities and since then many of us have not been paid. Now we have been served with sacking letters with effect from next week,” said one of the affected workers. Their spokesperson, Janet Kirwa, said they were officially hired in November last year on three- year contracts at a monthly salary of Sh7,500 each and deployed to 249 health facilities. Kirwa said they have sought the services of a lawyer over the matter so they pursue it to a conclusive end. She said their contracts were terminated but they were not paid despite having "families to take care of". “We have tried to talk to the county Health executive over our fate but she has been arrogant and completely ignored us,” she said. Sources said senior county officials had held an emergency meeting to discuss the matter and it emerged that more than 230 workers were hired without approval of the county assembly. Also, their hiring and payments had not been factored in the county plans and budget.