Sixty-one children have been sent back to their parents and guardians as the authorities moved in to close three children's homes in Mombasa for operating illegally. The facilities were in Likoni, Kisauni and Jomvu. The Area Advisory Council, which is chaired by the deputy county commissioner, said they had not been registered. Children's county coordinator Philip Nzege said the children had been suffering as they had no proper care, citing inadequate food. "Another reason is that the children have their parents, yet children's homes should only serve as the last resort,” Nzege told the Star on the phone. He said that in the Likoni home, all children sent away had their guardians. In the Kisauni home, 29 had their guardians. Nzenge termed it unfair for a child with a parent or guardian to be left under the care of a children's home. “Children lose a lot when they are in children’s homes. A study has shown that a child placed in a children’s home loses almost 10 per cent of cognitive development; that is, around 10 per cent of environmental growth is lost,” he said. He said the Children’s department is cracking down on facilities that operate illegally. “We are monitoring any sign of abuse. Those are not the only homes that are not registered but there are some known by the government. We know what they are doing and we are working with them so we can take the children back home,” he said. Nzenge said poverty is to blame for the high number of children admitted to such centres as many parents and guardians find it difficult to meet their family needs. “They say they are too poor to take care of the children but we told them that taking their children to the children’s home is not the solution. Instead, they should have visited their area chief then the government would look for a way of assisting when the children are still in the community,” he said. The officer urged parents to get advice from the children’s department before taking their children to such facilities. He also warned that those who neglect their children will be prosecuted. “If the child should be taken anywhere for whatever reason, then let it be done within the regulation,” he said.