The stay-at-home Covid-19 directive and call for physical distancing has helped the online food business to flourish and profit. Despite the coronavirus robbing many of their jobs and businesses, online food entrepreneurs have taken advantage of the disruptions to improve their businesses. Francis Mosongo has been running his two online food outlets since 2017 with most orders coming from customers working in offices around Parklands, Nairobi. Having transitioned from fast foods to Swahili cuisines and a variety of local African dishes, Mosongo says that Covid-19 has made his orders grow tremendously. “Immediately people started working from home, the orders were quite low. A few weeks later, people embraced the online food businesses and the orders are higher than they were before the pandemic struck,” he said. With his kitchens in Parklands, the online restaurants are only available in the Uber and Glovo digital platforms of logistics. Mosongo's steady growth is attributed to the change of customer preference that now favours his online model. "Our business is located in a strategic area. It is in a residential area with offices nearby," he says. He said technology has catalysed growth of his business since tools like Google Analytics let him evaluate the performance of food outlets, helping him to decide whether to keep them open, or shut them. The virtual nature of the business reduces operational costs and staff that are high in bricks-and-mortar restaurants. Nancy Chepchirchir runs her online restaurant in Thika, Makongeni area. “Covid-19 has bettered my business. The rented space I previously used was too small and I was unable to keep  up with the growing orders." Specialising in fries and chicken, Chepchirchir says moving her restaurant online after the Covid-19 outbreak means she no longer has to worry ab0ut renting a bigger space. Most of her clientele are now people working from home and she only has to focus on her online presence. “Selling foods online doesn't require renting space and that saves money. People order their food via our Facebook page. Some also depend on posters sent on WhatsApp groups around Thika,” she says. Chipchirir says that her business only serves people within a two-kilometre radius. Customers only wait for 40 minutes maximum. Preparation only takes about 15 minutes. On good days, the entrepreneur sells up as many as 60 plates costing about Sh200 and Sh400 each depending on the size and ingredients. “After predictions that online entrepreneurship for edibles is the future, Covid-19 has brought the future. With more people spending lots of time online, entrepreneurs should take advantage of the shift,” business adviser Winfrey Aluoch says. She says technology is driving the business in the fast-changing economic space. (Edited by J. Muchangi)