Mt Kenya MCAs Caucus chairman Charles Mwangi wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to seek a fresh mandate if the Constitution is reviewed. Mwangi said the President is still Mt Kenya region’s leader and should not put down the mantle after his term ends in 2022. This is despite Article 142 of the Constitution providing that, “A person shall not hold office as President for more than two terms”. Mwangi, who is also the Ichagaki MCA in Murang’a, claimed the constitutional reforms that are being proposed can give Uhuru a chance to lead the country either as the president or prime minister. Whatever decision he makes, Kenyans and especially residents of the Central region will be behind him, the MCA told the Star on Sunday in Murang’a. “The President is such a charismatic leader and if such a chance will be provided by the referendum, then he should take it knowing that we will support him,” he added. If passed, the referendum will bring about a new dispensation, he said, and that the President’s two terms will be in a different era. “Even former President Daniel Moi sought fresh mandate in 1992 following the repeal of Section 2A of the Constitution that made Kenya a single party system in 1991,” he said. He added that the 2022 General Election should not be the end of Uhuru’s active political career. REVENUE FORMULA The MCA noted that the tug-of-war between senators regarding the revenue sharing formula is an indication of the inequalities in representation of Kenyans in Parliament. He said the last two census reports showed the Mt Kenya region is heavily populated and the numbers are on the rise. But the region’s representation in Parliament is illogically low, putting locals at a disadvantage. “MPs from the region cannot independently pass any motion in the Senate or the National Assembly because of their low numbers as compared to other regions such as the Rift Valley whose leaders are able to push their interests with ease,” he said. The MCA proposed the subdivision of counties with huge numbers such as Kiambu and constituencies like Ruiru. “Kiambu county should be divided into Thika and Kiambu counties, while Ruiru should be divided into two or three constituencies,” he added. He also said Murang’a county should be divided into North and South and constituencies such as Kiharu be divided into Kahuro and Kiharu. It is the only constituency in Murang’a that has two subcounties. He further noted that Maragua constituency should be divided into Makuyu and Maragua, each with four wards, saying that residents of Ithanga ward that borders Machakos in the neighbouring Gatanga constituency are forced to go through other constituencies to access their headquarters. The MCA appealed to senators to continue fighting for more revenue for residents, and ensure equity among all Kenyans.