Sugar importers will have to register again under the new sugar regulations, Agriculture CS has said. Peter Munya said those who fail to register stand to lose their licenses. He directed importers to begin applying for registration and for annual permits after studying the regulations and guidelines. On July 2, the government temporarily suspended importation of sugar, triggered by an influx of imported supplies in the first half of the year. That, Munya said, led to serious market distortions including low sugar prices at the factory level. “Imports that undermine the local industry and depress farmers’ incomes are neither desirable nor sustainable. It is with the aim of safeguarding the local industry and improving farmers’ income that the ministry gazetted the Sugar Imports, Exports and By-products Regulations, 2020,” he said. The regulations will govern the registration of sugar importers and exporters, determine sugar distribution in the market, re-packaging and re-branding of sugar consignments as well as curb contraband sugar. “Going forward, no sugar will be imported or exported outside the framework of these regulations and guidelines,” Munya said. The regulations came into force on the May 27 whilst the import and export regulations came into force on the July 10 after going through the necessary processes. The regulations also require registration of growers, out-growers’ institutions as well as millers and their umbrella bodies. “It is our expectation that sugarcane growers will form themselves into institutions registered with Agriculture and Food Authority. This is designed to give growers both formality and visibility. It will also make it easier for farmers to advocate and lobby for their own interests including, for example, membership to the Sugarcane Pricing Committee," the CS said. Grower institutions will make it easier to deliver services to farmers. The national and county governments are committed to supporting growers in this effort." The CS said millers’ umbrella associations will register with AFA for visibility and to effectively pursue their interests and have an organised platform through which they can engage other value chain players and regulators. Edited by Henry Makori