The National Cereals and Produce Board has cleared 58 stores across the country for the storage of the October harvest under the warehouse receipt system Joseph Kimote, the National Cereals and Produce Board managing director, said they are ready to implement the warehousing receipt system and post-harvest management activities. He spoke to the Star on Thursday. “Fifty-eight of our stores have completed the inspection and certification process for consideration as certified warehouses under the warehousing receipt system-WRS. The 58 warehouses and one silo complex across the country have been certified,” Kimote said. The WRS will help farmers store or deposit produce in certified warehouses. They will then be issued a title document called a warehouse receipt as proof of ownership with which they can access credit as they wait for favourable prices. They can use the receipt as collateral. In July, Agriculture CS Peter Munya directed the Warehouse Receipt System Council to ensure the system is working by October to reduce pressure on farmers to sell their produce immediately after harvests when prices are usually low. The certification of all NCPB stores in the country is continuing to ensure that they conform to the required standards for food storage. A certification drive was carried out by the Agriculture and Food Authority following an inspection between May 26 and June 26. “Besides participating in the warehouse receipt system, NCPB has stores that are available to individual farmers, cooperatives and other interested parties for storage of their grain to maintain good quality in readiness for the market,” Kimote said. He added, “The board is offering grain handling and preservation post-harvest services like drying, weighing, grading, aflatoxin testing, fumigation and pest control services at competitive rates. Farmers are therefore encouraged to take advantage of and utilise these available facilities and enjoy quality services.” He confirmed that harvesting for the long rains season is currently taking place in some parts of the country. “I urge farmers to take advantage and use the facilities and services to reduce post-harvest losses,” Kimote said. 