Despite being out of action since November last year, former Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars goalkeeper John Oyemba has confirmed that seven clubs are interested in his services. The custodian hurt his back last year and was consequently ruled out for a lengthy period and worse still, he was rendered clubless in January after parting ways with Sharks on mutual consent. However, fortunes are swinging in favour of the Jamhuri High School alumnus  ahead of the new season with five local and two foreign clubs showing interest. Former Kenyan champions Tusker, AFC Leopards, Posta Rangers and the promoted duo of Nairobi City Stars and Bidco United are angling for his signature. He, however, declined to reveal the two foreign clubs but revealed they are from the East Africa region. Initially, Gor Mahia were also in the race but opted for former City Stars glove-man Levis Opiyo. Oyemba, who was training with Tusker before the conclusion of last season in April, said he had fully recovered and was looking forward to return to competitive play in the new season. "I had six offers from local clubs but Gor withdrew after signing Opiyo. There are also two foreign clubs discussing with my agent. I completed my rehabilitation few months ago and the doctor allowed me to start training. Before sporting activities were suspended, I was training with Tusker and I did not experience any pain at that time. I can't wait to walk back to the pitch in the new season," he said. Meanwhile, Wazito extended their spending spree after confirming the acquisition of Castro Ogendo from Gor Mahia. Ogendo is the third player to decamp from the record champions to the moneybags, who have unveiled nine new players so far. "We are pleased to announce the signing of Castro Ogendo from Gor Mahia. Ogendo, a defensive midfielder who can also play as a central defender joins the club and is expected to beef up our defensive unit. He is an Ambira High School alumnus and last season he played for Bidco United in the National Super League (NSL)," said the club on its official social media platforms. Ogendo, who will face competition for playing time from Anthony Njeru, Jackson Juma and the experienced David Oswe said the club's policy to sign and give young players a chance lured him to leave Gor. "I am very delighted to join Wazito FC. I was motivated by the young blood in the team. Wazito largely consists of young players and as a young player, I felt it is the right club for me to progress. To the fans, I urge them to support us and I promise them wins,” he said. 