Unsustainable modern agriculture is one of the main drivers of biodiversity loss, Environment PS Chris Kiptoo has said. Kiptoo said industrial agriculture is driving habitat loss and creating the conditions for viruses to emerge and spread. Lockdowns and disruptions triggered by Covid-19 pandemic have bought this to the fore, he said. The PS spoke on Tuesday during the virtual launch of the intersectoral forum on agrobiodiversity and agroecology. He said the Covid-19 disruptions have reduced people’s access to essential goods and services and highlighted underlying vulnerabilities of global food chains. “These negative trends in biodiversity and ecosystem functions are projected to continue or worsen in response to indirect drivers such as rapid human population growth, unsustainable conventional agricultural production systems and associated technological development,” he said. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said Kenya’s economy heavily relies on agriculture for its economic growth, which is linked to a healthy environment, conservation and sustainable utilisation of biodiversity. “Crop and livestock production remain the main source of livelihood for most Kenyans, with about 48 per cent of Kenya’s land area under agricultural production. “The rate of conversion of land into agriculture and settlement is quite high and in line with the high rate of population. This has had serious implication like soil erosion, destruction of natural habitats, chemical pollution and climate change among others,” Boga said. A 2009 review of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture in Kenya found that a lot of genetic erosion has taken place, mainly due to the replacement of traditional varieties and other socio-economic factors. The National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans warn that the country’s biodiversity is under threat from a variety of sources. They show that since the 1900s, some 75 per cent of plant genetic diversity has been lost and 30 per cent of livestock breeds are under threat of extinction. Without a proper balance between development and ecosystems, biodiversity loss will adversely impact the nation’s growth and development in all sectors. Kiptoo said if agriculture is managed through practices that enhance rather than deplete natural ecosystems, it can protect biodiversity. It will also enhance sustainable use to support livelihoods, food and nutrition security, as well as support resilience to climate change. “Agrobiodiversity includes all biodiversity components with relevance for food and agriculture, including crops, livestock, forestry, and fishery sectors. Biodiversity benefits us all and to continue to enjoy those benefits we must continue to engage with each other, working together to secure, protect and conserve the vital building blocks of life that it provides,” Kiptoo said.