Olympic Games 3,000m steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto says his quest to break the world has only been delayed after testing positive for the coronavirus over the weekend. Conse, as he is fondly referred to, was seeking to break the longstanding world 3,000m steeplechase record at the Monaco Diamond League Series meeting this weekend but has been forced to instead self-isolate after a positive test, in one on the protocols for attending Friday's meeting. Conse has dominated the event in the recent past and the only accolade missing from his decorated cabinet is the world record. “I don’t have any symptoms and I was actually in great shape. I was planning to go for the world record. It has stayed too long outside Kenya. As the world and Olympic champion, I strongly feel it's something I should go for as well. I wish to thank Monaco for all the work they have done and I wish them and my colleagues a wonderful competition,” Conse said in a social media message. The world record was set by Kenyan-born Qatari Saif Saaeed Shaheen, formerly Stephen Cherono, in 2004 in Brussels standing at 7:53.63. Only former Olympic 3,000m steeplechase champion Brimin Kipruto came closer to breaking the record but was short by 0.01 of a second. Conse's personal best time stands at 8:01.35. “Our world is going through a challenging period and we all have to take our responsibilities. Unfortunately, my Covid-19 test, as part of the Monaco-protocol came back positive and therefore I can’t be part of the Monaco Diamond League on August 14,” said Conse. “Athletics is back and (I) will be back as well. Anyone willing to organise a steeple I can be cleared?” The king of water and barriers was among 15 Kenyan athletes who had been cleared to compete in Monaco's leg after getting special dispensation visas to travel to the Schengen Principality. Kipruto was expected to line up in the steeplechase on Friday alongside compatriots Abraham Kibiwott and Vincent Kipchumba, as pacesetter. Athletics Kenya wished the runner quick return,saying: "Athletics Kenya would like to wish a speedy recovery t 3,000m steeplechase world and Olympic champion Conseslus Kipruto who has tested positive for coronavirus. He was to travel to Monaco for the Diamond League meet. Athletics Kenya reiterates to all athletes to continue adhering to the protocols stipulated in the Ministry of Health guidelines."