A sharp division has emerged in Nyamira county assembly over different political alignments. MCAs allied to Deputy President William Ruto seem not to see eye to eye with those supporting interior CS Fred Matiang’i’s political ambitions. Those pro-Ruto say they are supporting the DP for the top seat when the right time comes, whereas those backing Matiang'i say they are behind the President’s development agenda, spearheaded by the Interior CS. About 30 ward reps led by speaker Moffat Teya on Tuesday attended a meeting in Nakuru county, which was addressed by Nakuru Town West MP Samwel Arama and Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. Another group of MCAs led by three MPs from Nyamira county - Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) and Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) - were at Ruto’s residence in Karen, Nairobi. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, who led the majority of members to Nakuru county, said he wanted to ensure the interests of the Gusii community were taken care of even after 2022 General Election. He said the community would back Matiang’i as he has “proved immense leadership skills under President Uhuru Kenyatta”. Momanyi urged Matiang’i to ignore his distracters and carry out the duties assigned to him by the President. “For now, we urge the CS to carry out his duties as we do the politics for him until such as time he will be free to do politics by himself,” Momanyi said. The MCAS who accompanied Momanyi said Nyamira and the Omogusii community are behind Matiang’I, and are ready to support him once he declares his political interests. Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo said out of the 36 county legislators, only six went to meet Ruto. He further noted that anyone who went against the wishes of the Omogusii would not be elected or reelected to any political position come 2022. “Those who went to Karen, including our parliamentary representatives, went for their personal interests but we believe at the end of the day, they will come back and support the will of the people which is backing Matiang’i when the right time comes,” Barongo said. He said those who had aligned themselves to the DP have been yellow carded and would be condemned to political oblivion if they do not apologise to the community for going against their wishes. “Just like in 2002, when our former Kisii spokesperson Simon Nyachae led the Gusii in making a joint political decision, this time we have Matiang’i who is fully representing our community at the decision making table,” Barongo said. He also urged the Senate to expedite the Revenue Allocation discussion and adopt the second generation formula which will ensure equity for all.