After running out his contract with Western Stima in June, coach Salim Babu could be heading to Wazito to deputise Fred Ambani. The individual award winning tactician joined the power men last year  but revealed that his one-year long deal elapsed two months ago, drawing attraction from other clubs. The soft-spoken tactician, who was holed up in meeting with Stima's bosses yesterday morning, said Wazito had approached him for his services but was yet to make up his mind. The league-wining player with Sony Sugar in 2006, said he  has no problem scaling down from head coach to the rank of assistant should he decamp to the Nairobi-based moneybags who parted ways with their gaffer Stewart Hall early last month. After Hall's exit, Wazito who have also secured national U-20, Rising Stars midfielder Fidel Origa from Stima elevated Ambani to fill in his shoes, leaving the assistant coach's rank void. "I have an assistant coach offer from Wazito and I expect more going forward. My record at Stima and Sony speaks for itself and I am not surprised that clubs are contacting me over my availability. I may extend my stay at Stima although my contract ended in June or I may join Wazito or any other interested club. Leaving the head coach job for that of assistant is viewed as demotion but I am not afraid of  taking up new challenges in life," he disclosed. Should they succeed in luring Babu to switch from Kisumu to Nairobi, Stima will look up to Hesbon Nyabinge who is Babu's assistant to steer the ship in the new season.The club is also understood to be hunting Maurice Ojwang to beef up their defence line. With cases of experienced assistant coaches sabotaging their bosses who are younger on the rise in Kenyan football, Babu said he was keen to work with Ambani to achieve the set targets rather than muscling out to outshine him. "There have been cases of assistant coaches sabotaging their bosses in a bid to take over but I am never interested in power. If I join Wazito, I will play the role of an assistant and help the team achieve the set targets," he said.