Five Cricket Kenya (CK) officials have moved to court seeking to stop Sports Registrar from proceeding with any adverse action concerning the registration status of Cricket Kenya under the Sports Act. In an application filed under urgency in May, Harpal Singh Sehmi, Kennedy Obuya, Kalpsesh Solanki, Pearlyne Omamo and Omole Asiko claim that Zehrabanu Janmohammed, Tom Tikolo, Mukhtar Assaria and Charles Nyaberi (former CK board officials) are in breach of the constitution by failing to give out the final draft of their constitution for public participation as provided for by the Sports Act. They want the court to issue a temporary order restraining Janmohammed from representing CK at the Africa Cricket Association in any capacity including acting as the chairlady of the association. “Pending hearing and determination of the case, the court should issue an order authorising Obuya together with either Harpal or Omamo to have a joint signature mandate to access CK funds on a monthly basis for purpose of settling the monthly payroll and other liabilities of the association presently totalling Sh1.2million per month," the court documents read. They argue that in 2018, they filed a suit against the former board officials tabling grave allegations of managing CK under an illegal constitution, mismanagement, misappropriation of funds, racism and cronyism during their tenure as board members of CK. However, according to a consent recorded before the High Court in May 2019, an interim executive board was formed with mandate to pass a new constitution for CK in line with the Sports Act to replace the non-compliant cricket constitution. The board was also mandated to hold elections under the new constitution. Pursuant to it, an interim executive board was established with nine members including Janmohammed (chairperson), Harpal (vice chairperson), Obuya (treasurer), Tikolo and Omamo among others. The consent also provided that the mandate of CK Constitution Review Committee  which was tasked to come up with the first draft of the constitution and chaired by sports lawyer Samuel Muthomi would lapse on September 17, 2019. Key members of CKRC included Tito Odumbe, Tariq Iqbal, John Moyi and Nyaberi. The first draft was officially handed over to the interim executive board in August 2019 for its review and action, and they duly organised for a retreat in Mombasa in November 2019 to review. “The retreat was overseen by the Registrar of Sports Rose Wasike and Janmohammed's close friends and confidants in the legal sphere, former deputy chief justice Nancy Baraza and lawyer and politician Ekuru Aukot.” Pursuant to the retreat, it was agreed Aukot would make further amendments to the first draft for the constitution to the Interim Executive Board. The court documents further reveal that a meeting held in December 2019 in presence of members of the interim executive board and CKRC with the lawyer agreed that Aukot be handed over the revised first draft for consideration and further action. Court documents say that further revisions were made and it was expected that Janmohammed would call for more meetings to set up the requisite framework to enable the constitution making process to proceed to the public participation stage. Unfortunately, Janmohammed failed to do so. The applicants further claim that there have been second to fourth draft leading to the  final draft. They say majority of the stakeholders had embraced the fourth draft as a means of ushering in the much needed change in the governance of cricket in Kenya. The draft was later forwarded to Muthiomi who forwarded the final draft of the constitution to the interim board for adoption. However, Janmohammed was requested to call for an urgent meeting on May 8, 2020 to consider and adopt the final draft subject to any further input but they claim he maliciously failed to call for the requested meeting or delegate such duties to Harpal. "Consequently, the term of the interim executive board lapsed on May 19, 2020 without formal adoption of the final draft and calling for an AGM and elections under the final draft Act" They add that it is clear the respondents are calculated to cause chaos and undermine the constitution making process which has taken over two years. "In light of the foregoing, we humbly request the court to grant the prayers sought to avoid a leadership vacuum and protect the interests of the employees of cricket Kenya and give hope to the many cricket players and stake holders who still believe the long awaited new dispensation is still on track ", the court documents say.  