DPP Noordin Haji has given the go a head for the prosecution of Maasai Mara University Vice Chancellor Mary Walingo and four others over the misappropriation of the school's funds. Walingo and her alleged accessories are accused of irregularly withdrawing cash from the institution's accounts for personal use between 2016 and 2019. "I am satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to support various charges under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act against the accused," Haji said in a statement on Monday. According to the DPP, investigations by the DCI confirmed unjustifiable withdrawals amounting to Sh177 million belonging to the University. "Analysis of the evidence obtained indicates that monies withdrawn by authorized finance officers at the University would be irregularly delivered to the Vise Chancellor through her proxies," Haji said. Other suspects include the school's Deputy VC of Finance and Planning Simon Kasine, Deputy VC of Academics John Almadi, Finance officer Anaclet Okumu and the VC's driver Noor Hassan Abdi. In September 2019, an expose by a local tv station dubbed "Mara Heist" put to light the systematic the 'systematic' embezzlement by university officials. The expose stirred up public reactions with varsity unions demanding the VC to step aside for investigations. The Kenya Universities Staff Union and the University and Academic Staff Union said Walingo is unfit to occupy public office. Kusu secretary-general Charles Mukhwaya also said the professor, accused of presiding over runaway graft at the institution, fails to inspire confidence and should step aside "She demonstrated that she will go an extra mile to have staff standing on her gravy train route harmed," he said. The DPP said the case has great public interest considering the  crimes committed. "In applying the evidential test, I have considered the evidence availed to my office and concluded that it is in the public interest to prosecute this case. The decision to prosecute is in line with safeguarding the public good," he said.