Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has been freed on Sh5 million bond. The MP on Monday pleaded not guilty to six counts of money laundering, acquiring proceeds of a crime, conflict of interest as well as fraud. Mombasa chief magistrate Edna Nyaloti gave her an alternative Sh2 million bail. Jumwa, alongside six other people and a company, is accused of defrauding the Malindi CDF of Sh19 million. The money was allegedly misappropriated during the construction of a school building. She faces two charges of acquiring proceeds of a crime. Jumwa is accused of receiving Sh2.5 million in her Cooperative bank on September 12, 2018, and Sh900,000 on August 17, 2018, from Multserve Contractors Limited. The legislator is also accused of money laundering by unlawfully disposing of funds received from the NG-CDF by concealing the two transactions. Her co-accused Wachu Omar, Kennedy Otieno, Bernard Kai, Sophia Charo, Margaret Kalume, Robert Katana and Multserve Contractors Limited face similar charges. The six were charged on Friday and took a plea on Monday. The prosecution, led by Alloys Kemo, did not oppose her release on bond but asked for tough terms. However, defence counsels Jared Magolo, Cliff Ombeta and Danstan Omari said the MP voluntarily presented herself to the police despite not being officially summoned. They said she had been availing herself to the police during investigations, a clear indication she is a law-abiding citizen and it is unlikely that she will abscond the proceedings. Nyaloti said the prosecution had failed to prove Jumwa is a flight risk. "I have considered the submissions from the prosecution and also the defence counsels. I have also considered the laws on bond and bail. The accused is an MP and therefore she is not a flight risk," she ruled. Nyaloti said Jumwa might be harbouring bigger political ambitions and therefore the court could not stand as a stumbling block to her dreams. The court reviewed the bond terms of the six co-accused from Sh10 million to Sh2 million and bail from Sh2 million to Sh500,000. She said the terms will be reviewed downwards further if they fail to raise the bond. The matter will be mentioned on September 21. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya