The family of a 66-year-old woman from Kyambuko in Mumbuni, Machakos county, who was burnt to death by unknown people, says she was killed over a land dispute. Juliana Mwikali Ngui was attacked by people alleged to be her relatives on Saturday around 5am. They burned her house after pouring petrol on her. Her husband Nelson Ngui, 70, who was first attacked by the same assailants at his other home in Kambu, Mtito Andei, Makueni county, said he was able to recognise the attackers. The attackers, whom he claimed were his son and two of his nephews, arrived at his home riding a motorcycle and armed with a panga, a knife and a club. "They came, knocked at my house and when I opened they threw me on the ground and started beating me. I was cut on the hands with a butcher's knife. One of them was my son, my sister's son and my brother's son," he said. He was left with a fractured hand and deep cut wounds on the head before the assailants proceeded to attack his wife in Machakos county. While narrating the ordeal, Ngui linked the attack to a land dispute between him and his brother who is said to have grabbed his share of the land inherited from their father. He said he decided to move away to Kambu in Makueni with his second wife, leaving Juliana to settle in Kyambuko in Machakos county. Ngui claimed his brother secretly acquired a title deed for the land in Machakos in 2013, taking the entire land including his share. "Recently, a man from the Lands office came here and informed me to vacate this land since it doesn't belong to me. He said the land was registered under my brother's name," Ngui said. He decided to visit the office to find out the truth and to his surprise the land  was no longer his. "I went to the Lands office, bought a map and filled a search application. The results were released the following day. My brother had made me a squatter on my own land," he said. Ngui said  he had been receiving threats from his relatives demanding that he vacates the land or he will be killed. He said he recorded a statement with his late wife at Machakos police station in on April 9 regarding the death threats under OB No 20/9/4/2020. He said the case that was placed under sergeant Frida Achieng was delayed and he decided to hire a lawyer to speed up the process since their lives were in danger. Ngui wants justice for his wife and urges the government to intervene. The assailants apart from burning his wife to death and injuring three people also destroyed his properties during the attack. "My two-bedroom house in Kambu was destroyed with hammers. They broke my solar system, my television and cupboard. In the other home in Machakos they also broke my two television sets, a solar system and set my clothes on fire. They burned everything," Ngui said. His son Jackson Makau who witnessed his mother burn urged the police to do their best and apprehend the suspects. Makau said he was asleep with his wife when the attackers arrived at their home on Saturday around 5am and forced his mother to open the door. After opening they splashed petrol on her and tied her hands and legs from behind before setting the house on fire. "I felt helpless watching my mother die helplessly in that fire. I felt like it was the end of the world for me. I couldn't do anything to save her," he said. The attackers turned on him with sharp objects which left him with serious injuries on his head and on the left leg. He was unconscious until morning when he was rushed to hospital. His sister Purity Nthenya in tears demanded justice for her mother. She said their relatives had been telling them to vacate the land and even sent them threatening messages. Machakos subcounty detectives have so far arrested five suspects linked with the attacks and killing of Juliana Mwikali. DCIO Rhoda Kanyi confirmed the attack emanated from a land dispute and they were investigating. The five suspects are held at Machakos police station and will be arraigned once the investigations are over. Edited by Henry Makori