Garissa county is setting up a testing facility at the Dadaab refugee camps in an effort to help combat the spread of Covid-19. The facility being set up in a partnership with the UNHCR will lead to testing, isolation and treatment of more people.  Governor Ali Korane has said 80 per cent of confirmed Covid-19 cases are from the refugee camps. The combination of crowded living conditions, under-sourced and understaffed healthcare facilities, coupled with high malnutrition in the camps, put refugees at risk of pandemics. As of Tuesday, the county had recorded 198 cases, ranking it 11th nationally in infection. “On our own projections, we are ready for this pandemic, especially on the isolation facilities,” Korane said. “We are happy that as Garissa we are the largest refugee-hosting county in Africa and any support for refugees is most welcome.” The county on Tuesday received Sh10 million personal protective equipment from IGAD to help in the fight against the virus in Dadaab camps. They consignment contained 1,000 packets of surgical masks, 750 pieces of N95 respirator masks, 600 packets of protective gloves, 70 PPEs and more than 1,080 packets of sanitiser. “Covid-19 has come with its challenges and even the best in our society are confined in our homes. You can imagine keeping social distance in refugee camps now. Sanitation facilities in all the camps are a challenge,” UNHCR special envoy to the Horn of Africa Amb Mohamed Afey said. Kenya currently hosts at least 400,000 refugees. Dadaab plays host to 270,000 refugees. The country has played host to refugees for many decades, especially from neighbouring Somali, Ethiopia, South Sudan and the DRC. Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali said, “Two months ago we received Sh2.5 million PPEs which has gone a long way in supporting especially the border points from Moyale and other areas. It has had a big impact in supporting the efforts of the county government." Health CAS Rashid Aman appreciated the continuous support from IGAD towards addressing of the Covid-19 pandemic in Kenya and especially the border counties. He noted that the pandemic continues to pose immense challenges globally adversely affecting the health and livelihoods of people worldwide including the region. “Therefore, our collective effort is very crucial in mitigating the adverse effects of this pandemic,” the CAS said. IGAD executive secretary Workneh Gebeyehu said Kenya, like the other IGAD member states, is challenged with preventing and containing Covid-19, adding that countries need to adapt their responses by working together. “Even though we cannot put face masks on our fragile health systems in our region and in Africa or vaccinate our delicate economies, we can support each other to become stronger and more resilient,” Gebeyehu said. He said IGAD is focusing on a longer-term intervention that will contribute to the strengthening of the national health systems in a tangible manner. “Covid-19 is not only a regional problem but an international one. There is no place to hide. The only medicine is cooperation and working together.” IGAD has continued to support national and regional interventions, especially among cross-border mobile populations that include traders, truckers, nomadic pastoralists and refugees. Edited by R.Wamochie