More than 20 people have been taken to hospital with carbon monoxide poisoning after attending a rave in an underground bunker in the Norwegian capital, Oslo. Police say the party was discovered by chance when a patrol came across a group of young people acting confused early on Sunday. Several more then emerged from a bunker and asked for an ambulance. Authorities believe the poisoning was caused by portable generators. Two of the 25 victims are thought to be police officers who attended to the partygoers. "Fortunately, they are all improving. We can say that they are out of danger," chief physician Fridtjof Heyerdahl at Oslo University Hospital told the paper. Around 200 people are thought to have attended the rave, according to Oslo police. Police also called for other attendees to seek medical attention if they start suffering from nausea, headaches, or dizziness. A French woman has been arrested in India for making a video of herself naked on a sacred bridge in the northern city of Rishikesh. The video, shot on the Lakshman Jhula bridge, was posted on social media. The woman faces charges under India's internet law, and could be sentenced to up to three years in prison if found guilty, AFP news agency reports. The suspension bridge over the Ganges river is a holy site and a popular spot for tourists. The woman, who has since been released on bail, told police the video was made to promote her jewellery business. "Maybe in France these things are not considered objectionable. But Rishikesh is a holy place and the Lakshman Jhula is the place where [Hindu gods] Ram, his brother Lakshman and wife Sita crossed the Ganges," RK Saklani, head of the police station where the woman was taken, told AFP. The woman, who has not been officially identified, was arrested on Thursday after police were alerted to the footage. US President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival Joe Biden have clashed over the violence that has erupted at protests in Portland, Oregon. Mr Trump blamed the Democrat mayor of Portland, Ted Wheeler, for allowing the "death and destruction of his city". But Mr Biden said the president was "recklessly encouraging violence". A man was shot dead in Portland on Saturday as elsewhere in the city a pro-Trump rally clashed with Black Lives Matter protesters. Portland has become a flashpoint for demonstrations against police brutality and racism since the police killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis on 25 May triggered a wave of national and international outrage. Mayor Wheeler warned against people coming to the city to seek revenge amid a flurry of social media posts. Governing party officials in South Africa say the President, Cyril Ramaphosa, will appear before an integrity commission to answer questions about a controversial campaign donation. But Jessie Duarte, a senior member of the African National Congress, did not specify when Mr Ramaphosa would present himself before the party panel. In a report, South Africa's anti-corruption watchdog alleged that Mr Ramaphosa had misled parliament about money he received in 2017, worth more than $35,955(£26,900). Mr Ramaphosa maintains it was a donation towards his campaign for the ANC leadership. As President, Mr Ramaphosa has staked his reputation on cleaning up South African politics since he replaced Jacob Zuma.