Most Vihiga nurses who were on strike have returned to work following the payment of all July salaries, Health executive Amos Kutwa has said. The nurses had been boycotting duty for the past week, demanding their July salaries. Patients were either turned away or asked to seek services in private facilities or other hospitals. Kutwa on Thursday said services had resumed after the medics received their salaries. Kenya National Union of Nurses chairman for Vihiga branch Zadock Miheso confirmed to the Star that the county had started paying members. “Our major problem is payment of salaries. If the county can be paying us on time, this mess of salary parade now and then crippling health services won’t be there at all,” Miheso said. Kutwa said there is a need to come up with a permanent solution to end strikes occasioned by salary delays so services are not disrupted. He alluded to the revenue sharing stalemate in the Senate. Counties are yet to received funding from the national government for the 2020/21 financial year to run their operations. Kutwa said such delays were responsible for strikes by county workers. “We are stuck if the Senate doesn't approve the bill because the Treasury won't release funds. Then the Constitution created the office for someone to control the budget and they are literally controlling everything so we have no freedom to access the money,” Kutwa said. But he was quick to add that such checks are necessary because "Kenyans, if not controlled, can still everything meant for the public." The executive proposed the creation of a health commission to handle salaries and allowances of health workers. “Ours is basically service and in service, once you pay people's salaries on time, there will be no problem at all. Services will go on smoothly,” Kutwa said. He said nurses are the most loyal workers and "if they are paid on time, this mess of strikes across counties won’t be witnessed at all." “If we had a way of paying our workers without involving the finance team we could have been in a better position to run our activities properly,” Kutwa said.  Edited by P.O