Former Wazito FC striker Piston Mutamba habours no bad feelings against the former employer after he was dropped alongside other players in a restructuring process. Mutamba, who has since settled down in training in a bid to maintain fitness, said the  move will not deter his resolve to feature for the top sides outside the country. Mutamba thanked Wazito coach Fred Ambani and his technical bench for the guidance that saw him attract the attention of national team, Harambee Stars' coach Francis Kimanzi. “I believe whenever one door closes, another one opens elsewhere. I have received some offers from top clubs in the country but it’s still early to make a decision," he noted. “When I joined Wazito, it wasn't easy for me to break into the first eleven.  I remained patient learning and working hard until I cemented my position in the team.  I received full support during my time with Wazito and I want to wish them well in their new endeavours,” he said. Mutamba, who netted eight goals for Wazito last season,  revealed that top clubs from Kenya and the East African region as well as the southern part of Africa, are after his signature. “It’s true I have received several offers within Kenya and outside the country from several clubs that I can’t mention now, because i’m yet to settle on the suitable offer. It’s not all about money but I want a club where I can develop and realise my potential as a player," he added. Mutamba said he is currently consulting with his agent and family members before making the final decision. His former coach at Kakamega High School coach Brendan Mwinamo revealed that Mutamba has what it takes to succeed at the top level having gained enough experience in Kenya Premier League. “He possesses all the right attributes in terms of physique, height, the pace and good positioning which are normally tough for any defender to contend with. But he should remain disciplined and continue working hard,” Mwinamo advised. He added that any top side in the country will not hesitate to pounce on Mutamba who’s still young with massive talent that has seen him earn a place in the national soccer team, Harambee Stars.