Days after Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji approved the arrest and prosecution of Migori Governor Okoth Obado, word has it that a governor from Rift Valley is next on the chopping board. Those in the know have told Corridors that it is only a matter of days before the county chief and his close business associates — whom he has been using as a conduit to fleece the county — are marched to courts. The governor has been under investigation for misuse of public resources, including theft of Sh340 million meant for some roadworks. Frequent visits by a philanthropist from the Mt Kenya region to an office in the Ministry of Lands have left the tongues of ministry staff wagging. Reason? It is not just the number of trips the man makes to the office per week that has raised the eyebrows but also the goodies he carries with him every time he is visiting. A small bird has told Corridors that the man is investing a lot in the occupier of the office. Even before the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country, he had planned a series of philanthropic activities in the county of the officeholder. An MP who recently decamped from Deputy President William Ruto’s wing is reported to be making frantic efforts to go back. It is said the legislator has found the ground in his cosmopolitan constituency hostile. Word has it that the lawmaker has sent emissaries, including a former Cabinet minister, to broker truce between him and the DP. But since the MP is said to have quit the Ruto camp without any valid ground, it is understood the DP camp is reluctant to allow him back. Just by whose powers did guards of a not-so-old but popular retail store assume when they beat a lawyer on allegations of shoplifting? The guards accosted the customer on charges of shoplifting underwear, yet the man had paid for the items, which cost about Sh5,290. They harassed and ransacked him, only to find that the fellow had paid for all the items. In what may qualify the accusations that the shop managers are condescending and arrogant towards clients, the store’s bosses have yet to act on the promise of settling the damages claimed by the lawyer. 