The Gunners have kicked out their head of football Raul Sanllehi and an investigation has been launched into the signing of £72million signing of Nicolas Pepe last year although the club emphasised that the two are not linked and a wide review of the club’s set up is in progress. The plan is for managing director Vinal Venkatesham to take over but in effect he will work closely with manager Mikel Arteta and technical director Edu when deciding which players are signed for the club. The way in which Arsenal have handled Covid-19 has been attacked by highest wage earner Mesut Ozil who claims he has been singled out for criticism in rejecting a wage reduction when other players also refused. Ozil is also unhappy that Arsenal then made 55 staff redundant. Arteta’s new power is emphasised by the signing of Willian which is, in my view, inspired. He will give the midfield new focus and command and he is a tireless worker and will be so for the next three years. Willian was Mikel Arteta’s signing. Arsenal’s next target is French club Lille’s 22 year-old defender Gabriel Magalhaes as Arteta looks to strengthen his defence. One advantage in persuading Magalhaes to join is that he will be welcomed by his fellow Brazilians David Luiz and Willian and this could help secure the deal. I also understand that the Gunners are close to a new agreement with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. He is impressed with the new management set-up, has faith in Arteta and Edu and will also improve on his current wages to around £250k per year.    Henderson determined to be United’s No1 Manchester United’s young and talented goalkeeper Dean Henderson performed extremely well whilst on loan to Sheffield United. He has been hailed as a great success by the Blades and now Henderson has put pressure on United manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer to put him between the posts at Old Trafford for the coming season. Henderson yesterday tweeted his thanks to the Sheffield club and their players for “an important chapter in my career” and then he said goodbye. Henderson is refusing to go out on loan again and has told friends that he intends to replace David de Gea as the Red’s goalkeeper. This puts the manager in a difficult position because he has publicly backed de Gea during a difficult season in which his performances have lost matches for the club. Soslkjaer will meet with Henderson over the next few days to discuss the way forward but Dean has made it clear that he expects to be United’s No1 goalkeeper going forward.    Liverpool’s two pre-season friendlies Liverpool tell me they have arranged two pre-season friendly games against Bundesliga side Stuttgart which is manager Jurgen Klopp’s boyhood club. Following that game they will take on Austrian champions RB Salzberg as they continue their Austrian pre-season training programme. Takumi Minamino starred for the Bundesliga side and has played against Liverpool but he transferred to the Reds last January and will line up against his old club.   Messi heading for the Premier League? Could we see Lionel Messi performing in The Premier League next season? For a year he has witnessed the brilliance of Barcelona diminish and has argued his case for rebuilding the team with Barca president Josep Maria Bartomeu. The two are barely on speaking terms. Messi looked a broken man as he held his head low and slowly walked off the pitch after the most embarrassing defeat of his playing career when Bayern Munich thrashed the Catalan club scoring eight goals in the Champions League. There was nothing Messi could have done about it. The Argentine genius, still only 32, could perform with ultimate skill for another three years and possibly a fourth. His current buy-out clause is £635million which no club in the world can afford. Barcelona, however, do not have the money to refinance and therefore might be forced to let him leave for much less and his contract has a clause which says he can leave at the end of any season. Manchester City are in the driving seat to sign him if he decides to leave and the super-rich club could afford to pay his huge wages. I contacted City and they are definitely interested in bringing this amazing talent to Maine Road Manchester. New manager Ronald Koeman is determined to keep Messi and it will be up to him to persuade the striker to stay. Barca intend to clear out most of their starting players in order to rebuild. I do question the choice of Koeman who failed as Everton manager but was okay managing Southampton. However, the Premier League is much tougher than Spain where only four teams are in with a likely chance of winning the title. Former Barca teammate Gonzalo Higuain has warned Messi against playing in the Premier League where, he claimed, he will be kicked into submission by tough defenders.    Everton players take extra holiday time Because of the long season, due to Covid-19, Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti has given his approval for several players to delay their return for pre-season training. Richarlison has been holidaying in Portugal and was contacted by the club this week to tell him that because of British government rules he will have to serve a 14-day Covid-19 quarantine period when he returns to the UK. The 14 days will however be part of his rest period prior to training. Brazilian left winger Bernard however will not have to serve the 14-day quarantine when he returns from Brazil in the next few days and he will go straight into training. All Everton players were given information packs and times when they had to return for pre-season training. Some players decided not to take advantage of the manager’s extended holiday period as they prepare for Ancelotti’s first full season in charge and they are anxious to make a good impression. One player with an uncertain future for next season is the much-hyped Italian Moise Kean who has not lived up to the high expectations since he arrived from Italy’s Serie A. Richarlison and Dominic Calvert-Lewin established an effective strike force between them and therefore Kean spent much of last season on the bench.  Several Serie A clubs including AC Milan are looking to take him back to Italy and Everton would ask for £23million. Super-agent Mino Raiola, I am told, is working on a deal with Milan.    Koeman is keeping Barca seat warm for Xavi Ultimately, when a team fails it is the manager who pays with his job. As Barcelona’s Quique Setien found out on Monday morning, his job had gone after only seven months and the Barcelona board drew up a short list of three possible managers. Former Southampton and Everton boss Ronald Koeman, managing the Dutch national team, was chosen and given a two-year contract. However, my Spanish sources tell me that Barca wanted club legend Xavi to take over but he did not feel ready to step into the hot seat. My sources are convinced that unless Koeman is spectacularly successful in rebuilding the team, then Xavi will take over in either a year or two but it is simply a matter of time.    De Bruyne voted Player of the Year Kevin de Bruyne’s sad mood was cheered a little this week when he picked up the Premier League’s player of the season award. After the Champion’s League defeat to Lyon he expressed his disappointment by saying: “Different year, same stuff…it’s been a long season and we need a rest.” However, his mood changed when he expressed his delight at winning the award after beating off challenges from Liverpool trio Salah, Mane and Firmino. De Bruyne produced 20 assists during the season which equalled Thierry Henry’s Arsenal record and he also scored 13 times. Jurgen Klopp was named best manager and Liverpool’s Trent-Alexander best young player. Tottenham’s Heung-min Son’s solo goal against Burnley way back in December was voted best goal of the season.    Newcastle’s possible new owners want Shearer Newcastle seem to be in a bigger mess than usual with chaos reigning throughout their pre-season preparation. On the one hand, current manager Steve Bruce is chasing Southampton striker Chris Wood but on the same day, I had a telephone call telling me that another possible buyer for the club has emerged and if it is successful then club legend Alan Shearer will the the No1 target to take over from Bruce. Shearer currently has a lucrative contract with the BBC as a football pundit and is firmly established so it might not be easy to tempt him away into a club which is in chaos. He is a close friend of manager Steve Bruce which makes his decision even more difficult. The new bidders are called Bellagraph Nova Group and they claim to have revenues of approximately £9billion. Their offer is £280million but that is way below owner Mike Ashley’s asking price of £340million which was previously agreed with the failed bid from Saudi Arabia. I am told that Ashley is still in contact with the Saudi group and is still hopeful the bid can be reopened.    Chelsea chasing new goalkeeper Chelsea immediately contacted Atletico Madrid goalkeeper Jan Oblak after the Spanish club were eliminated from the Champion’s League. Oblak was confident that Atletico would progress into the semi-finals and put talks on hold so he could concentrate on his performance without being distracted. Manager Frank Lampard has lost faith in record signing Kepa Arrizabalaga and the 27-year-old Slovenian Madrid player would be a perfect fit into Frank Lampard’s set up. Ajax goalkeeper Andre Onana is a possible alternative if the Blue’s cannot gain Oblak’s signature.   Hart’s move to Spurs Goalkeeper Joe Hart’s move to Tottenham is a smart move by the club. After being a regular at Manchester City, Joe was cast out by Pep Guaridola when he took over because he wanted a keeper who could also use his feet which is not one of Joe’s strong points. He is the perfect professional, always trains hard, good at motivating younger players and although he will be used probably only in League Cup matches, Europa Cup and FA Cup matches and the occasional league match, he will be a valuable asset to the club. Money is short and Joe coming for free is a no brainer and at 33 years-of-age he could stay for the long term.   Pellegrini more successful than Pep By the way…we all know that Pep Guardiola is fire-proof but has anyone realised that previous manager Manuel Pellegrini took Manchester City into the Champions League semi-finals and he was sacked but Pep has only managed to reach the last 16 and the quarter finals during his time as manager.