The weekly weather forecast from the Kenya Meteorological Department has predicated heavy and moderate rainfall in some parts of the country. Heavy rainfall above 70 mm is expected over most parts of Laikipia, Baringo, Samburu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Nakuru counties. Moderate rainfall between 50-70 mm is expected over some parts of Meru, Nyeri, Nyandarua, Nakuru, Kericho, Bungoma, Turkana and Samburu counties. The forecast running from August 4-10 shows that Busia, Kakamega, Nandi, Vihiga, Kericho, Bomet, Nyamira, Kisii, Kisumu, Nyeri, Tharaka-Nithi, Marsabit and the coastal areas will receive light rainfall of between 10-50 mm. Over the week, some areas such as Nairobi, Kiambu, Embu, Machakos, Kitui, Tana River, Kajiado, Narok, Migori, Makueni, Embu, Garissa, Wajir, Isiolo, Taita Taveta and Mandera are expected to remain relatively dry. Low daily-mean temperatures below 15˚C is expected over most parts of Nakuru, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Murang’a, Narok, Kiambu, Nairobi, Machakos, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Kericho, Nyamira, Bomet, Kisii and Mt. Kenya region. The weatherman has also predicted high daily-mean temperatures ranging from 30˚C and above is expected much parts of Marsabit, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Tana River and some parts of Kitui, Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta and Kajiado. Moderate daily-mean temperatures between 25-30˚C is expected in some parts of Mandera, Samburu, Turkana, Baringo, Kwale, Lamu, Mombasa, Taita Taveta, Makueni, Narok, Migori, Homa Bay, Busia, Kisii, Kisumu, Kakamega, Nyamira, Vihiga, Meru and Embu. On Friday, the department said in a weather outlook statement for August that counties in the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of Rift Valley, North Central and southern Rift Valley will experience enhanced rainfall. Occasional morning showers are expected along the coastal strip. Cold and cloudy conditions with light rains are expected to prevail over the month in some parts of the country.