Kenya Premier League moneybags Wazito FC have named Fred Ambani as head coach and former defender Salim Babu as his assistant. In a statement posted on the club's website on Saturday, the club said Ambani will take over from Stewart Hall. It will be Ambani’s second stint at the club having handled the team in the 2019/2020 season during the team’s campaign in the National Super League. “I want to thank the club management for believing in me once again. Wazito is a team that is so dear to me and I am looking forward to getting started. My target is to work with everyone at the club to ensure that the team is successful,” said Ambani. He added: “Stewart Hall is the best coach I have ever worked under or with, he took me in well and our working relationship was a very good one, you do not come across such coaches every day. I want to thank him for everything that he taught me and I wish him the very best wherever he goes because he is a good coach and he will land another job soon.” Babu joins the team from troubled Western Stima where he was the head coach. He began his coaching career at Sony Sugar where he started out as an assistant coach after hanging his boots. He was later elevated to the position of head coach. He later moved to Migori Youth before settling at Stima. Last season he won two Kenyan Premier League coach of the month awards, only Gor Mahia’s Steven Pollack won three. The soft spoken Babu said: “Joining Wazito is a great opportunity because I am joining a team with big ambitions and I want to be successful here. My role is that of an assistant coach and my duty is to help the head coach, that is what I will stick to.” He added: “Fred (Ambani) has been my friend for many years, we played together and even as coaches we have been exchanging notes frequently, when he asked me to join him it was an easy decision to make. I believe together we will move this team forward.” Club CEO Dennis Gicheru said: “I want to congratulate the two coaches for their appointment. Coach Ambani understands the team well because he has been here as a head coach and most recently an assistant.” “We gave him a free hand to choose his assistant and he settled on Babu who is equally a very experienced coach with a good track record. We will give them all the support they require to bring success to the team,” he added.