Three landlords whose property has encroached on the Michuki Memorial Park have been arrested. The three were arrested on Saturday following a sting operation conducted by inspectors from the National Environment Management Authority in collaboration with security agencies. This is just a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta officially launched the park. NEMA Director-General Mamo B. Mamo said the property of the three had been stretched within the riparian reserves. "The structures were also discharging untreated effluent directly into Nairobi river at the Kirichwa river," Mamo said. According to the DG, the authority as a result ordered the 16 affected tenants to vacate the houses until the landlords connect to the sewerage system. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday evening opened the rehabilitated Michuki Park in Nairobi County. The park which was initially known as the Mazingira Park was renamed to Michuki Park by the Ministry of Environment in 2012, in honor of the late John Michuki. Uhuru said that the park has been restored to its initial look and ending criminal activities that have been going on in the park. “We have moved it from a safe haven for criminals to a place of serene beauty and peace; from blackening waters of Nairobi river to a swimming destination for ducks and mudfish; and from a lifeless habitat to a life-supporting ecosystem, leading to the re-emergence of birds," Uhuru said. He added, "We can restore the former glory of our great city of Nairobi, to what was referred to as the 'green city in the sun'". The president said that the opening of the park was the early steps of re-making and re-birthing of the great city of Nairobi. “We are here to affirm that a city is not great because of its lofty and towering brick-and-motor assets.  A city is great because its citizens are great; and its environment is great.” He also said that it is the citizens of the city that must make a covenant with the city to take care of the green spaces and their attendant species. “But for this to happen, we must admit that we lost the ‘green city in the sun’ because we did not take care of it.” He added that “We did not enforce the civic responsibility of the citizen to take care of the green spaces. And the citizens of Nairobi city were not organized enough to protect it.  Because of this, and the rapid growth of ‘concrete spaces’ over the ‘green spaces’, there was a collapse of civic order and national duty in the city.” Apart from rehabilitating Michuki Park, the head of State said his administration has targeted other green spaces for revival including; the Nairobi Arboretum, Karura Forest, City park and Ngong Road Forest. He said green spaces improve on the quality of air in the city and expunge the toxins emitted by our environment. “And this is why we are targeting a 10 per cent forest cover across the entire country by the year 2020. Within Nairobi, Michuki Park is the first attempt at pushing this ‘green renaissance," he said.