National Cross country champion and Youth Commonwealth Games 3,000m champion Sheila Chelangat is itching for a return to the track following a lengthy lay-off due to the coronavirus pandemic. Chelengat, who was left distraught after the government cancelled international flights on the night she was meant to travel for a race in Spain, said her to-do is full with the Ostrava World Challenge, Kip Keino Classic, the World Athletics Tour and qualifying for Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan all in focus. The Administration Police Officer was in top form when the virus struck and revealed, if her training is anything to go by, she's got what it takes to shine. “To be sincere I was fit enough to compete at the top level this season but God had other plans," said Chelangat. "Just like the other athletes across the world, I had to keep calm and follow Ministry of Health guidelines as I continued with my training." "Most importantly, I never lost hope. I have been doing at least 25km a day to maintain fitness as we wait for the coronavirus situation to improve,” she added. With the world opening up for athletics shows, Chelangat will be hoping to compete at the Kip Keino Classic at the Nyayo National Stadium on October 3, after it was postponed by a week. “My target now is to run at home especially at the Kip Keino Classic which is a big event in our country. I want to stamp my authority in 5,000m,” said the 2016 world junior cross country runner. For a start, she says, it will be pacing duties at the Brussels Diamond League, a precursor to the Ostrava World Challenge. “If I a get the visa, I will be testing my speed ahead of Ostrava World Challenge when I Pace at the Brussels meeting," she said. "In Ostrava, I plan to run in my favourite race, 5,000m, hoping for good results after staying for long without competing,” added the 2015 Africa Youth 3,000m silver medalist. The world Youth 3,000m bronze medalist won the national cross country title in February ahead of Africa Cross country championships that were to be held in Lome, Togo but the event was shelved. “Even though I won the national title, my target was to run the Loredo 10km road race in Spain but it never happened after coronavirus hit the world,” said the 2015 Youth Commonwealth 3,000m champion. On the Olympic Games, Chelengat said her focus will be to grab her first international medal in the senior ranks. “Right now it is difficult to determine how the Olympics will be but my preparations have been good, top shape and ready for a medal in 5,000m,” she said.