Despite the massive exodus of senior players,Western Stima boss Laban Jobita is unfazed on the future of the club. The Kisumu-based outfit was dealt a major blow in their aspirations to compete for titles in local football after their shirt sponsor,Kenya Power and Lighting Company ended their ties in June. Clubs with fat purses have since pitched camp at Stima,headhunting the best players and members of the technical bench from the time the transfer window opened. Jobita revealed that he was working with a player agency which he declined to reveal as he seeks to fill the voids left by the departed stars. Among the players who have ditched Stima are Maurice Ojwang, Stephen Odhiambo and Edwin Omondi, who have all joined Wazito alongside coach Salim Babu. The quartet of Abdalla Wankuru, Benson Omalla, Kelly Wesonga and Fidel Origa are reportedly on their way out. “We are located at the heart of Kenyan football and with the untapped talent around, I believe we will constitute a new team. I am not worried of players leaving the club for greener pastures. I have an agency which has identified players for us and we are hoping that the government will lift the ban on sporting activities so as to assess them before handing them contracts,” said the former Gor Mahia player. He added: “There is no way Stima can go under with the talent we have around us. There are also experienced players who are loyal to the club and we will seek to build a strong squad around them,” stated the former Kisumu Hot Stars player. Meanwhile, Jobita admitted that it was tough in offering the playing unit the privileges they enjoyed when they had a shirt sponsor. He said he would revise their salary cap, thanks to the limited finances. “Maintaining the standards which we had set as far as salaries and allowances are concerned is the only thing which worries me. "Even if we will manage to retain some players, we will be forced to renegotiate their contracts and review their salaries down. "Unless we get another sponsor, then we will be unable to give our players what we used to give them before ,” he added.