At 83 years, Reverend Canon Samwel Waimiri Wakagia always told his family that when the time of departing this world comes, he would liked it to be peaceful and painless. On Tuesday, July 21, his eyes closed and he breathed his last, dying peacefully at his Nyahururu home. A tribute from his family says Mzee Wakagia did not die of any particular ailment, “in fact, he simply transitioned into glory as peacefully as he had lived his entire eight-plus decades.” The family said their patriarch had a bit of memory loss and some heart illness but which were well managed and he did not once suffer pain. “Looking back, that is probably the way Canon wanted to it – to simply move into heaven. And move, he did,” the tribute explained. The Canon had six children and 15 grandchildren. But even more precious for the family was the unwavering commitment Mzee Wakagia had for the family and faith in Jesus, explaining his 55 years of marriage and life-long vocation of preaching. However, Wakagia did not know his life would turn out as it did, in church ministry. He always wanted to be a teacher, growing up. Aged 23, Wakagia was hired to teach at Mutamaiyu Primary School in North Kinangop as an untrained teacher. He thought he would spend all his life as a teacher. It was there that young Wakagia heard the saving message of faith in Jesus, and turned his life to the preaching of the Word as an evangelist, a vocation he did for 60 years. He would eventually rise to the position of a canon in the Anglican Church of Kenya, where he worshiped until he transitioned to his heavenly home, the family said. But judging from the voices from his family talking about him, probably being with his family is the richest legacy he gifted them. Lavishing his wife Minnie Nyambura Waimiri with love, cherishing his children and being there for his grandchildren, Wakagia built a solid family. “My husband loved me. And he made it public. He would hug me, hold my hand and show his affection publicly. I was shy about it at the beginning, but I realized he was not going to stop — so I started enjoying it,” his widow said. She said her husband would get so excited to see friends and family “that it would amaze me because he sincerely loved people.” She fell in love with a man who was always smart; who took a bath every morning and every evening, she said. “His clothes were very specific, and he loved the fine things of life. It was love at first sight! For both of us.” A selfless and generous man, the widow said, her husband wouldn’t eat alone even in his last moments and could not start eating until everyone else had food. “He paid school fees for many and went out of his way to help as many people as he could. He impacted so many lives and taught me that we could not have been born into this world just for ourselves. My husband was a wonderful teacher of the Word,” Nyambura explained. Edited by Henry Makori