Kiambu county has partnered with Nutrition International to promote breastfeeding as a healthier and environmentally friendlier way to feed infants. The two entities will also be sensitising residents against the use of breast-milk substitutes which they say contribute greatly to environmental pollution hence becoming a contributor to global warming. Health CEC Joseph Murega said on Tuesday that the partnership will develop policies that will promote breastfeeding across the county once implemented. He spoke at Makongeni health centre in Thika. Murega noted that breastfeeding is the most environmentally friendly way to feed infants as it has zero garbage production, zero greenhouse gases emission and zero water footprints. “Breast-milk is a natural, renewable food that is environmentally safe, produced and delivered to the consumer without pollution, unnecessary packaging or waste,” he said. The CEC said that unlike breastfeeding, infant formula contributes to environmental pollution and degradation as it requires intensive water consumption, high demand use of energy resources in manufacturing, extensive use of materials for packaging, greenhouse gas emission during transportation and widespread generation of household waste. “Again, using these infant formulas make families economically constrained,” he said. Nutrition International county programmes coordinator Hannah Mburu said they will be funding training of community health volunteers as well as healthcare workers within the county. Kiambu has 103 health facilities. “We are keen on promoting breastfeeding because it seems that most mothers, especially the young, are opting to feed their infants on formula. We have to make them understand that breast-milk protects stunting in children and boosts their immunity, thereby protecting them from contracting diseases. Again they need to know that breastfeeding reduces risks of getting breast cancer,” she said. “We are also facilitating the creation of mother-mother and father-father support groups within the county as a way of creating breastfeeding awareness.” In order to create and promote breastfeeding awareness in the county, the two entities have already trained over 1,700 CHVs who will be educating residents on proper breastfeeding practices and its importance. The county will also establish breastfeeding zones in social settings like hospitals, markets, worship centres and bus termini. Currently, only Gatundu Level 5 Hospital has a breastfeeding space in the entire county. Young mothers from Makongeni, Thika, who spoke to journalists welcomed the plans to establish lactating corners. Meanwhile, Murega and Mburu called on first-time mothers to uphold breastfeeding, saying they will not "lose shape" if they do. “We are encouraging them to ignore the myths of losing shape and breastfeed their babies. In fact, they will get better ‘shape’ if they breastfeed." Edited by R.Wamochie