When the Cabinet Secretary of Education Prof. George Magoha announced that the school calendar has been moved to next year, most of the students and parents were left to wonder what next. The Zeraki app has provided that solution by offering a platform to learn from highly experienced teachers, take tests and track your performance. It comprises of video lessons and assessment tests from some of Kenya’s best high school teachers. It has the Video lessons feature which has videos from expert teachers covering the entire high school syllabus. The assessment tests are available for the students to take at the end of every topic or at the end of every form to access and cement their learning. This app also has the performance tracking feature where the students as well as the parents can see how well their child or children are performing in each subject, form, and topic. They will also monitor their study patterns on the app. It is student-focused as a result of the years of expertise in education and technology and a deep understanding of what students need. With the app having a responsive engaging design, it makes learning simple, engaging, modern, and fun across all devices. The offline access feature helps the students to access tests, analytics, and downloaded lessons. The student will also need to sync the app to access any new content available online. For the primary school students, there is the Zeraki Companion which is a learning app for primary school pupils and allows pupils from classes 5 to 8 to learn from Kenya’s best teachers at their own pace and time. This helps the pupils to identify their strengths and weakness and focus on the revision areas that will improve their performance. Zeraki analytics offers you the latest system of compiling and analyzing student’s data by providing an interface for results analysis, marks entry, and bulk messaging to parents. A parent will be able to access their child’s academic record then use it to support their decisions. For the teachers, Zeraki analytics results gives them a new and easy way to analyze and visualize exam results. It has interesting features that are different from other similar applications. One of the features is that it allows the user to analyze the exam results on the go from their mobile phones. They can also enter their exam results via the app from the comfort of the home. The app allows you to access any student’s biographical and contact information anytime, anywhere. The parents can also log in to the app to access their children’s academic records and fee balance. As a parent, having this application for your child will mean that he or she will get plenty of revision questions and video lessons for both primary and secondary school.