The Nairobi Metropolitan Service and the county government are yet to resolve the issue of who will manage the payroll of seconded county workers. The conflict emerged last week as the two entities met to solve issues that led to the six-day doctors' strike in the county. NMS said that it had been struggling to obtain the payroll of workers to resolve NHIF cover and doctors' promotion issues. “Once NMS gets the payroll we can know the number of doctors we are dealing with. We had agreed with the Public Service Commission and come up with a comprehensive discussion of how the promotions will be done,” NMS deputy director general Robison Thuko said. While deliberating on the issue, acting county secretary Justus Kathenge had suggested that the issue of the payroll should be settled in a different setting outside the meeting. However, Governor Mike Sonko’s spokesman Ben Mulwa told the Star on Monday that the push and pull over the payroll between the two entities was unnecessary. He explained that at the end of the day, the employer, which is the County Public Service Board, has the responsibility to process and make payments to the workers. “NMS is not an employer but an entity created to implement some functions on behalf of the county. The issue of payroll has been raised by NMS but in the end, the board pays all workers,” Mulwa said. The spokesman said that six months since the four core functions were transferred, all county staff including those seconded to NMS had been paid on time. City Hall spends close to Sh1.2 billion on salaries every month and the workers are paid between 25th and 27th. On February 25, Governor Sonko signed a deal to transfer the county's four core functions to the national government at State House. The departments of planning and development, public works, health, transport, utilities and ancillary services were transferred to the national government for a renewable period of 24 months. Less than a month later on March 18, President Uhuru Kenyatta established NMS and handed over the transferred functions to the leadership of director general Mohammed Badi. In April, the Public Service Commission seconded 6,502 staff who were under the transferred dockets. However, on June 18, the High Court declared the deed of transfer of functions executed between the national government and the county administration as vague and irregular. Judge Hellen Wasilwa ruled the deal was not approved by the Nairobi county assembly, thus making it unlawful. She gave the government 90 days to rectify the illegality, otherwise any party would be at liberty to move to court for appropriate action. NMS and the county government have already initiated the process to resolve the row over the deed of transfer. The issues to be touched on include staff as required by the deed of transfer, public finance management, revenue collection and the separation between the transferred functions and the retained ones. Two meetings have already been held, attended by NMS and the county government officials. With 18 months to go, Mulwa urged NMS to concentrate on their core mandate and deliver services to Nairobi residents as instructed by the President. “NMS should focus on what they need to improve the city in terms of infrastructure, health services but managing the payroll does not add any value in terms of service delivery in Nairobi,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori