@alalmaurice National Youth Service teams have begun clearing bushes on the 217-kilometre Nakuru-Kisumu railway track as the Sh3.8 billion rehabilitation project begins. Deputy Director-General Zachary Mutua said two NYS teams - from Nakuru and Kisumu- are already on site. The rehabilitation project is being undertaken by the NYS, Kenya Defense Forces in partnership with Kenya Railways Corporation. So far the teams, which started work on August 1, have cleared bushes on more than 30 kilometres and will meet at Fort-Tenan in Muhoroni subcounty of Kisumu. The Nakuru-Kisumu team will do 125 kilometres and their Kisumu-Nakuru counterparts 95 kilometres. The old railway line has been dormant for 25 years. Mutua said the four months' clearing works were on track to allow the KDF team to start refurbishing the meter-gauge railway. “We are committed to delivering the project within the given time without delays. The NYS will also do other manual work,” he said. Defense CAS Peter Odoyo said the project will take eight months to complete. He spoke when he visited Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika. Nyanza regional police boss Lydia Ligami and county commissioner were present. Odoyo said the KDF and NYS under the presidential directive, are entrusted to rehabilitate the line to make it more vibrant in collaboration with the KRC. "Revamping of the meter-gauge railway which had been neglected for decades will help revive economic activities along the rail route. It is going to open various business opportunities," Odoyo said. He said KDF will do the bulk of the work such as culverts, bridges, earthwork, and repair of old station buildings, which are dilapidated. Other works include geometry and drainage correction, track renewal, ballasting and viaduct repairs among others. “Our military has experienced engineers. We have already done the Nairobi to Nanyuki line with plans to do Gilgil to Nyahururu and now Nakuru to Kisumu,” Odoyo said. The CAS said the Nakuru-Kisumu railway is very important to the newly-rehabilitated Sh3 billion Kisumu port which requires cargo to make it viable. “It is being prioritised and we thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for entrusting the work to military and NYS. We are going to deliver within stipulated time if we get the materials on time,” Odoyo said. The Kenya Railways will provide the required materials. Odoyo said Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga were committed to revamping the Kisumu port and Nakuru-Kisumu railway to boost regional trade. Upon completion, he said, businesses that relied on the railway will bounce back,  creating opportunities for youths. Locals have been concerned that the Sh3 billion port risks being a white elephant project should the route remain neglected. Odoyo affirmed the government's commitment to the project, saying the Ugandan government was also working on their port. Marine operations, Kenya Railways director Mwalimu Disi said the railway line once complete will provide both cargo and passenger travel services. He said the Sh3.8 billion will cater for the materials, casual labourers and engineers. Disi said KDF will lay the lines, fasten the slippers and pack the ballast within eight months. “Locals are going to be recruited for casual works supervised by Kenya Railways engineers,” he added. After the rehabilitation of the line, Disi said, all rail services-will be restored. Currently, the MV Uhuru ship has done 17 commercial trips to Port Belt and Jinja since December. “We have so far transported 17,000 litres of fuel. That translates to one million litres of fuel per trip,” he said. Odoyo noted that MV Uhuru was rehabilitated by Kenya Navy at about Sh200 million. The original contractors wanted about Sh1.8 billion saving Kenyans of more than Sh1.6 billion. “We are at the disposal of Kenya Railways and if they want more support from the Navy to rehabilitate more ships we are ready to come in,” he said. Odoyo said there was a need for more ships for cargo and passengers to boost regional trade. “We must have commercial activities here at the port moving to put money in the pockets of the people in the region,” he added. The CAS said the railway and port, among other projects, are essential for the survival of the people from the Western Kenya region. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said the government was committed to ensuring all the projects in the region are completed. He cited the railway, Kisumu port, and roads as some of the projects the President was keen to fulfil. Kibicho said the reopening of the Kisumu Port was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.   (edited by o. owino)