A police detective has denied using an electrified torture seat to extract information on the killing of Kabete MP George Muchai and two others. Corporal Abisalom Maleya of now-disbanded Flying Squad on Wednesday told city chief magistrate Roslyne he does not know what an electrified torture seat is. He was testifying in the robbery with violence trial against seven suspects. Muchai, his driver and two bodyguards were killed in the early morning of February 7, 2015, in Nairobi. Maleya said he only interviewed the suspects but never tortured them. When asked by counsel if he informed the suspects of their right to remain silent, Maleya said he did not but said all were above 18 years and should be aware of their rights. Muchai, his driver Stephen Wambungu, PC Samwel Kimathi and PC Samwel Lekakanyi were fatally shot. Seven suspects have denied the charges, saying they did not take part in the violent robbery. Chief magistrate Oganyo told the prosecution to line up remaining witnesses and complete their case by October 1. On Wednesday, Maleya recalled how police arrested four suspected killers and recovered a G3 refile believed to have been used in the killings. “Following an intelligence report on February, 13, 2015, at 10.30am, we proceeded over to Toll Station Estate in Kiambu county and arrested Mustafa Kimani Anyoni, alias Musto, and Stephen Ashtiva Lipapo,” he testified. Maleya said when the two suspected they were police, they ran in different directions. The public helped in arresting them. The two were taken to Ruiru police station where they were interviewed about their accomplices. “Your Honour, in the interview we established that the four -  Anyonyi, Lipapa, Isabwa and Kimani - were part of the gang that killed them," the ex-Flying Squad member testified. He said that Anyonyi then led them to a house in Kinoo 87 belonging to Isabwa where they recovered a G3 rifle, which had an erased serial number but was believed to have been used in the killings. “When we knocked at the door, Njeri, wife to Isabwa, opened the door while he ran and hide under the bed at the bedroom,” Maleya testified. Police also recovered six rounds of 7.62mm ordinary ammunition, 17.62mm ordinary with a weak charge, a bridge block with an erased serial number, a pair of pliers, a pair of black hoods and a blue bag. Njeri was also arrested and all were taken into police custody. Maleya could not explain why he did not use gloves in handling the recovered items to be used in evidence. The hearing will resume on Wednesday next week. (Edited by V. Graham) 