President Uhuru Kenyatta has told politicians not to drag him into the wrangles at the Senate over the revenue sharing formula. The President said that the formula was proposed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and has nothing to do with him. “Do not pull me into the Senate debate. That was not my formula, it's CRA's. My deeds will speak louder,” Uhuru said. He spoke on Friday at KICC when he issued 38,000 land title deeds to residents of Embakasi Ranching, Tassia, Korogocho and Mbagathi River Bank estates in Nairobi county. He added that “Hii formula ilitolewa na wale watu wa CRA ikaenda Senate kusema watu wagawe pesa kwa njia ya haki (This formula was developed by CRA and taken to the Senate so funds are divided equitably).” Uhuru however, added that the truth will be revealed and that denying Nairobi a big share in the name of 'it being a more developed county' will hurt slum dwellers. “Kwa nini mwananchi wa Nairobi, eti inasemekana kwamba Nairobi ni mji tajiri, wewe ambaye unahishi Embakasi na Korogocho na bado unafunga choo kwa karatasi unaambiwa huna haki ya kupata pesa. Ukweli na haki utajitokeza.” This translates to, "Why is it being said that Nairobi is a rich city, yet there are people in Korogocho who still use fly toilets. Don't they have a right to the money. The truth will come out." His remarks come as the Senate is expected to end its stalemate which has delayed disbursement of funds to counties. The Senate on Monday night adjourned for the ninth time to allow the Special Committee formed by opposing sides to reach consensus on the Third Basis for formula allocation among counties. The 12-member committee consists of Johnson Sakaja, Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Ledama Ole Kina (Narok), Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu), Stewart Madazyo (Kilifi) and Nderitu Kinyua (Laikipia). Siaya Senator James Orengo moved the motion to adjourn and it was seconded by Samuel Poghisio. Uhuru said that his administration is determined to fulfill its promises to the people and will not be derailed by anyone. He urged landowners given the title deeds to make good use of them and not to be blackmailed by cartels. At the same time, the President said that the issuance of title deeds will be done in other parts of the country to benefit those who have been deprived of the right to own land. He regretted that wrangles fueled by selfish political interests were delaying the national land titling exercise. "But because of conflicts. Especially conflicts involving leaders, this program (land titling) had not been done. But today we are fulfilling it," Uhuru said. Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga had earlier weighed in on the revenue debate, asking senators to ensure that they reached a win-win solution.