Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has linked top officials in the Interior ministry to the so-called 'system'. During an interview with Citizen TV on Wednesday night, said he wished former Speaker Beatrice Elachi well following her exit from the county assembly. He, however, claimed Elachi was used by the 'system' to cause division in the county assembly. Prodded on who the 'system' is, he linked Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and PS Karanja Kibicho to the so-called system. “The people who are messing this country is ‘the system’ not the President… The ‘system’ is Matiang’i, Kibicho and the ‘deep state’…” Sonko said. He said the security apparatus should be held to account for the dramatic arrest of three senators before they appeared to vote on the revenue sharing formula. On Monday, senators Christopher Langata (Bomet), Cleophas Malalah (Kakamega) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburi) were arrested by DCI officers from their homes in Nairobi in a mafia-like and driven to their respective counties to record statements. However, Matiang'i appeared before the Senate on Wednesday and denied there being a link between the arrests and the vote. The CS appeared alongside DCI boss George Kinoti and IG Hillary Mutyambai. Sonko talked about Kenya returning to the 'dark days' flashing back to a time he was allegedly pinched near his thighs with pliers. Meanwhile, the governor said he does not care if MCAs try to impeach him, adding he would give them a 'complete knock out' in court. "Do I look like I care... I would not be the first governor to be impeached," he said. He was responding to a question on whether he was worried he could be the next on the chopping block after changes made at the county assembly. This is after former Nairobi Mayor Geoffrey Majiwa was nominated by ODM for city county assembly deputy speaker. The nomination of the Baba Dogo ward representative is part of last week's deal in which the Minority (ODM) supported Jubilee’s Benson Mutura for the speaker’s position. A written communication from secretary general Edwin Sifuna and national chairperson John Mbadi said the nomination (by the party’s Central Committee) was “in line with the ongoing efforts to create a harmonious environment in the House”. Sifuna noted that Jubilee had pledged to give the the deputy speaker’s seat to the Minority. Deputy Speaker John Kamangu, a Jubilee MCA, has yet to resign. On whether his pledge to work with NMS boss Mohammed Badi will last, Sonko said, "It depends... before the President intervened we were not good friends with Badi… If we follow the law then I’m going to be very good friends with my brother General Badi." On his tweet last month where he said he had alcohol before signing the deed of transfer and didn't see the contents of the document, Sonko said, "It's not a crime to drink... I like telling Kenyans the truth... it's true... before meeting the President I had a few drinks..." He dismissed claims of engaging in politics in reference to President Uhuru Kenyatta's rebuke earlier this month. Sonko said he is still firmly in charge of Nairobi county, citing events he attends in his capacity as governor. 