Elgeyo Marakwet senator has welcomed ODM Raila Odinga's latest stand on the revenue sharing formula. Raila on Wednesday made a U-turn and stated he no longer supports the third basis revenue sharing formula, but instead says no county should lose funds. "It should be a win win situation," he said during an interview with NTV. Raila on Wednesday said he did not have all the details on the CRA third basis formula. "When I first wrote the statement, I had just come back from (treatment in) Dubai," he said during an interview with NTV. He said he was not aware that the report by the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) had been changed by the parliamentary budget committee. Via Twitter on Thursday, Murkomen commended Raila for the decision. "I welcome Right Hon. @RailaOdinga ‘s decision to support a Win -Win formula for county allocation revenue. This together with the earlier support and firm stand by HE @WilliamsRuto helps the country find solution," he said. "Thank God my adjournment motion is beginning to bear good fruit. To all my colleagues... who have stood firm for a United Kenya May the Lord bless you. Keep walking." Raila had on Sunday met with a section of Jubilee leaders to discuss the third basis revenue sharing formula. The leaders met at Cotu chairperson Francis Atwoli’s home in Kajiado County. Last month, DP William Ruto said the revenue formula debate was unnecessarily divisive. "The legislature must as per its mandate structure a win-win formula that is sensitive to proposals made without hurting any county. Inawezakana," the DP tweeted. Senators on Tuesday voted to adjourn debate on the revenue sharing formula proposed by Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja. The formula ensures no county gets less money than the amount they received in the last financial year. Tuesday's adjournment makes it the seventh time the debate was postponed. The senators have failed to agree on a formula despite weeks of negotiations. The stalemate has stalled the passage of County Allocation Revenue Bill.