The delayed consecration of the new Catholic bishop of Kitui Joseph Mwongela started on Sunday when he took the oath of affirmation. The ceremony at Kitui Catholic cathedral was presided over by Archbishop Anthony Muheria of Nyeri. The Sunday event attended by Bishop James Maria Wainaina of Murang'a signifies the start the process to install Mwongela who was appointed by Pope Francis in March. His installation has been delayed by the outbreak of Covid-19 that resulted in government restrictions on gatherings including church functions. The enthronement of Bishop Mwongela is scheduled to take place at St Charles Lwanga School in the outskirts of Kitui town this  Saturday, August 29. The function was earlier slated to take place on August 8 but was pushed forward due to the spike in Covid-19 infections in the country. In a letter dated July 30 and addressed to religious men and women as well as all Christians of the Catholic Diocese of Kitui, Muheria said the delay of the installation of the bishop-elect was meant to allow at least 1,000 people to attend the ceremony. “In view of the pronouncement by His Excellency the President and of other considerations, it has become clear that we can only hold our celebration as planned on the 8th of August with a maximum of 100 people attending,” wrote Muheria, Mwongela's predecessor. Archbishop Muheria on Sunday said the new bishop faced a Herculean task in his new responsibility. He prayed that he will be guided by God’s grace to perform to expectation. Bishop Wainaina described Bishop Mwongela as a clergyman of impeccable qualities and experience. He said he fitted the bill for his demanding responsibility. Pope Francis appointed Father Mwongela as the fourth bishop of Kitui in March this year. The letter of his appointment was sent to the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops by the Apostolic Nuncio to Kenya Archbishop Hubertus van Megen. At the time of his appointment, the bishop-elect had been the vicar general of Kitui since March 6, 2015. Edited by Henry Makori