The giant Dock Workers Union will on Tuesday move to court to sue the Kenya Ports Authority over alleged privatisation of berth number seven and eight at the port of Mombasa. DWU Secretary General Simon Sang on Saturday accused the current KPA acting managing director and the head of legal services of signing off the transfer of the two berths to private companies. Sang said at least 625 KPA employees working at berth seven and eight will be declared redundant. According to Sang, a private company has illegally been granted the mandate of handling stevedoring services (loading or offloading cargo) at the two berths. This company is already at the site putting up cargo heavy cargo handling equipment at the two berths. “Why would KPA management transfer public resources to private hands without going through a legal process. Privatisation can only happen through Parliament or privatisation commission,” said Sang. Speaking during a press conference in his office, Sang said the unfortunate accident that happened on Friday evening at the berth number seven was because of poor workmanship. He claimed the private company, which has taken over berth seven and eight, was installing poor quality hoppers (fertilizer bagging machines) when accident occurred. Two people, an engineers and ordinary worker, died during the unfortunate incident. Six others were rushed to Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital for treatment. Sang, who represents over 5,000 KPA employees, said the machines which were being installed had not been certified by the KPA engineering department. “The accident that happens on Friday evening was because of negligence. The hoppers were not certified and interestingly they had started to be used before even the construction was completed. These private companies want to maximize on profits,” he said. He said according to KPA engineers, berth numbers one to 19 were designed to handle and store transit cargo within certain weight limits. However, the private company which has taken over berth seven and eight is currently putting up heavy machinery on the weak grounds. “Besides the fatal accident that happened on Friday, we are more worried with the looming disaster that Shed seven and eight will collapse within a month because they are standing on weak grounds. Those facilities currently being installed are heavy and cannot be sustained,” warned Sang. DWU asked the Ministry of Transport and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to intervene in this issue immediately. “We are moving to court, but court processes usually take a long time. We are therefore asking the EACC to investigate this issue and the Ministry of Transport to reign on the KPA management to stop whatever is happening,” said Sang.