Youthful Bonface Osano has formally declared  his bid to oust Nick Mwendwa in the forthcoming Football Kenya Federation polls. Osano said if elected, his first task will be to audit the Kandanda House books to establish the assets and liabilities of the office when elected. The youthful contestant, who is a freelance sports journalist, yesterday announced that he had joined the race alongside ex Kenyan international Innocent Mutiso as his running mate. Osano said he was tired of regimes blaming their predecessors whenever they fail to deliver on their mandate and the ever piling debts at the Kasarani-based office. "We will be open with everyone when we assume office and conduct an audit to establish the liabilities and assets of the office. We will tell everyone this is what we have inherited and the method we will come up to clear the debts. If we put in place good governance which will attract sponsors, by the time I leave FKF will be self reliant, " he said Besides conducting an audit, Osano who downplayed the rumours that he was the current regime's mole, promised to bring professionals on board to help him deliver on his promises and take football to the next level. "I will have a team made of qualified personnel who know what it means to run football. We aim to inject professionalism in the game for it to grow. I am an independent candidate who is ambitious and has met all the requirements set out by the Electoral board," added the former administrator at  Agro Chemicals football club Meanwhile, Mutiso exuded confidence that his combination with Osano will send Mwendwa home. The former Mathare United winger said he intends to pick from where he left as the Kefwa chairman and work closely with retired footballers for the betterment of the game. "I achieved a lot during my tenure as the Kefwa chairman. I fought for the welfare of our players across all leagues and the results are there for all to see. Retired players have been challenged to throw their hats into the ring and I have accepted it and I believe we will emerge victorious, " said the former Gor Mahia man At the same time, former Kenyan international Titus Mulama who was present during the announcement challenged the youthful duo to redeem the image of Kenyan football which he noted had sunk to regrettable lows. " It has been the wish of ex players to see one of them running for the top seat and with Mutiso and Osano at the helm then I am sure we will get back on track. I plead with them to put the interests of players first and work hard to redeem the image of Kenyan football.We used to be a powerhouse in the region but we are struggling at the moment, " said the former Sofapaka player.