Hussein Asri should be eight years old this year, growing alongside his identical twin brother, enveloped in the warmth of a family of six. Hussein should be in Grade 1 or 2 alongside his brother, coming home every evening to his hardworking parents. He is not. He was last at home in 2013. His boda boda rider father, Vincent Onyango Oduor, has done everything possible to find his son. From visiting witches in both Uganda and Kenya, visiting religious diviners, and advertising in the media in search of his child, and, of course, the police. So is Hussein alive? Does the family keep hoping that one day he will just pop up? Should they bury an emblem, believing that the child died, or should his wife bear another child to replace him? This family is at a crossroads. Hussein was last seen on March 6, 2013. His mother had left the twins in the care of their elder brother, who was in Standard 7, as she went to a local women's chama. His father said that on the day he went missing, his wife was operating a kiosk and tailoring business at their home adjacent to the Sio Port market in Busia. After his wife had left the twins with their eldest son, a woman he described as a stranger came to the shop enquiring about his wife. She decided to wait for her return. Onyango was also away. “I’m told she sat at the shop till evening and the two little kids were playing around. She talked with them, until she gained their trust,” he said. Meantime his elder son stepped out, leaving the woman alone with the boys. Hussein got tired after playing for hours and the friendly stranger offered to hold him. He fell asleep in her arms. She left as dusk fell and never returned. "As my elder son came back to the shop, he saw the woman crossing the road with my child into the market. When asked, she promised to be back in a few minutes explaining she was going to close her stalls. "My son trusted her," Onyango said. The woman stranger made Hussein feel safe but she took advantage of his trust and stole him from his family. The following day, the family went to the Sio Port police station and reported the child missing, OB number 12/07/03/2013. Not much has come from the police. "I feel they left us on our own because I never got any feedback about my lost son," Onyango said. He visited witches in Kenya and Uganda and consulted religious diviners. Onyango also travels to Nairobi and other places whenever a report suggests a lost child has been found. It was never Hussein. "The loss of my son has really destabilised my family," Onyango said. To finance his frantic searches, he had to sell his two motorbikes and his eldest son had to drop out of high school. "It's been really tough," he said. "If my son is alive wherever he is, I hope one day we will find him," a resigned Onyango said. He said he's almost giving up and his wife has decided to bear another child to 'replace' Hussein "because it's like baby Asri was not really for us". (Edited by V. Graham)