Legislators want the Education ministry to spend the capitation funds on the construction of classrooms to avert space crisis when schools reopen in January. The MPs say the money allocated for textbooks and sports activities has not been spent since schools were closed in March and that it is adequate to build the extra classrooms. They say since it is uncertain when the Covid-19 infections curve will flatten, the country should move fast and prepare schools for reopening. Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe has sought a statement from Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on the status of the said funds. He argues that a chunk of the funds has not been used since mid March when the ministry suspended learning . “Could the Cabinet Secretary utilise the capitation funds for infrastructure development to comply with MoH measures for social distancing?” the Navakholo MP asked. Principals recently cried foul that the ministry reversed the said capitation funds shortly after receiving notification of their disbursement. Schools are wasting away following the prolonged closure, a situation that presents extra cash needs to spruce them up to meet Covid-19 sanitation requirements. The ministry had updated the National Education Management Information System (Nemis) showing Sh3,725 per student was disbursed to operations and tuition accounts. Wangwe also wants Magoha to provide details of how much in capitation funds was released in the financial year ending June 2020. The CS was also asked to state how much of the allocation is yet to be released to primary and secondary schools. The MP further wants details of how much the ministry has spent on the Strengthening Mathematics and Science in Secondary Education (SMASSE) programme. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi weighed in on the matter, saying it was time the ministry started building necessary physical facilities in all public schools. The House view is that schools must reopen and that the sector leaders should not keep calling for people to wait until the curve flattens. MPs say that it is unfair to make arrangements to work when children are still at home with no much preparations for schools' reopening. Going by average classroom sizes, a room may accommodate about 25 students – creating the need for extra space, and more teachers. Muturi said: “The Ministry of Education must have some plans about how to deal with this situation should the curve remain up there. We cannot keep our children at home.” On the capitation funds, the Speaker holds that since the money is unused, it is better spent to improve schools. “Those monies can be used to make the infrastructure in our public schools almost first class,” Muturi said. He asked the ministry to take advantage of the period schools are closed to build the required facilities. “They should not just be saying we don’t know when we’ll open because of measures for physical distance yet they have the whole of this period to construct the classrooms.” The Speaker said the country should see Covid-19 as a blessing in disguise to address infrastructural needs of public schools in light of the 100 per cent transition. He asked MPs to partner with the ministry as they were best placed to know the conditions of the schools. The Speaker said MPs and leaders cannot continue burying their heads in the sand and turn a blind eye to the sorry state of public primary and secondary schools. He said it was important to restore the public education sector to the level it was in before. “Let us have one day sitting with the committee and discuss this thing. We will attract and retain more teachers who go to private schools when we restore our public education to where it was,” Muturi said. “You (MPs) should be ashamed to see the mushrooming of private schools in your constituencies. We need to have 95 per cent of pupils go to public primary schools.” Education committee chairperson Florence Mutua (Busia Woman Representative) said her team is negotiating for a checklist with the CS to ensure infrastructure is ready in all the constituencies. “If we peak in January, what happens? We will thus work overtime to ensure funding is put to good use,” she said.  - mwaniki fm