The recently launched Judiciary E-filing system of cases and virtual hearings risk collapse if the state fails to fund them properly. Chief Justice David Maraga said on Thursday the ICT department, which is heavily relied upon due to the Covid-19 pandemic, could be slowed down due to lack of funds. He said the system is working well despite a few issues that are being addressed. The CJ spoke at the launch of the Performance Management and Measurement Understandings Evaluation Report 2018-19 and the Strategic Plan for 2019 to 2023. Maraga emphasised the need for funding, saying it's the duty of Parliament's Budget committee to have a view of the nation's affairs and the Judiciary plays a balancing role in Kenya's affairs. "Bear in mind it’s an arm of government. The moment you lose sight of its role, it will be underfunded and the backlog of cases will be there," the CJ said. MP Kanini Kega, the new chairman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, assured the Judiciary he will address its concerns. "As the new chair, I will ensure we will look into the budget and see where we can to address your issues. We want to be able to sit down together and address your concerns," Kega said. He also said there will be a supplementary budget very soon and he would ensure nothing adverse happens to the Judiciary's budget. "I am happy you have been able to look inward and focus on what you are able to do," Kega said. Chairman Clement Kigano of the Legal Affairs Committee said he was fully aware of the problems facing Judiciary. If the Judiciary is inadequately funded, that means "Wanjiku suffers," he said, adding that all arms of government should ensure Wanjiku is not overburdened. “Also, we don’t want to see the CJ suffering when he retires, we want to see adequate maintenance. The way we maintain our judges reflects on our country,” Kigano said The Judiciary has a sympathetic ear at his committee, he said. “Sometimes we look selfish - one arm of government is funded another is not -therefore you cannot function well," he said. Maraga praised judicial officers who have worked hard to handle cases and reduce the backlog. He said the Judiciary has scaled down operations to contain the spread of Covid-19 between April and June. About 27,000 cases were resolved with about 12,000 judgments and hearings. A recent court user survey indicated public satisfaction with services had improved from 64 per cent in 2017-18 to 67 per ent in 2018-19. "This indicates the efforts we are making to improve delivery of services is being appreciated across the country," Maraga said. According to the report launched Thursday, magistrate’s courts were ranked as the best performing. “I am extending a cash reward of Sh150,000 to the best performer stations to undertake a project of their choice. Being at the top of any category is not easy, and I encourage you to continue working hard to maintain the momentum,” Maraga said. DCJ Philomena Mwilu also praised the Judiciary staff for its hard work during the pandemic. She said the Judiciary had lost one of its own to the virus but did not identify the person. (Edited by V. Graham)  