The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been asked to probe how South Mugirango constituency has been utilising funds allocated for CDF. A resident of Nyamarambe Township has petitioned the anti-graft agency to probe claims of irregularities in the purchase of dozens of buses for schools using National Government Constituency Development Fund. The constituency is represented by MP Silvanus Osoro. While MPs are not members of the National Government Constituency Fund Development Committees, they sit as ex-officio members. MPs were barred from being members of CDF committees to minimise their influence in the management of the kitty. The resident also wants the commission to probe if there has been an illegal award of a lucrative tender for training of boda boda riders. He has asked the investigators to probe and decide if the claims meet the threshold for further action. According to the petition received at EACC headquarters on August 24, the complainant wants the agency to investigate a Sh10 million tender awarded to a driving school and establish if the process was competitive. He also wants EACC to probe if there has been undue pressure in the award of CDF tenders for the construction of classrooms, social halls and school latrines. He wants EACC to investigate if the constituency has been constructing classrooms at inflated costs. The commission has also been asked to probe if the tenders are controlled by a firm associated with some of those tasked with managing the fund. "In some cases, the cost of a classroom being renovated exceeds the cost of constructing a new unit,” the petitioner says in his complaint letter. In an audio recording to be part of the evidence, one of those tasked with overseeing the fund is heard asking the chairperson of a primary school management committee to sign a cheque for a contractor before completion of the work. “I am being told it is you who has refused to sign the cheque, why?” the person is heard asking the school chairman who told him the executive committee had suspended payments until works are completed. Project management committees are responsible for signing cheques for CDF tenders. “It is my prayer that EACC will conduct investigations with a view to bringing the culprits to book,” the petitioner says. The petitioner also wants the commission to investigate if buses acquired through CDF were bought at inflated costs. “The buses are scrap bought and fabricated to look like new buses after painting,” he says, adding that most of the buses that have been acquired do not meet the Education ministry's safety standards for learners. According to the petition, the buses have been bought at Sh10 million despite most of them having low-carrying capacity.  Edited by R.Wamochie