A widow of ex-spy chief James Kanyotu risks being charged with threatening to kill her stepson to disinherit him from his father's estate in Ruiru, Kiambu county. Willy Kihara Kanyotu, son of the late boss of the Special Branch (now the National Intelligence Service), filed an application in the High Court asking the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to probe Jane Gathoni Muraya over an alleged attempt to eliminate him for fighting for a share of the estate. Justice Margaret Muigai allowed Kihara's plea and issued an order directing the DCI to institute investigations into the allegation with a view of taking action. "In light of the various complaints of threats to life to various members of the family of Kanyotu, each of them shall file affidavits and serve," the judge ruled. She said the DCI shall investigate the matter and determine source of SMS/phone contact and provide security to the threatened parties during court proceedings. A forensic examiner's report on a letter sent to a hitman filed in court as part of evidence identifies Muraya as the author. Kihara claimed that his three stepbrothers have since died under mysterious circumstances. He asked police to hasten the probe and charge those responsible to avoid further loss of lives. Kihara says the threats and attempt on his life are due to his fight to protect the estate of his late father. He says in his affidavit that to date the estate has lost properties worth in excess of Sh10 billion due to wanton disposal by the administrators to the detriment of the other beneficiaries. Kihara says the administrators have without a just cause failed to pay him his fair share of the proceeds obtained after the disposal of property situated in Kiambu county. "I am also privy to the fact that some persons have previously been hired by one of the administrators of the estate to have me killed for fighting for my rights as son and beneficiary of my father's estate," Kihara says. He says he has received several shorts messages through his mobile phone warning him to keep off the estate's affairs otherwise "I will regret my actions in due course". Kihara said he has been warned not to step in court by persons unknown to him, whom he suspects must be the same persons who are totally opposed to his inclusion as a beneficiary in his father's estate. Edited by Henry Makori