 The election of a deputy speaker is top on the agenda for the new Nairobi county assembly Speaker Benson Mutura. The former Makadara MP was on Friday elected the third speaker of the city county assembly following the resignation of Beatrice Elachi earlier in the week. Ruai MCA John Kamangu who has been serving as the deputy speaker is expected to step down on Monday. Kamangu was facing an impeachment motion that had been signed by 55 MCAs. He has been the deputy speaker since 2017 and also chairs the committee that brings together the heads of various county assembly committees. The Star has established that the position of deputy speaker will be given to the Minority side in a deal struck between Jubilee and ODM members. “The election of a new deputy speaker is the first business Speaker Mutura will handle in the house as the assembly leadership needs to be put intact,” Deputy Majority Whip Waithera Chege said. She also confirmed that the process is most likely to happen this week before Friday and with the seat to ve given to an ODM ward representative. Chege said Jubilee MCAs will have a consensus-building meeting ahead of the election. “We have to vote as one voice as part of a deal to have a unified assembly with all MCAs pulling towards a similar direction,” Waithera said. The county assembly is currently on recess after former speaker Elachi adjourned the house until September 8. She also suspended all physical sittings, ruling that all plenary proceedings and committee sessions be held virtually. Only the house leadership and the mover of motion were allowed to be in the chambers during the plenary sessions However, Mutura has the powers to reverse the ruling and issue new guidelines. The speaker will also be expected to constitute a new Speaker’s panel after the previous team was disbanded by Elachi earlier this year. The speaker’s panel consists of MCAs who are expected to lead plenary sessions in the absence of both the speaker and his deputy. MCAs Emily Oduor (Nominated), Silas Matara (Dandora Two), Evans Otiso (Mukuru Kwa Njenga) and Antony Kimemia (Harambee) were members of the disbanded panel. “The speaker’s panel is an important organ but it is up to Mutura to decide whether he will need one. But he as to consult widely across the house for members to come up with individuals whom they think can be part of the panel,” Chege said. Mutura will also decide on the composition of the house business committee, select committee and the committee on appointments. The select committee is chaired by the Majority leader and nominates MCAs to serve in different committees. The committee on appointments vet members nominated to serve in the executive and is chaired by the speaker.  Edited by P.O