Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua has said Kenyans have a chance of directly benefitting if the proposed amendments to the Constitution succeed. Reviewing the Constitution to allow elected leaders to join the Cabinet will positively impact on individual Kenyan’s lives at the grassroots, she said. Mutua said elected leaders understand problems affecting ordinary people better and constituting a Cabinet that includes them would ease delivery of primary services to the electorate. "When the constitutional amendment process comes, we want Kenyans to be vigilant and we will give them advice as leaders,” Mutua said. “I have been MP for the last eight years and if I am given a Cabinet position, the work I would do to Kenyans would be easier because as MP, I'm on the ground and I know the problems that Kenyans go through. "If I am selected Education Cabinet Secretary, for instance, I understand how our schoolgirls face challenges in getting sanitary pads, as well as the issue of early pregnancies.” President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are pushing for amendments to the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative. Among issues the BBI report highlights is the expansion of the Executive by introducing new positions, including prime minister and two deputies. Also key is the proposal to introduce the position of official Opposition leader. The report also suggests that Cabinet secretaries be appointed from elected MPs and technocrats, unlike in the present case where MPs have to resign if appointed to the position. Uhuru has been at the forefront of calling for the amendment to “correct what went wrong in 2010”. Mutua said Kenyans should unite in improving the Constitution. She said Uhuru and Raila cannot mislead the nation by introducing amendments that will derail the quest for democracy and slow down economic growth. “We have already worked as MPs for eight years and as leaders, we have singled out clauses in the Constitution which are not beneficial to Kenyans or which clash with other laws,” she said. “I don’t say that all Cabinet secretaries should come from Parliament, but the President should have a few technocrats. What is important is having people in the Cabinet who directly represent the people in Parliament.” The move to amend the law is, however, drawing opposition from leaders, mainly allied to Deputy President William Ruto. They say Kenya does not need an expanded Executive to improve living standards.