She is a fighter. Her young heart beats for justice for children. This is the story of Joy Ouko, a 15-year-old girl who recently started an online campaign against extrajudicial killing of children. She is overwhelmed and saddened by the senseless killing of children and defilement by those who are meant to protect them, Joy says. “As you know, it is not the first time the police are using excess force and killing children. Our call for action dates back to the death of young Baby Pendo, Geoffrey Mutinda and others. It broke my heart,” she says. She resolved to do something about it. The girl started an online campaign against extrajudicial killings and handed the petition to Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. Joy who is studying in the United Kingdom set up an online petition demanding justice for the killings of children during the Covid-19 curfew. “The petition was to show our government we can no longer sit and watch the unnecessary violence, ruthless shooting, beating and extortion money from innocent Kenyans.” Joy added: "The past year, I have been particularly saddened by increased cases of defilement and incest and the death of young children through police brutality, which is what triggered my campaign." And in less than 24 hours the petition garnered approximately 1,500 signatures. “For weeks we worked around delivering our report and signatures to the Director of Public Prosecutions Mr Noordin Haji,” Joy explains. During her meeting with the DPP, they discussed issues touching on accountability, radical police reform and her plans for a youth open day for the IG, DPP and members of Ipoa to meet the youth and victims of police malpractice in order to understand the issue at grassroots level. “As I still identify my interests and areas of passion, I am very keen on human rights because humanity should be equally respected and protected regardless of age, gender, race or class,” she says. Earlier this year, the government implemented a night curfew to help curb the further spread of Covid-19. However, the dusk-to-dawn curfew has become the cause of numerous killings including the shooting in Nairobi of Yassin Moyo, aged 13. The state has charged police officer Duncan Ndiema with the murder of young Moyo who was killed in Huruma estate. The officer was granted Sh1 million cash bail after he denied killing the young boy. Ndiema appeared before judge Luka Kimaru on June 23. Baby Samantha Pendo who was killed in 2017 during violence linked to the presidential election. The court found five police officers culpable for her death. Kisumu senior resident magistrate Beryl Omolo who presided over the inquest ruled that the evidence indicted the police for the death of the six-month-old baby. Joy who enjoys music, movies and travelling hopes that her voice makes a difference in bringing change to Kenya. “One of my hopes and aspirations is to change the perception society has of young people trying to bring sustainable change to the world, because we are often not taken seriously. It would be incredible if my work inspired and steered more young people in the direction of social justice,” she said. And to the youth she has this to say: “We’re never too young to make a difference in our communities. So, start now.” Edited by Henry Makori