The new formula proposed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation has ignored the significant role played by marine resources and livestock in the growth of the economy, nominated Senator Godfrey Osotsi has said. He blamed that for the likely loss of funds by coastal and northern Kenya counties. Osotsi wants the Senate to factor in the blue economy and livestock farming in the formula to ensure the regions do not suffer financial losses. The ANC lawmaker expressed concern that the formula has put a premium on crop farming and health, to the exclusion of other critical sectors of the economy. He spoke on Saturday at Chepkoyai PAG Church in Hamisi, Vihiga, where he distributed sanitiser to congregants. Osotsi said the blue economy and livestock farming contribute massively to the national development, hence should not be put on the back burner insofar as revenue sharing is concerned. “Counties that border the Indian Ocean and those that border Lake Victoria have heavily supported this country’s economy via the blue economy. The impact of Livestock farming has been overwhelmingly great. "Therefore, there is a need for the Senate to keep that into consideration while deliberating on the formula that is raising tension all over,” Osotsi said. He called for equitable sharing of funds, saying a good formula should not favour specific regions at the expense of the others. "We should even come up with laws that will protect these marginalised counties just like we protected marginalised constituencies," the legislator said. “There are constituencies that never reached the threshold of being a constituency though they were protected by the government." The lawmaker said counties such as Nyamira, Vihiga and Tharaka Nithi were hived off as districts by the late President Daniel Moi, thus deserve protection just as the rest of the 47 counties. He said some counties should be allocated equalisation funds because they get low revenue, a situation that hampers their economic development. "The equalisation fund will create a win-win situation for all counties across the country," Osotsi said.