 Police are looking for suspected gold scammers said to be conning investors of billions of shillings. The gang which is on the run is said to be fleecing traders by selling fake gold in the country. The manhunt for the suspects comes after a licensed Korean gold exporter reported to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations about the operations of the scammers. The trader told the DCI that some people claiming to be directors and employees of a gold firm have been luring foreigners into dubious deals. Kunil Young International Limited, recorded that individuals not known to them have lured foreign buyers to Nairobi in its name only to obtain money and disappear into thin air. According to the firm, the suspects often go underground after pocketing payments, leaving their clients desperate. Some of the conned clients end up complaining to police over the company yet the firm has no knowledge about such transactions. The DCI has written to the Director of Immigrations seeking information that could provide leads to the arrest of the suspects. The suspects include two Kenyans and a Congolese national. They have been identified as Daniel Otieno Ogot and Sikanda Ismail Abdallah Saleh and Congolese Evariste Bwabwa Kazadi. "This office is investigating cases of obtaining money by false pretences, making a false document and impersonation contrary to the penal code," Michael Kemboi from Parklands DCI wrote to the director of Immigration on July 29. The letter adds," The above suspects travel in and out of the country to commit the offences. To enable us further our investigations, kindly provide us with travel history and assist in arrest in case they leave or enter the country from any of our border points and contact us for collection." Kunil Young International Limited has informed investigators that some of the scammers have opened accounts on LinkedIn purporting either to be directors or managers of the firm. This, according to the firm, risks soiling its name having been exclusively licensed in March this year to buy and sell including export of precious metals (gold and silver). Police sources say the suspects are notorious and seem to be operating in an international ring that defrauds traders from as far as Australia and Canada.  