The country’s top security bosses were on Wednesday put to task over the dramatic arrests of three senators on Monday. Interior CS Fred Matiangi, Police IG Hillary Mutyambai and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti were grilled by the Senate Security committee chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. However, journalists were locked out of the high stakes meeting sanctioned by speaker Kenneth Lusaka following an uproar by senators over the arrest of their colleagues. On Monday, senators Christopher Langata (Bomet), Cleophas Malalah (Kakamega) and Steve Lelegwe (Samburi) were arrested by DCI officers from their homes in Nairobi in a mafia-like and driven to their respective counties to record statements. The arrest happened on the day the lawmakers were expected to attend a senate sitting to vote on the crucial third basis for sharing revenue among counties. According to senators who attended the meeting, the three were hard pressed to explain the arrest of the lawmakers on the very day they were expected to vote on the formula. They told the committee that senators were arrested in connection to the ongoing investigations where they are implicated. They were arrested so as to record statements to aide in the investigations. “In all the cases, the matters are still pending. They are still under investigations and they were required to record statements,” Matiangi is said to have told the committee. But the senators demanded to know why the arrests just done had to happen on the day the legislators were expected to take a serious vote on the floor. “Our query was, why the senators were being arrested on the manner they were ere arrested because all those matters appear to be under investigation. Why did it just have to be that day?” Minority Chief Mutula Kilonzo Jr, who attended the meeting at Parliament Buildings, said. The security bosses were unable to explain why the arrests were dramatic but told the committee that it was coincidental that the arrests happened on the day they were expected to vote on the formula. The committee directed the three officers to file a written response, detailing the particulars of the case – when and where they were committed, persons involved and status of investigations. This, according to committee, will help establish where there was malice or hidden motive in the arrest of the senators. On Monday, emotional senators claimed the senators were arrested to ostensibly deny numbers a particular faction in the revenue sharing formula standoff. The three senators, who are all opposing the controversial formula, were released soon after they recorded statements in their respective counties. Speaking at Maralal police station, Lelegwe said DCI officers grilled him over cattle rustling incidences in the county. “I don’t know why they want me to confirm livestock that have been stolen instead they should be the one to confirm and explain to Samburu people why we are losing livestock, government officers, lives and property,” he said Malalah on the other hand was grilled and release by police officers in Mumias over alleged breach of Covid 19 regulations.’ Langat recorded a statement at Bomet police station in collection to an oath he allegedly administered on some 200 youths to attack a neighboring community. Meanwhile, Kenyans have condemned the ejection of journalists from the the meeting. Journalists forced to camp out Parliament's main entrance, at sometime chase away by security officers. Those who had accessed the venue were ordered out. "What are you doing here? I don't remember calling you. Get out. we shall call you when we need you," Haji told journalist.' While criticizing the move, Nandi senator Samson Cherargei tweeted, "Decision by senate committee of National Security to kick out media during grilling of CS Fred Matiangi over arrests of senators Langat, Lelegwe and Malalah is retrogressive and illegal." Senator Mutula said, "I disagree with the decision of senate committee on security barring media from grilling of the CS Interior, IG Mutyambai and DCI Kinoti on the unlawful arrest and detention of senators Malala, Lelegwe and Langat. The public have a right to know." Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen said he was shocked by the chairman's decision. "If the committee cannot stand up for colleagues, institution of senate and democracy, then something is really rotten in the state of Kenya," he said. 