It has been all over television with some of the recovered Covid-19 patients claiming that the concoction that they took made them well. A typical example is Citizen TV's anchor Jeff Koinange who tested positive and told the world how he has been drinking the concoction every now and then. He has since been cured of the virus. But he is not alone, Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau also told the nation that he has been taking the concoction to help him with boosting his immunity. Speaking during one of the press briefings last week, MOH acting director doctor Patrick Amoth said the concoction which is - Ginger, lemon, honey and garlic - is not a cure for the disease. “Ginger, lemon and honey are good because they are sources of vitamins and micro-nutrients, but the message to take home today is that there is still no cure for Covid-19. I will not stop you from taking your ginger honey or lemon as many times as you want but for sure it’s not a treatment for Covid-19.” he said. But with the cold season trickling in in many parts of the country, the concoction is the only sure bet that someone can rely on in kicking away the flu. Coronavirus like any other has its symptoms which are -cough, running nose, itchy throat, tiredness among others. The concoction is to majorly relieve a person from the itchy throat, the flu and the runny nose. But then, how is it prepared ? When these natural ingredients are put together they create a functional drink that can help you to start feeling better from the inside out. Though their prices have hit the roof, they are still a good booster to one's immunity during this pandemic. To yield the benefits and get optimal results from the mixture, you need to consume it consistently. When making this delicious health concoction, always use fresh ginger , fresh lemon, fresh garlic rather than artificial ones from the bottle. I know that people might have different ways of making this drink but there is a better way to do it. Take your ginger and cut it into a piece that you feel will be enough for you. It should not be a small piece. Take a motor and a pestle, and grind the ginger until it becomes fine. After that, remove it with a spoon and set it aside. Peel four cloves of garlic as well and grind it in the motor then set aside next to the ginger that you had grinded. Take a sufuria with water and put it in the heat. Take your garlic and ginger then add to the water in the cooker . Allow it to boil for 10 minutes before you remove it. Once it is ready, pour it in a cup then cut your lemon into half and squeeze the lemon juice into the mixture in the cup. It is at this point that you can add a tablespoon of raw honey. If you like, you can add  a dash of cinnamon to improve the taste. Remember to take the concoction while hot or warm. Others mix the chopped ginger and garlic, and lemon cut into pieces into the sufuria then they leave it to simmer before they can add the honey. Remember that this will make your concoction to become bitter but it can still work as the one prepared above. GINGER BENEFITS Ginger is used for its anti-nausea properties being traced back to ancient times, ginger may be one of the longest-used natural stomach ache remedies. Ginger has the ability to help with both a stomach ache as well as nausea morning sickness. One of the health benefits of ginger is the anti-inflammatory effects it can have on the body. Research suggests that ginger may have anti-diabetic properties. A 2015 study of participants with type 2 diabetes showed that taking ginger per day lowered blood sugar levels and improved various heart disease risk factors in patients. HONEY Raw honey is also a source of antioxidants, important components that help to block free radicals in the body and to protect our cells. These antioxidants help to prevent a host of diseases, making them a natural immune system booster and defender. Honey has been shown also to help soothe a cough and itchy throat. Increasing scientific evidence shows that a single dose of honey can reduce mucus secretion and coughs. LEMON Lemon has been used medicinally for thousands of years because it is  rich in vitamin C. The vitamin we all turn to in order to try and fend off the common cold, but they are full of pectin, a natural fiber found in fruit. GARLIC Garlic is going to provide you relief from that stubborn cold and flu. Taking 2-3 cloves of raw or cooked garlic a day or sipping some garlic tea (with a touch of honey or ginger to lift up the taste) is not only going to relieve a stuffy nose and cure the cold but also build your immunity against these frequent visitors over time. So you can imagine when you combine all these,  you will quickly get relief from that cold or that itchy throat or that stuffy nose. To yield the benefits and get optimal results from drinking the concoction, you need to consume it consistently, preferably in the morning, lunchtime and evening before bed. Or you can drink it twice  a day depending on how serious the situation is.