At least 18 schools serving about 5,000 learners have so far been flooded as water continues to surge around Lake Baringo. More than 30,000 people have been displaced after their homes were flooded. The victims are out in the cold and have appealed for humanitarian help. They need of food and nonfood items like tents, clothing, drugs, utensils and mosquito nets. Last week, Governor Stanley Kiptis termed the expansion of the lake a rare phenomenon. “The situation is aggravated by the heavy rain which continues to pound the county since April,” Kiptis said as he called for help from national and international agencies. On Wednesday, Loruk Primary School head teacher Luka Kandie confirmed that the water had covered his school compound. “The water continues to surge day and night and in the next one week both the primary and secondary school structures will be submerged completely,” Kandie said. Luckily, children are currently at home after the closure of schools in March owing to Covid-19. “As parents, we are worried about where to take our children when learning resumes next year,” Loruk resident Harun Cheburet said. He said the rising water has put the residents especially children at risk of drowning and attacks by crocodiles and hippos that are moving closer to public facilities and people’s homes. Cheburet urged the government to urgently intervene by allocating funds to relocate residents and reconstruct the flooded schools. “The lake has expanded by pushing its shores up to seven kilometers from its original level,” resident Wesley Cheptumo said. Some of the affected schools are Loruk, Sokotei, Ng'ambo, Kiserian, Salabani and Lake Baringo primary and secondary schools. Others are Ng’enyin, Noosukro, Rugus, Lorok, Leswa and Sintaan primary schools. Rift Valley regional education director John Ololtuaa said already his officers are on the ground collecting data on the affected schools. “As a ministry we shall do everything possible even if it means relocating the children to ensure no learner misses school,” Ololtuaa said. The swollen lake borders Baringo North, Tiaty and Baringo South subcounties. It is the second largest in the Rift Valley after Lake Turkana. The rising water levels threatens to join the nearby Lake 94 and the alkaline Lake Bogoria. A number of tourist hotels, dispensaries and churches are flooded. Roads have been rendered impassable. Ilchamus ward MCA Joseph ole Parsalach said the water has covered farmland in local irrigation schemes like Perkerra, Sintaan, Ng’ambo, Mosuro, Sandai and Kiserian. “We are now asking the government to consider compensating the residents,” Parsalach said. He said frequent earthquakes occurring in the lake posed more risks to the locals. “There is a need for research scientists to tour the area urgently to ascertain the cause of the earthquakes and the scary fissures seen in the islands,” Parsalach said. Last week, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa visited the lake and attributed the rising water levels to climate change. He further attributed it to the ongoing heavy rains that continue to pound most parts of the county since late last month. Wamalwa urged the families whose houses are flooded to consider moving to safer ground to avoid loss of lives. He said the government had set aside funds to rehabilitate at least 10 affected schools ahead of reopening next year. “As government, we are always well prepared to tackle emergencies as they occur,” the CS said. “We cannot blame anybody for the situation. It all happened naturally. What we just need is humanitarian assistance,” Ole Parsalach said. Water Rescue and Safety International chairman Joshua Chepsergon said the situation is getting out of hand. He noted hotels such as Soi Safari Lodge, Lake Breeze, Desert Rose Camp and Block Hotel were already flooded, putting the county at risk of losing millions of shillings. River Perkerra and El’Molo which flow into the lake have burst and changed course, therefore escalating the floods. The situation is largely attributed to blockage by overgrown Prosopis Juliflora (Mathenge) weed. “As a county we cannot manage to contain the enormous situation alone. We definitely need financial and technical support from partners,” Governor Kiptis said. Edited by Henry Makori