Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has denounced a Kenya National Bureau of Statistics report listing Busia among the poorest counties. The report released this week ranked Busia among Kenya’s 10 poorest counties. It said 434,080 people in the border county live below the poverty line.  Busia ,going by the Kenya National Population Census 2019 Report, has a population of 893,681. “Busia is far much ahead of other counties with two sugar factories and other investment opportunities that abound in the county. It is also common knowledge that virtually all the residents of the county cannot miss a meal per day,” Ojaamong said Wednesday. “My government meets all parameters cited in the report including proper nutrition, health, education, child protection, information, water, sanitation and housing.” According to the report, Busia is among counties with a large fraction of the population living below the poverty line. It listed Turkana as the poorest county, with 752,359 people living below the poverty line. Others poor counties are Kakamega (580,834 people), Mandera (513,207), Kilifi (473,738), Kitui (459,250 people) and Kisii where 395,800 people are classified as poor. Ojaamong said Busia with two entry and exit points to East and Central Africa is rich and the report may have been designed to paint the border county in bad light. “No civil servant posted to work in Busia county wants to go back,” the county chief said. “They prefer to purchase land and settle in the county. This confirms Busia is the county with all factors of production. The report will not discourage them from moving forward.” The report positioned and broke down the poorest counties basing on where the majority of women, men, youth and children live. There is already heightened debate on social media on the performance of Ojaamong since 2013 when he took over the leadership of Busia after serving as MP for Amagoro for two terms. Critics have told the governor to accept contents of the report and admit he has not done much in uplifting the living standards of the people of Busia. Edited by Henry Makori