Kenyans will have to wait longer to know if they got a raw deal in the controversial multi-billion medical kit programme. The senate ad-hoc committee investigating the managed equipment management (MES) project, on Tuesday sought and obtained the Senate’s approval of a further 34 days to file a report. The nine-member committee chaired by Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo was formed during the second Senate Mashinani forum in Kitui in September last year. It was initially given 45 days to investigate the programme that has been deemed a rip-off of the taxpayers, but it has sought extensions on grounds that it needed more time to conclude the work. The committee argues that the investigation is complex as it involves high profile players whose acts of commissions and omissions bungled the ambitious programme. Although last week the committee had retreated to Naivasha to finalise the report, Dullo has charged that her team has received new evidence that should be included in the findings. “If there is new evidence, we cannot ignore it because we may spoil the final product. However, we have done a draft report we need more information in some areas,” she told the Star on Tuesday. Asked whether the committee will invite other witnesses to give new evidence, Dullo said it will depend on whether the Senate approves the extension. “Our report must have evidence and all the necessary attachments. It’s not just any normal report, it involves big names, better late than never, because we want when we table, we have a serious debate on it,” Dullo said. Had the committee tabled its report on Tuesday, members would not have had an opportunity to debate it because it will naturally die owing to the fact that the House was going on recess. However, Dullo refuted claims of her committee being influenced to sway the report in a certain direction. “There is no interference at all and no one is pushing us, if it was the case, we could have tabled it today. We have done our assignment diligently as required by law,” she held. Nyandarua’s Githiomi Mwangi defended the extension sought by the committee, saying they had not finished writing the report and we scheduled to go back to Naivasha today to finish and tabled it the first thing after recess. Former Health Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries, international vendors, the sub-contractors, the professional agencies, the former Attorney General, who have appeared before the committee painted a picture that the scheme was necessary and that the end justifies the means. However, the Auditor General, Controller of Budget (CoB) and Council of Governors shed light on the acts of commission and omission by the Ministry of Health officials in the medical leasing scheme. Officials from the office of the Auditor General told the committee that the officials manipulated procurement laws, varied contracts and bulldozed county governments into accepting the equipment without proper consultation between the two levels of governments. The senators were told that some of the leased medical equipment supplied to county hospitals through the MES programme are yet to be operational. The items leased to 98 county health facilities and four national referral hospitals, as part of the theatre and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment, are consumable and disposable kits that ordinarily should have been procured by the Ministry of Health instead of leasing. The initial contract was Sh38 billion for the medical equipment programme in 2015 before the contract was later revised and the figure rose to Sh63 billion. The amount means that each county is deducted Sh200 million annually till 2022 when the contract expires and the international vendors who supplied the items will be at liberty to take up their items or sell to counties or dispose of them. Edited by R.Wamochie