Kenya is beginning to flatten the Covid-19 curve, but it is too early to celebrate because new infections could go down further or escalate, President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Monday. He said experts will analyse the situation for several weeks before the country can revise the existing measures. Uhuru spoke at the virtual conference on Covid-19 organised by the Council of Governors. "We are at the highest point called inflection point because it can de-escalate or take an upsurge. Could the curve surprise us by taking an upsurge?" An inflection point is when an event leads to significant improvement, deterioration or disruption. The President also called for deep analysis of how Kenya handled the outbreak in the last six months. "All our models predicted severe scenario that didn’t happen. Is it because of the things we put in place? Is there something we could have done better?" he asked. The virtual conference was themed "County Governments’ Resilience in the Covid-19 Era: Reflecting on the Past and Building Sustainability for the Future". Most governors attended. Deputy President William Ruto appeared to have gone offline moments before the President spoke. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe told the President that corruption at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority was being politicised. The CS said the graft allegations had derailed him in serving Kenyans "selflessly", something the former Nyeri senator said he loves to do. "I have served this country in various capacities, including roles that were political," Kagwe said. "Rather than enabling me and my team to focus on protecting our people in their time of vulnerability, this agenda selfishly aspires to draw me into a counterproductive war of disinformation whose sole objective - far from healing Kenyans - is creating harm." Kagwe condemned corruption and thanked President Kenyatta for promising speedy investigations. "Beyond its ethical implications, such graft is literally immoral," he said. The CS praised the progress Kenya has made in combating Covid-19 in the last six months. He said just before the disease was reported in Kenya on March 13, the country had only eight isolation beds. "Today, we can proudly say that nationwide we have 7,411 isolation beds and 312 ICU beds across the 47 counties." CoG chair Wycliffe Oparanya said counties have developed a recovery plan that will be implemented soon. "The plan will assist the subnational level to adopt measures that enable it to prepare, respond and recover from future pandemics," he said. Kenya's Covid-19 causes have dropped unevenly in the last two weeks. But the World Health Organisation warned against an interpretation that the decline meant Kenya is flattening the curve. "For now, we would warn against premature relaxation of the effective measures put in place by the Kenyan government," WHO said in a statement. "We advise that the wearing of masks, the frequent washing or sanitising should remain in place," WHO said adding that testing needs to be strengthened to capture a greater proportion of suspected cases within the testing regime.