Morans’ coach Cliff Owuor is targeting three wins in the two-phase Fiba Afro-Basket qualifiers that starts in Dakar, Senegal in November. Speaking after the continental basketball body had named the host for the first round games, the tactician said he is determined to steer Kenya to the finals for the first time in 27 years. “If we win three games in the event’s two legs, I am sure we will make it to the finals. That is my focus and we will try our level best to achieve that goal.” disclosed Owuor. The team’s preparation towards achieving that goal got a huge boost when strategic management consultant and former basketballer Eliud Owalo teamed up with USA-based former national team centre ‘Big Ben’ Wanjara to help. Owalo paid a courtesy call on the 1993 AfroBasket star at his Nairobi Hotel and held discussions on how they can come together and help the national team achieve their goal. “We discussed ways and means of mobilising logistical and financial support to Morans as they prepare for the 2021 Fiba Afro-basket championships slated for November.” During the discussions, Owalo who was accompanied by Owuor and the national women’s head coach Ronny Owino, said they look forward to Morans qualifying for the World Basketball Championships. According to the draws, Kenya will open their campaign against host Senegal on November 27, tackle Angola a day later before winding up their fixtures with a match against Mozambique on the third day. The second phase of the qualifiers are scheduled to tip off on February 19 next year but the venue is yet to be determined. If Kenya clear the hurdle, the team will book a ticket to the continental championships that is slated for Kigali, Rwanda next year. Owuor said he will discuss with the Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) how players from the diaspora can be brought back to the country for earlier preparations. “Since the international flights have now resumed, it will be important to have those players who are out of the country back so that we can initiate our training,” Owuor said. He went on: “If the players are here at home, they will surely be engaged in some serious individual preparations under my watch since there is no league action going on right now.” Of the four teams, Kenya have been to the least championships having participated in three events. Senegal have been to 23 shows, Angola, who have most titles have featured in 20 while Mozambique have participated in 14. Kenya’s last participation in the AfroBasket was in Nairobi in 1993. Morans’ finished in an impressive fourth out of 12 teams.