Boda boda operators in Laikipia county have been warned against modifying their exhaust pipes to produce deafening sounds. They risk arrest and prosecution for noise pollution. County boda boda chairman Cyrus Kimanthi said on Tuesday the association was working closely with the National Environment Management Agency and security officers to arrest anyone defying the directive. Speaking in Nanyuki town, Kimanthi said  the calibrated exhaust pipes were not only a nuisance but had led to reduced business as potential clients avoided noisy boda bodas. He spoke during the launch of the Boda Boda Management System rolled out by the Ministry of Interior. “We have seen hospitals, government offices and businesses such as shopping malls barring our operators from  their compounds due to the loud noise, it’s time we acted to stem this nuisance once and for all," the chairman said. He said his more than 100,000 members would register on the new government busyboda.co.ke platform. They will enter their personal details for ease in tracking their movements, easy traceability in case of motorcycle theft and increasing business. Kimanthi said they had to close an operating bay manned by young people at Nanyuki CBD after 9pm because they smoked bhang and had motorcycles without number plates. The platform can be downloaded from Google Play or the App Store. Laikipia ICT officer Joseph Kitili explained the platform to operators and said it can revolutionise the business. He said operators will be able to work from anywhere and not necessarily their designated picking points. “Once you download the application and log in your details, you can then pick a location, set the dropping point and the system calculates the cost the client is supposed to pay. Payment can be in cash or via mobile money transfer,” Kitili said. He said operators won't have to physically search for clients, as customers will be able to order boda bodas online, which will increase business. Laikipia East deputy county commissioner Esther Dhahabu urged operators to work closely with authorities to fight crime, thus increasing clients' trust. She warned them not to have sex with underage girls as teen pregnancies were on the rise. (Edited by V. Graham) 