 Kenya will transit from an elective to a non-elective system of government if an outfit calling itself Public Service Governance has its way. The PSG intends to collect a million signatures to push for the Kenya Bila Uchaguzi Initiative. Already, it has collected 350,000 signatures, according to founder and president Esther Waringa. Waringa said the initiative advocates for peaceful, enhanced, responsible, accountable and divine way of managing governments without birthing leadership through elections. This will eliminate periodic polls and related violence by ensuring sustainable governance. Waringa says PSG's legal team is drafting a Bill to be submitted to National Assembly and Senate. “We look forward to eliminating the general election before 2022,” she said in Kisumu on Saturday and appealed to Kenyans to append their signatures to PSG officials. The ongoing collection of signatures will end next month so that the organisation can start engaging the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission before the end of the year. Waringa said if the PSG system is adopted, the billions of shillings used in the electoral process and paying elected leaders will be used for national growth and development efficiently and effectively. “It (PSG system) will end periodical elections that have become synonymous with violence in the country. In the past general elections Kenyans have been subjected to suffering and violence,” Waringa said. According to her, “Kenyans will be united as they will do away with tribalism and violence”. Waringa appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to embrace the initiative and unite the country. “We want Kenya without election, hatred, tribal division, and huge budget that goes into wastage.” She called for prudent use of Covid-19 money and criticised those who stole funds meant for Kenyans suffering socio-economically and psychologically. “It is a curse to steal from such people. If you are busy amassing wealth ahead of general election, know that we are bringing elections to an end in 2022,” Waringa said. She opposed the Building Bridges Initiative as it will cost taxpayers billions of shillings which should be used for development.  - mwaniki fm 