The government has launched a project to expand access to sewerage services and improve faecal sludge management in Nairobi. The Nairobi Rivers Sewerage Improvement Programme Phase II is set to be completed in 2023. Phase one of the project increased sanitation coverage from 40 per cent in 2012 to 48 per cent by 2017. Water Secretary S. Alima said the project will involve construction of secondary reticulation networks and last-mile connections. It will eliminate pollution of Nairobi rivers and protect them as alternative water sources, Alima said on Thursday. He also noted that the completed investments had increased the sanitation coverage in Nairobi to remarkable levels. "We appreciate the continued cooperation with the [African Development] Bank in the various water and sanitation programmes under implementation throughout the country,” Alima said. Athi Water Works Development Agency is implementing the project. It will be funded by the government, the African Development Bank and the French Development Agency. Athi Water CEO Thuita Mwangi noted that the project will include the rehabilitation and construction of wastewater treatment facilities. There will also be a construction of 220km of sewer reticulation network. This will include faecal sludge management infrastructure and construction of 50 ablution blocks and rehabilitation of the same number of blocks in Nairobi informal settlements. “The project will build on the gains made in NaRSIP Phase I to increase sewerage coverage from the current 48 per cent to 70 per cent by 2023 and provide 12,000 new household sewer connections, serving approximately 500,000 residents of Nairobi," Thuita said. He also noted that Athi Water was committed to ensuring that the project is delivered on time and at the best value for money. Acting AfDB director-general Nnenna Nwabufo said the project seeks to improve access, quality, availability and sustainability of wastewater services in Nairobi city with a view of contributing to the restoration of Nairobi rivers. “The planned investment will enhance the provision of reliable, safe, and sustainable urban sanitation services in Nairobi City with a view of contributing to improved access and increased economic activities," she said. Speaking on behalf of the National Treasury, Makori said that the government has met all the conditions for loan effectiveness and the implementing agency has received no objection for advance procurement. “So far, the financing agreements and the subsidiary loan agreements have been signed between National Treasury and AfDB. The government has provided Sh2 billion in the budget for the 2020-2021 financial year and the project is now ready for implementation,” he said. 