Former National  Assembly Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim on Wednesday lashed out at the Executive for interfering with the Legislature. He was reacting to the Monday arrests of senators Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Christopher Lang’at (Bomet) and Samburu’s Stephen Lelegwe who were removed from their homes and driven to their respective counties to face different charges. They have all since been released unconditionally. This, according to popular opinion, was an attempt to tilt the Senate vote on the contentious revenue-sharing vote. The three lawmakers are opposed to the government-backed formula. Some 19 counties that will lose money if the formula is adopted. A 25-member group, including six senators from the gaining counties, have insisted that devolution should be about equity, not about losers and winners. Both the national and county governments are in favour of a proposal by Nominated Senator Petronilla Were that wants the second-generation formula revenue retained in sharing out the billions this year, as it seeks to increase the devolved units revenue share to Sh348 billion. Maalim regretted that the country was slowly going back to the old days when the Executive used to arm-twist the Legislature, saying that both houses are no longer independent and that it should worry Kenyans. “It's very unfortunate that were are going back to some autocratic tendency and a pity that the nation is not seeing the risk that we are running into. I am personally concerned with the manner in which the executive is hell-bent on trying to curtail the independence of the two houses,” he said. Maalim also criticised House Speaker Ken Lusaka’s "inability to control the house", leading to adjournment for a record nine times. “I have a feeling there is a lot of ignorance in Lusaka’s inability to transcend from the old traditional executive that he played as the governor and as an administrator, there is a problem with the manner in which he leads the House," he said. The 12-member Senate committee that was constituted on Monday co-chaired by Moses Wetang'ula and Johnstone Sakaja has already hit the ground running as it races against time to develop a formula agreeable to both parties. Maalim, however, poured cold water on the committee saying that nothing much will come out of it "as the Executive will still influence the outcome". Edited by R.Wamochie