Baringo residents have decried an upsurge in Hepatitis B deaths since the outbreak of Covid-19. They say they are neglected, yet the viral infection, which attacks the liver, is silently and prematurely sending many of them to their graves. The latest victim was 21-year-old Kiprop Kigen who was buried on Wednesday in Kapluk village, Kerio Valley, Baringo North. “He started feeling unwell in March 2020 and his situation worsened in July, then he was admitted to Baringo Referral Hospital,” a eulogy by his family read. The family said they could not raise funds to transfer Kigen to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret. He was placed on home care until he died on Tuesday, August 4. Relative Sarah Kiyai said Kigen lost appetite, had abdominal swellings and suffered general body weakness. Residents say the disease is spreading rapidly across the region. “Although the coronavirus is said to be deadlier, here we are more worried of Hepatitis B, which has now proved to be more dangerous to our lives than any other disease,” said Josphat Lokorio from Barwessa ward, Kerio Valley. He said on Thursday that five people, including Kigen, have died in the area in the past six months. Lokorio said 16 deaths have been reported in the villages between Kukui and Kinyach locations. The worst-hit parts of the county are the lower arid and semi-arid parts of Baringo North, Tiaty, Baringo South and Mogotio. Villages with widespread infection are Kaboskei, Kapluk, Kalabata, Ayatya, Kimnai, Salabani, Loboi, Marigat, Kimalel and Ng’inyang. Others are Maoi, Molo-Sirwe, Mugurin, Emining and Kisanana. Lokorio accused the county government of neglecting them and urged the national government to move in, and even take over the health sector. “The county government of Baringo seems not to be serious at all in handling the killer disease because so far nothing has been done to train and vaccinate the locals. “We would want the Kenya Medical Research Institute to visit the areas to take samples and carry out tests to ascertain the magnitude of the illness. "Just like Covid-19, it is forcing us to go through a lot of protocols like engaging the media frequently to have our health issues addressed, which is so dangerous,” Lokorio said, adding that sometimes no action is taken to save lives. Weighing in on the issue, Kaboskei location chief Richard Chepchieng said on Thursday that more than 50 people had died in the area of Hepatitis B-related illnesses in the recent past. "But the number could be even higher because we do not have proper records," he said. Chepchieng said most residents could not afford the Sh2,400 that public hospitals charge for vaccines and treatment. He said the vaccination is given in three phases, each costing Sh800. Private Hospitals charge up to Sh1,200 per dose, “but all the same this has just remained a nightmare to residents”. Barwessa assistant county commissioner Phaminas Maina said the disease is causing havoc and urged the county Health department to raise awareness and initiate a vaccination drive. “I have received at least three similar cases in my office for the last two months and that means the disease has an upsurge,” Maina said. Reached for comment, Health executive Mary Panga confirmed the upsurge in cases but assured that mass vaccination has been ongoing. “What you are hearing are just pockets of cases and we are urging our people to visit the nearest health facilities for tests and eventually get vaccinated,” Panga said, adding that vaccines are available and public health officers are already on the ground raising awareness. “Although nothing can always be perfect, we can say as a county we are fairly equipped with the Hepatitis B drugs.” The communicable disease is said to be 60 to 65 per cent transferable among groups of people and family members who stay closely in contact and sometimes even share utensils or cutlery. In 2014, Joseph Chemwetich, an anaesthetist at MTRH volunteered to vaccinate 600 people, charging Sh500 per person and Sh275 per child. But many still could not afford the fee. "Even worse, most of the patents did not know they had the disease," Dr Chemwetich said. Former county chief health officer Winnie Bore, who left the office last month, said the county government was in the process of procuring up to 19,000 vials for vaccination. "We are currently mapping out affected areas in Mogotio, Barwessa, Ayatya, Marigut, Kinyach and other parts of Baringo North and along Kerio Valley ahead of vaccination," Dr Bore said last month, adding many hospitals lacked testing kits. "That is why some patients have to travel all the way to MTRH. However, this is being sorted out and we will start vaccinating patients in two weeks." Bore said they would also conduct civic education to equip residents with correct information about the disease. She said the prevalence of Hepatitis B in the county was at 12 per cent as of last month, according to a study. This was higher than the five per cent the World Health Organization views as manageable.  Edited by F'Orieny