Residents of Bungoma's Bukembe village in Kanduyi constituency have been left in shock after a woman allegedly helped her son defile her stepdaughter. The girl, a student in Nakuru, says that she was lured by her stepbrother and raped. She told journalists in Bungoma on Wednesday that she got pregnant from the rape. "My brother called me in his house after which he locked the door and ordered me to take off my pants before defiling me," she said. He threatened her life if she told anyone. Her stepmother was around, the girl said, but she didn't bother to enquire what was happening. "After the act, I decided to go back to my mother's home to explain what had happened after which I was taken to Bungoma Referral Hospital. Seven weeks later I tested for pregnancy and it was positive," she said. She added that her stepbrother has been threatening her, saying it was a deal with his mother to destroy her future. Speaking to the press on Wednesday at Bungoma police station, human rights activist Martin Wanyonyi condemned the act, saying that the suspect should be arrested and charged. "I want to take this opportunity and warn the suspect to stop threatening this girl together with her mother," he said. He condemned the suspect's father for hiding that case. "This man is a senior employee in this county revenue offices and I wonder how he can partner with his son to do this," he said, adding that "greedy men who are messing up young girls should be castrated". He blamed parents who are taking bribes from men after they have defiled their minors. The minor's mother pleaded with Bungoma law courts to help her get justice. "My husband disappeared with all children leaving me in a desperate situation. He went and got married to a widow in town after he had brought unnecessary complications in our marriage," she said. She said that her life is now in danger after being threatened by the suspect. “I have not received justice because the suspect has already been released," she said. Cases of teen pregnancy have been on increase in the county with perpetrators being relatives, boda boda riders, teachers, politicians among others. Bungoma Women Representative Catherine Wambilianga urged county commissioner Abdi Hassan to take firm action on culprits. Edited by R.Wamochie