It seems the recent remarks by EALA MP Oburu Oginga that his brother, Raila Odinga, has ‘the system’ to propel him to power in 2022 was all DP William Ruto and his allies needed to show the extent of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘betrayal’. Some MPs allied to the DP were heard last week at Parliament saying how they circulated the clip of Oburu making the remarks. They said they personally circulated it while others used bloggers to ensure it reached as many people as possible. One said, "I sent to the President himself." They said Uhuru and Raila were lucky that political activities have been frozen because of Covid-19. Otherwise, they would have used the clip to portray Uhuru as a betrayer. Members of a Mombasa-based workers union are engaged in a fierce battle over alleged misappropriation of millions of shillings in grants. A little bird whispered to Corridors that a controversial senior government official known for management by interference is in the thick of things and supports the cabal of officials accused of plundering the union's coffers. The officials have refused to account for the funds following assurances of protection by the government official who allegedly benefitted. Concerned members are left wondering whether their organisation is now a department under the government officer. They have vowed to expose all the corrupt dealings involving the cabal of officials and the protector. Just who is the senior and powerful government official from the Mt Kenya region who has been calling and threatening senators opposed to the disputed revenue formula? Well, some senators were lamenting that the official, who wields a lot of power, has been making phone calls and sending text messages to them. The man, according to the lawmakers, asked them to toe the line or face the music. But some of the senators said they blocked the man’s calls while others switched off their phones because of "too much pressure". They vowed to soldier on. A police officer who was attached to a commissioner in one of the independent commissions seems to be a man with extensive connections. Reason? Corridors has been told that the man was reported to one of the disciplinary arms after receiving money transferred to his account, a sum that was meant for ‘facilitation’. No action was taken even after the complainant reported to another government agency. The officer has since been transferred out of Nairobi to save him from trouble.