The Covid-19 pandemic became real to most Kenyans in the month of March this year. While being interviewed at a television station then, I thanked the government for the quick action it had taken to protect Kenyans. I further asked the government to be hawk eyed in protecting the funds that would be raised for fighting the pandemic. I said this because I know the reputation of the Ministry of Health in such situations, and that for some of the officials and the cartels, it is not a time to save lives but to make big money. I am not sure how people who are trained on saving lives, and even take an oath to that effect, could be so unethical as to team up with cartels to kill us. Afya House knows that when a pandemic is declared, the government will stop at nothing. In addition, even the procurement procedures are relaxed in order to quickly beat the pandemic. What is in the public domain today is very disturbing. Kemsa is today at the centre of investigations by Parliament, the media as well as citizens following numerous corruption issues. We are hearing of inflated pricing which has led to complaints from some governors; poor quality products; favouring imports over locally produced ones; and that cartels are in full control of procurement. This situation is unacceptable. This problem is to be found in Afya House and several of her other institutions. These stories are coming at a time that the Senate is also investigating the Sh63 billion Managed Equipment Service that sounds like a fairy tale. None of the present and past senior officials want to take responsibility for the mess, which is leaving the country with a big, unnecessary debt. This is on top of the infamous mobile clinics scandal. I could go on. I can only wish my friend Health CS Mutahi Kagwe good luck, in addition to our many prayers as he works in such an environment. Kenyans are demanding a thorough audit of the Covid-19 funds received to date from various sources. The Treasury must insist on proper accountability of the funds that it is releasing to fight the pandemic. The new Auditor General should keep a very keen eye on the goings on at the Ministry. EACC and DCI and other institutions that are mandated to fight corruption should already be in there investigating what we are hearing. We welcome the action that Parliament is undertaking to investigate this matter. There are many ethical and hard working officials in this Ministry and its other institutions who are committed to serving Kenyans. Why should we allow a few officials, with their cartel friends, to create a mess of our economy, and in the process kill our people? The writer is a former cabinet minister and was a presidential candidate in the 2017 General Elections