Kiambu county government has lost over Sh5 billion in own source revenue through looting by its own officers. This was revealed by county assembly Committee on Finance and Economic Planning led by Kinoo MCA Samuel Kimani. He said that  county revenue officers were not remitting money collected to the county government coffers. “As a committee of Finance in the assembly we decided to go to the ground and find out how revenue is being collected. We were shocked by what was going on as revenue was being pocketed by some county revenue officers through cartels at the subcounty level,” Kimani said. The committee's report showed that out of eight construction sites the members visited none had valid documents or approvals while those with documents had anomalies, with one building going up to seventh floor against the approved four. At another site a hardware was being put up yet the approval was for an office block. In collection of soil, water and forestry conservation fees at quarries the committee observed that out of 28 lorries only 10 were captured in their report. The cess collection point averaged 27 lorries per hour, however the committee counted 76 vehicles in one hour 45 minutes. After the committee's visit the daily collection target was revised from Sh80,000 to Sh150,000. The committee visited Bidco and Mama Ngina street parking in Thika and found only seven out of 14 vehicles had duly paid the requisite parking fee. At Bidco each lorry is supposed to pay Sh400 in parking fee but none of the 300 lorries had paid to the county. The committee was informed that the lorries had paid some money to the revenue officers. A Makongeni cess point the committee observed that out 0f 21 lorries that were capture only two had paid. The cess point was manned by too many enforcement officers  who had not been paid for nine months. Kimani said a World Bank survey on  how much counties should get in own source revenue revealed that Kiambu county can collect Sh8 billion per year. But the highest the county has collected since devolution set was only Sh2.9 billion. "We have a budget of Sh17 billion, whereby the county can be able to raise half of its budget from own source revenue,” Kimani said. Nominated MCA Wanjiku wa Kariuki said the county losses 70 per cent of its revenue and only 30 is accounted for. Wanjiku said Ruiru, Juja and Thika subcounties were notorious for loss of revenue. “At one time we went on the ground at a quarry in Juja subcounty. We found out that money remitted to the county government by the enforcement officers was Sh60,000 but on that day the money collected was Sh160,000, meaning that Sh100,000 went into the pockets of some people,” she said. Theta ward MCA Simon Karema said the county was losing a lot of money as there is a boom in real estate. “There is a lot of corruption which has crippled development, with residents complaining day in day out that the roads are bad, no medicine in hospitals, no polytechnics and many other needs yet under the Planning Department there are many plots paying land rates, more buildings are coming up. This is a department that is supposed to bring Sh4 billion in revenue,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori