KEMSA CEO  Jonah Mwangi has been suspended following allegations that the authority flouted procurement regulations. Kemsa has been in the spotlight after it emerged that officials dished out tenders to mysterious entities under the cover of the Covid-19 pandemic. This came hot on the heels of an audit that exposed procurement and financial irregularities that put at risk more than Sh100 billion of donor funds and taxpayers' money. Mwangi was suspended alongside Charles Juma (head of procurement) and Eliud Mureithi (commercial director) to allow EACC complete investigations into the matter. Edward Njuguna will be the acting CEO . Current operations director procurement will be Edward Buluma and acting commercial director George Walukame. Kemsa board chairman Kembi Gitura said they are committed to bringing back the authority's lost glory. "There should be no reason to be alarmed on issues going on in the media and the public," he said. Juma had raised concerns over procurement of coronavirus items in a leaked memo. Juma noted that he had scrutinised and analysed various commitment letters issued to suppliers of Covid-19 items and their delivery timelines show irregularities which he blamed on the CEO. On Tuesday, the Kemsa boss was before the Senate committee at the start of the investigations. However, the meeting was adjourned after Manjari failed to provide documents sought by the panel. The nine-member committee, in a July 3 letter to Manjari, demanded tender documents for procurement done between financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. They include all submitted bids, tender opening minutes, tender evaluation minutes, due diligence reports, payment vouchers, contract agreements and inspection acceptable certificates. The committee sought a comprehensive list of all Covid-19 related items procured including the supplies of goods and services, details of procurement methods used, the cost of all procured items and all payment documents relating to contracts awarded.