The government wants to construct an Sh18 million water pan in Lambwe, Suba North constituency, to improve agricultural activities. The Gamba-Kochino water project will enable more than 3,320 households to conduct various agricultural activities in the Lambwe settlement scheme. The project being undertaken by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation will also address perennial water shortages besides improving sanitation. Ministry secretary Samuel Alima, Homa Bay Agriculture executive Aguko Juma and his Water counterpart Dickson Nyawinda said the construction will take two months. Speaking on Monday during the groundbreaking ceremony in Lambwe, Alima said the project will produce 25,000 cubic metres of water that will be used for crop propagation and animal husbandry. Lambwe is a dry area and many residents walk more than 6km in search of water for domestic use. Residents with livestock walk for about 12km to water their animals in Lake Victoria. “Water is a basic commodity for life and development. Residents languish in poverty due to lack of water but the government hopes to turn around this through this water project,” Alima said. He said the government expects residents to engage in meaningful income-generating activities after the completion of the project. “The works involves digging a fresh and desilting of the pan. Animal drinking trough, modern toilet and other agricultural supporting features will be constructed to help residents grow economically,” he said. The farms at the edge of the water pan will be used as model farms by the National Irrigation Authority which will offer extension services to the farmers. Farmers are expected to grow food crops like fruits and vegetables for local consumption and for sale. Juma said the Homa Bay government will engage residents to have fish ponds and stock fingerlings to promote aquaculture. He said the project is a way of partnering with the national government to improve food security and promote nutritional and health. “Let locals embrace and protect this project because it’s about alleviating poverty,” Juma said Nyawinda said the project will supplement water production in the county which he said is still low. He said the amount of water that county residents need for consumption is more than what his department supplies. “The project will support Lambwe residents who have been suffering from perennial water shortage,” Nyawinda said. Lambwe MCA Paul Adika appreciated that the government is coming to their aid. Edited by R.Wamochie