Deputy President William Ruto's allies have demanded an investigation of State House operatives saying they are heavily involved in the theft of Covid-19 funds. Speaking on Friday during the DP's tour of the Coast, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said the thieves are well known. "The DCI, the EACC, the DPP, the real work is in State House," said Ali at Kongowea Secondary School. He was hosting Ruto, who issued NHIF cards to 500 elderly residents who got a one-year medical cover courtesy of the Nyali NG-CDF. "If you are men enough, go to State House and flush out those hiding there," Ali said. In a thinly veiled criticism of President Uhuru Kenyatta's handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Omar said he is confused over whom to trust between Uhuru and his Tanzanian counterpart Pombe Magufuli. He said those involved in the theft have close connections with those in State House. "Noordin Haji, go to State House to arrest those people," Omar said. Ali said he will not wear a mask anymore until all the stolen funds are returned. He urged other Kenyans to do the same. Some people in the crowd at Kongowea Secondary immediately complied. A resident saw Ruto remove his mask to scratch himself and shouted hilariously that even the DP was tired of masking, eliciting laughter from the DP and the crowd. Ruto, for his part, steered clear of Covid politics, only emphasising the need for unity. He said he is firmly on an unstoppable journey to change Kenya for the better. The embattled Jubilee deputy party leader criticised those propagating dynasty politics, saying Kenya belongs to all Kenyans, irrespective of their stature or background. "We are told that our fathers are not known. Today's Kenya is for all, the mama mbogas, the boda bodas, the watchmen. We must all respect each other," Ruto said, adding that some leaders are returning the country to tribal affiliations. "Let us not allow ourselves to be reduced to tribal cocoons." Ali and Omar said the BBI train is made up of conmen and cartels plotting succession politics for themselves. The former senator said they have a responsibility to defend the Constitution.