Pressure continues to mount on the national and county governments to account for the billions of shillings disbursed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The Senate Ad-hoc Committee on the Covid-19 Situation in the country on Thursday wrote the Auditor General Nancy Gathungu to undertake a special interrogation of the utilisation of funds appropriated by the 47 county governments in responding to the virus. A similar letter has been sent to Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o. She is asked to prepare a special budget review implementation report on the utilisation of funds by county governments towards pandemic interventions. “The special audit report should cover the period from 13th March 2020, when the first Covid-19 case in Kenya was recorded, to July 31, 2020,” according to the Senate team's letter. Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye sent a similar letter to the CoB. On Wednesday, members of the National Assembly asked the Health ministry and the National Treasury to explain how they have spent the billions. The committee, chaired by nominated Senator Sylvia Kasanga, noted in the two letters that some of the funds disbursed to county governments towards prevention and management of the pandemic may have been diverted to other areas, misapplied or misappropriated. In April, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission warned it will not hesitate to take action on any governor or county government that misused or misappropriated funds meant for Covid-19 mitigation measures. EACC chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak said public officials who award supply tenders to relatives and cronies will also not be spared. The same will apply to suppliers who will overprice their goods and supply substandard products. “This is a message to the county governors and others involved that we are monitoring how the fund is going to be spent. They should not take advantage of procurement under the guise of this emergency to enrich themselves as opposed to the intended beneficiaries because we will get them very easily,” Mbarak said on April 28. The National Treasury has transferred at least Sh5 billion to a deposit account for counties at Central Bank of Kenya to be used in the fight against Covid-19 as part of efforts to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The government has also received billions of shillings from donors such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund board has also netted more than Sh2.8 billion from corporates, foundations, religious institutions, multinationals and Kenyans of goodwill to support the government’s war on the virus. Of the amount, Sh237 million will go towards purchasing personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers and Sh95 million to support the mental health of medics. In May, National Assembly Health Committee chaired by Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege flagged the Ministry of Health for millions of shillings spent on tea and snacks and inflated leasing of ambulances in the fight against Covid-19. In the latest move by the nine-member team previously chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, the line-up wants the auditor-general to first establish the total amount of funds received by the 47 county governments and how they were spent specifically in fighting Covid-19. “Review and establish whether the county governments had approved work plans, procurement plans, and training plans in place specific to the virus activities,” the letter says. It adds, “... whether the funds from the National Government specific to Covid-19 activities were spent per approved work plans, procurement plans, and training plans.” Senators have also asked the auditor to find out whether financial and non-financial reports on funds from the National Government specific to Covid-19 were produced on a monthly basis.  - mwaniki fm