A hospital has been ordered to pay a nurse Sh517,000 as compensation for unfair dismissal. The Board of Guru Nanak Ramgharia Sikh Hospital was sued in 2017 by Teresia Wabuko after it terminated her services unfairly. Employment court judge Onesmas Makau ruled in favour of Wabuko, noting that her dismissal was unfair and wrongful within the meaning of Section 45 of the Employment Act. The court ruled she was entitled to damages. “Consequently, I enter judgment for her and award her Sh517,744 as compensation,” Makau said. Wabuko was dismissed for alleged gross misconduct. It was her case that in 2002, she was engaged verbally by the hospital as a community health nurse on a consolidated salary of Sh14,000. She signed a two-year contract for a salary of 16,000 on May 10, 2005, before being issued with an appointment letter on October 9, 2008 for permanent job effective June 1, 2007. She worked until July 12, 2013, when she was fired on grounds she presided over a meeting with strangers and staff within the hospital premises. The letter advised her to collect a cheque of Sh181,584 as the total amount of her terminal benefits, but did not specify the breakdown. She argued that she was dismissed without being accorded any hearing. She reported the matter to the Kenya Union of Domestic Hotels, Education, Institutions and Hospital Workers. She further testified that her dismissal triggered industrial unrest by the rest of the workforce on July 15, 2013, which culminated in the signing of a return to work formula between the union and Guru Nanak Hospital. She argued that her termination contravened the disciplinary procedure outlined in the CBA and the Employment Act and that the hospital was malicious. She admitted a meeting took place during a lunch break and it was for the works committee to discuss the firing of four employees, who were union members. The court heard she attended the meeting as the shop steward because she lawfully represented the interests of the unionised staff and the hospital human resource was aware of the meeting. She thus argued that the hospital discriminatorily chose to only dismiss her, yet the meeting was presided over by other union officials. She added that she was grossly underpaid during her service and received a lower salary compared to her colleagues in the same job level and description. She thus asked for Sh1.3 million as compensation. In defence, the hospital through its Human Resource manager Janet Thiong’o maintained that Wokabi was summarily dismissed for gross misconduct. Thiong'o testified that Wokabi held the meeting in the hospital’s laundry department during working hours and without permission from the management. The HR maintained the meeting was illegal, and that it disrupted the normal functioning of the hospital as sick patients were left unattended against their policy. This, she said,  posed a real danger to the patients' lives. She further testified that due process was followed before the termination, contending that as a shop steward, Wabuko incited workers against the management. Thing'o argued that the return to work formula cited by the claimant was a confirmation that there was an illegal and unprotected strike involving 36 of the 200 staffers of the hospital. She told the court that Wabuko was not a first offender and that she had been served with previous warnings. In her view, the dismissal was lawful. She stated that after the termination, she collected the computation sheet for her dues together with her cheque but she returned the same to the hospital after advice from her union.  Edited by EKibii