Kenyans have been advised to dress warmly and engage in physical exercise to minimise chances of contracting Covid-19 during the cold season. Health CAS Rashid Aman on Monday said the current cold season predicted to prevail till the end of August poses a challenge to efforts to flatten the virus curve. Aman said the virus thrives during such cold seasons. “This is mainly due to seasonal variations, temperatures associated with increased morbidity and mortality for those with respiratory complications,” Aman said. He said many people, especially children, are at great risk of getting lung infection which worsens the risk of contracting the virus. “TB transmission is usually very active in cold and in crowded and poorly ventilated areas.  Lack of vitamin D, indoor activities, and seasonal changes in immunity of patients also is a factor,” he said. Aman said in the month of June, the country has witnessed a surge in deaths, an issue that can be attributed to the cold weather. “This disease is airborne and poses a major concern of rise of cases of infections. It is evident the cold might present more dangers,” he said. Aman said as a result many Kenyans tend to crowd in closed places to avoid cold or light fires to keep themselves warm. “Whereas it is important to keep warn, smoke can also trigger asthmatic conditions and put one at risk of contracting the virus. Confined rooms on the other hand are a perfect condition for TB, Influenza and Covid-19 infections,” Aman said. “We want Kenyans to take extra precaution during this cold season by putting in place measures to avoid getting infections. Dress warmly, keep social distance, wear masks which are critical in avoiding transmission droplets, engage in physical activities and drink lots of water,” he said. This comes as Kenya reported 22,597 cases after 544 more people tested positive in at least 24 hrs. Aman said some 263 patients had been discharged in the same period, bringing the total number of recoveries to 8,740. On a sad note, 13 more patients died, raising the number of deaths to 382.