Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has questioned DP William Ruto's constitutional right to be the Jubilee Party deputy after his new ally Johnson Muthama revealed they are working on a new political party for 2022. Kalonzo says Ruto's move is a constitutional matter that has consequences given that Jubilee is a party and not a coalition. The former Machakos senator on Sunday said Ruto is working on a new political party that he will use for his 2022 bid for the presidency. Their new outfit, Muthama said, will field candidates for MCAs, MPs, senators, governors and president in 2022 and they will be open for a coalition with Wiper. Muthama was addressing mourners during the burial of Samuel Mutuku Mulu, the eldest son of the former Ukambani supremo Mulu Mutisya in Muthetheni, Mwala. He said his move to join the Deputy President was informed by Ruto's ability to openly challenge his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta. But Kalonzo told off Muthama saying that with his (Kalonzo's) immense experience and the respect that he commands within the country, Ruto can only join in supporting Kalonzo's presidential bid. "My brother Muthama, even in your sleep, knowing my experience and the respect I command around the world, do you really think I can be Ruto's deputy ?That's the riddle," Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader told Muthama that he is the cause of the problems the party is facing in the Nairobi county assembly where ODM wants to remove Minority leader Patrick Mbangula. Kalonzo says Muthama who dragged Wiper into working with Raila for two terms and now, "ODM is mistreating the coalition arrangements in Nairobi." The Wiper boss declared that he will no longer be "sold" like a cow in the market but rather will be his own negotiator in any coalition going forward. He also put on notice leaders who resurface during elections to take advantage of his popularity for them to be elected, then turn their back on him or go around abusing the privilege of the party. This time round, he said, serious scrutiny will be done. Later, the Wiper leader condoled with the family. Masaku will be buried on Monday at their family farm in Mbilini, Kangundo. Edited by R.Wamochie