More than 170,000 youths will benefit from cycle five of the Sh15 billion Kenya Youth Employment and Opportunities Project (KYEOP) rolled out by the Ministry of ICT. The World Bank-funded programme will equip the youths with self-employment skills to enable them earn a living. It will give grants to the trainees to set up their businesses. This will save jobless youths in the country who, according to the International Labour Organisation,  will suffer long-standing impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Young people who have lost jobs or schooling during the Covid-19 pandemic risk carrying scarring effects throughout their working lives unless governments provide immediate support,” the United Nations agency said. Assessing the level of preparedness across counties on Thursday, ICT Principal Secretary Julius Korir said the government has allocated Sh400 million for training in 17 counties. “We are determined to ensure that the youth are well placed and adequately prepared to start undergoing the training to be equipped with skills which will enable them to secure jobs to help them earn a living,”  Korir said. In Kenya, the young people represent about 70 per cent of the population. An estimated 800,000 young people enter the labour market each year but many remain jobless. Among the younger generation, the unemployment rate is estimated at 35 per cent, compared to the national rate of 10 per cent - numbers are higher because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The five-year project that ends next year targets youth between 18-29 years with Form Four education level and below. It seeks to improve youth employability, support for job creation, improve labour market information and strengthen youth policy development. So far 32,124 youths have received training and internship in both the formal and informal sectors. According to Korir, 75 per cent of the trained youths have secured employment. “A further 9,951 business support beneficiaries have received grants of Sh40,000 each, translating to Sh329 million, while 4,204 youth have received business development services,” the PS said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, at least one million people have lost their jobs or have been put on indefinite unpaid leave, with youths accounting for a great percentage. Following this, ILO has urged governments to help reintegrate jobless youth into labour markets or provide educational training and unemployment insurance benefits. “The Covid-19 pandemic has a systematic, deep and disproportionate impact on young people,” Sangheon Lee, director of ILO’s employment policy department, said in a statement. Studies on previous crises suggest that young people lacking access to job opportunities when entering the labour market face ongoing consequences throughout their working lives, he said. “Unless urgent action is taken, young people are likely to suffer severe and long-standing impacts from the pandemic. We believe there is a genuine risk of the ‘lockdown generation’ who actually will be scarred throughout their working lives,” Lee said. Edited by Henry Makori