The Migori government has rolled out mass testing of its more than 3,000 workers as Covid-19 infection continues to rise in the border county. Employees who can work from home have been urged to observe Health Ministry guidelines on curbing the coronavirus. The mass testing began on Monday and is expected to be concluded on Friday. It is being conducted at the Migori County Referral Hospital and is free. “It was resolved that all departmental employees be subjected to Covid-19 testing as a precautionary and containment measure,” county public health officer Kennedy Ombogo said. He wrote a memo asking those who can work from home to do so. The mandatory testing for all workers was reached after a meeting between the county secretary and executives. Health executive Isca Oluoch on Wednesday said the move will help in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Migori has so far recorded 395 cases, including 44 Tanzanians. “This shows that the spread of the virus has been internally in the county and by having county staff as a target, we seek to control further spread,” Oluoch said. The Migori GK Prison and the county assembly are among departments where mass testing has been conducted. Meanwhile, stakeholders have raised concerns that patients with tuberculosis are shying away from hospitals for fear of being taken into isolation, given the disease has symptoms similar to those of Covid-19. Most hospitals have recorded lower rates of routine disease management and preventive screening across the country, especially in Homa Bay. Ndhiwa Subcounty Hospital TB and Leprosy coordinator Alberta Obiero on Sunday said widespread fear of the coronavirus is preventing many people from seeking medical care, thus exposing themselves to more risks. “We have also received lower numbers on those suffering from heart attacks, strokes and appendicitis. This is because of stigma associated with Covid-19,” Dr Obiero said in Ndhiwa. She said most patients keep off hospitals for fear of contracting Covid-19. “Most patients regard hospitals as a source of infection, while some believe sinister rumours about what happens in hospitals for patients who have symptoms of Covid-19 with most having underlying conditions,” Obiero said.  Edited by P.O