A section of Wajir residents has welcomed reconciliation between the county executive and the assembly after MCAs dropped their bid to impeach Governor Mohamed Abdi. Speaking to the press in Wajir town on Sunday, the residents, led by Adow Daud, said the truce showed the MCAs had interests of the people at heart. Kassim said that whereas the assembly is mandated to oversight the executive, it is important that they do so without intimidation. “We want to sincerely welcome our leaders for agreeing to talk to each other with the aim of finding a solution to the problems that have created tension not only among the two arms of the county government, but also to the residents,” he said. Resident Rukia Bashir called for a complete shift in the mindset of all the leaders, saying time has come for the county executive and the assembly to end squabbles that derail development. “The leaders should address issues affecting people through consultations and other avenues provided for in the Constitution. Residents want to see our county making development strides. This can only be achieved if our leaders are united.” On Wednesday, Ward Reps, led by Benane MCA Abdi Mohamed, filed an impeachment motion against Governor Abdi. The MCAs accused Abdi of wanton corruption, gross misconduct and abuse of office. This forced the local leadership led by Abdi to start a series of meetings between the ward reps that culminated in a deal. On Thursday, Governor Abdi, MPs and the MCAs met and announced that they had brokered a deal on how best to work together. The MCAs said most of the thorny issues that had led them to take the action have been sorted out. The Benane MCA said they would withdraw the impeachment motion ‘in the coming days’. Abdi said the county has experienced challenges that have consumed a substantial portion of the county budget, thereby affecting overall development as well as payment of pending bills. “The other thorny matter to be handled with boldness and utmost diligence is payment of pending bills. We will pay pending bills upon verification and authentication and I therefore seek for cooperation and patience of all stakeholders,” he said. Eldas MP Aden Keynan thanked the MCAs for listening to the voice of reason. “I would like to thank all MCAs for choosing engagements over confrontations,” he said.