The government should be at the frontline in the fight against stigmatisation of widows, Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh has said. Speaking on Thursday at the National Youth Service during the handover of donations to widows and women groups, the CAS highlighted that widows across the country have been among the worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and they need help. "Widows suffer and are still being stigmatised even during coronavirus. I know that most lack masks, sanitiser and even foodstuff," she said. Handing over the donations from the Ministry of Gender, the National Youth Service and Manu Chandaria that included 1.7 million masks, sanitiser and foodstuff, Shebesh said over 36 women groups, especially widows in Nairobi and Kiambu county, would benefit. "These donations here today will be used to help struggling women mitigate the effects of Covid-19. I know being a widow and a woman is not easy and I ask that we share what we get here today with those that are struggling in society," she said. Urging women to take up leadership positions in the country, the former Nairobi Woman Representative has encouraged leaders to be fair in the distribution of funds and resources, especially during the pandemic. "Take up leadership even from the villages upwards, and for our women leaders, carry your roles with dignity and deliver to the common mwananchi," she added. Also present during the donations was Kiambu Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi who encouraged women and widows to be decision-makers in society and no longer victims. "I know there is economic devastation during Covid-19 and some widows are still forced by in-laws taking advantage of lockdown to undergo rituals that are outdated. Our loved ones died but life has not ended. We have to push on," Ngugi said. Highlighting the effect of Covid-19 on widows, another speaker Gloria Kendei said the number of widows has increased during the pandemic following the high deaths among men. "More men are dying during this period indicating that the number of widows is growing tremendously. This means that we need great empowerment for widows and women now," she said. Kendei said most women have lost their sources of income during Covid-19 leaving them in limbo, unable to provide for their families. The present widows also indicated that some of them had gone through burial rites and rituals deemed unacceptable. This included some being forced to sleep with their dead husbands. She thus urged women and widows to take advantage of the government affirmative action funds to start and grow businesses. "The government affirmative action funds for women and girls during the pandemic attracts a grace period to minimise the Covid-19 effects on women," Shebesh said. Edited by R.Wamochie