Gem sub county in Siaya has received personal protective equipment worth Sh200, 000 to curb the spread of Covid 19 from the Winam Grassroots Organisation. Deputy county registrar of persons Jack Ochieng while receiving the equipment said they were at risk of contracting the virus given that they had to move closer to clients when extracting fingerprints. Ochieng said the nature of their job before the PPEs was so frightening as they could not pick fingerprints from clients without moving close to them despite the government directive on social distancing. The registrar said production of identity cards, being one of the most important documents in Kenya, cannot stop because of Covid 19. “The only equipment we needed were PPEs to protect ourselves and our clients but Winam Grassroots Organisation has come to our rescue,” Ochieng said. Ochieng said with the Covid-19 guidelines, it was difficult to create awareness on the 'Kitambulisho Mashinani' program meant to sensitise residents to turn up for registration of IDs. The registrar said with the PPEs, they are going to continue with their awareness program on identity card registration to avoid the last-minute rush come 2022. He said since the commissioning of the program, the office has registered 756 applicants within the last three weeks. “Our target was to register 6,000 applicants and we are very optimistic to meet our target within the timeline of three months,” he added. He urged youths to take advantage of the Covid-19 directives of working from home and turn up for identity card registration. The patron of Winam Grassroots Organisation Sam Opot said they will not tire from protecting those they think are offering essential services in the times of the pandemic. Opot hailed the Gem office of registry of persons for being creative by initiating the program to help avert delay in IDs issuance. He added that it will be important to ensure that politics is not dragged in the program. Opot urged residents to embrace the program during these times when they were not as busy.