Activities at the King Fahad Level 4 Hospital in Lamu were on Monday halted after medics went on strike to protest poor working conditions which they said predispose them to Covid-19. All workers including nurses, doctors, clinical officers, lab technologists and subordinate staff are agitating for the provision of personal protective equipment for protection while at work. Currently, at least six health workers from various departments at the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19. The medics are also agitating for the establishment of a fully equipped isolation and quarantine facility at the hospital. They also want the county government to ensure clear and timely dissemination of information concerning Covid-19 to medical staff to enable them to plan ahead. Health executive Anne Gathoni said she was not aware of the strike. "I haven't received any complaint from anyone. I am not aware of the strike and I believe all is okay," Gathoni said. The medics are also seeking frequent fumigation of the hospital and the establishment of a separate Covid-19 laboratory away from the main one. Led by their various unions, the medics also want effective and timely contact tracing for confirmed cases in line with the Ministry of Health guidelines. They are demanding a private facility for self-isolation for health workers who don’t meet the criteria laid down for home care. They also want effective screening and triaging of all clients at the hospital’s point of entry. Speaking on Monday at the hospital grounds, the union heads accused Governor Fahim Twaha’s administration of refusing to meet a single demand among those laid out. Union of Kenya Civil Servants Lamu Secretary-General Hajji Shibu said, “We are simply seeking a safe working environment even as we battle the pandemic. It's unfortunate that nothing has been done and the number of medics being infected is soaring. We shall support our members to strike until their demands are met." Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Lamu secretary Iddy Yusa expressed displeasure at the silence of the county government over the matter adding that they were ready for dialogue. "We're open to honest dialogue and hope for immediate implementation as we strike to serve the community better," Yusa said. Kenya National Union of Nurses Lamu chairperson Asya Said said it was only fair that medics are empowered to stay safe as they work on the frontline to save lives from the pandemic. Critical services at the hospital especially maternity and general wards were the hardest hit as doctors and nurses kept away, leaving the patients on their own. The hospital is the largest in the region and the sole referral facility in the county. This is the third time this year that medics at the hospital are going on strike. A similar situation was witnessed on July 24 when health workers went on strike over similar complaints. Edited by R.Wamochie