Elders from the Kikuyu community have postponed this year’s traditional rite of passage following the outbreak of Covid-19. Kiama Kia Ma vice chairman Njoroge wa Mugo told the media on Wednesday that it is not unusual to postpone circumcision ceremonies whenever circumstances do not permit. He said the traditional rites have been postponed in the past following outbreaks of contagious diseases in animals and human beings and during wars, floods or droughts. Mugo said in 1952 and 1957, circumcision ceremonies were postponed after the state of emergency was declared during the struggle for Independence. The other time was in 1923 and 1924 after an outbreak of rinderpest, a disease that affects livestock. He said the ceremony was also postponed when rivers burst their banks and flooded surrounding areas as the ceremonies are done in rivers. Circumcision is one of the most important ceremonies in the Kikuyu community and people should celebrate fully, something cannot happen when there is no peace, Mugo said. He said food should also be in plenty for people to feast and feeding the initiates well also to enables them to recover faster. “These are some of the things that can make people postpone circumcision and so we shall not be having circumcision events this year." Mugo, however, said elders are ready to counsel children using modern technology such as electronic media or online platforms. They can also use elders who are younger to reach out to the children. This, he said, will ensure that they avoid early pregnancies and other vices in society. Elder Kariuki Kabue said the decision was reached after a meeting with Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. He said they were not ready to go against the government’s advice to avoid congregating. Elders have been bringing together children after completing their KCPE examination yearly where they undergo the rite of passage during which period they are offered guidance on how to go about their lives. The decision by elders will affect 15 counties highly inhabited by the Kikuyu communities whose elders have been overseeing the traditional rite.  Edited by F'Orieny