Four governors on their second term in the North Rift have shifted focus to speeding up legacy projects that have been disrupted by the Covid-19 crisis. With two years to the next polls, a muted succession struggle is raging in the four counties headed by Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Josphat Nanok  (Turkana). Mandago has revived plans to complete his flagship projects that stalled mainly because of Covid-19 and delayed funding from the Treasury. The projects — mainly in agriculture, water and health — will cost more than Sh3 billion. Mandago wants them completed within two years before his exit after completing two terms in office. Two key health projects are completion of the Ziwa and Burnt Forest level five hospitals at the cost of Sh750 million and Sh450 million  respectively. "Ziwa hospital will address the demand for quality healthcare and help attain President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on Universal Health Coverage," said county executive for Health Everlyne Rotich when she toured the facility. The governor has moved to complete the Sh500 million Moisoy maize milling plant developed through a union of cooperative societies. “We hope the milling plant will be completed by the end of this year so farmers can process their maize for value addition and earn more," Mandago said. The governor has also unveiled a plan to modernize the historic 64 Stadium in Eldoret at a cost of Sh1 billion before June next year. He has extensively improved roads in Eldoret town and one has been named after him. More than 30 dams have been rehabilitated and tens of boreholes dug for residents who have no piped water. A growing list of politicians want to succeed Mandago in 2022, including Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Jonathan Bii and businessman Bundotich Buzeki, who ran unsuccessfully against Mandago in 2017. In Trans Nzoia, Khaemba has achieved wide successes in agriculture where he has been supporting farmers to increase production. But two of his pet projects, the Trans Nzoia County Referral Hospital and upgrading the main bus park in the town, stalled. The hospital was to cost more than Sh3 billion but has been dogged by claims of corruption and lack of funding. Former Trans Nzoia chief finance chief Ben Wanjala and Speaker Joshua Werunga are on the list of possible successors. Others are Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, businessmen Kakai Bisau and Abraham Sing'oei, former Trans Nzoia finance executive Andrew Wanyonyi and businessman Moses Khaoya. “We will work with someone who will be able to move Trans Nzoia to the next level after Khaemba completes his term,” Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny said. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Governor Tolgos is widely credited with the improving the health sector in the county where residents have been rated as among the most optimistic in a recent survey. Tolgos invested heavily in modernising hospitals, improving farming in Kerio Valley and security plans to end banditry. However, his main challenge has been low funding for the county where his deputy Wesley Kiptoo now tops the list of possible successors. Other aspirants are businessman Samson Changwony and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. In Turkana, Nanok is credited with investing in projects that have transformed the lives of residents. Residents say he has set the foundation that has seen investors flock to Lodwar town and other parts of the county. Turkana South MP James Lomenen and CS for Mining John Munyes are among those seeking to succeed Nanok. Edited by Henry Makori