Mitumba traders can now resume importation and sale of used textiles and shoes. The reprieve comes after the Kenya Bureau of Standards-KEBS lifted the ban imposed on the importation of the goods following the current Covid-19 pandemic. KEBS on Sunday said the importation resumes immediately. According to the Bureau,  the move follows the development of protocols to enhance the protection and safety of traders and users while handling used textiles and shoes to avoid the spread of the disease. Managing director Bernard Njiraini said the new protocols will require all importers of the used textiles and shoes to register with the bureau and identify the country of origin of the bales to enable traceability. "The guidelines provide a framework for enforcing additional safety measures such as cleaning and fumigation of used textiles and shoes at the country of origin before bailing and at the wholesale or retail stores including surrounding areas every day at the closure of business," Njiraini said. He said clearances of the imported bails will only be undertaken through the Kilindini port and the Inland Container Depot Nairobi. "We urge importers, dealers and buyers to adhere to the guidelines provided in the protocols," he said. Njiriani said the guidelines are a culmination of several weeks of research and consultations by the Bureau, Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Bureau had suspended the importation of mitumba following a declaration as a possible source of new infections of coronavirus. Njiraini said the ban was a precautionary measure taken with an aim to safeguard handlers and users from any risk of exposure to the disease. Last month, the traders appealed to the government to lift the ban on importation Mitumba, saying many young people risked losing jobs. Addressing a press conference in Nairobi, Mitumba Association chairperson  Teresia Wairimu said the ban put in place in March to contain the spread of coronavirus had led to the loss of jobs negatively impacting millions of households. Wairumu said the Mitumba industry employs approximately two million people. She argued WHO had not recommended the prohibition of movement of goods or commodities as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. ''We are confident that the fact that there is no credible public health risk and the Mitumba industry-proven willingness to co-operate with additional local fumigation protocol and public health guidelines will rescind the ban,'' the lobby said in a statement. The association said that its members are unable to restock their wares since the ban had interrupted the supply. She said approximately 35,000 traders and players and linked sectors are deprived of their livelihoods as stocks get depleted.