@ppcheti The Lamu government has hired an additional 92 medics to boost healthcare delivery during the Covid-19 period. The new personnel includes nurses, clinical officers, pharmacists, radiographers, laboratory technologists and community health workers. They were hired under the Universal Health Coverage programme, bringing the total number of medical staffers hired during the pandemic to 150. Speaking during an induction ceremony for the 92 at the county headquarters in Mokowe on Monday, Governor Fahim Twaha said the move was timely as the health department had been overstretched by double demand for services brought about by the virus. He reiterated his administration's immediate and long-term  commitment to improving healthcare, citing heavy infrastructural investment as central to his agenda. "This is a matter of priority, and the new personnel will be posted to health facilities across the county with immediate effect. Health is capital-intensive. Over Sh700 million has consistently gone to health sector in the previous and current financial years. In the immediate strategy, this approach is helping us procure ICU equipment for both Mpeketoni and King Fahad hospitals," Twaha said. Pledging his government’s commitment to the fight against Covid-19, he said plans are underway to upgrade King Fahad and Mpeketoni hospitals before 2022. “We’ve been actively procuring additional healthcare equipment to help protect our frontline workers and the Lamu public against this deadly virus,” he said. Earlier this month, a consignment of 10,000 personal protective equipment and 4,000 N95 respirator masks, 17 additional oxygen gas cylinders and two ventilators all worth Sh3.9 million were procured and distributed to health facilities. The facilities have equally been upgraded, with the laboratory at Methadol Clinic at King Fahad now fully equipped in line with Covid-19 requirements. The laboratory is now used for collection, preparation and storing of samples. The isolation centre at King Fahad Hospital is also being revamped to increase its bed capacity. The governor urged fellow leaders to stop criticising his administration and instead join him in developing the region. “We are the leaders of Lamu, so let’s respect one another, join hands and help our people through meaningful development," he said. Lamu has so far recorded 49 cases of the coronavirus of which two have succumbed, 23 have recovered,  while 15 are under home-based care.