Lands Court has given back Kakamega Primary School pupils their 12-acre playground that had been grabbed by private developers. In a ruling made on Friday last week, Justice Nelly Matheka dismissed a petition by Sudhir Khetia of Yako Supermarket seeking to keep the chunk of land. Matheka said the parcel was initially public land reserved for Kakamega Primary School before it was illegally alienated into private property and later acquired by Khetia. “The school being a public institution, the land it occupies and utilizes as a playground is, therefore, public utility and unavailable for allocation,” said the judge. In the petition filed in 2017, Khetia sought to keep the parcel of land intended for the development of a private hospital. He explained that he purchased part of the land in February 2011 from one Michael Odwoma and another portion in August the same year from Kito Pharmaceutical Limited. He told the court that he holds title deeds for both parcels and had applied for a merger, which was yet to be effected due to the ongoing contest. “I used the title deeds to secure business arrangements from local and foreign investors and have made part developments on the property worth Sh200 million already with the potential of employing at least 200 Kenyans,” he said. He added, “Despite being the registered proprietors, we have faced constant harassment and quiet possession of the property from various quarters”. In February 2012, through a gazette notice, the land registrar of Kakamega district revoked Khetia’s titles on grounds that the land belonged to Kakamega Primary School but the notice was quashed in May 2013 after the petitioners went to court. In June 2013, the land registrar, working under the instructions of the National Lands Commission, entered restrictions on the land titles barring Khetia from having any dealings with the parcel. It was after the prolonged legal battle that Khetia filed the petition seeking to have the court declare him the legally registered proprietor of the piece of land. He also wanted the court to stop NLC from reviewing the property grant because it is private land. In response, NLC said that the fact that the public property is changed to private and registered does not prevent the commission from investigating the legality of how the parcel was acquired. Management of Kakamega Primary School insisted that the land belonged to them and was grabbed by a private developer who later sold it to businessman Khetia. The school said that the land has been in their physical possession, use, and control of as referred to in the titles as a playfield, a purpose of which original grant was reserved and in public interest.