 Up to early 2015, Corporal Henry Mokua Onsongo, a.k.a. Maasai, dealt ruthlessly with the criminal gangs of Mukuru kwa Njenga slum. But since March 9, 2015, Onsongo has been conspicuously out of action from the crime scenes of the sprawling slum in Embakasi. The Kenya Wildlife Service officers had seized him with a rhino horn worth Sh1.2 million in car registration KBK 891V. Today (Monday), Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani will sentence him after she on Friday found him guilty of dealing in wildlife trophy. Onsongo, Eliud Wanyonyi and Richard Kalatanda had been jointly charged with others not in court, with dealing in a 600-gramme rhino horn with a street value of Sh1.2 million. The offence was committed at a parking lot opposite Bounty Hotel in South C. The corporal was separately charged that, while armed with a loaded Ceska pistol, he obstructed KWS officers Christopher Odhiambo and Michael Bett from executing their duties. On Friday, Gandani found him guilty and ordered his detention in police custody until today when he is to be sentenced. Court documents showed he had resisted arrest by shooting in the air. His seniors, from the Industrial Area Police Station, arrived at the scene and disarmed him. “You used your gun to confront the KWS officers and you shot in the air and, hence, misused your firearm,” Gandani told him. His Industrial Area police station seniors and those from the Kwa Reuben police post where he headed a special unit code-named SPIV, said the corporal was off-duty at the time of his arrest. But the accused had told the court he was on duty. On Friday, he was a pitiful sight as he shed tears and maintained his innocence in mitigation. “Your honour I never committed the offence. Please forgive me, your honour, as I have a family with young kids whom I need to look after,” he pleaded. Onsongo, who was unrepresented, had been out on bond. He could not hide his shock on Friday when the magistrate ruled he will spend the weekend in custody. “I order you be detained in police custody and be brought back on Monday for sentencing,” Gandani said. Car KBK 891V - an exhibit -  is still parked outside the Kibera law courts in a pathetic condition.  - mwaniki fm