A storm is brewing over the manner that anti-corruption agencies have allegedly turned a blind eye on runaway graft at the Ministry of Health. Not once but thrice mega corruption has been reported at Afya House but all the incidents have turned out to be a hot potato for the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The scandals are linked to a web of powerful businessmen, including a top Jubilee Party official. Leaders from across the political divide have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government of applying double standards, saying in other reported cases of graft the DCI and the EACC acted swiftly. “When we said the so-called war on corruption had been weaponised to target those with divergent political beliefs, it is evident in what we are seeing at the Ministry of Health. Theft after theft and the EACC, DCI and even Uhuru himself is quiet,” former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama told the Star. He called on international donors including World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the Africa Development Bank to forthwith stop giving financial aid to Kenya until Treasury and the Ministry of Health give a breakdown of how the billions have so far been spent. Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua said the country is appalled that even with the 2016 Afya House scandal and the new revelations of theft of resources in the same ministry, nothing has been done. She called for full disclosure of all the monies received — grants, loans and donations — and the immediate arrest and prosecution of culprits in all the corruption cases in the ministry. “No a single person has been prosecuted since the 'Mafya House' scandal of 2016 despite government promises to do so. We demand accountability. President Kenyatta must address the endemic corruption in the health sector, including the adverse mention of people close to him,” the former Justice minister said during a press conference in Nairobi on Monday. Karua accused Uhuru of prioritising personal interests in the 2022 succession politics at the expense of pressing issues facings millions of Kenyans including job losses and a bad economy. “Billions of shillings are being spent on projects with questionable public utility value. Billions more have been spent on Building Bridges Initiative where there no rivers, in essence, a breaking bridges initiative,” she said. “We can no longer accept to tie the destiny of tens of millions to short term selfish interests of heartless leadership. We are stating unequivocally that President Kenyatta’s private interests in 2022 succession must not be forced on Kenyans when his government remains incapable of doing what governments are supposed to do.” The latest alleged scandal in the ministry is the reported theft of  donor billions through inflated contracts for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to be used by Kenyans and health workers during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Before the last week’s revelations, there was the suspected theft of PPEs that were donated by Alibaba Group founder and billionaire businessman Jack Ma. The Sh5 billion 'Mafya House' scandal was revealed by then internal auditor Bernard Muchere in October 2016. Days after his whistle blowing, Muchere was recalled to Treasury in what was seen as a punitive measure. On October 28 then EACC deputy CEO Michael Mubea with a contingent of detectives stormed Afya House and carted away documents but to date no progress has been made. Mubea was in May last year appointed Kenya’s ambassador to Dublin, Ireland. In a March 2018 audit report, former Auditor General Edward Ouko confirmed that the Ministry of Health could not account for Sh5 billion, saving Muchere who had been subjected to ridicule by the players. Ouko put on the spot the Ministry for paying Sh800 million for the procurement of some 100 portable clinics before they were installed, commissioned and handed over. The lucrative tender for portable clinics was awarded to Estama Investment Limited at a cost of Sh1 billion. But the clinics would lie idle at the NYS yard in Mombasa since they were procured in 2015. Then there is the mega scandal surrounding the Sh38 billion Managed Equipment Services (MES) programme that began in 2015. Several counties received assorted essential medical equipment through the scheme and are now forced to repay Sh200 million every year. In the deal, the ministry was supposed to deduct a fixed sum of Sh90 million annually from each of the 47 counties over seven years. However, the deal was varied along the way and increased the contract period to 10 years and the counties are now required to cough up Sh200 million per year up from the initial Sh90 million. Edited by Henry Makori