The senate has adjourned for the 10th time on the revenue allocation formula debate. However, on Monday, the senators stood united and voted for the adjournment over the arrests of senators. Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) and Christopher Langat (Bomet) are in police custody while Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) is said to be holed up in his house fearing arrest. Speaker Ken Lusaka said when a senator is harrassed, they must stick together. "The chair of the security committee should convene and get all parties to give information on whereabouts of the senators and report back on the progress," he said. "The house stands adjourned up to 2.30 pm." The Leader of Majority Samuel Poghisio supported the adjournment motion but however urged senators to be sincere over the matter. "Some of us just want to do politics. We have to be sincere. I would be concerned about members arrested but i think that the opportunity given to speak will be better used if we agree not to call the government all sorts of names," he said. "We should adjourn and get the details of the arrest, the charges and where there are being held." He said that their arrested should not be related to revenue sharing formula. "We have agreed on this matter. If all the information can be put here on the table," he said. "We want the concern to be overall here. Let us go to this recess knowing that our members are not intimidated." Poghisio said the senate needs to sought out the arrests adding that the speaker has powers to stop the arrest. Siaya Senator James Orengo who is also the Minority Leader asked the senators to stand with each other . "Let us stand with each other all the time. There are other times some senators are arrested like Ledama OleKina (Narok).. I have been arrested twice in the precincts of this parliament. MPs fought so that i cannot be taken to police cells," he said. "Today it is these three tomorrow it will be Orengo... and I will know how to deal with it. I have prepared myself . " Orengo said the senate cannot have an open ended adjournment. "I do not agree to an open ended adjournment because it shows we have no power and authority. I plead for the Speaker to use the authority of this House to summon the Interior CS, Police IG ,DCI and AG, to appear before the Security Committee in the next one hour and report back at 2.30pm," he said. Orengo said the senators should go back to their conscience and reason together to come up with a solution on revenue. "Give a ruling now not tomorrow. Let the deliberations be given to us later. I support the motion," he added. Senators demanded the release of their colleagues before they continue with the debate on the divisive county revenue sharing formula. The senators had earlier on Monday morning wanted the special sitting adjourned until three senators were present in the chamber. Police are said to have camped at their Nairobi homes seeking to arrest them. Senator Langat was arrested a few minutes before 11.30 am on Monday morning at his house in Nyayo Estate, Embakasi. He left his home alongside lawyer Nelson Havi on their way to the Embakasi Police Station.