The expulsion of a student by Machakos University for failing all his units was illegal, the High Court has ruled. Justice George Odunga, sitting in Machakos, said the decision to expel the third year student without giving him a fair hearing and showing him his marked exam booklets was illegal and irrational. Odunga directed the university to give the student all the transcripts within 30 days from Tuesday and rehear his appeal. He warned that he would order the institution to readmit him if it fails to comply. "A declaration that the final decision of the respondent discontinuing the petitioner was tainted with illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety,” he ruled. The judge had last year ordered the university to allow the student to sit his exams but the institution disobeyed and expelled him without giving him the documentation to defend himself. He said the university could not discontinue the petitioner and at the same time refuse to furnish him with the material prescribed in Section 6 of the Fair Administrative Action Act. The university admitted on November 14, 2019, that it received the student’s request for all evidence, including examination booklets and cumulative unit marks as well as minutes of the board of examiners proceedings. The judge faulted the institution for using a court ruling to deny the student the evidence and discontinuing him even after the court directed it to allow him to sit his exams. “Machakos University has once again caught the wrong end of the stick. This court will not tire of bringing back the university on track when it gets legally derailed and it matters not how many times the derailment occurs,” the judge said. Odunga ruled that where a person materially or adversely affected by any administrative action intimates that he intends to challenge an administrative decision, it befits the administrator to supply him or her with such information to facilitate his or her application for an appeal or review. The information may include the reasons for which the action was taken and any relevant documents relating to the matter.  -  mwaniki fm