Campaigning begins in Tanzania on Wednesday ahead of a general election due at the end of October. President John Magufuli, who is seeking re-election, faces 14 challengers. The ruling CCM party has dominated Tanzania’s politics for decades. A united opposition during the last election gave the party the strongest challenge yet. But the crowded race this time could give the president greater advantage. Mr Magufuli was widely praised as a reformist when he took office five years ago but has since been accused of stifling dissent. In June he controversially declared that the coronavirus had been defeated in Tanzania through the power of prayer. Most Tanzanians have since resumed normal business in spite of concerns raised by critics at home and abroad. This year’s election is expected to be the most challenging yet as the government continues to clamp down on dissent. US First Lady Melania Trump has made a heartfelt plea for racial unity in a live speech from the White House to the Republican party convention. "Stop the violence and looting," she also said as protests continued over a police shooting in Wisconsin. Mrs Trump urged Americans to stop making assumptions based on race and reflected candidly on US history. President Donald Trump currently trails Democratic challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls for November's election. The normally limelight-shunning US first lady delivered Tuesday evening's keynote address before a small audience, including her husband, in the Rose Garden of the White House. "Like all of you, I have reflected on the racial unrest in our country," she said. "It is a harsh reality that we are not proud of parts of our history. I encourage you to focus on the future while still learning from the past." She added: "I urge people to come together in a civil manner so we can work and live up to our standard American ideals. "I also ask people to stop the violence and looting being done in the name of justice, and never make assumptions based on the colour of a person's skin." Kim Jong-un has warned North Korean authorities to prepare for the dangers posed to the country by the coronavirus pandemic and a looming typhoon. Mr Kim's appearance at a party meeting comes after widespread speculation over his health. North Korea has not confirmed any Covid-19 cases and it is thought that a large outbreak would have a devastating effect on the impoverished nation. Meanwhile Typhoon Bavi is expected to hit North Korea later this week. Speaking at a meeting of the politburo on Tuesday, Mr Kim, who was smoking a cigarette, said there were "some shortcomings" in the state's efforts to keep out the "malignant virus", state media reported, without giving details. Pyongyang for a long time insisted there were no infections in the country, though this was doubted by observers. No cases have been declared, but its media have not repeated the claim for several weeks now. After a suspected case, there had been a lockdown in one border city near South Korea but the infection was never officially confirmed. France's interior minister has defended topless sunbathing after police asked a group of women on a Mediterranean beach to cover up. The three were approached by officers on the beach in Sainte-Marie-La-Mer following a complaint from a holidaying family. The incident generated a huge backlash against the officers. Backing the women, the minister, Gérald Darmanin, tweeted: "Freedom is a precious commodity". He said it was wrong the women were asked to put on clothing. A press release posted on Facebook by the Pyrenees-Orientales police said the incident happened last week. Two officers asked three people on the beach to cover their chests, after a request from a family concerned about children present.