The High Court has dismissed an application by an accused at Kibera courts requiring a presiding magistrate to recuse herself from her case. Teresiah Muturi wanted the court to disqualify Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani from hearing their case alleging bias over failure to release her late husband's Sh1 million cash bail. Muturi said her husband Kamay Kahwai died in 2016 but that Gandani has refused to release his bail. Muturi was charged alongside her husband and Margaret Kago in 2014 with obtaining money by false pretence. They argued that Gandani has shown open bias against them in the handling of their case and should be disqualified and their case transferred to another court. However, Justice Jessie Lessit dismissed the application, ruling that there was no evidence of bias. The judge noted that for her court to order a transfer of a matter from one magistrate’s court to another, there must be reasonable apprehension in the applicants or any right-thinking person’s mind that a fair and impartial trial might not be had before the magistrate. “I find that the apprehension of bias, in this case, is not a reasonable one, and is not one that can be held by reasonable, fair-minded and informed persons,” the court ruled. She dismissed their allegation saying an arrest warrant the magistrate had erroneously issued against them cannot be a ground of bias. On the issue of release of cash bail, the court agreed with Gandani’s ruling that she will delay its determination as the matter is still ongoing. The accused alleged that Gandani had at one time allowed witness expenses to be paid for a prosecution witness who allegedly travelled from Meru for hearing of the case, yet the witness is a resident in Nairobi. The prosecution strongly opposed the application arguing that it went against the rights of the vulnerable victims as stated in the Victim Protection Act. “If the matter is transferred to another court it will be unfair to the complainant who is blind owing to the complexities that were involved in conducting the trial," the prosecution said. Edited by R.Wamochie