She was sent by her mother on Sunday, July 26, to buy salt from a nearby shop but never returned. That was the last time Janet Wairimu saw her daughter, 18-year-old Felister Wariara, alive. Her body was later found half-naked in a maize plantation. It had wounds and her eyes had been gouged out. Felister was a Form 4 student at Great Vision Secondary School. Kikuyu OCPD Namutali Kusima said the case was being investigated by DCI officers. Felister had been raped and murdered. She was Wairimu's only child after her brother, Denis Njung’e, died in 2018. He was in Standard 7. Her family and residents have yet to come to terms with her death. On Tuesday, Wariara was buried at her home in Rusigetti village, Kikuyu constituency. It was all grief and sorrow as relatives, villagers, classmates and church members paid their last respects. Speakers condemned the killing. Burial chairman Michael Nyoro, a neighbour, said the family and society had been robbed of a hardworking, respectful girl who was ready to learn. “We have lost a girl who loved people. She spoke to everyone with a lot of respect and was intelligent. We have had a difficult time to accept this,” said Nyoro, who was also the master of ceremonies. He urged residents to pray for Wairimu and keep her company as she recovers from the loss. Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba questioned why the police had not arrested any suspect, threatening to revisit the issue after 14 days if no arrest is made. “If no arrest and probably prosecuting of the suspect or suspects will be reported within 14 days from today, I shall lead the family and residents to demand answers,” she said. Wamuchomba said most murders due to gender-based violence go unresolved once the victim is buried. She promised to ensure justice is served to the family. The legislator also appealed to parents to be at the forefront of protecting their children and guiding them accordingly, adding that if the murderer was "adequately advised, he would not have gone to that extent".