ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has accused Jubilee party of violating the independence and integrity of Parliament through 'draconian means'. Mudavadi accused the party of being behind the arrest of senators to prevent them from voting for or against motions on the county revenue sharing formula. "Parliament is under attack by the Executive in Kenya. Arrest of senators ostensibly to prevent them from attending to their duty is very unfortunate. It's a throwback to dark days we thought are behind us," he said. Three senators; Steve Lelegwe (Samburu), Christopher Langat (Bomet) and Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) were on Monday morning arrested hours before they were to take a vote in the Senate. Malala said he was arrested for distributing sanitizers in Mumias without observing Ministry of Health guidelines. Langat on the other hand claimed that he is being intimidated over his stand on the revenue standoff. "There is no need of all this..I am being threatened from every corner and i have evidence.. I have talked to the speaker and everybody..," he said. Embakasi sub-county police commander Francis Ngugi who led the night operations at the senator's Nyayo estate home said he was being sought for an offense allegedly committed in Bomet Mudavadi said in a statement on Monday that the government is misusing law and order agencies by politicizing the police. He equated the senators' arrest to that of the Constitution. "Senators are delegates of the people. The sovereign power of the people is exercised through the Senators as set out under Article One of the Constitution of Kenya. Arresting Senators to stop them from a vote in the senate is equal to arresting article One, arresting the sovereign, and the ultimate foundation of our Constitution," he said. "Decision-making in Parliament is achieved through persuasion and debate not brute force, intimidation, threats and arrest. Government can have its way but not through draconian means." Meanwhile, the senators stood united and voted for the ninth adjournment of the revenue formula motion in solidarity over the arrests of senators.