A company has lost a bid to set aside a notice demanding Sh700 million in unpaid tax by the commissioner of investigation and enforcement in Kenya Revenue Authority. Digital Box Limited filed the matter before the Tax Tribunal challenging a notice of assessment for the period 2012 to 2016. In the assessment, the commissioner demanded Sh700,548,224 — being Income Tax of Sh481,521,086 plus VAT of Sh219,027,138 inclusive of penalties and interest. The company argued that the assessment of its taxable income for the year under review was erroneous as it failed to consider that it had yet to conclude auditing its 2015-16 accounts to be able to self-assess and pay the resultant taxes. It also claimed that the commissioner erred in finding that it is liable to pay Sh700,584,224 even after it acknowledged that it had not considered the costs of the purchases for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 in its computation. In their determination, however, members of the tribunal said the facts were objectively gathered and they did not find any evidence indicating the commissioner acted dishonestly. They said the commissioner is allowed to use any information that is available and to use the best of his or her judgement in making the assessment. “The respondent exercised its powers to make the decision based on the material before it. Thus, we are of the view that the respondent exercised the best judgement under the circumstances as required by the law in the arithmetic computations, as the sampling technique did not indicate any bias,”. During the hearing, the commissioner submitted that it used the banking analysis test in arriving at the assessment. The company, on the other hand, argued that the banking analysis test was misapplied, resulting in what it termed an unrealistic amount of tax. But the Tribunal said the company failed to prove that the commissioner misapplied the bank analysis test. “The appeal has failed and the commissioner is ordered to take into account costs from the company's records for 2015 and 2016 years of income in the assessment,” it said. The Tribunal added that the Tax Procedures Act, in granting the respondent powers to assess taxpayers, does not specify the methods that may be used and instead, the law provides that the best judgment must be exercised.