The Taita Taveta government collected Sh283 million revenue in 2019-20, surpassing its Sh230 million target. This comes even the country grapples with the coronavirus crisis, which has hurt the economy. Despite the adverse effects, Governor Granton Samboja's administration said it has laid down policies to sustain businesses and strengthen revenue collection. Finance and Economic Planning executive Andrew Kubo said the county had to revise the early revenue target from Sh350 million to Sh230 in the wake of the virus. “The pandemic has negatively affected businesses; therefore, we were forced to lower our target. The teamwork in the department has, however, helped us surpass the new target,” Kubo said during a meeting with revenue officers on Thursday. He said the increase in revenue collection will enable the county government to put in a strong case for an increased share of the revenue from the national government. “Capacity building of our staff and supervision in all departments by strengthening the inspectorate unit are among the steps we are working on to ensure more revenue is collected,” he said. The county targets to raise revenue from licences, parking, mining and royalties from the Tsavo National Park. It has had a steady growth in revenue collection since 2017. The department has further strengthened its ability to collect more revenue by sealing the loopholes that initially led to revenue loss. Last week, the county government adopted an automated mobile money payment system for revenue collection. “The new system will include vehicle parking fees, land rates, business permits, market stalls and other business cess,” Kubo said. The department said the rollout of the digital payment system will boost efficiency by easing payment and maximising revenue collection. The cashless mode targets to seal loopholes that have previously led to revenue loss and do away with physical cash exchange that has the potential to spread the coronavirus. The department has been battling revenue loss occasioned by fraudulent dealings by a section of revenue officers. On June 3, Kubo told the county assembly Budget and Appropriation Committee that the department had interdicted 15 revenue officers for allegedly being involved in forgery and embezzlement of public funds. The officers allegedly issued fake receipts without the county's water marks.