Kenya is among countries whose drinking water supplies in a proportion of rural schools are contaminated by faeces. The latest report by the World Health Organization and Unicef found widespread faecal contamination and significant variation between different types of supply. The report, ‘Progress on Drinking Water, Sanitation and Hygiene in Schools: Special Focus on Covid-19', was produced through the WHO/Unicef Joint Monitoring Programme. According to the report, borehole, piped and rainwater was less likely to be contaminated than other improved sources such as protected wells and springs while unimproved sources were twice as likely to be very heavily contaminated. For instance, the level of contamination in unimproved sources was found to be at 42 per cent and that of improved sources such as wells and springs was 21 per cent. Faecal contamination in rainwater was found to be at 16 per cent, 14 per cent in piped water and nine per cent in boreholes. The survey was conducted by World Vision in rural schools in 12 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. They include Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Uganda, Tanzania, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The report states that despite the WHO and Unicef guidelines on Covid-19 stressing on the importance of hygiene for reducing transmission, in the 60 countries identified as having the highest risk of health and humanitarian crisis due to Covid-19, one in two schools lacked basic water and sanitation services. Similarly, three in four schools lacked basic hand-washing services at the start of the pandemic. The UN agencies further recommend all schools to enforce regular hand washing, ensure daily disinfection and cleaning of surfaces, provide basic water, sanitation and waste management facilities, and follow appropriate environmental cleaning and decontamination procedures. “Accelerating progress in countries with the lowest coverage of WASH in schools will, therefore, be critical to improve school safety during the Covid-19 pandemic and beyond,” the report states. “WHO and Unicef guidelines on virus infection, prevention and control in schools identify a range of measures that need to be in place for schools to reopen and operate safely,” it adds. The report shows that while almost all schools had toilets accessible on-premises, only seven out of 10 were always unlocked or had a key that was available, and just one in three were accessible to students with limited mobility. In addition, while eight out of 10 latrines were found to have stable slabs not cracked or broken, only one in 20 had lids covering the hole. Furthermore, many were found to be in an unacceptable condition. Nearly half had faeces visible on the floor, slab or walls, and nearly three quarters reported the presence of flies and bad smells. From the report, 26 girls in Kenya and 30 boys share a toilet. “Global school closures since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic have presented an unprecedented challenge to children’s education and wellbeing,” Unicef Executive Director Henrietta Fore said. “We must prioritise children’s learning. This means making sure that schools are safe to reopen including with access to hand hygiene, clean drinking water and safe sanitation.” As schools worldwide struggle with reopening, access to basic hand washing with soap and water is a key condition for schools to be able to operate safely in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. WHO Director General Tedros Ghebreyesus said access to water, sanitation and hygiene services is essential for effective infection prevention and control in all settings, including schools. "It must be a major focus for government strategies for the safe reopening and operation of schools during the ongoing Covid-19 global pandemic,” Ghebreyesus said. Edited by R.Wamochie