Following the exit of the towering right- back and skipper George Maelo, Sofapaka yesterday officially confirmed the elevation of Elly Asieche to the rank of captain. Asieche, one of the long-serving midfielders at the club, served as Maelo's assistant. The latter is among the five players who have been released by the club from the time the transfer window opened on Monday. Other players who have been axed include Ugandan duo of Nicholas Sebwato and Brian Kajuba while Ronald Okoth left after announcing his retirement from football. Batoto Ba Mungu through their president Elly Kalekwa confirmed that they will replace the two foreigners; Kajuba and Sebwato with a Rwandese defender  and a striker whom he declined to reveal of his identity. Former Gor Mahia and Tusker midfielder Lulumba Okeyo also quit the outfit  after barely a year of service. "Asieche is our new captain going forward. He fills in Maelo's shoes and once football resumes, we will decide who will serve as his deputy. We have parted ways with five players on different grounds and we are on course to replace them with new ones," said the club's team manager Hillary Echesa. Meanwhile,  veteran striker at the club Kepha Aswani wants to sign off his playing career with the 'Golden Boot' as well as his second top flight title. Aswani was part of the squad which won the league with Mathare United in 2008 and says he is looking forward to wrap up his active football in the next three years. The former AFC Leopards man said  he will be eyeing at least ten goals in next season's first leg before capping it up with an electric performance in the second leg which he observed was his best goal hunting moment. "I have came close in the past seasons as far as the 'Golden Boot' is concerned. My greatest undoing has been a poor start but this time round, I want ten goals in the first leg and I am certain my performance in the second leg will be good as usual.I have shared with my teammates the pride which comes in winning the league and it is my prayer to claim it with Sofapaka before I call it a day," said the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge winner with Harambee Stars.