A parliamentary oversight committee has ordered for a comprehensive forensic audit on the use of Covid-19 billions of shillings within 60 days. The Public Accounts Committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi on Tuesday noted that only a forensic audit by the Auditor General can expose any impropriety of Covid-19 cash. PAC estimates that the government has received Sh250 billion for use in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The team wants Auditor General Janet Gathungu to furnish the committee with a preliminary report of the first month and fortnightly progress reports of the audit findings. The lawmakers promised to bring to book any persons - however powerful - who played a role in the misappropriation of the funds. “We have held a meeting as a committee this afternoon (Tuesday) and deliberated on the matter of Covid-19 funds and we have unanimously decided to direct the Auditor General to initiate immediate and comprehensive forensic audit on the use of Covid-19 funds,” Wandayi said. He said the PAC expects an interim report within the first 30 days of the assignment and, thereafter, fortnight progress reports and a final report by the end of the task. The audit will focus on the procurement, warehousing and distribution of essential medicines including personal protective equipment (PPEs) to confirm whether the expenditures were incurred lawfully and effectively. The audit will also identify the types of fraud, corruption and other financial improprieties - if any - quantifying the amount of loss, determining who was involved, when it began, why it was possible to perpetrate it, and how it was concealed and reporting the findings with supporting evidence. The special audit directive comes hours after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi called on the oversight committees (PAC and PIC) to move with speed and take over the matter which has elicited public rage in the past week. “The nation is appalled by the alleged misuse of Covid-19 combat resources, and the National Assembly committees on Health and the PIC must move with speed and offer leadership on this matter. We have no time to waste,” Muturi said. Majority leader Amos Kimunya and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi also weighed into the matter by inviting investigative agencies to probe the matter. "We used to rely on unconventional means to obtain information, being whistleblowers, social media...and we could bring out issues of accountability. We can now get information from credible state entities like EACC, DCI, and Auditor General. We still have a responsibility to fight corruption," Mbadi said. He said anyone imagining that ODM condones corruption is daydreaming. "We did not defend former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Babu Owino (Embakasi East MP), Okoth Obado (Migori governor). ODM will not defend anyone involved in the issues of (Kenya Medical Supplies Authority) Kemsa." Mbadi said those implicated in the malfeasance will be on their own. "Let them know that it is immoral and unethical to make money when Kenyans are dying."  - mwaniki fm