Although elections for new Dock Workers Union officials are still eight months away, hopefuls have begun unofficial campaigns. The most contested seat will be that of general secretary currently held by Simon Sang. Sang intends to defend his seat and has dismissed as a non-starter his closest challenger, Siyat Abdullahi, a 36-year-old former police officer who is the zone manager in the security department of the Kenya Ports Authority. Sang is serving his third term after taking over from the late former Changamwe MP Kennedy Kiliku in 2006. Siyat is emerging as a force to reckon with and has gained significant backing from the influential Somali business community in Mombasa. The community, chaired by Abdirahman Yusuf, says they will do whatever it takes to ensure Siyat topples Sang. Yusuf on Sunday told the Star the wrangles in the giant union have a significant effect on business as the management, in a bid to tame the union’s radicals, develops policies that hurt their businesses. Siyat, who holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration and human resource from Mt Kenya University and a master's degree in strategic management from Kenyatta University wants all KPA employees unionised. “This way, there will be harmony between the management and the workers who will no longer be threatening industrial action which disrupts business at the Mombasa port,” Yusuf said. Other union members interested in Sang’s position include Said Chande, Alphaeus Aluoch, Edward Opiyo, Abubakar Abubakar, Jorum Kiilu, Ezra Okong’o and Harrison Lusigi. The giant union controls about 7,000 employees of KPA and the general secretary position gives the holder significant influence both socially and politically. The potential candidates are now secretly manoeuvring to have an advantage when the campaign period officially starts in January. Elections are set for April 2021. Campaigns for the general secretary position have traditionally been chaotic as candidates pull all manner of stunts to win. In the last elections in 2016, the polls were marred by violence and accusations of irregularities. Sang won. “I have been winning by 90 per cent of the votes but this time I think I will win by 87 per cent," a confident Sang told the Star on Sunday. Siyat's campaigners say the union members are tired of the leadership wrangles that have rocked the union for the past decade or so. Sang and chairman Mohammed Sheria for a long time led different factions of the union. The two did not see eye to eye but they recently announced a truce. The differences between the two is blamed for policies that hurt the members, including delayed payment of bonuses introduced by the management taking advantage of the wrangles. Abubakar, who has once been Sang’s deputy, says Sang has failed the test of time. But Sang dismissed him as an incompetent man who is bitter. “The man failed terribly as my deputy. He used to make me work extra hard,” Sang said on Sunday. In 2017, Sang unsuccessfully vied for the Kuresoi MP's seat. Siyat’s aides say he is the calming mind that the union needs. “For a long time, there have been differences between union officials affecting output. This will stop with Siyat at the helm,” said Hassan Abdullahi, Siyat’s aide. On Sunday, a confident Sang dismissed Siyat’s candidature. “That man is finished even before he is started. He has been using funny tabloids to campaign for himself,” Sang said on phone. Siyat joined KPA in 2016 after quitting the police service, which he joined in 2006. Yusuf said: “All Siyat wants is to ensure there is smooth running of things at the port. The current situation we see at the union is leaders who are causing chaos because they do not see eye to eye.” Edited by Henry Makori