Eight counties under the North Rift Economic Bloc have used more than Sh2 billion in the fight against Covid-19 within the past four months. Estimates seen by the Star from some of the counties indicate that a bigger proportion has gone into acquiring isolation beds. President Uhuru Kenyatta directed that each county have at least 300 in June. Other costs went into the purchase of personal protective equipment, setting up of isolation and quarantine centres, training of medical staff, fuel, contact tracing and payment of allowances to frontline workers. Money was also expended on awareness initiatives and improvement of access to water in many areas. The counties used between Sh200 million and Sh250 million on other Covid-19 expenses. In the counties, save for Uasin Gishu county, reports on Covid-19 expenses have yet to be tabled before county assemblies for oversight purposes. MCAs in Uasin Gishu are in the process of writing a report. They questioned the exaggerated prices of Covid-19 material bought by the county government more than double the market price. Two weeks ago, the MCAs summoned Health executive Everlyne Rotich and chief officer Kenneth Mbeka to explain the irregular purchases, exaggerated prices and non-payment of health workers' allowances. The report tabled by the chief officer in the county assembly indicated that the county had bought met most of the requirements at costs well above the market prices. The items purchased were for use at quarantine and isolation centres. They cost more than Sh70 million in March and April. Among the items was a pair of gumboots bought at Sh3,500. The market price of the item does not exceed Sh1,000. The county also bought water flasks at Sh4,200 each, instead of an average of Sh2,000. The county also purchased thermal guns at Sh15,000 each. The MCAs said the market price was Sh6,000. Uasin Gishu county also purchased N95 type masks at Sh1,400 each, instead of Sh650 apiece. County assembly Covid-19 committee chairman Patrick Bundotich (Tarakwa MCA) warned that the officers involved may find themselves in trouble. “When we look at the document provided on the purchases, the prices are so high and we wonder if this is a prudent expenditure of public funds. We don’t want to find ourselves in the same situation like that of the wheelbarrows in Bungoma,” Bundotich said. Rotich and Mbeka explained that Covid-19 came as an emergency and some suppliers took advantage of the situation to exaggerate prices. “We did a market survey and ended up with those prices. In some cases, there were shortages of items,” Mbeka said. But the MCAs rejected the explanations, terming the costs unrealistic. Kiplombe MCA Ramadhan Ali questioned why the county did not follow the procurement procedures to avoid wastage of public resources. He said the pandemic was not an excuse for county officials to misuse public resources. There has also been an outcry over failure by the county government to pay health workers' allowances, despite claims that a few senior officers and their cronies had been paying themselves exaggerated allowances. A report from the department indicates that some senior officers had already been paid allowances of more than Sh300,000 in three months, while medics on the frontline have yet to get their dues. 