Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya wants the Building Bridges Initiative to come up with judicial reforms to end corruption and delays in the expedition of justice. Munya said the Judiciary has contributed to delays in many key projects as courts continue to issue orders refraining the Executive from executing them. Speaking in Malindi on Monday, the CS said at times, the courts favour tycoons in cases involving public properties that affect development by the Executive. Munya referred to a case of a landing site that was allegedly grabbed by a tycoon in Mayungu, Kilifi county, and said there were many others that have been affected by the judicial decisions despite being public properties. "Many times, it is the courts that are causing these problems. Properties are known to belong to the public, a tycoon grabs it then moves to court and because he is well off, the case takes time. That is the challenge we have," Munya said. He said the Judiciary often pretends to be everything and does not want to follow government procedures which clearly state there is a mandate to deliver as well as decision making. He said it was unfortunate that whenever the government seeks to do something meaningful to the public the courts come in to stop it. "That's why we are saying the BBI should address the issue of courts interfering with the government by preventing it from delivering on its mandate," Munya said. The CS said there have to be boundaries and that the Judiciary should make justified decisions not to benefit the corrupt at the expense of the people. "We want the courts to show results and this is by ensuring cases rotting in court are expedited for the betterment of wananchi," he said. Munya noted that a case involving tea farmers stopped for three months. He said justice must prevail for all. "It cannot be that the work of the court is maintaining the status quo which is not favouring justice for the ordinary people," he said, noting that by his comments, he does not mean the Judiciary is not important. He noted that he is also a lawyer by training.  Edited by EKibii