An arid and semi-arid counties assemblies' lobby has urged the Senate to heed ODM leader Raila Odinga’s call and ensure they do not lose under a new funding method. The County Assembles from Frontier Counties Development Council praised Raila's push for a win-win formula, saying any other plan will cement pre-devolution marginalisation. The Senate has failed on seven occasions to reach a consensus on how to share Sh316 billion allocated to the counties. They make another attempt on Tuesday. The FCDC leaders said their counties have made tremendous gains in the 10 years of devolution. They want the progress maintained for Mandera, Marsabit, Garissa, Lamu, Tana River, Turkana, Samburu, Isiolo, West Pokot and Wajir counties. The leaders – mainly county assembly speakers – addressed a press conference in Nairobi. “We have heard Baba has come in to support counties not to lose cash. We welcome the move and we are telling senators to take the advice when they meet tomorrow (Tuesday) to decide on the matter,” Marsabit Speaker Mathew Loltome said. Marsabit Minority leader Buke Yatani warned that the formula before the House will cause mass stalling of projects in the frontier counties. They will be reduced to paying salaries with nothing for development, he said. Isiolo county, the leaders said, has consistently received Sh1 billion for development but could lose up to Sh800 million in the proposal. The frontier counties could lose up to Sh10 billion combined. “The same formula would further marginalise, disadvantage and slow the development progress already made by our members since devolution. We are happy it was rejected,” Yatani said. Mandera nominated MCA Umul Kheir noted that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s goal to end FGM and maternal deaths will not be realised if the Northern counties are denied the resources. “More people, instead of getting out of poverty, will plunge deeper and create more challenges for the nation,” Umul said. The leaders demanded that senators consider a formula that will keep the allocations consistent if an increase is not possible.  (edited by o. owino)