 Plans are at an advanced stage to transform the Agricultural Finance Corporation into a commercial bank for farmers. Board chair Franklin Bett said the Agricultural Development Bank would serve agricultural value chain players better and in turn stimulate growth in the sector. “The new institution will be modelled around the success stories of agricultural banks in countries such as India, Malaysia, Thailand and China,” he said. However, Bett was quick to point out that the transformation is likely to face delays due to legislative and institutional processes. He explained that crucial policies and laws need to be enacted by the National Assembly.  “The parastatal further requires injection of requisite capital to compete in the financial services sector,” he added. The transformation of AFC to a bank is to be actualised in its short-term strategy. Bett spoke at AFC headquarters in Nairobi during the inauguration of new board members. The new members were appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta through a gazette notice on August 7. “I recognise that the task ahead of this board is a daunting one, but it is also a chance to write history. The policies that we enact will have an impact for generations to come,” Bett added. He noted that the African Development Bank has committed Sh1.9 billion to support youth initiatives, funds that have been hosted at AFC to be loaned out to young entrepreneurs. “Additionally, the corporation is in advanced discussions with the Arab Bank of Economic Development in Africa for a facility to operationalise AFC’s Islamic finance window,” he added. AFC is also collaborating with a number of USAID funded programmes in the country. They include Kenya Investment Mechanism, the Kenya Crops and Dairy Market Systems and the Livestock Market System, through which the corporation is leveraging an additional Sh1.2 billion to Kenyan farmers. “These partnerships will result in more responsive and inclusive models of service delivery, especially to women and youth,” Bett said. He said the corporation will strive to complement the Big Four Agenda in contributing to food and nutritional security and creation of employment and wealth.  (edited by o. owino)