International schools are gearing for September virtual reopening as the institutions usher in a new academic year. Despite school shutdown in mid-March, high-end private schools quickly launched out-of-class option for continuity of teaching and learning. Nairobi International School director Radhika Lee says despite challenges posed by the pandemic, the institution was able to successfully complete its academic year virtually for all 620 students enrolled. “So when schools closed, we moved online like the following day the announcement was made,” Radhika says. The swift transition was facilitated by a key requirement that makes laptops part of the schools' admission must haves. On admission, learners are required to own a laptop and for those who don't have one, Radhika says, the institution has a loan programme to facilitate the learner to acquire one. “A regular day in an online class is just as hectic, if not more, as physical classes,” Radhika says. "We work longer, preparation for online takes longer." On a normal day, the virtual school starts with registration. This is done in the morning and sets the stage for teacher-learner interaction. “Sitting in front of a laptop screen is tiring so the kids get 15 minutes to cool off in between periods before proceeding to the next class,” she said. Radhika notes no absenteeism has been witnessed since day one. She, however, notes that on several accounts, some classes have been affected by power outages. These cases are, however, few and far between as she recounts. The school also provided a Sh3,500 stipend for teachers to buy data. While moving online, the school offered parents discounts. According to the 2020-21 September fees structure, early year classes of playgroup Kindergarten 1, 2 and Year 1 will get 50 per cent fee discount. To this end, the parent whose kids are joining Year 1 will pay Sh84,500 instead of the Sh169,000 for the first term. Those in Year 2, 3 and 4—equivalent of lower primary school in the Kenyan context—will get a 40 per cent discount Year 5 and 6 will get a 30 per cent discount, while Year  7, 8, 9 and 10 will get 25 per cent off their fees. Exams cancelled Under the British national curriculum, institutions take exams between April and May. However, this year’s test was cancelled. However, this won’t affect their transition, as Radhika explains, the learners' final scores will be an aggregate of the overall exams, post mocks, mocks, and other tests they previously took. On the other hand KCPE, KCSE test candidates, brace to repeat next year after the government cancelled this year’s exams.