A popular political scientist is tipped to join Deputy President William Ruto's camp soon. Corridors of Power understands that there have been protracted negotiations between the high-flying political commentator with the DP strategists. The Sugoi analyst sent the clearest indications yet that he is about to seal the deal when he allegedly held one on one talks with the DP last week. The country's second in command is said to be determined to strengthen his political think-tank as he plots his stab at the presidency in 2022. The analyst's move could trigger panic in the other rival camps which have also been plotting his capture to buttress their teams. A vocal MP from Mombasa county is said to be unhappy with Governor Hassan Joho over claims that the county boss could have reneged on their initial political pact. The MP had started positioning himself as Joho's heir apparent but the governor's calculated political moves have sent jitters down the spines of the lawmaker who is claiming betrayal. The MP is said to be planning a meeting with influential elders and businessmen within the Coastal city to plan how to up his stakes in the Joho succession battle. The meeting would be one in as many lined up to pile pressure on the flashy governor to publicly declare his support for the MPs' gubernatorial bid to boost his chances against worthwhile opponents. Just why has a vocal ODM MP from Nairobi been avoiding his constituents? The legislator has not set foot in his constituency for the longest time. Residents who had been hoping for his donation to alleviate hunger have thrown in the towel. Recently, a section of the residents, some whom campaigned for him in 2017, visited his office at KICC but were informed that the MP had travelled. Hours later, the man was seen on the floor of the National Assembly contributing to a debate. The angry residents have now teamed up with a city MCA who is eyeing to succeed him in 2022 to launch aggressive campaigns against the lawmaker. A well known activist is said to have vanished with some Sh500,000 belonging to a 'client' allegedly paid in advance to enable him to move to court. The activist is said to have been approached by the senior government official with interests in a recent recruitment where his ally was shortchanged. The government official had asked the activist to file a case that would challenge the recruitment with the aim of annulling the whole process. However, it is not clear why the activist is yet to file the case despite pocketing the cash.