Kenya on Monday reported 544 new cases of Covid-19 bringing the total to 22,597, Health CAS Rashid Aman has said. This is out of 2,653 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the cumulative number of tests done in the country to 318,376. Of the cases reported today, 499 are Kenyans while 45 being foreigners. In terms of gender, 315 are male and 229 are female. Men continue to lead in the number of infections in the country. As of ages, the youngest is a one-year-old while the oldest is 84-years-old. The country has also witnessed 263 recoveries bringing the total number of recoveries in the country to 8,740. 176 are from Home based Care program while 87 have been discharged from various hospitals. However, the country has lost 13  more people. Ten of those who died had underlying conditions. The total number of deaths rises to 382. Among those who died is a nurse, Marian Awuor Adumbo, from Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. "Our sincere condolences to the families and friends of Nurse, Marian Awuor Adumbo who succumbed to COVID-19 at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital yesterday evening.May her soul rest in peace," CAS Aman said. She has left behind her less than a week old infant that she delivered at the hospital. He also added that the death of Miriam brings to eight the number of healthcare workers who have so far died from the virus in the country. The distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi has 412 cases, Machakos and Kajiado with 17 cases each, Garissa 16, Uasin Gishu 14, Mombasa nine, Nakuru eight, Nyeri and Narok with five cases each, Makueni four, Laikipia two, Muranga, Kilifi, Busia, Embu, Bungoma, Kisii, Kwale and Meru with one case each. The cases are distributed as follows in sub counties; in Nairobi, the cases are in Lang'ata with 50 cases, Westlands 48, Dagoretti North 43, Embakasi East 37, Makadara 36, Embakasi South 35, Kasarani 25, Kamukunji 20, Roysambu 20, Embakasi West 18. Others are Embakasi Central, Kibra and Starehe with 16 cases each, Embakasi North and Mathare with nine cases each, Ruaraka eight and Dagoretti South with six cases. In Kiambu, the 27 cases are in Ruiru with eight cases, Kiambaa and Kikuyu with six cases each, Kiambu Town four, Kabete, Lari and Limuru all have one case each. In Machakos, all the cases are in Athi River while in Kajiado the 17 cases are in Kajiado North with 14 cases and Kajiado East has three cases. In Garissa the 16 cases are in the town, while in Uasin Gishu the 14 cases are in Turbo with five cases, Ainabkoi has two cases, Kapseret, Moiben, Soy have two cases each and Kesses has one case. In Mombasa the nine cases are in Mvita with five cases, Nyali three and Kisauni one case while in Nakuru the eight cases are in Nakuru East with four cases, Rongai two, Gilgil and Nakuru West with one case each. In Nyeri, the five cases are in Nyeri South with four cases and Nyeri Central with one case while the five cases in Narok are all in Narok North. In Makueni the four cases are in Kaiti Kilome, Makueni and Mbooni with one case each while in Laikipia the two cases are in Laikipia West. The case in Murang'a is in Kiharu while the case in Kilifi is in Kilifi North. The case in Busia is in Teso North, the case in Embu is in Manyatta, the case in Bungoma is in Kanduyi. The case in Kisii is in Kitutu Chache South while the case in Kwale is in Msambweni. The case in Meru is in Imenti Central. 