Some residents of Mukong'a village in Kitui county on Wednesday held demonstrations to protest against acute water shortages in the area. The residents said they walk up to 20 kilometres from Mwingi North to River Tana to get water for domestic use. Patrick Mwandikwa, a resident, said the shortage of water exposes women and children to danger as Tana River is inhabited by crocodiles. "Youths and women have lost lives following crocodile attacks but very little has been done to ensure their safety," he said. But water is not their only problem, the area has no electricity, its hospitals are understaffed and roads are dilapidated. Residents said the Kitui county administration has neglected them. Jenifer Kanyaa said a borehole sunk near Mukong'a centre is not operational because the pump has a mechanical problem and nearby seasonal rivers have all dried up. Kanyaa urged local leaders, especially Governor Charity Ngilu to intervene and solve their water menace. "Our backs have developed complications for some of us who do not have donkeys to help carry the water jerrycans," Kanyaa said. She also lamented poor health services in the area. The nearby dispensary has only a clinician and the other one completed eight years ago is still idle, she said. "Women cannot deliver at the nearby dispensary and have been forced to travel to Embu to get medical attention," she said. The village is on the border with Embu. Kanyaa added that many children have been born along the way to Embu as the roads are almost impassable. Musyimi Mukiti, another local pleaded with area leaders to jointly work on ensuring the area gets electricity. Mukiti said schoolgoing children are disadvantaged as they cannot study online as the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic. He said electricity could bring jobs like welding, operating cyber cafes among other opportunities for jobless youths. Julius Mutuku said the roads have been neglected for long and have damaged motorbikes and cars. "A year after going into the transport business, one counts more losses than profit as the road makes vehicles wear out faster," Mutuku said. Kalonzo Kamunzi said the poor roads have discouraged most people from the transport business, leaving locals to depend on lorries for longer journeys. Kamunzi said that pregnant women have to get to hospitals on motorcycles on the rough terrain. (edited by o. owino)