On October 28, 2012, Elizabeth Mwahu left twins James and Samuel with their father, her ex-boyfriend, so they could spend Sunday afternoon together. It was a regular arrangement so he could remain part of the boys' lives though she had broken up with him while she was pregnant with the twins. She declined to name him. The boys were four years and 10 months old. On that day, the father went to Mwahu’s apartment at Gachoro village in Juja, Kiambu county and parked his car outside. After spending a while with the kids and Mwahu, he received a call. From the conversation, Mwahu told the Star, the caller apparently wanted some money. After the call, the twins' father excused himself to drive to Juja quickly and return. He insisted to go with the boys. As they were getting ready to leave, Mwahu went to the kitchen. That was the last time she saw her children and Mwahu lost her desire to have more little ones. More than seven years later, their loss has been an open wound. Pain and frustration deepened by the day. As evening fell and it got chilly, Mwahu worried as the twins hadn't put on warm clothing, so she texted her ex-boyfriend. He didn't answer. He did return as promised though much later, but without the boys. Mwahu asked him where the children were and he casually answered, “Si watoto wako kwa nyumba.” At first she thought he was joking, but not so. He insisted he actually did not leave with the children and said they had refused to go with him. “He claimed the boys got fussy about going with him and so he left them playing outside the house,” she said. But why didn’t he mention that to Mwahu as a precaution before he left, to ensure the boys were safe? Without wasting a minute, they started a frantic search as the night grew darker and colder. They knocked on one door after another in the neighbourhood. Friends and neighbours joined the search party. Nothing. At midnight, they reported the boys' disappearance to the Juja police station. "I have gone to children's homes, done their stories in newspapers, on television and radio. Any time there's a case of missing children being found, I always have to go check whether it's them. No news," Mwahu said. The snail's-paced DCI investigations cleared her ex-boyfriend of any wrongdoing but nothing except time has ever helped her to heal. "We are neighbours from shagz [rural area]. So we do talk now and then. When the kids disappeared he was arrested but was later released. The police said there was no evidence to link him to the kidnapping," Mwahu said. Though she later married, things have never been the same. "It's like a part of me left with them. I've never felt complete." Asked whether she believes wherever the boys are, they are fine, she said, "Yeah. They are alive. "... I have always felt so. And I know they will come back one day. The case is still open and I believe the truth will come out one day," she said on an emotional yet hopeful note. James and Samuel are still part of her life and a photo of the twins remains on her phone's screensaver so she sees them whenever she touches it. "I have their pictures. Before I got married, I used to have their clothes in my wardrobe and their shoes in my shoe rack, so I could see them every day." When she got married, she said, having the boys' belongings all over was keeping her from healing and getting back a semblance of life. "It was torture," she said. "So I packed all their things, gave their clothes, shoes and toys out. I just have a few items. Seeing those things every day...their photos all over...would make me cry a river," their mother said. And as part of her healing journey, she said, she is now ready to bear another child. " [Due to this ceaseless ordeal, I] had this phobia of having kids. That experience was horrible for me," Mwahu said. "But now I have healed, so I am ready to get a child." (Edited by V. Graham)