The current revenue sharing formula should be applied if senators fail to approve the third basis formula, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said in Kisumu on Wednesday. Oparanya urged the senators to end the stalemate over revenue-sharing formula as the deadlock was hurting the counties' operations. The Kakamega governor, however, said should the Senate fail to agree, the current one should be used. He referred to the law that says that if there is a disagreement or delay, the existing formula continues to be applied. “We will push for the use of existing formula as senators continue to engage on the proposed one,” he told reporters, emphasising that the law is clear that the current formula can be used in case of a stalemate. “The new formula should have been passed more than a year ago,” he said.. Oparanya, who was accompanied by Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and Lake Region Economic Bloc chief executive Abala Wanga, said counties are in dire need of funds. They are yet to receive the July allocation from the National Treasury. A revenue sharing formula should last three years as per the Constitution. The first lasted between 2013 and 2016 and the second between 2016 and 2019. He said the governors were engaged in the proposed formula. “We had various discussions on the matter as stakeholders with the Commission (on Revenue Allocation). Our resolutions were taken to the Senate,” Oparanya said. He also urged governors to engage their senators at a personal level and save the counties from the financial crisis. Oparanya said Sh29.7 billion has been released to counties by the National Treasury. “We thank the Treasury for finally releasing the fund for the month of June 2020 to counties. The money is yet to be accessed by counties because the IFMIS was only opened on Tuesday," he said and hoped to access it by the end of the week. He said the counties will be able to pay workers and support the fight against Covid-19. Health workers in some counties have been on strike over unpaid salaries.   - mwaniki fm