Residents of Nyatieko in Kisii have demanded fresh public participation over plans by the county government to set up a dumpsite in their area. On Friday, they told the county to  brace  for massive protests against the garbage site on Monday. Already they have given notice to security agencies to allow them to hold the protest to the governor's office. The dumpsite, they said, will be located near a church, two schools, villages and a river, posing danger to the residents. Group leader Justus Mochoge said the residents were united against the project until proper public participation is done. Mochoge said while they were happy the county acquired the land, it would do them good if it was used for another public venture rather than for dumping waste. Mochoge said signatures used in the early public participation forum lists were forged. "Let them revisit the issue with new public participation forums so that we get to understand what the project is all about, " Mochoge said. The group told a press conference at Nyatieko SDA Secondary School they were not sure if the county government ever acquired an  environmental impact assessment report. Mochoge said it was inconceivable for the National Environmental Management Authority to award a license for the project in a populated area. "It is on this ground that we oppose strongly and we are ready to hold big protests to show our displeasure." Governor James Ongwae in a tweet, however, said some people were politicising the project. He said the county will set up a solid waste management plant and not a dumpsite as the residents say. HE said the site will be fenced and a clean  waste management plant be set up, adding that there will be no emissions. "It will not cause any health hazard and rest assured that it will be a modern plant where waste will be processed into fertiliser," said Ongwae. Lands executive Vincent Sagwe said some people in the area who did not benefit from land purchase could be plotting to derail the project. Edited by Henry Makori