A raft of amendments to the law is in the works to curb the inadequacies that contribute to mass failure of students sitting the bar examination at the Kenya School of Law. The Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights committee of the Senate made the announcement after receiving submissions from various stakeholders in its inquiry into the causes of failure of the bar exams. The committee intends to amend the Kenya School of Law and Council of Legal Education Acts to, among others, decentralise the advocates training programme (ATP), reduce the number of courses and slash KSL fees. Also likely to be slashed are the amounts charged for re-sitting and remarking the bar tests by the Council of Legal Education. CLE is the regulator that sets, administers and marks bar exams at KSL, the country’s only institution offering the ATP. According to submissions made by the deans of law schools, CLE and students’ governing council, congestion at KSL coupled with a dearth of facilities and other resources are the biggest contributors to mass failures. In their submissions two weeks ago, KSL students governing council president Timothy Thondu and Daystar University Law School dean Moni Wekesa disclosed that the lecturer to students ratio stands at 1:900. Wekesa, on behalf of the deans of law schools, said large class sizes have adversely affected the quality of learning and by extension the quality of advocates released to the market. The dean cited a Kenya Institute for Public Research Policy and Analysis (KIPPRA) report and noted there are no rooms or facilities to accommodate student groups known as firms to enable discussions. The firms’ sessions are also not guided by lecturers, hence ATP at the KSL is not efficient in maximising on students’ productivity. KSL board chairperson Fatuma Chege and CEO Hillary Mutai admitted before the committee on Wednesday the shortcoming at the institution and welcomed the decentralisation of ATP. Chege said the shortage of facilities has been caused by stalled projects initiated by previous administrators including lecturer halls and a library. “About decentralisation, we have no issue and it is a question of engaging in a feasibility study to know the demand out there to know the most appropriate places to have compusses,” Chege told the committee. CLE board chairman Githu Muigai, who also appeared before the committee yesterday, called for the decentralisation of ATP and stressed the need to make the school a practical institution. “There should be more practitioners, not professors and doctors at the school teaching how law works because the university has already taught the theory of law,” Githu, who is the immediate former Attorney General, told the committee. He added: “The KSL is still hiring teachers who teach land law in the university and then to the KSL to teach conveyancing. It is wrong. It is a waste of time. Waste of money. Waste of resources. We intended the KSL to teach conveyancing as a practical way of implementing land law.” Githu reiterated the need to devolve ATP to regions, saying congestion at KSL has compromised the quality of training at the school. “We appreciate that having a KSL in Nairobi taking 2,500 students a year. It is neither feasible nor appropriate. “We have always anticipated that one day, we would decentralise the KSL and we would have one in Mombasa, Kisumu, Eldoret and may be one in Meru or Nyeri or wherever to bring legal training closer to the students. Unfortunately this has not been prioritised as it ought to be,” he said. On the examination fees charged by CLE, Mary Mutugi - on behalf of Githu - admitted that the council has been collecting ‘surplus’ from students. “Do you think what you are charging is reasonable even if they are in the laws? Let’s be honest with each other,” committee chairman Okong’o Omogeni said. Mutugi responded: “If you ask me chair, we clearly have a surplus so I think we can look at what we charge and what we can be able to make a reduction." CLE charges Sh5,000 for first sitting per unit, Sh10,000 per unit for a resit and Sh15,000 per unit for a remark. The high exam fees have been cited as motivators for failing students. But Mutugi said the fee is statutory. “These are figures that are in the legal education quality assurance regulations of 2016. So they are acted by Parliament and we are just enforcing the fees.”  - mwaniki fm