Deputy President William Ruto allies in Mombasa on Friday called for the investigation of State House operatives saying they are the ones heavily involved in the theft of Covid-19 funds. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said the Covid-19 funds thieves are well known. "DCI, EACC, DPP the real work is in State House," said Ali at Kongowea Secondary School. He was hosting Ruto, who issued NHIF cards to 500 elders who had been covered by NHIF for a year courtesy of the Nyali CDF. "If you are men enough, go to State House and flash out those hiding in there," said Ali. In a thinly veiled criticism of President Uhuru Kenyatta's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Omar said he is confused over who to trust between the Kenyan president and his Tanzanian counterpart John Pombe Magufuli. He said those involved in the theft of corona funds have close connections with those in State House. "DPP Noordin Haji, go to State House and arrest those people," said Omar. Ali said he will not wear a mask anymore until all the stolen Covid-19 funds are returned and asked Kenyans to do the same. This prompted sections of the crowds at Kongowea Secondary to remove their masks. A 'cheeky' supporter, who saw DP Ruto remove his mask to scratch himself, declared that even Ruto is tired of the masks, eliciting uncontrollable laughter from the DP and the crowds. Ruto steered clear of Covid politics only emphasising on the need for unity. The DP said he is firmly in the journey to change Kenya for the better, which he said will not stop. He criticised those propagating dynasty politics, stating that Kenya belongs to all Kenyans irrespective of stature or background. "We are told that our fathers are not known. Today's Kenya is for all, the mama mbogas, the boda bodas, the watchmen. We must all respect each other," Ruto said. He said a section leaders are taking Kenya back to tribal cocoons. "Let us not allow ourselves to be reduced to tribal cocoons," Ruto said. Ali and Omar said the BBI train is made up of conmen and cartels, plotting succession politics for themselves. Omar said they have a responsibility to defend the constitution.