The county government of Kiambu has commenced rehabilitation and upgrading of urban infrastructure. More than 30km of roads will be tarmacked and about 85,000 households will have access to a secondary sewer system in parts of Ruiru and Juja. More than 500 integrated solar streetlights will be installed throughout the two areas. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro launched the project on Thursday. In Kikuyu subcounty a total of 9.1km roads will be upgraded to bitumen and incorporated with non-motorised transport facilities, a storm water drainage system and installation of 220 integrated solar street lights. Kikuyu and Kabete subcounties had an allocation of Sh534.04 million in the last financial year 2019-20. The four roads to be tarmacked include Nyarugumo-Nderi  covering 1.2km with 25 streetlights installed , 87-Ndumboini-Cooperation road in Uthiru covering 3.1km and 85 streetlights installed. The 2.8km Nderi-Kikuyu (Sigona) road will be upgraded and 85 streetlights installed. Roads covering 1.2km in Gikambura shopping centre will be improved with storm water drainage. The county will tarmac an 800-metre access road in Dagoretti market with 25 streetlights installed. A 12km secondary sewer line is expected to traverse Kiuu, Githurai, Kahawa Wendani and Kahawa Sukari, increasing the number of residents with access to sewerage services. The sewer system will also aid in reducing cases of pollution and waterborne diseases related to hazardous liquid waste, which in turn will enhance standards of living and a clean, sustainable environment. From Chuma Mbili corner to Kiuu River an open and closed storm water drainage to reduce flooding of homes and business premises is being undertaken. The 2.2km drain will prevent waterborne diseases and water contamination. In Thika town, the upper road from KRA to the stadium will be constructed. The road currently acts as a bypass to Garissa Road through General Kago Road. Kenyatta highway which is the main road for Thika will also be rehabilitated and the project is expected to be complete within a year. In the next nine months Ngoliba ward will have its first tarmac with the upgrading to bituminous standards of Kilimambogo–Makutano-Muguga township access road. The township will also benefit from 40 streetlights. It is expected that a 4.7km secondary sewer will traverse Muigai Inn, Chief's Area and Daima estate, increasing the number of residents with access to sewer services. While launching the project, Governor  Nyoro said the sewer will reduce the cases of pollution and waterborne diseases. In Karuri, four roads within the subcounty will be tarmacked. In Kiambu town, Riabai shopping centre and Gatitu-Githiga roads will be tarmacked and installed with solar streetlights. Limuru  subcounty with an allocation of Sh160 million is constructing a bypass incorporating NMT facilities and solar streetlights to connect the town to the Nairobi-Nakuru highway at Kamandura. Edited by Henry Makori