A Kisumu MCA has sought to know why the construction of the proposed Sh1.3 billion Moi Stadium is yet to start. South East Nyakach ward representative Johnson Guya sought a statement from the Parliamentary Investment Committee asking them to inquire, investigate the total amount that had so far been allocated and that already spent. Guya noted that the county government in 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 has been appropriating funds for the renovation and construction of the stadium. He wants the committee to investigate how much had been earmarked for the construction. “If there is any procurement process that had been undertaken so far then they should also avail a detailed report on the same,” he stated. The MCA further asked the committee to tell the assembly any challenges encountered in the implementation of the project. House speaker Elisha Oraro directed the PIC and Public Accounts Committee to report back to the House within two weeks. “If any committee is not able to do their work, an ad hoc committee will be formed, so members when its two weeks it should be at that,” Guya said. In March, the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission halted the construction of the stadium and put its tendering process under investigation. The commission said the probe follows complaints from residents. EACC Nyanza regional manager Mogare Oira wrote to Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o informing him about the move. The letter was copied to the county's Tourism and Finance executives. “The commission is in receipt of a complaint alleging corrupt conduct, economic crime, procurement irregularities and fraudulent practices by public officers of the county government in respect to tender for the proposed construction of Kisumu Stadium complex," Oira said. The tender had already been awarded to M/s Sahjanad Construction Ltd Co. The commission has requested the county to avail 20 original documents and information pertaining to the tender for the probe. The documents include the consolidated procurement plans for 2017-18 and 2018-19, and approved procurement plans for the Ministry of Sports for the same years. The commission wants the list of pre-qualified contractors, bill of quantity, approved construction designs and approved requisitions, the tender adverts, the bill and tender documents submitted by the contractors or bidders in the tender. Others are letters of appointment of the tender opening and evaluation committees, all attendance registers in tender opening and evaluation committee meetings, minutes of the tender opening committee, procurement officer professional opinion, a letter of notification of award for winning bidder or contractor including those to the losing bidders. Oira said they also want letters of acceptance from the successful bidder and the bank guarantees and the drafts of duly signed local service order or contract signed with the contractor awarded the tender. “Payment vouchers (if any) made thus far with their requisite attachments, all memos and correspondence that relate to this procurement and any other relevant document and or information in regard to this tender be availed,” the letter reads. The anti-graft manager asked the county to halt any procurement process, payments, or processing of payment in regard to the project to avoid loss of public funds. “Please note that failure to adhere to the requirement, the commission reserves the right to take legal action on the officers who will be involved without further notice to you,” Oira said. Director of the governor’s press unit Aloice Ager confirmed they had received the letter from the commission. Ager said EACC has the mandate to investigate any complaints raised by any member of the public on matters of interest. He said such a move by the commission does not mean wrongdoing by the entity under investigation. “Yes, we are in receipt of a letter from the agency asking for documentation on the process of the stadium development. The government has supplied the requested document," Ager told the Star on the phone on Thursday. Edited by R.Wamochie