A Mijikenda cultural group is using traditional attire to educate residents on how to prevent Covid-19. The group of girls and women wear traditional dress and visit key areas like markets in major towns to enlighten people on the importance of preventing the spread of coronavirus. Already they have visited Kwale and Kilifi counties where they distributed masks in markets and urged people to stay safe during the pandemic. They plan to go to all six coastal counties. The traditional attire attracts attention of people wherever they go, and they use the attention to spread health messages. On Friday the group together with Kilifi county government officials visited  Kwajiwa market in Malindi to spread the word about keeping safe during the pandemic before they distributed face masks. Bella Tumaini, the director of administration in the office of Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi who represented the county government, thanked the team of Chenda Chenda Ambassadors for initiating the programme. She said Kilifi was among the first counties to be hit by the virus but due to sensitisation the numbers had gone down. Speaking at Kwajiwa, Tumaini said currently Kilifi county's numbers was low and it wass leading in sensitiastion campaigns. "I would like to thank Chenda Chenda being one of the organizations that have volunteered to sensitise people and issue free face masks in markets and rural areas," she said. Tumaini said wearing traditional attire attracted the community and made the messages easily understood by the people. Apart from Covid-19 awareness, she said they have also been sensitising  girls against teenage pregnancy during the pandemic. Felister Kahindi, one of the coordinators of Chenda Chenda Ambassadors, said they launched the programme in Kilifi after finding that poverty levels were high and the local people had a hard time in accessing face masks. They began sensitisation in Kwale where they visited Msambweni and Lunga Lunga then went to Kilifi county covering Rabai, Kaloleni, Bamba and Malindi. Kahindi said next week they will be visiting Gongoni market in Magarini constituency. "So far, we have issued over 2,000 face masks. We are looking for partners. We are currently working with the county government, national government and other well wishers," she said. ''This dress is worn during ceremonies, so people always get attracted when they see us walking in markets and listen to us," she said. Kahindi appealed for support from well wishers since at the grassroots people do not have face masks and need to be sensitised more about  Covid-19. Alice Atieno, the chair of Kwajiwa market, thanked the ambassadors and other institutions together with organisations that have been supporting them during the pandemic. Edited by Henry Makori