Local investors and entrepreneurs should be supported to create jobs for the unemployed youth, Garissa Trade executive Adow Jubat has said. Jubat said this will not only boost the economy of the region but will also attract foreign investors. He spoke on Wednesday when he visited the Baran Garissa Block company. The CEC was accompanied by the Chamber of Commerce Garissa CEO Omar Abdirizack. Jubat said the county government will give incentives including free land and exemption of trade fees as a way of encouraging local investors. Given the history of Garissa is mostly associated with insecurity, such investment will boost the image of the county and encourage more local investors, he said. “No investor can pump in Sh50 million in an environment that he or she feels insecure. Security is top on the list of any willing investor and that is why we continue to work closely with the national government to ensure that investments but local entrepreneurs and business community are safeguarded." The company that is located in Bula Iftin, 4km from Garissa town specialises in 15 building materials among other products. It has been in existence for two years. Proprietor Mohamed Abdullahi said the Sh50 million investment was a joint business with a Turk. Abdullahi, a retired major in the defence forces, said that being a local, he saw the potential in the sector and decided to take advantage. Abdullahi said the company employs 50 technical staff and 100 labourers and can produce 50,000 blocks on average per day. They are currently serving Garissa, Tana River, Wajir and Mandera. He, however, said that they plan to extend the same business to neighbouring counties. “Our limiting challenge has been land, inconsistent power and water. We hope and pray that things will get better,” he said. Two weeks ago, Governor Ali Korane said his administration had created policies and collaborations to woo investors to the county and boost commerce and light industries. "Steady investment ventures by private sector players in Garissa will soon lead to major economic and social improvement. I laud the proprietor for investing in the town as this would go a long way in satisfying the urban needs of the town," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie