Having been part of this programme for the last 10 days has been a real eye-opener, I feel there is much more I can do to help my society,” these are words of Edwin Mwale. The 27 year- old and father of one is a beneficiary of the ongoing Kazi Mtaani programme. Mwale who hails in Umoja in an interview with the Star said having spent most of his time begging on the streets, the programme has helped him appreciate the other side of life. He said waking up every morning knowing that he will be undertaking an activity that will have an impact on the society makes him want to be a better person. Mwale is among other youth who were rescued from the streets, rehabilitated and integrated in various programmes. He is one of those who got enrolled in the Kazi Mtaani drive. “I have been here since the programme started and I can attest that for the few days, I have saved a lot at the same time provided for my family,” he said. This programme to me is God sent because it has taken not only me out of the street but many other friends who are doing something meaningful for the society,” he added. Mwale said his only worry is whether the programme will be sustained beyond the current Covid-19 pandemic. “I know there are many youth struggling out here because luck has not favored them. For us who got the opportunity, we really appreciate and aspire to give our best. We only pray that our government will review the possibility of helping us better our lives through this programme because if it collapses then someone like me will be headed back to the streets,” he said. Mwale is among 11,210 youth undertaking the programme in Embakasi Division alone. The group working on an 11-day shift earns Sh455 shillings a day down from Sh650 when the programme started. So far over 280,000 youth have been recruited across the country. State Department for Housing and urban planning said there are 900 informal settlements that are benefiting from the project. PS Charles Hinga said some 120,000 youth had been recruited in the pilot project before the number was increased to 280,000 in the second phase. According to Hinga, the first cohort has been paid 100 per  cent while plans to complete the payment for the second cohort are underway. Embakasi Deputy County Commissioner Kenneth Murungi in an interview with the Star said it was evident that the programme has played a key role in reducing crime, especially in Eastlands. Murungi said the majority of the youth have been integrated, hence limiting their idle time to engage in anti-social activities. “By the time they are going back home, they are very tired and yearning to rest. Secondly, their minds are settled because they know at the end of the day something will be in their pockets,” he said. He said the numbers of the youth who would hang out in their bases due to idleness has significantly dropped. It gives us some peace knowing that many of them are at a better place not to clash with the law. Many of them have families to provide for and this has come at the right time to mitigate the impact of the coronavirus,” he said. Murungi said if it were not for such a programme, Eastlands many youth might be in police cells. He said as a result, they have come up with mechanisms to monitor those with special skills like carpentry, plumbing, engineering among others and would be integrated in other programmes if the Kazi Mtaani is not sustained. This comes as Kenya continues to grapple with the challenge of insecurity. There remains a growing concern that the proportion, in terms of frequency and seriousness, of crimes committed by young people is on the rise. For years, the energy and potential of youth across the country has been tapped positively, bearing the responsibility of providing security to the community, and slowly assuming responsibility for the community’s assets, under the mentorship of the older generations. In the early days, crime was extremely low and highly sanctioned. Crimes such as theft, assault, rape, treachery were rare and considered as attempts to create disharmony within families and the entire community. Persons engaging in such criminality received immediate punishment, and judicial proceedings were based on the principles of compensation and reconciliation rather than retribution, an aspect that strengthened social harmony. In recent years, youth issues have dominated Kenya’s national agenda. On numerous occasions, the government of the day has reiterated it is the youth who drive innovation, creativity, equality and justice in any society. They often participate in the civic and political space through volunteerism, partaking in public participation forums, attending political rallies, taking part in community service and engaging in youth organizations. Their contribution to the digital spaces like mass media, social media and print media, cannot also be overstated. On the other hand, however, they have been accused as the major perpetrators of crime and other acts of violence across the country. With the rapid population growth in the 1970s and 1980s, the youth in Kenya increasingly became a marginalised category. This was followed by a sharp increase in the number of youth convicted to prisons. The 2019 census report reveals that Kenya has a youthful rural population. The latest data by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) reveals that 35.7 million Kenyans (75.1%) are below 35 years. The data breakdown shows that the population grew by 26% from 37.7 million in 2009 to 47.6 million in 2019, translating into an additional 9.9 million people. Kenya has a population of 47.6 million people, of which 23.548 are male, while 24.014 million are females. Despite being the majority, concerns have been voiced that youths are often placed at the periphery of the public sphere. According to the report, more than a third of these youth who are eligible for work have no jobs. The Census data shows that 5,341,182 an equivalent of 38.9 per cent of the 13,777,600 young Kenyans are jobless. This backs a report by the World Bank which revealed that Kenya has the highest rate of youth joblessness in East Africa in 2015 with 17 per cent of all young people eligible for work lacked jobs. Tanzania and Uganda had comparable rates of 5.5 per cent and 6.8 per cent respectively. This is a clear indication that young people in the country are the hardest hit by joblessness compared to their counterparts above 35 years in an economic setting. "The conventional population of youth aged 18 to 34 was 13.7 million, out of which 61 per cent were working while 1.6 million were seeking work or indicated that there was no work available,"  KNBS Director-General Zachary Mwangi during the release of the findings. According to him, about 3.7 million youth aged between 18 and 34 years who are outside employment are not looking for work. Mwangi said the country has 18.9 million people not involved in any economic activity, out of which 16.1 million were full-time students while 1.5 million were home-makers. As a result, with the shrinking business environment, most young people remain unemployed, underemployed or underpaid thus placing them squarely in the ever-growing ranks of Kenya’s working poor. According to the National Crime Research Centre, apart from unemployment, the youth have cited a litany of other key challenges that continue to threaten their human dignity. This the centre says include non-responsive education and training befitting the prevailing market needs, weak institutions responsible for youth development, low involvement, participation and representation of the youth in decision-making processes and limited access to health facilities. Another report by the UN-Habitat on Youth and Crime in Nairobi revealed that young people in conflict with the law are majorly arrested on the grounds of theft (45%), assault (23%), drug possession (10%), mugging (10%) and manslaughter (7%). The report revealed that guns, pangas (machetes) and knives were among the weapons commonly used in the commission of these crimes. “The main motive behind most of these crimes was to get money,” the 2011 report indicated. According to the report, this is indicative of either the country’s inability to avail legitimate means for its young people to meet their needs and/or financial obligations legally or an emerging generation of a “criminal youth”. The National Police Service, Judiciary, and Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, Prisons Department and Probation and Aftercare Services are among institutions that are constitutionally mandated to deal with those who find themselves on the wrong side of the law. Currently, the police arrest and investigate these youth suspected to be in conflict with the law and prosecuted in a court of law for hearing. “If found guilty, they are committed to serving their sentences either in Prison, Youth Corrective Training Centres or in the community under the supervision of the Probation and Aftercare Services Department,” the directorate of Crime Research Centre said. Article 55 of Kenya’s Constitution 2010 states that the State shall take measures, including affirmative action programmes, to ensure that the youth access relevant education and training; have opportunities to associate, be represented and participate in political, social, economic and other spheres of life; access employment; are protected from harmful cultural practices and exploitation. NCRC says the accrual sum total of youthful inmates in prisons between 2013 and 2017 stood at 242,797 of which 190,422 were males while 52,375 were females. “Maintaining such a number of youths besides other age set in prison can prove to be expensive as the state incurs a lot of expenditures which would have been channelled into other profitable projects or adding up into youthful enterprises funds to empower youths,” the report quotes. In 2017 alone, some 80,404 youth aged between 18 and 25 years were convicted of various offenses and serving custodial sentences in Kenyan prisons. The data indicates this was a representation of 49.59 per cent of the prison population compared to 2017 which was 46 per cent. Out of this number, 72, 400 were male compared to 8, 004 female. Due to the high rate of unemployment, a good proportion of them are idle and thus the influence towards each other to commit crimes in order to generate quick income to sustain their livelihoods. This has also made them vulnerable to drug and substance use through peers. The use of illicit drugs and other substances intoxicates their minds to commit crimes and owing to the ignorance of the laws they end up doing crimes without knowing the consequences or implications of their actions. Crimes Committed Youth are increasingly being involved in crimes in many parts of the country. The most common types of crimes they are involved in are general stealing, possession of illicit brews, robbery, assault causing actual bodily harm, burglary and housebreaking, drug trafficking, rape, stock theft, robbery with violence, murder, being drunk and disorderly and defilement. According to NCRC, Stealing remains the most committed crime by the youth. This is followed by the possession of illicit brews; robbery; assault causing actual bodily harm; burglary and housebreaking; drug trafficking; rape; stock theft ( including cattle rustling); robbery with violence; murder; being drunk and disorderly; and defilement. The least perpetrated crime was infanticide; collusion with criminals and being in the country unlawfully (illegal immigrant). In order of prominence, unemployment, poverty, alcohol, drug and substance abuse, illiteracy, ignorance, and peer pressure are named as the key factors that contribute to this criminality. NCRC reveals that the modes of executing these crimes are varied from being perpetrators, cattle theft/stealing/robbery, planning and executing crimes, and consumers of drugs such as cocaine and transportation of contrabands and or smuggled illegal goods across border. Women, business persons, children, general public, men, youth, wealthy people, Boda boda operators, elderly persons, farmers, teenage girls and the non- locals are the main victims of such crimes. At least 38.1 percent of Kenyans believe that poverty and the high cost of living is the major contributor of capital offences across the country. A comparative report released by the National Crime Research Centre indicated that out of the 4,703 people interviewed, 27.5 percent said drug abuse and alcoholism was to blame. While 23.7 percent said unemployment was the problem, 16.8 percent said greed and lust was to blame, 13.3 said mental illness and depression was the issue and 10.7 percent saying bitterness and anger was to blame. The research conducted in 2017 dubbed perceptions on capital offences and punishment in Kenya indicates that 11.5 percent of the respondents said the offences were committed as a result of desire for revenge. Out of the 256 public officials interviewed, 42.7 percent said poverty and high cost of living was the major issue contributing to these offences while 28.6 percent said drug abuse and alcoholism was to blame. While 22.6 blamed on greed and lust, 16.7 said the desire for revenge was the cause and 15.4 percent unemployment. Some 15.0 percent said mental illness and depression was the cause, 14.1 percent said peer influence was to blame and 11.1 percent said bitterness and anger was the problem. The report further puts personal choice to commit these offences, unemployment, poverty, drugs and stress induced in one category as the primary causes of these offences. Inequality, vulnerability, poor parenting, peer pressure and fewer skills are categorised under the secondary causes of such criminal activities while gender supremacy, politics of crime, broken families, access to families and land use change being placed under the tertiary causes.