Antonio Conte said he has no intention of quitting Inter Milan following his side’s 3-2 defeat to Sevilla in a pulsating Europa League final on Friday. The head coach’s occasional angry outbursts have seen him clash with Inter’s senior executives since taking over the reins in 2019 but the 51-year-old maintained that he would be staying with the club. “There is no rancour, from me nor the club. There are people I already worked with, so that’s not the issue,” Conte said in a post-match interview. “It’s about points of view, some situations that I faced this year and didn’t like, with all due respect for everyone. “We’ll clarify the situation, without rancour, because I will always be grateful for having the chance to spend a great year at Inter, but on the other it was also very tough ... if you think I will step back, I won’t.” Conte was left rueing the bad luck of Romelu Lukaku, who scored 34 goals this season after arriving from Manchester United but who ended up deflecting Diego Carlos’s overhead kick into his own net in the second half. “It was a tough, well-balanced game where in the second half one incident could change it. We had the opportunity, but instead there was that unlucky deflection off Romelu, so inevitably it became very difficult after that,” Conte said. “We have regrets to a degree, as the team gave everything it had against a team with a great deal of experience that was accustomed to these occasions and that had won the final many times. In the end, that made the difference.” In Paris, Lille were held to a 1-1 home draw by Stade Rennais as both teams finished with 10 men in their first game of the Ligue 1 season on Saturday. The hosts went ahead in the first half thanks to Jonathan Bamba’s strike after Rennes defender Sacha Boey’s red card. Lille’s Reinildo Mandava was then sent off and the visitors levelled after the break courtesy of Damien Da Silva’s goal. Angers got off to a perfect start when Ismael Traore’s first-half goal earned them a 1-0 win at Dijon. The Ligue 1 season started on Friday with a goalless draw between Girondins de Bordeaux and Nantes after a five-month hiatus due to the CovidD-19 crisis. Rennes went down 10 when Boey was shown a straight red card for a high foot in the 34th minute, which resulted in the 19-year-old being carried off the pitch on a stretcher after falling heavily on his back. It was the turning point in a poor first half as Bamba fired home a low cross shot from just inside the box - the first effort on target of the game - to put the hosts ahead five minutes from the break. Lille also lost a player on the stroke of halftime as Mandava picked up a straight red card for a brutal tackle on Raiphinha. With new signing Jonathan David failing to make an impact up front, Lille coach Christophe Galtier brought in another recruit, Burak Yilmaz, but the Turkish striker was equally unimpressive. 