ANC is at liberty to amend its constitution as it desires, grant or waive powers to various officers as it so wishes. In the past, party leaders or chairs were the automatic flag bearer. The proposal that Musalia Mudavadi will not be allowed to endorse another candidate is a double-edged sword for ANC. For instance, if at all they desire to enter into a coalition with other parties, especially pre-election arrangements, it would then mean that they will not cede ground. It is to say that they want to be the bully within the political space such that when they enter into agreements, then other parties must come on board as subordinates or only to play second fiddle.That will deny them various opportunities. If it will be a position that cannot be negotiated, then ANC stands to lose out because other parties that want a competitive process of coalition making and negotiations will be a bit shy or coy to engage with them. Begs the question, is it Mudavadi himself who is behind the proposal and does not want to play second fiddle or have a discussion with any other potential candidate? That it is either his way or the highway for whoever does not agree with him. If that is the position then, it does not bring out the spirit of democracy and coalition building. If you must grow a democracy, you must then be willing to jostle for coalition arrangements. There should be willingness to cede ground or willingness to settle for a better placed candidate to win the ultimate prize. If at all ANC will desire to have coalition arrangements but not willing to cede ground and Musalia is pitted against fairly highly competitive candidate, he may not have what is needed to bring home the prize. It behooves ANC to have a sober approach to the constitution review process to ensure that whatever decisions will be made, they will make the party progress and contribute to the democratic processes in the country. Not positions that are self-centred and self-cannibalistic in the end. Javas Bigambo, a governance expert talked to the Star 