The Sh1.7 billion Likoni Floating Bridge might not be delivered on time as expected, it has emerged. The a 660-metre-long suspension pedestrian bridge, which is being undertaken by the Kenya National Highway Authority (Kenha) and the China Roads and Bridge Corporation, is expected to be completed by December. The deal to construct the bridge was signed in May between Kenha and the Chinese company. However, by last week Wednesday, the contractor had not yet mobilised equipment for the project. At the construction site at Liwatoni area, there was only one bulldozer and a few tonnes of boulders that were delivered during the launch of the project in June. The suppliers of the boulders and the bulldozer had camped outside the construction site to demand payment for their work. The suppliers told the media they had not been paid for almost three weeks. “I was asked to bring in boulders, but to date I have not been paid,” said one of the suppliers. Another supplier, who had brought in a bulldozer for the project, said he has not been paid for three weeks. “We had agreed that I would be paid per hour for the bulldozer. It’s been three weeks; nothing is coming my way,” he said. The Likoni Floating Bridge will begin from Liwatoni area in Mombasa Island to Raspovu on the mainland side near the Kenya Ferry Services headquarters. The design of the bridge will be connected by pins, hinges and guard rails installed on either side of the deck to ensure the safety of the commuters. In July, the the National Land Commission issued a gazette notice to acquire three parcels of land in Likoni area for the construction of the floating bridge. NLC chairperson Gershom Otachi said the government will acquire three parcels of lands measuring about 3.5 acres for the project. NLC earmarked a parcel of land identified as Mombasa/Block XLVII/67, measuring 2.1 acres registered under Simba Colt Motors Limited. Two other parcels of land Mombasa/MS/Block 1/1815 and Mombasa MS/Block/1/1816 measuring 0.75 acres and 0.54 acres respectively are owned by Koifan Developers Limited. In previous media interviews, Coast Regional Coordinator John Elungata said the Likoni Floating Bridge will begin from Liwatoni area in Mombasa Island to Raspovu on the mainland side near the Kenya Ferry Services headquarters. “Once completed, the bridge will end the perennial traffic congestion which is usually experienced at the Likoni crossing channel,” said Eluganta.