Health workers in Kisumu county are calling upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to invoke Article 218 of the Constitution to form Kisumu Metropolitan City. Kenya National Union of Nurses deputy secretary-general Maurice Opetu noted that the decision to reach out to the President was necessitated by the fact that the county government has failed on its primary obligation to offer crucial health services. Opetu said the idea of a metropolitan just like in Nairobi will inject efficiency in the management and running of the affairs of Kisumu county. He stated that innocent residents will continue to bear the brunt of disruption of health services as salary parades for caregivers go on. The official also faulted the county government for failing to honour their end of the bargain to pay salary arrears backdating to March. The workers began their slowdown on Thursday after their unions ordered sit-ins until their salary arrears are paid. A joint committee of the health workers' unions said they ordered members to stage sit-ins because the county government had failed to honour an agreement to pay funds owed by Wednesday. But because of Covid-19 regulations, the workers cannot stage sit-ins at their workstations. The workers are represented by the Kenya National Union of Clinical Officers, Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN), Kenya National Medical Laboratory Officers and the Union of Kenya Civil Servants. Some have not been paid their salaries for the last three months and others up to six months, they said. In a statement, the joint committee said medics had been working with an erratic and inconsistent supply of PPEs by the employer. They said persistent follow-up by their unions and a written commitment by the county government had been ignored by the employer. County secretary Godfrey Kigochi, in an August 12 letter addressed to county chief officers; the director governance and administration; city manager; county attorney and the unions, said all July salaries would be paid in a week. The workers' initial strike was halted by a Kisumu court, which had issued the county government an ultimatum to pay all pending salaries by August 19, failure to which the health workers were at liberty to resume their strike. Counties had initially cited challenges in remittance of salaries, with Sh29 billion released by Treasury two weeks ago, expected to have eased the hitch. Various counties have reported paralysis in health services after workers in the sector downed their tools. Edited by R.Wamochie