Kakamega police are looking for a woman suspected to have thrown her three-week-old baby in Kakamega forest a few metres from the forest conservation office in Mahiakalo ward, Lurambi. The incident is reported to have happened on Saturday. Residents staying around the vast forest said the infant was spotted by two boys who were fetching firewood and were attracted to a baby's cries. "Some boys walked into my compound telling me that they had seen a baby wrapped in clothes and a bottle of milk placed near him, we informed the chief and later, police came for the child," resident Edwin Masengo said. Masengo condemned the act saying cases of infants being neglected at the forest are fast rising in the area and that serious conversations must be held to tame the vice. "Police should not be lenient with the culprits if found, they should exhaust resources to find  and charge the culprits." Milka Nekesa urged police and forest officers to keep daily surveillance of the forest to avert similar cases. "Some people are abusing this forest by using it for wrong purposes, it is becoming a trend and this must be stopped, last week there was a similar issue," Nekesa said. Confirming the incident, Kakamega Central subcounty police commander David Kabena urged residents with information that may lead to the whereabouts of the infant's parents to come forward and help the police with investigations. He also confirmed that the child was alive and that the preliminary medical tests by doctors affirmed that the infant was out of danger. Kabena pleaded with young mothers struggling to fend for their babies due to harsh economic times caused by the coronavirus pandemic to seek assistance rather than endanger the lives of their babies. "We urge the public to help us, the police cannot be everywhere. When you notice something strange, let us know, we shall not spare those found culpable,"  he said. He added that police are yet to make any arrests in connection with the incident but are following some leads. Edited by by R.Wamochie