Talking with Tammy Abraham this week was an enlightening experience when he revealed that despite manager Frank Lampard signing Timo Werner from Germany, he will fight to be the No1 at Chelsea. The 22-year-old scored 19 goals in his first full senior squad games and also became part of the England national team. He says he is not intimidated by the reputation of Werner and sees it as a challenge to improve himself. He said: “I’ve always been fighting and it wasn’t easy at the start of the season but I worked my way into the team and I will become stronger.” Abraham claims he can reach the levels of Bayern Munich legend Robert Lewandowski who excelled and thrilled as Bayern gave Chelsea a beating in the Champions League. Abraham also thinks he can regain his starting line-up position which he lost to Olivier Giroud at the end of last season. He started against Bayern and scored Chelsea’s goal which has inspired him to look forward to the new season on September 12.  Klopp working with new signing Tsimikas Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has been working one-on-one this week with new signing Kostas Tsimikas. Liverpool have a habit of discovering gems within the European game and Klopp says they have done it again. Tsimikas has been brought in to provide cover for Scottish international Andy Robertson, who Klopp regards as the best full-back in the world. Tsimikas understands the situation but is so respectful of Liverpool that he is pleased to be in their squad. The way Liverpool play these days means Klopp’s backs have to provide tireless running up and down the wings and demand very high energy efforts and Klopp’s training staff knew they needed a back-up when Robertson needs a rest, is injured or otherwise unavailable. Tsimikas, who comes from a Greek family of Liverpool fans, has spent the summer studying Liverpool strategies and in particular watching Robertson so he arrived well prepared.  When Messi definitely decided to leave Barca Following on from my revelation last week highlighting Lionel Messi’s possible transfer to the Premier League, my sources in Barcelona tell me that, after a season fighting the Barcelona chairman over the direction of the club, the final straw for Messi was a meeting with new manager Ronald Koeman. I am told Koeman said to Messi: “Your privileges at this club are coming to an end.” That is the moment which prompted Messi to call his agents and representatives and told them to draft a fax to Barcelona informing them of his decision to leave. One indication that Manchester City, probably the only club with pockets deep enough to sign Messi, is his chosen destination is that one of his best friends is fellow Argentine City striker Sergio Aguero and the two have been in close contact…imagine Aguero and Messi facing you in a Premier League match – a defender’s nightmare! I called several clubs and was told that probably only City and Paris St-Germain could afford Messi if Barca get their way and there is a buy-out payment to be made…if there is no buy-out payment both Liverpool and Manchester United could crunch some numbers and look at the possibility of signing him. Tottenham, Arsenal and Chelsea all said they had no interest as their plans are settled for next season.  Vardy signs new contract I am delighted for Leicester manager Brendan Rogers. His star forward Jamie Vardy has agreed a new contract and at the age of 33 looks equal to the task of adding a lot of goals to his 123 total for the club. The deal will take Vardy to his 36th birthday and who says he won’t repeat his success of winning last season’s Golden Boot award? Rogers has to replace one of his other best players with Ben Chilwell moving to Chelsea but attacking midfielder James Maddison has signed a new four-year deal with the club.  Cracks appearing in the Guardiola legend The role of footballing girlfriends (WAGS) is usually to remain in the background and look attractive but remain silent. Footballers seem to attract lovely model types who speak very little. However, Manchester City full back Oleksandr Zinchenko’s new wife obviously had in-depth discussions with the full-back after City’s shock knockout in the Champion’s League by underdogs Lyon. Both Zinchenko and wife Vlada Sedan appeared on his Youtube vlog. They appear to blame manager Pep Guardiola for getting his tactics wrong. They might have been upset that Oleksandr was left on the bench but they were very positive about what went wrong and their comments are in line with many other Guardiola critics. Sedan also revealed that Pep did not go into the dressing room after the game to console his disappointed players. She also said: “At such a crucial moment, trying an experimental tactic for City is a bummer.” To put it mildy, they both think the loss was all Guardiola’s fault. Most of the high profile City players joined the Manchester club to win the Champions League. It is the one medal they all want to display in their trophy cabinets. It is obvious that the players were disappointed with Guardiola’s tactics and it indicates some discontent in the City dressing room. Managers come to the Premier League thinking they will be very successful but when you look at Guardiola’s recent record in Europe, Bayern under his control, did not win the Champions League and the last time he won the cup was nine years ago at Barcelona with Lionel Messi at his peak. Could it be that the legend of Guardiola is beginning to crumble round the edges. Last season, he was decisively beaten by Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool in the Premier League. Zinchenko’s next face to face training session with his manager should be interesting and dare I suggest his days at City might be numbered!    Maitland-Niles to move on I am surprised that Arsenal have put Ainsley Maitland-Niles up for sale and Wolves are moving in for a £20million deal which seems to me like a bargain. The 22-year-old has shown versatility playing at the back, in midfield and even as a wing-back but he is clearly determined to leave after an extensive team meeting and long talk with Mikel Arteta which highlighted that Ainsley would play more of a supportive role rather than starting matches on a regular basis. Wolves are trying to beat Newcastle to his signature and are discussing a four-year contract.    Trippier back to Premier League? I am told that Aston Villa plan to raid Atletico Madrid to get right back Kieran Trippier back to the Premier League. The England and former Tottenham player has two years left on his Spanish contract but is unhappy that manager Diego Simeone only started him in Atletico’s home games and used Santiago in their away games. Villa manager Dean Smith wants to strengthen his defence following a narrow escape from relegation last season.  Ancelotti carefully handling new talent at Everton I have learned from Everton that the promotion of Niels Nkounkou to the first team squad is a temporary holding measure by manager Carlo Ancelotti. The teenager will be part of the manager’s squad until a replacement can be found for long-time servant Leighton Baines, who left at the end of last season. The youngster has exciting potential but he lacks experience, concentration, positional know-how and decision-making. However, he does show composure and ability. As a natural left-footer but with a good right foot, the manager has an excellent raw talent to work with. Lucas Digne is Ancelotti’s number one and he is not under threat but Nkounkou is definitely being carefully trained for the future.  Mbappe in danger of believing his own publicity Several Premier League clubs looked at Paris St Germain winger Kylian Mbappe. With his high price tag none of them were interested. However, I have also discovered why no English club is chasing him. At Monaco he was sensational and created attention worldwide. Paris St-Germain paid a huge price to sign him but since then he is not quite the player he was. The problem is, I am hearing, that he has become a bit of a prima donna…expecting attention, demanding protection from referees and in the Champions League final, his body language was all wrong. He missed chances which could have won the French champions the game. It is as if Neymar’s bad points have rubbed off on the 22-year-old and he expects to be the centre of attention without earning it. If you compare him to say,  Kevin de Bruyne or Virgil Van Dijk, they both always emphasise that they have plenty to learn even with their experience. Mbappe talks as though he believes all the hype he received, shrugs his shoulders and considers himself to be the best forward in the world at his young age. I have news for him…he isn’t and to prove the point, he should remember that he plays in the French League which is nowhere near as demanding as the Premier League.  The reason Juve chose Pirlo Why, you might wonder, would a big football club choose an untested new manager instead of ex-Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino? Anyone who witnessed the magnificent talents of Andrea Pirlo during his playing days at Juventus knows that he reached the very highest peaks of the game. What is more of a surprise is his fast elevation into the highest ranks of management by replacing Juve boss Maurizio Sarri when he was sensationally sacked after winning the Italian Serie ‘A’ crown. What I can tell you is that Juve counts losing to Lyon, on away goals in the Champions League, as a failed season. I have learned that the directors sat down and discussed making huge money approaches to ex-Spurs boss Pochettino, Real Madrid’s Zinedine Zidane, Massimiliano Allegri, Simone Inzaghi and even Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta. In the end they went with club legend Pirlo despite his lack of management experience. This is not good news for ex-Arsenal player Aaron Ramsey who I understand is not part of Pirlo’s plans and can leave. I have also discovered that to get rid of Sarri and his team is costing Juve nearly 25 million euros! Pirlo comes cheap at only 2 million euros a year.