National women's team coach Jacqueline Mwangi has tipped Lakers' goalkeeping sensation Millicent Adhiambo to transform into top class shot stopper. "Going by her performance last year , I foresee the 17-year old, transforming into a better goalkeeper  as she adjusts to the demands of the game  in the coming season," she noted. The Form 4 student at Sinyolo Girls made four appearances last season for the Kisumu-based side. She played against heavyweights Blazers, Strathmore Scorpions, USIU Spartans and Sailors as the Austin Tuju-tutored side finished fourth in the eight-team league in their maiden campaign. Adhiambo was part of the five-a-side Kenya team that failed to honour an invitational tournament in Algeria in 2018 due to lack of funds. Mwangi thinks that with a little bit of  hard work, Adhiambo can easily become a household name not only in the country but continentally. "In as much as she could be integrated into the national Under-21 set up, her talent is immense and she is no doubt the next big thing in the hockey circles," she added. "As the national team coaches, we are obviously looking for new talent and Adhiambo is a modern day hockey goalkeeper. "We are pleased with her progress so far and we will continue keeping close tabs on her. "She's growing, talented and has the capacity to be the best player ever. Remember Kenya has the best goalkeeper on the continent and therefore, she has along way to go," said the experienced striker who plays for record champions Blazers. "Adhiambo has shown us what she is capable of, but I believe her best is yet to come. She needs guidance because of her age and if she continues working hard, she will definitely be unstoppable," she noted. Adhiambo won the 2017 national title with Sinyolo and was the only Form One to have made the cut in the traveling party. In 2018, the team qualified for the nationals but she gave the tourney a wide berth,  opting to attend an invitational tournament in France, where they finished second after being beaten 8-5 in the final by the Screps team.