British ISIS bride whose arm and one breasts were torn off in an explosion has narrated how she was radicalised in Nairobi. The family of Samia Hussein (25) said their daughter was duped to stop studying and go to a camp in 2015 while living in Nairobi. Hussein had left UK to study her A levels in USIU where she wanted to complete her degree. According to the Telegraph, she was lured to help the needy children in a camp in Kenya. She then stopped her studies at USIU and headed there. After a while, the family told the paper that she was later 'groomed and brainwashed' . It is said that somebody influenced her in Nairobi, telling her that she'd be carrying out aid work. But after a week into the camp, Hussein sent a text to her mother, Luul Hussein Tarambi, saying she was being held against her will and needed to get out. In her text, she told them that she 'had been brainwashed and said she needed help', the relative said. All this were disclosed after Hussein returned to Britain and released out of police custody. Hussein who hails from Southall, west London, was injured when coalition forces launched an airstrike on a jihadist weapon store near her home in 2016. She was previously held in the Kurdish-run al-Hol prisoner camp in north east Syria. Hussein was later detained by anti-terror police after she flew into Heathrow Airport using her British passport on February 12. She was held on suspicion of being a member of a banned organisation. A source told The Sun that Hussein's links and claims are being investigated. The Daily Mail reported that Hussein was groomed and radicalised online a year after she left Kenya before she decided to travel to Syria. Hussein described conditions with ISIS as 'inhumane' . "I tried to run. But then I realised that my arm was cut off, my chest was split open and my leg was broken - the whole bone came out," she said as reported by Daily Mail. A six-month-old baby and a pensioner were killed in the blast, according to Hussein. She was left bed-ridden for seven months and came close to having her leg amputated. A Met Police spokesperson said enquiries and investigations are still ongoing.