All African Games 400m hurdles champion Vanice Nyagisera is among top junior runners who will miss the World Under 20 Championships following the postponement of the Nairobi-bound event due to the coronavirus pandemic. The event, which was initially set for last month at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani, will now be held between August 7 and 22 at the same venue. The postponement means Nyagisera will be beyond the 16 and 19 years age bracket on 31 December, 2021 as required by the organisers for the rescheduled event. Nyagisera expressed her disappointment about the new development, adding that she will now turn her focus to the Tokyo Olympics, also rescheduled for next year. “World Athletics should have allowed us to take part because the event was not held this year because of coronavirus. However, I now want to concentrate in qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics,” she told the Star. The former student at Mogonga PAG High School in Kisii is currently training at GSU Training College in Nairobi with Hillary Kipkomen and Peter Kemboi. Other athletes who were training at Mogonga camp and will miss the WU20 championships are Youth Olympics bronze medalist Pesi Leshoo and javelin thrower Pelina Barongo. “We have about six athletes who will not make it because of age. However, this will offer an opportunity to upcoming athletes. We had 94 athletes training at the camp in December last year and that means we have enough to take over from those who will miss out,” said camp coordinator Haron Onchong’a. National secondary schools and junior international Beatrice Anyango will also miss the showpiece, Nyanza North AK chairman Joseph Ochieng has confirmed. “It’s unfortunate but we must abide by the World Athletics regulations. We now have a huge task of identifying athletes who will replace those who are not eligible,” said Ochieng, adding that sprinters James Mwamba and Morris Ochieng will also miss the event. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya (AK) youth development chairman,  Barnabas Korir said 60 per cent athletes who were to attend the event this year will still feature next year as they are still in the age bracket for the event. He said those who will miss out have a chance to feature in other senior events like the World Cross Country Championships and Olympic Games. Korir asked the eligible athletes to train and stay in shape and not to lose focus. Ochieng added that Athletics Kenya and Ministry of Sports should organise training camps in December to prepare athletes. “I hope the coronavirus situation will have improved so that we have intensive training in November and December because most of the athletes have not been training since March. We have lost a lot but we are happy that Kenya will host the event next year,” added Ochieng.  