The battle between rebel MCAs in Mombasa county and Governor Hassan Joho is headed for the courts. The Star has learnt that senior officials in the county assembly and a veteran politician in Mombasa, who was once a powerful official, have been used to try and talk to the rebel MCAs to back down. The five main rebel MCAs are Charles Kitula (Frere Town), Fahad Kassim (Mjambere), Athman Shebe (Jomvu Kuu), Abrari Mohammed (Kongowea) and Robert Nyiro of Bamburi. They have accused Joho of misuse of public funds. They claim the governor mismanaged Sh331 million for ECD centres and spent more than Sh110 million to refurbish his office. They have already petitioned the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate financial mismanagement in the county. Joho has, however, retaliated by threatening to sanction civic leaders. Through ODM Mombasa county chair Mohammed Hatimy, a trusted lieutenant of the governor, the party has held a meeting in which plans to remove rebel MCAs from crucial committees were hatched and supposedly executed. However, the decision to replace the rebels from the committees has yet to be officially communicated to the county assembly. Because of the numbers Joho controls in the assembly, the MCAs have opted against impeaching him through the assembly. Instead, they are taking the matter to the courts. On August 5, the Commission for Human Rights and Justice, acting on behalf of the MCAs, wrote to Joho through lawyer Maurice Mkan, asking the governor to return all the public funds lost in the county government under his watch. They also want the county government to stop trading with the governor’s supposed friends and relatives and to stop violating the constitution. “Unless you comply with the above demands and/or you cause your officers to comply, we have mandatory instructions to seek legal redress in court for your removal as governor and/or refund all the public funds at your own peril as to costs and consequences arising therefore,” the lawyer said. The county is yet to respond to the letter. However, Hatimy has dismissed the MCAs as ungrateful people who have gone against the party's rules and objectives. “We are waiting for the assembly to resume so we can take action against them,”  Hatimy said. All the five MCAs are serving their first terms. On Wednesday, Abrari released a video that went viral, claiming hired goons were sent to rough up his relatives and friends. “I am ready to die for the truth. No one will intimidate me because I stand for the truth. This county will not be ruled the same way forever. Things must change,”  Abrari said in the video. Kitula, who once served in the governor’s communication team, said he has seen enough theft in the county and cannot keep quiet about it. Former MCAs who went against Joho, including Kongowea’s Jabess Oduor and Speaker Thadeus Rajwayi, were pushed out of their positions and are now in private business. However, the current rebels say it is better to stand with the truth and be condemned for it than lie to the 1.2 million Mombasa residents. “We know the repercussion of saying the truth. We know what it means to demand accountability, but we are ready,” Shebe said.