 Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichillo has been told to start actively supporting the ODM Party if he wants to successfully defend his seat in 2022. Bishop Charles Sande of Upendo Pentecostal Fellowship Church in Emuhaya on Saturday said Ottichilo risk losing his seat for abandoning his Bunyore community and also failing to appoint those who campaigned for him. Sande said Ottichillo has neglected his ODM party with members who vigorously supported his gubernatorial campaigns missing out on county appointments. He said the governor has also not supported his people to get state jobs. The cleric said the governor has not considered members of his Bunyore community for plum county appointments. Efforst to reach Ottichilo for comment were futile with the governor failing to pick calls or reply to text messages sent to his phone. Ottichilo has previously blamed Vihiga's huge pending bills for derailing his development plans. “In any election, a party is very important because it determines whether you will be on that seat or not,” Sande said. “It’s only the independent candidate who doesn’t know the value of a party because he was elected independent.” He said there is a need for Ottichillo to embrace the ODM party and fully support it to regain grassroots support. “We are yet to feel the leadership of Governor Ottichillo, we as the Bunyore community at large,” Sande said. He said Ottichillo should work for his people and consolidate his votes within the Bunyore subtribe of the Luhya or risk facing huge huddles in 2022. “We needed an economic stimulus for our community so that our youths can have jobs that will help them generate income,” the clergyman said. He said the Bunyore community has lagged behind for many years in terms of development. "Ottichillo was elected with the hopes of changing our livelihoods and not giving people handouts. It is the development that we want but we are yet to see that." But the cleric admitted the governor has done well to install mast lights in various markets to boost trade, initiated and completed water projects and improved agri-business activities. The cleric who contested the Emuhaya parliamentary seat in 2017 blamed the ODM party for his premature loss, saying he was rigged out in the primaries. Sande lost the ODM nomination to Mark Echoka who was eventually beaten by MP Omboko Milemba of ANC at the ballot. “This coming election (2022) God willing, it won’t be business as usual. We shall just face off with each other,” Sande said.  Edited by P.O