After penning a three-year long deal with Kenyan champions Gor Mahia, Harambee Stars defender Andrew Juma says he is braced up to fill the void left the veteran centre half Joash Onyango. Juma ditched the 2008 champions Mathare United yesterday for Gor and consequently became the club's third signing after Ugandan national Tito Okello and former U20 attacking midfielder John Macharia. Juma said despite the competition for playing time he is likely to face from Joachim Oluoch in replacing Onyango, who left for Simba, he is fully fledged to partner Charles Momanyi at the heart of the defence. Momanyi had formed a formidable partnership with Onyango who is the league's reigning  Most Valuable Player and his departure was deemed a blow to the club's ambitions in restoring their glory at the continental scene. However,  Juma is promising to prove equal to the task and inspire the club in attaining their targets by guarding the rear as well as making good use of his height to nod in goals from set pieces. "I am already aware of the challenge ahead  and I am ready to prove that Onyango's exit was not a big blow to the club. He is an experienced defender but through hard work , I am certain i will comfortably fit in his shoes. Gor is a big club with good players and I  expect to face competition for playing time but I head there determined to help the team achieve their goals," he said. In the meantime, Juma will be relying on the experience he gained from donning the national team shirt at both the junior and senior level to shake off the fear when he debuts in the Caf Champions League. The federation presented Gor's name as the country's representative in the continental's elite tournament and Juma is expected to make his bow in the new season. He was part of the Stars' squad that  finished third in last year's Cecafa Senior Challenge played in Uganda. "I have trained and played for the national teams before and the exposure gained therein prepares a player to play at any level.I count myself lucky to have enjoyed that privileged and I am not under pressure to play Caf matches. I am aware that Gor did not do well at the continental matches last season and this calls for every player to put their best feet forward and redeem the image of the club,"he added.