Rotaract club of Limuru has done several projects both short term and long term. focusing on economic and community empowerment, basic education and environment. In 2016 and 2017, the club built a home for an elderly grandmother who lives in Muguga. She was living with her daughter with a mental illness who later passed on. Monicah Wanjiku, 25, the current president of Rotaract Club of Limuru said it was founded in 2011 but officially chartered on May 16, 2012. She was speaking to the Star explaining how much she puts in to make sure the club runs smoothly. Born and raised in Limuru, Kiambu, she is a procurement professional and founder Nique collections. She joined Rotaract Club of Limuru and was inducted as a member in 2017. The main reason for joining was her passion towards service to humanity and environmental conservation. She served as a board member for the club from 2018 to 2020 before being elected as the club president for the rotary year 2020-2021. “We meet every fortnite,1st and 3rd Sunday of every month at Terracota hotel in Limuru from 3pm, she said. Rotaract which now has 34 members, originally began as a Rotary International youth program in 1968 at Charlotte North Rotary Club in Charlotte, North Carolina, United States. Wanjiku said it has grown into a major Rotary-sponsored organization of over 10,904 clubs spread around the world and 250,792 members in 184 countries. It is a service, leadership, professional and community service organization for young men and women between the ages 18–30. Common challenges she faces are when some of the members become dormant and lack of funds. She added that a community that benefits from the project not taking up ownership so at long run we question the sustainability of the project after handing it over. "We have a membership of young adults of different age, race and profession who come together to develop leadership and professional skills." Wanjiku’s vision is to double the club membership, implement long term economically sustainable projects and conserving the environment.