The Nyandarua Health department has been put on the spot following alleged mistreatment of residents seeking medical services at Engineer Level 4 Hospital in Kinangop. Residents have complained that they are being turned away and told to seek services from private facilities. Pregnant mothers going to deliver at the facility are also suffering after being turned away. The 60-bed maternity ward at the hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 emergency unit, with maternity services moved to an old five-bed maternity ward. Between 20 and 30 women seek maternity services at Engineer Level 4 Hospital daily. Karanja Njoroge, a boda boda rider who operates near the facility, on Tuesday evening told the Star he ferried a pregnant woman to the facility but she was turned away. “She called me almost immediately to take her away after she was denied admission. Other counties are building hospitals but our government is turning patients away. What kind of government is this?” he said on the phone. Sarah Waithira said she and her daughter arrived at the outpatient department at 7:30am Tuesday but they were turned away and told to leave the compound. Waithira said no one chooses to be sick, hence it is unfair for them to be told to seek services elsewhere when they visit a government hospital. Nyandarua Health executive Njenga Mungai, however, rejected claims that residents are being denied services at Engineer hospital. In a text message to the Star on Tuesday evening, Mungai said maternity services, including theatre, are “still running, albeit in a new model due to Covid-19”. He said two surgical theatres have been activated, with one reserved for Covid-19 patients. “We have also activated the process of reverse referrals if need arises,” his text read. Weighing in on the issue, Nyandarua county assembly Health committee chairman Ngumo Ngamau on Wednesday termed it immoral to turn away those seeking help. He said women must give birth when their time is due and that cannot be postponed. “My worry is for the poor who cannot afford to seek services in private facilities,” Ngamau told the Star on the phone. He said similar problems face JM Kariuki Memorial Hospital where a maternity ward was recently converted into a Covid-19 emergency unit, with maternity services moved to the emergency casualty section, which was serving as a Covid-19 isolation centre with 10 beds. Ngamau said maternity theatres in both facilities have been converted into ICU wards for Covid-19 patients. At JM Hospital, between 25 and 30 women seek maternity services daily, he said, adding that reducing the number to about five women per day is unfair. “We are not happy.” Ngamau said giving birth is an emergency that cannot be wished away, hence it is immoral to make pregnant women vulnerable. He expressed concern that as the situation stands, women are expected to seek services from Nakuru and Naivasha. “It now appears that getting pregnant in Nyandarua is a crime, which is very bad,” he said. Edited by F'Orieny