Vihiga Queens captain Enez Mango hopes the inaugural African Women's Champions League next year will provide a  platform to help expose players and eventually create professional opportunities. The Confederation of African Football (Caf) cancelled the 2020 African Women's Cup of Nations in June but approved the creation of the first ever women's Champions League in 2021. Queens are three-time Kenya Premier League champions and will represent the country in the continental showpiece. Mango, who was given the armband in the 2019 season, said Vihiga Queens does not only hope to make an appearance but are ready to write history as they await the format and other details about the competition. The 2017 top scorer with 24 goals added that more Kenyan players are keen to seek greener pastures abroad hence they intend to give their best performances. The Cecafa women's championship in Tanzania last year helped expose Kenyan talent with a number of them landing professional deals. Cynthia Shilwatso moved to Spain while former Eldoret Falcons duo of Annet Kundu and Ruth Ingosi now ply their trade in Cyprus with Lakatamia FC. "The Champions League will be a platform for players to showcase their talent and prove to the world what they are capable of doing. "Such games are ideal to help players test themselves against the best teams in Africa. "We have  enough quality to give a good account of ourselves in the tournament. We only need to work on the defensive aspect of the game and we will be good," said the 27-year-old who now plays as a left wing back. Mango has been in a class of her own in her new role, earning herself a nickname  'Queen of Assists'. On how they could win against the opposition, 2017 Queens Player of the Year, said the technical bench will have to concentrate on tactical approach. Mango was the assistant captain in 2018. "Football nowadays is about getting your tactics right. The coaches are working on this and if we can get the finer details about all of our opponents, it will help us approach the game with a clear idea of what we can do," Mango reminisces. Mango was signed from  Kenya Methodist University in 2016.