In any Presidential election, the incumbency has its added advantage derived from state machineries. Deputy President William Ruto knows too well being second in command how the state apparatus have given him a privilege to move across the country and meet anybody at will unhindered until he fell out with the system. So for him to say he can as well do without the same system is being dishonest. The deep state runs all central government operations through the intelligence gathering and security organs which are key to anybody gunning for the presidency. The DP can not declare war with the heart of government and expect an easy ride. The system might not target him as aperson but deflate his energy by frustrating all his allies to divert his focus. His undoing even if he knows how he can easily beat the system is to publicly declare that he doesn't need any state support including his constitutional privileges. He must have opened unnecessary battle fronts with the Uhuru administration. It is not inorder to declare war against everybody you know or imagine doesn't support your political dream. He should have avoided directing his guns at the so called system. Remember during the burial of sergent Kipyegon Kenei, he went full blast again against the Uhuru administration pointing fingers at the George Kinoti let DCI of being used to frustrate his bid for the presidency. Again coming strongly to declare he is prepared for the system is to say the least inviting too many wars into his camp. Now that he has given President Uhuru and his political buddy Raila Odinga ammunition to focus their energies in vanquishing him he should be double prepared for the anticipated onslaught. Uhuru and Raila will obviously want to prove to the DP that they can manage him and bring him to his knees politically. Declaring also that he has the voters and God on his side might be true given his mobilisation skills and his frequency to churches and other places of worship. However, Kenyan voters change when one least expects them to, hence banking on a presumed voting bloc more than two years to polls is misleading. They might be with you today but come tomorrow, they will all desert you. The best the DP can do is continue reaching out to his presumed voting masses without being too contented that already they are his for ever. At the same time Ruto still remains a man to beat if he can sustain his direct contact missions and traction with the electorate. He should go slow on wars because tomorrow those he is fighting might after all decide to join him. Raila and Uhuru should not assume that given they have the system they can simply sit back and wait for victory to their camp assuming they remain an item until 2022. They should also embark on some strategy to assure Kenyans that their unity means well to the majority of Kenyans and not for their own political comfort and retention of power. Given Ruto is an unwelcome to the owners of Jubilee party even though he claims shares in it, he should seriously start shopping for his own party and start building and marketing it to Kenyans even indirectly. It will amount to a waste of time and energy sticking to a party which is determined to deny him a ticket for the presidency. Focus on the voters and leave the system, and the handshakers and their supporters alone. Keep your eye on the ball Mr. Deputy President. The Writer is former Nyamira county Assembly Majority Leader.