A Ford Kenya MCA who was expelled from the party alongside Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Kanduyi's Wafula Wamunyinyi has described the decision as a circus. Nominated MCA Cynthia Mutere said on Tuesday that party leader Moses Wetang’ula contravened a directive by the Registrar of Political Parties when he announced their expulsion from the party. She said the parties’ registrar had directed that no activities should be conducted as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic. She, however, said the Bungoma senator convened a meeting on Monday in which her expulsion together with Eseli and Wamunyinyi was announced. “What he was doing yesterday (Monday) was just circus. They said they wrote to me to face the disciplinary committee but I have never received that letter. It was never sent to me, I never received it. Things don’t work that way,” Mutere told the Star on the phone. Mutere, Wamunyinyi and Eseli were expelled over alleged party indiscipline on Monday during a Ford Kenya National Executive Committee meeting. A group led by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa held the NEC and Parliamentary Group meeting at a hotel in Nairobi. Wamalwa said the NEC meeting also resolved to hold the General Council and National Delegates Congress before September 20 to approve the resolutions of the meeting. But addressing a separate press conference, Eseli and Wamunyinyi dismissed their expulsion, saying the NEC meeting was not properly convened and constituted. “I am still the interim party leader. Those were not NEC members but people in party colours and uniform,” Wamunyinyi said. Eseli termed the move to expel them as “the biggest joke of the year, which has brought comic relief to Kenyans during these hard times.” “I am still the secretary-general. I want to warn Weta that we may have a by-election in Bungoma if he continues like that,” Eseli said. Mutere said the current Ford Kenya party leader is Wamunyinyi and Watang'ula’s actions are sideshows. Eseli on Monday said Wetang’ula should be grateful that they had allowed him to remain as a member of the party after his removal as leader. But Wetang’ula said that they would rather have fewer members who are disciplined than have a lot of rebels in the party. “Discipline is needed for better order and better management of any party. We are preparing for 2022 because we will field a presidential candidate,” he said. (edited by o. owino)