Quarantine centers will be reopened in Eldoret and the rest of Uasin Gishu to handle increased blatant defiance of Covid-19 control measures. Those detained in quarantine for 14 days will pay their own costs, the county will not pay as before. Commissioner Abdrisak Jaldesa said on Tuesday community spread of the disease is increasing because residents are not wearing masks, not washing their hands and ignoring social distancing in public places. “We have told people about all the control measures but after the economy was relaxed many are going back to bad habits,” he said at his office. “These include increased consumption of illicit brews and general carelessness when the disease is spreading quickly.” Jaldesa said matatu operators had gone back to carrying excess passengers, instead of observing required social spacing. “We will crack down and withdraw the licenses for all those who caught operating contrary to outlined laws,” Jaldesa said. Quarantine centres had been closed because of difficulties managing the people arrested and especially because of costs. Jaldesa said in April and May more than 4,000 people were arrested in Uasin Gishu and detained at Kaplelach Quarantine Centre. “This time we are prepared and if you are arrested you will pay your own costs,” he said. Increased community transmission of Covid-19 in the eight North Rift counties has caused alarm. More than 580 cases have been recorded, with Uasin Gishu leading at 361. In the last one week, Nandi and Trans Nzoia have each reported more than 30 cases. Turkana has at least 67 cases, Nandi 49, Trans Nzoia 49, Baringo 26, Samburu 14, Elgeyo Marakwet six and West Pokot six. Governors and health experts are worried about the near-collapse of containment measures – mask wearing, hand washing, social spacing and general laxity. County commissioners say they will strictly enforce closure of bars and other measures. Jaldesa said teams will ensure all bars are shut down as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The order is total closure and we will ensure it's full closure. No one will be allowed to joke around by operating underground," Jaldesa said. Governor Jackson Mandago, who is the Noreb chairman, said governors would meet to review enforcement of control measures and align them to economic recovery strategies. “We must work on economic recovery as we comply with control measures," Mandago said. Each economic sector will have additional measures to ensure work continues under safe conditions. “The agriculture, business and matatu sectors are among those we will focus on to ensure work continues with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols," Mandago said. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba urged residents not to relax controls because the disease was spreading within communities. (Edited by V. Graham)