National Super League side Shabana FC is mourning the death of long serving defender Evans Obutu. Obutu, who was on loan at Shabana from Posta Rangers, died on Monday at a private hospital in Kisii while undergoing surgery. He was reportedly to have collided with a goalkeeper during a friendly match in Nyamira County on Saturday. Yesterday, Shabana vice chairman Nyandoro Kambi termed Obutu’s death as sad and unfortunate. “He was a good boy and very loyal servant. Despite several challenges, he remained at Shabana. He captained Shabana back to the National Super League during the 2017-2018 season,” he said. Kambi added that the club management and fans will stand with the family during this mourning period. Shabana's head coach Vincent Nyaberi said Obutu was one of his key players and subsequently condoled the family. “It is a big blow because he was a leader both on and off the pitch. Our hopes of regaining promotion to the Kenya Premier League have suffered a big blow,” said Nyaberi. Ardent Shabana fan Kepher Atemba Nyakundi also mourned Obutu describing him as a talented, disciplined and hardworking player. He told Shabana players to desist from playing in village tournaments and friendly matches. “It is a dark day for us as club. We have lost a very dedicated player,” noted Nyakundi. The 33-year-old player was representing a local nonprofessional outfit, Town Warriors in a friendly match against Kebirigo Battalion FC at Gesure playground in Nyamira County on Friday when he fell unconsciously after colliding with a goalkeeper from the opposing team. His brother Jasper Marube who was also involved in the friendly said they were using the game to keep fit following the suspension of sports activities in the country due to Covid-19. Marube said: “We administered first aid and rushed him to the Kisi Teaching and Referral Hospital where an initial scan did not reveal anything unusual. However, when a  second scan was done after persistent stomach and backache, it revealed internal bleeding and medics recommended for an urgent surgery. He never woke up from theatre,” added a sobbing Marube.