Igembe North MP Maoka Maore has said President Uhuru Kenyatta will guide Meru community on whom to back in the 2022 presidential race. He said even though many MPs from the region are in Tangatanga, it does not mean the community will back DP William Ruto for President. He spoke on Saturday at Meru Slopes Hotel in Meru town, North Imenti. Former North Imenti MP Silas Muriuki and several Meru MCAS were present. “Those are individual leaders, they have their own interests. We voted for Uhuru in 2013 and 2017 and up to 2022 we'll rely on him to guide the transition,” Maore said. He said President Kenyatta has shown a lot of faith in the BBI and the handshake with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “In Mount Kenya, President Uhuru Kenyatta is still our kingpin and we will follow his word on whom to elect in 2022,” Maore said. The legislator thanked Uhuru for having him nominated and confirmed for the position of National Assembly deputy Majority whip. “We thank the president and applaud him for bringing order in government, the National Assembly and the Senate,” he said, adding that the same purge that led to Jubilee leadership changes in Parliament should continue in the Cabinet so Uhuru can realise his legacy projects. Maore cautioned leaders against disrespecting the President and focusing on 2022 presidential campaigns. On the revenue allocation standoff, he supported the ‘one man, one shilling, one vote’ principle. Maore said in 2009 there were fraudulent numbers in both Turkana and Mandera counties. “Some people are saying there should be a win-win situation, I think it would be a fraudulent win because the numbers that were in Mandera were fake and for 10 years they have been getting more than their fair share of the national revenue,” he said. He said with the 2019 census, the Commission on Revenue Allocation should take figures seriously. The MP dismissed those opposed to the formula as hypocrites with mischievous intentions to have Mount Kenya to lose. “For instance, Elgeyo Marakwet is gaining, why is Kipchumba Murkomen making noise? He wants to show that he was the one calling the shots when he was Majority leader,” he said. Maore said Mt Kenya now knows its true friends after the Revenue bill debacle, adding that they want the CRA formula passed without any amendment. Muriuki thanked President Kenyatta for appointing Igembe North MP Maoka Maore as deputy Majority whip. He said Meru has never held that seat before, hence the election of Maore is a big win for Mount Kenya East. “It's one of the National Assembly senior positions and for Meru to be recognised by President Uhuru to be given that honour we must be grateful,” he said. The elevation of the legislator shows his loyalty to the party and good work in legislation, he added. Muriuki urged Maore to bring together elected and appointed Meru leaders to lobby for goodies to the county.