The Directorate of Criminal Investigations now says court convictions are not a measure of success on graft war. In a magazine launched on Friday, Kinoti says he is convinced that securing convictions in courts is not the acid test for measuring the success of the anti-graft war. “In fact, if you ask me, convictions are peripheral. What is crucial is the recovery of stolen cash and properties, through the Asset Recovery Agency and the injection of new blood in systems fingered for graft," he says. The DCI adds, "We are not fighting the courts of law. That is a due process for everyone arrested so that guilt or innocence can be proven. But the more important thing is to stop the haemorrhage first. Remove from circulation the bad elements". In the magazine dubbed 'The DCI', Kinoti says public institutions in which graft has reared its ugly head must be subjected to restructuring and internal systems cleaned up thoroughly. “The idea is to ensure reduced impunity and characters who for instance supply air, are dealt with and removed”, he says. Kinoti says convictions can be contested, as they readily are prone to be, and this means cases can and do take long to resolve. “Meanwhile, should individuals so involved continue stealing?” he poses. Kinoti is of the view that under the premise of presumption of innocence, such characters continue looting. "When such individuals are replaced with people of integrity, new blood, fresh impetus is achieved and public funds safeguarded, to be channelled to areas that create development for the people," Kinoti says. He adds, "Convictions are only a footnote. The greater good is change for the better". He says the last two years have seen a series of high profile suspects taken to court on charges of stealing from public coffers, abuse of office, fraudulent procurement, unlawful acquisition of public property and wilful failure to comply with procurement laws. According to him, the figures cited were so immense that Kenyans soon started to ask what was left of State coffers if the looting was taking place in such great amounts. Kinoti in his interview captured in the magazine says up until the start of 2018, corruption had a deadly stranglehold on the very fabric of Kenyan society, which was heaving under the weight of the vice. Kinoti says the vice had permeated every pore of the body politic that gives meaning to Kenyan existence, with the consequence that little could be achieved by even private sector players without what has come to be termed as ‘greasing hands’. " Graft, with all its tentacles, had in its grasp the major players in the conduct of business with government, and not even tenders could be awarded without individuals who run public enterprises lining their pockets," he notes. According to him, from the first day he assumed office as the DCI director, he promised that there would be no sacred cows, for these were by and large individuals who apparently held great sway and managed to get off the hook even when there was glaring evidence that their hands were soiled in the wheeling and dealing that bled public coffers without mercy. "Before long, big names were being arrested, recording statements and being hauled before courts of law, accused of myriad of offences, most of which were fairly serious, in the league of economic crimes. Hundreds of millions, indeed, several billions were cited as missing funds, or monies that had changed hands in dubious circumstances," Kinoti says. He adds, "The shenanigans were enormous and insidious. It was evident the war against graft had taken a decidedly different, more robust, gear". Kinoti says the national mood became upbeat that something could be, and was indeed being done. "Being at at the helm of the country’s topmost investigative machinery, I have to ensure my foot soldiers gather enough evidence to haul suspects before courts of law," he says. Kinoti notes that if he and his lieutenants slept on the job, the work of the Director of Prosecutions, Noordin Haji, would be rendered a nullity. According to him, he ensures Haji has work to do.