Eleven inmates dug their way out of Bungoma Central police station on Saturday night, including two murder suspects. Five Meru inmates also broke out on Saturday night after digging a hole through the wall of the police station in Buuru. Two weeks ago, six suspects - five remandees and a convict - also escaped from Karuri, Kiambu, police cells after a cutting out part of the windows. In the Bunoma great escape, two of those who fled are murder suspects. An earlier escape attempt by digging a hole was thwarted. This was their second attempt and police said the burrowing must have taken several months. Police call a number of them "hardcore criminals" and urged the public to come forward with information to help in their capture. One man wounded and recaptured. The Bungoma escapees included Brian Ochieng Onyango charged with robbery with violence, John Wanyonyi (robbery with violence), Clerkson Otieno (burglary remandee) Simon Wekesa (assault), Collins Juma Nyukuri (assault), Alex Simiyu Muyekho (stealing), Bramwel Barasa (defilement), Pascal Kiberenge Namasaka (impersonation) Emmanuel Wakoko (assault), John Barasa Wekesa (breaking and stealing) and Isaac Wekesa (stealing). Among the escapees are two people — one a Ugandan citizen arraigned in connection with the murder of prominent Bungoma businessman Gacheche Karuga in June. Two police officers on duty said they were alerted by other suspects in custody that some prisoners had escaped. Police found a hole in the rear wall of a cell. The ecapees had cut out a metal bar that that reinforced the cell's door and used it to dig the hole. Police and DCI officers searched the area and spotted some escapees running towards the bush at Airstrip area. Bungoma South OCPD Willison Nanga told the Star escapee Isaac Wekesa was arrested after he was shot in the thigh. He was admitted to Bungoma Referral Hospital. He said they were remanded at the police station because the Prisons Department was not taking inmates until they tested negative for Covid-19. "The problem is Prisons aren't taking in remandees because of the Covid-19 pandemic and we are forced to keep them at the police station," Nanga said. “We are calling upon residents to volunteer information because these are hardcore criminal charged with capital offences," he said. Meanwhile, a similar incident was reported on Saturday night in Buura, Meru county, where five remandees escaped. The escapees include Dennis Kaimenyi charged with robbery with violence, Alvin Muriithi (defilement) Nicholas Kimathi (unnatural offence), Silas Kinyua (theft of a motorcycle) and Daniel Muriithi (stealing stock). Two officers on duty said they heard prisoners banging cell doors and when they went to find out what was happening, they were informed some suspects had escaped through a hole they had dug. A screwdriver, heavy wire and a strong piece of metal were used to dig their way out. Two weeks ago, six suspects - five remandees and a convict - also escaped from Karuri police cells after a cutting out part of the windows. The search  is ongoing. Edited by R.Wamochie 