The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (Nacada) has partner with the Kenya Alliance of Resident Associations (Kara) in the war on alcohol and drug abuse. The campaign comes the wake of guidelines on sale of alcohol announced by the government. Speaking during a ceremony to unveil the cooperation, Nacada CEO Victor Okioma pointed out that the Covid-19 pandemic has presented the authority with a challenging environment within which to enforce its mandate. “This agreement could not have come at a better time given that the novel coronavirus pandemic has curtailed our movements and stakeholder engagement activities," Okioma said. "We are, however, leveraging on the networks by Kara to create avenues through which information will be shared amongst ourselves for the mutual benefit of both the organisations and the public.” He said they will sensitise the associations to implement awareness and prevention programmes on alcohol and drug abuse, engage the associations to identify and report on bars operating in residential areas, and continue supporting the Mihadarati Awards for associations that excel in prevention campaigns. “We have supported this trophy for the last two years. For a start, we want to reach out to our stakeholders by anchoring on Kara structures, especially given the ban on sale of alcohol in eateries and other public places,” Okioma said. His Kara counterpart Henry Ochieng reiterated the need for mutual partnership as a means of fostering positive societal impact. “We are keen to join hands with Nacada to ensure that the guidelines are complied with and support resident associations to be able to monitor and take appropriate action against individuals who may flout the guidelines in their neighborhoods," he said. "We would also like to ensure that the residents understand their roles and responsibilities in the whole legal framework of drugs and alcohol control and are able to proactively prevent mushrooming of bars and liquor stores in residential areas.” Okioma said to address alcohol and drug abuse and its complications, Nacada organises sensitisation and structured training targeting families, workplaces, schools and communities. “Sensitisation aims to create awareness on how to prevent alcohol and drug use at home, school, workplace and the community. However, these efforts have suffered a setback due to social distancing requirements, which form part of the government’s preventive measures against the spread of Covid-19,” he said.