The Kikuyu Council of Elders has dismissed reports that it has endorsed former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth as Central Kenya spokesman. After a photo of the elders together with Kenneth emerged Sunday, social media buzzed with reports that former lawmaker had been anointed. But council chair Wachira Kiago told the Star on the phone the meeting in Narumoru, Nyeri county on Sunday was not convened to endorse anyone. Kiago said that Central Kenya’s spokesman is still President Uhuru Kenyatta. He warned leaders against angling for the position, saying it is too early for anyone to prepare to inherit the role. “We invited many leaders, even those from other communities to that meeting.  The spokesman for the Kikuyu community is Uhuru Kenyatta. He has not relinquished that position for us to look for his replacement,” he clarified. Secretary-general Peter Munga said the meeting was used to call on “wayward” leaders from Central Kenya to support Uhuru’s agenda.” “As elders, we have the duty to invite wayward leaders back home, rehabilitate them so that we can have a unity of purpose and focus as a region as we promote unity in the country,” Munga added. Kiago said Kenneth’s attendance should not be construed to mean that the elders endorsed him as the region’s kingpin. “Even before that meeting, we had held another gathering with leaders to discuss national affairs,” Kiago said. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo was among politicians who took to social media to castigate the elders for allegedly endorsing Kenneth. “How can one know it is bad to try to inherit your father while he lives, especially if you yourself are not a real Kikuyu. These medals or recognitions are paid for. That’s how low our elders have stooped. Proof to follow,” he said. The 2022 succession politics has been taking shape across the country with about two years to the next general election. In July, some Mt Kenya leaders endorsed Kenneth as the next in line to take over the region's leadership from Uhuru. The leaders included Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati and Kiambu Woman Rep Gathoni Wamuchomba. They urged the president to appoint Kenneth to the Cabinet to raise his profile ahead of the 2022 polls. “We are working hard to ensure that he emerges as the Mt Kenya kingpin because he is the right person to inherit the president in 2022,”' Nduati said. Kabogo dismissed leaders who are planning to succeed Uhuru as desperate individuals. Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata also criticised Mt Kenya leaders who are plotting succession in the region. In a tweet on Monday, Kang’ata asked Mt Kenya leaders to give Uhuru time and space to finish his term before they start competing for his position. "Desperate Mt Kenya leaders trying by all means to position yourselves as our leader after Uhuru Kenyatta. Wait for him to retire then let's compete in the field and I will defeat you," he said. Munga added that nobody from Mt Kenya region, unless they are sponsored from outside, is angling to inherit the position. “We have mandated the President to hold that position until his term is fully over and his legacy is well established. He will then consult with leaders on who will take over from him,” he said. Kenneth has been among high-powered delegations trooping to Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary-general Francis Atwoli’s home in Kajiado. On Sunday, Awtoli hosted Kenneth, Senators Gideon Moi (Baringo) and James Orengo (Siaya), Jubilee Party vice-chairman David Murathe, majority deputy whip Maoka Maore, Tiaty lawmaker William Kamket and National Assembly minority whip Junet Mohamed On August 3, Atwoli hosted ODM leader Raila Odinga, Orengo, Kenneth and Murathe. (edited by o. owino)