Hundreds of residents gathered at Garissa Ndogo Muslim cemetery on Wednesday to bid farewell to the mother of former National Assembly Majority Leader and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. Hawa Kosar Shurie, 90, died on Tuesday in Nairobi where she had been flown for further treatment after her health deteriorated. President Uhuru Kenyatta's message of condolence was relayed to the family during the burial by regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana. Uhuru mourned Hawa as a humble, hard-working and devoted woman of God whose wise counsel shall be dearly missed. He wished the Duale family fortitude as they come to terms with the loss of their matriarch. Over the years, Duale would occasionally come over the weekend to his Garissa town and head straight to his mother’s residence within the town. Garissa Woman Representative Anab Gure said Hawa will be remembered for playing the role of a mother figure to not only his children but to everyone. "We pray for the family and share our thoughts during this period of grief,” she said. "He [Duale] has on  numerous times at public gatherings illustrated how his mother toiled to bring them up as well as see them through their education." Deputy President William Ruto, a close friend of Duale, was among the first to send his condolence message through his Twitter handle. “Mama Shurie was devoutly religious, respected and responsible woman who raised upright, hardworking and diligent children despite prevailing tough conditions. We will remember her as a counselor and peace advocate who uplifted the less fortunate in the society,” he said. He added: “May Allah grant her Janatul firdows. May He also give sabr and iimaan to the bereaved family and friends at this difficult time.” Ndalana asked residents of Northeastern to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols. The funeral ceremony attended by several leaders led by Garissa Governor Ali Korane and MPs was brief and featured no long speeches. Duale did not speak at the ceremony and left immediately after the burial that was conducted in accordance with the Covid-19 protocols. Hawa leaves behind 10 children (three daughters and seven sons) and many grandchildren. The Garissa township MP Duale is a twin with Diis Barre Duale. Edited by Henry Makori