A man in Nyahururu has been hit with an additional 10 years in prison after his appeal against incest was substituted with defilement charges. The man whose name is withheld to protect the child, had sought a reduction of his 20-year sentence but the judge slapped him with 30 years after quashing his initial conviction of incest. Justice Roseline Wendoh said the law on incest does not provide for abuse of male members of the family. She instead convicted him for defiling his son. The man was in October 2018 charged for the offence of incest after he was found guilty of sodomising the eight-year-old boy repeatedly. The son testified he lived alone with his father in their house while his other six siblings lived with relatives as his mother works in Saudi Arabia. He said sometime in August his father whom he shared a bed with told him that men do not sleep with clothes on. He told the court that his father had sodomised him three times on different days before he was arrested. On the first day, his father pushed him against the wall and sodomised him. He left the house in pain and went to sleep in the common bathroom outside. “Mama Brayo, a neighbour, found me in the bathroom that morning and asked me to go prepare for school. I did not tell her anything,” he narrated. The second time the appellant did that, the boy went and slept outside near a shop. Later, he told another neighbour, who asked an uncle to take him to hospital. He said on the morning his father was arrested, he had spent the night in the bathroom after his father abused him. A neighbour found him there and interrogated him on what he was doing there. That was when he narrated his ordeal to her. She called a village elder who took him to Nyahururu District Hospital and later to the police station,” he said. The boy said his father would abuse him with the lights on. He would try fighting to be released but his father was too strong. He said his father used to beat him a lot and often he would escape and sleep outside. His other siblings stayed with other relatives. Another neighbour testified that the boy told her the father  sodomised him. A clinical officer at Ol Jabet health centre said on examination, they found evidence of ulceration of the boy's anal area and muscles were interfered with. When placed on his defence, the appellant denied committing the offence. He said whenever he went to work at night, his son would leave the house about 8pm. He was found guilty and sentenced to serve 20 years in prison. Aggrieved by the judgment of the trial court, he filed an appeal on the ground that the sentence was harsh and unconstitutional. Judge Wendoh: “There is no provision in the Sexual Offences Act where a male is deemed to commit incest with male I hereby acquit accused of the said offence as charged.  The evidence in record however, discloses an offence of defilement.” Edited by Henry Makori