No equipment has been moved from Kenyatta National Hospital's Othaya annex as some politicians have been claiming, the facility’s director Peter Muiruri has said. Former Othaya MP Mary Wambui and Nyeri county government politicians have been complaining that some equipment had been moved from the facility to Nairobi. But Muiruri said what was moved to Nairobi was a donation for the paediatric ICU. The director said the unit is a highly specialised area and that the annex has not started offering those services. They were moved with the knowledge of Health CS Mutahi Kagwe when KNH was mandated to build an ICU at Mbagathi Hospital. This was after the government realised Covid-19 was also killing children as opposed to an earlier perception that it was only endangering the lives of the elderly. However, he said, there was no equipment for the paediatric ICU, but Muiruri said the equipment will be returned once Othaya establishes a paediatric ICU. He urged leaders to get their facts right to avoid misleading the public. The hospital, he said, is in its early stages and is, therefore, leveraging on the capacity of KNH, Nairobi, to build its capacity to a level 6 hospital. “We have a vision of becoming a world-class centre of excellence in specialised healthcare,” he said. He said the hospital has a team of specialised surgeons coming in with highly specialised equipment from Nairobi. “They are right now in theatre and we are carrying out a urological clinic that is sorting out the diseases of the male reproductive organs. We are planning to offer surgery to over 80 patients within this week.” That, he said, is the kind of partnership the two annexes are working on and called on the community and other stakeholders to look at it as a golden opportunity. He said the hospital management is open for discussions whenever there is a problem or people are in doubt so that the right information can be disseminated to the public. Nyeri South deputy county commissioner Henry Ochako said politicians have in various meetings claimed medical equipment has been transferred from Othaya to Nairobi. Ochako said the equipment brought to Othaya by KNH, Nairobi, are by far more than what has been moved to Nairobi. “Let what is not in use be moved so that it can help to save lives of other Kenyans rather than lying here idle while people are suffering elsewhere,” he said. “I am sure the management of this hospital means well to the community and they want to offer the best services available,” he said. Othaya Level 6 Hospital was put under the management of KNH soon after its completion to enable it to leverage the capacities of KNH before it becomes a fully fledged teaching and referral hospital. They spoke when Equity Group Foundation brought a donation of PPEs to the facility in Othaya on Tuesday to help in the fight against Covid-19. The hospital director said the donation and partnership between the two will help sustain the level of specialised services offered at the hospital. Othaya Equity bank branch manager Shem Gikonyo presented the PPEs on behalf Equity Group Foundation and said that was the first consignment and more would follow in due course. Iria-ini MCA John Theuri was present. Edited by R.Wamochie