A labour court has upheld a decision by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to exclude health administrators from eligibility for Covid-19 emergency medical allowance. Employment and Labour Court judge Stephen Radido said documents on record showed that those eligible for the allowance are doctors, dentists, nurses, clinical officers, community health officers, public health officers and the like. These healthcare workers, he said, are at risk of contracting Covid-19 on the basis of the patients they handle in their course of work. Radido said the inherent requirements and risks of their duties are not comparable to those of hospital administrators. “The court, on the basis of the material placed before it, finds that the Kenya Association of Health Administrators did not prove that the exclusion of its members from eligibility for Covid-19 emergency medical allowance was discriminatory or amounted to unfair discrimination.” Radido said there are genuine occupational requirements to justify the decision by the SRC and Ministry of Health. “Assuming that both the frontline healthcare workers and hospital administrators’ work in the same environment, can it be said that their exposure to infection is inherently the same? The court does not think so,” the judge ruled On April 16, 2020, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the ministries of Health and Public Service to develop a welfare/motivation package to cushion Covid-19 frontline health workers. The SRC, then met with the Council of Governors on April 24, 2020 and later convened a stakeholders meeting on April 27, 2020 and April 28, 2020. The meeting agreed that those eligible for the medical emergency allowance are frontline healthcare workers who are directly involved in fighting Covid-19. According to the agreed criteria, 16 out of 17 health cadres became eligible. These excluded health administrators who are members of the Association. The SRC subsequently released a schedule of those eligible for the allowance through a circular dated April 28, 2020. It was addressed to the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary. The National Treasury confirmed availability of funds on May 5, 2020. The SRC eventually approved and advised on the package on May 13/14, 2020. The court also noted that the petition by the association was premature as it was engaged in negotiations with the SRC and the MoH on the same issues. Radido said the association should have disclosed that negotiations were ongoing by the time it moved the court. And in asserting discrimination, the association contended that its members, health administrators, were recalled from leave to deal with Covid-19. However, no evidence was placed before the court to substantiate the same. Edited by A.N