Political bigwigs backing the handshake held a lengthy meeting on Sunday to cobble up a 2022 political machine to take on Deputy President William Ruto. The meeting took place at the home of veteran trade unionist Francis Atwoli and was attended by close allies of both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. For the first time, the meeting was attended by Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, who is being roped in to represent the Rift Valley. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, who is being groomed to inherit Uhuru’s Mount Kenya backyard, was also present. Others were Jubilee Vice Chair David Murathe, Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, National Assembly Minority whip Junet Mohamed, National Assembly deputy  majority whip Maoka Maore and Tiaty MP William Kamket. Reached for a comment, Peter Kenneth’s Spokesman Alhajj Amin confirmed indeed the meeting took place. He described the leaders as “likeminded proponents of the BBI process.” “As you know all these are proponents of the BBI. They were basically deliberating on the issue of the referendum and comparing notes on the subject,”Alhajj told the Star. The meeting came just a week after Murathe and Atwoli declared that Raila is the presidential candidate of choice in 2022. “Those with eyes must see. This is the dream team,” one of the leaders who requested anonymity said. Last week, Murathe said Kenyans should give Raila one term, terming 2022 “a Mandela moment.” “We think it’s time Kenyans rewarded the years of struggle of Raila Amollo Odinga. They owe it to him. It’s like Mandela, and 2022 will be a Mandela Moment. And we would also like to tell him (Raila) to be a transitional president who will then nurture the young generation to take over in 2027,” he said. Atwoli, whose influence in the country’s political landscape has been growing, also backed Murathe. “I am endorsing the comments by Murathe that he (Raila Odinga) should have a go at the Presidency. Of course Kenyans have great people including Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi, and Joho (Hassan) who can do the job, but it appears to be Odinga’s time,” Atwoli said.