  The Homa Bay government will sue its health workers if they fail to return to work on Monday, saying the medics have breached their agreement. Health workers have been on strike for two weeks. County Health executive Richard Muga on Friday said the workers were expected to resume duty on Friday following an agreement with union officials. That did not happen and the county government has given them up to Monday to resume work or risk court action. Muga said the county paid the workers June salaries and allowances with the promise to clear the July arrears as soon as they receive cash from the National Treasury. “The government went as far as taking overdrafts from various banks to pay the medics their salaries for June. We’re taking them to court should they refuse to return to work on Monday,” Muga said. The executive said discussions had been held and an agreement reached for the health workers to return to work. The union leaders are also said to have met Homa Bay MCAs through the county assembly's health committee and discussed the matter. Muga said the trike was illegal. More than 4,000 Homa Bay health workers from different cadres have been on strike for at least 14 days, demanding their unpaid salaries and allowances for June and July. They include members of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union, Kenya National Union  Nurses, Kenya Union of Clinical Officers and Kenya National Union of Laboratory Officers. “We have to take action because it’s wrong to see immunisation services get disrupted while patients who need special attention remain unattended to,”Muga said. But the medics on Saturday insisted the strike will persist until their dues are settled. Unionists Amos Dulo (KMPDU), Philip Mbom and Phelix Ouko (KUCO), Reuben OKoth (KNULO) and Erick Akicho (KNUN)) said they don’t fear facing their employer in court. Dulo said they demand what they had agreed on in the deal to return to work. Dulo, a KMPDU liaison officer, said they also want the county to provide adequate Personal Protective Equipment for the fight against Covid-19. “Our terms of contract have all that we want. Let’s meet in court because labour laws require employers to promptly pay their workers and provide good working conditions,” Dulo said. Mbom said they will not succumb to intimidations and asked the county government to pay them their monies instead of resorting to an action he said will complicate the situation. “It’s our employer who has refused to abide by the agreement we made. Homa Bay medics can’t pay rent, feed children and get medication using NHIF,” Mbom said. Both Okoth and Ouko said workers will not resume duty until their grievances are addressed. “We can’t resume duties if what made us go on strike have not been sorted out,” Ouko said.  Edited by P.O