The University of Eldoret has signed agreements with more than 50 Rift Valley herbalists to study traditional medicine to treat or even cure Covid-19 and its complications. They will also study herbal treatments for other major diseases. The university researchers and herbalists say they believe it will be possible to find a traditional medicine for Covid-19, even as  scientists are working on a vaccine for the virus. “We have done initial work and the agreements will strengthen our cooperation as we work on finding a cure for Covid-19 and other major ailments," researcher  Dr Mark Kiptui said. Vice chancellor Teresia Akenga said researchers and herbalists already were testing some herbs identified as promising in treating the disease. The herbalists in the programme are from Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Uasin Gishu counties. The researchers estimate it will take less than a year to come up with tangible results and possible helpful treatments. Akenga said the university was still engaging with the local communities to fight the spread of Covid-19. The university has been donating masks and other supplies to the community around the university. “As a university, we are also still working with local leaders to ensure we adhere to Health ministry guidelines," Akenga said. The university is also training communities and experts handling Covid-19 and helping vulnerable groups. “We are working on hygiene issues by supporting groups who have to go out to earn a living despite current restrictions,” Akenga said. She said the university was increasing soap production. Meantime, the University of Eldoret also is developing infrastructure for online learning following disruption by the pandemic. The university is putting in place measures and guidelines ensuring  it can reopen safely once the government allows operations to continue. Education CS George Magoha indicated colleges might be able to reopen before January if infections decline. The country has to maintain an infection rate lower than five per cent for more than two weeks before he will consider letting institutions reopen. (Edited by V. Graham) 