Jubilee party has cracked the whip and summoned eight Nairobi MCAs to appear before the disciplinary committee on Thursday. National Chairman of the Jubilee Party Nelson Dzuya on Tuesday said the legislators  have been accused of conducting themselves in standards that contravenes the Party as per the party constitution. "You have been accused of Acting contrary to the pledge you made and signed for in 2017, the committee shall grant you audience on this date to hear your side of the story," reads the letter. The MCAs summoned include; John Kamangu (Ruai), Millicent Mugadi (Ziwani) Jeremiah Karani (Kayole Central Ward) and Charles Thuo (Dandora Three MCA) The rest are four nominated MCAs including  June Ndegwa, Joyce Kamau, Susan Makungu and Margaret Mbote. Dzuya added that the decision of whether the charges will be taken against the MCAs will be arrived at after the summons. "You have been accused of Acting contrary to the pledge you made and signed for in 2017, the committee shall grant you audience on this date to hear your side of the story," reads the letter. The letter was copied to party Secretary General Raphael Tuju. In June , Tuju had written letters to four Jubilee MCAs serving as interim leaders in the Nairobi County Assembly have been directed to immediately relinquish the positions or face the party’s wrath. The MCAs were California MCA Hassan Abdiqadir and three (Thuo, Mugadi, Ndegwa and) who are part of the eight who have been summoned by the Jubilee disciplinary committee The letter warns, “Any prevarication on your part to handover smoothly to the new office bearers will be considered as gross misconduct and may invite or disciplinary office from the party," Tuju wrote. At the same time  ODM has pushed to next week the planned disciplinary meeting with 12 Nairobi MCAs who defied the party position in the recent recruitment of the Assembly’s Clerk. The MCAs were to appear before the party on Tuesday to show cause why they ignored party’s direction on the recruitment at City Hall which has added to the power wars at the Assembly. The legislators include Wilson Ochola, Maurice Gari, David Mbithi, Cecilia Ayot, Caroline Mayunzu, Hafsa Khalif, Jared Okode, Redson Otieno, Nicholas Okumu, Millicent Okatch, David Okello and Hajj Nimo. The party was also to have a session with a number of Bungoma MCAs.On Tuesday, ODM national chairman John Mbadi –who issued the summons – said the party resolved to reschedule the meeting to allow for formation of a disciplinary committee that will now handle the matter. The term of the ODM disciplinary Committee which was led by city lawyer Fred Athuok had expired. “Yes we are having a central committee meeting preceding it (disciplinary committee). We'll have them appear most likely next week,” Mbadi told Star on phone. However, ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna unveiled the new Party National Disciplinary Committee chaired by Professor  Ben Sihanya. Other members include Ramadhani Abubakar, Mumbi Ngaru, Seth Kakusye  and Dr. Florence Omosa. "These changes have resulted from wide consultations with our membership and we now wish to urge our members across the country to support the new team as they seek to better our party," Sifuna said. Suba South MP Badi  who also doubles as Minority Leader in the National Assembly said having the MCAs appeared before any other organ apart from the disciplinary committee would attract legal suits as only disciplinary committee is mandated by the ODM constitution to hear such cases. “We felt that we put a disciplinary committee in place so that they appear before the committee. We don’t want legal issues.”