Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi elders have supported the call for urgent constitutional changes by opposition leader Raila Odinga. The elders, under the umbrella of Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Embu Cultural Centre Group, observed that significant amendments are needed through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Led by their chairman Andrew Ireri and coordinator Robert Kinyua, the elders said Kenyans urgently need a president and a deputy who will work as a team and thus clauses providing for future appointment of Deputy President by the president after elections need to be included in the constitution. “The the ongoing internal war between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy Dr William Ruto and the stalemate over the one-man-one vote one-shilling  formula at the senate where senators are divided alongside the two national leaders, has proved that electing a president and deputy together brings disharmony in the country,” said Ireri. They argued that the Deputy President should assist the president in his work and should be loyal to him, failure to which he is sacked. They argued that the bad blood between Ruto and Uhuru has negatively affected development of the country and this scenario should be avoided in future. The elders further said that the judiciary has been accorded a lot of freedom and autonomy in the current Constitution, enabling some crooked judges and magistrates to abuse power. The elders said they delivered their suggestions for inclusion in the BBI report, through a memorandum. They urged that elders all over the country be considered to campaign for BBI report during the referendum. The elders were speaking when those from Meru visited Ireri at his Gikuuri residence in Embu East Sub-county. The criticised those demanding that the referendum be carried alongside the 2022 election to minimise costs saying there would be a lot of confusion. The were reacting to media reports which quoted Raila Odinga on Thursday saying the referendum will be held soon after he and President Kenyatta receive the BBI report.