Testing of Covid-19 in the counties is being hampered by the lack of reagents for closed-system testing equipment. This was revealed by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, who was responding to Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s request to have the reagents made available to the counties to fast-track the process. Oparanya had requested the CS to make Kakamega one of the testing centres because the nearest testing centre in Kisumu is miles away. Currently, Kenya has 32 testing centres. They spoke at Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital where the CS delivered an update on Covid-19 and response measures in the country. “One of the problems we have experienced as a country is with the Gene expert machines.  As you know, these machines are American-made," he said. "We have been trying desperately over the last five months to get them to get the reagents for testing Covid-19, but it has been very difficult because they are used for testing other things like Malaria and so on and they emphasise a lot on testing the other diseases other than Covid-19.” Kagwe, however, assured that a discussion is ongoing at the Health ministry so that in future the government does not buy machines that are closed-systems as they require reagents that can only be procured from a specific supplier. “We have had challenges, particularly with the American-made systems, the Roche machines, Gene expert machines,  because of the reagents thereof and as a ministry, moving forward we will look more at open systems rather than closed systems,” he said. "The discussion along which we are having in the ministry and the lessons we have learnt in terms of testing capacity and reagent sourcing is that as technology changes, it would be better to have machines installed by other people and we simply buy reagents to run those machines and when technology overtakes the machines, the company takes their machines back.” Kagwe said the government will, for now, try as much as possible to get enough reagents and when it does, more testing facilities will be established across the country. “These centres are where we have machines that are applicable to the reagents that we are able to get. The only reason we are not testing in every county is the systems we have and the fact that the reagents for those systems are not easily available, but as soon as they are, we would like to have testing going on in as many hospitals that have got labs as possible," he said.