More than 18, 000 small scale farmers from Kisii, Nyamira, Migori, Homa Bay, Narok and Bomet will benefit from 2,500 tonnes of fertiliser from Yara East Africa. Through the ‘Action Africa Thriving Farms, Thriving Future’ initiative Yara East Africa is seeking to cushion farmers from the effects of Covid-19 and boost maize production in the regions during the August to October planting season. The launch of the distribution was done in Nyamira town and graced by Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo, County Commissioner Amos Mariba, Yara East Africa Commercial Director Vitalis Wafula and Agriculture ministers from the counties. Wafula said the initiative is aimed at enhancing maize production in the country to cushion against the disruptive effects of Covid-19 on the country’s food security. “The fertiliser is specifically made for maize. By launching this distribution, we want to join the government’s agenda of boosting food security in the country,” Wafula said. He said beneficiaries have been digitally registered to avoid distribution hiccups. Nyaribo hailed the initiative saying it seeks to provide an avenue to enhance food production and boost food security, as the number of people facing acute hunger could double in the wake of the pandemic. “Vulnerable communities may face the most devastating food crisis in decades. If we don’t act now, millions of people will be pushed into deep poverty and hunger. This is especially worrying in Africa where lives and livelihoods are at risk. As a critical part of the food value chain, we have a responsibility to support vulnerable farming communities and help avert a hunger crisis,” Nyaribo said. Ronald Gisore, a farmers' representative, said with the diminishing land sizes in Nyamira and Kisii counties, farmers need improved input fertilisers that are friendly to the soil. Agro dealer and farmer Enock Monda said, “We have seen maize production increase from nine bags to 32 on the same land.” Homa Bay’s Agriculture CEC Juma Aguko said with the disruption of food consumption patterns due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more concerted efforts should be made to increase production. Kisii’s Ezman Onsarigo said Yara’s move to cushion farmers came at the right time and hailed the company for manufacturing fertilisers for different crops. Edited by R.Wamochie