Kakamega county boss Wycliffe Oparanya has certainly caught the attention of political players with his flurry of activities in his backyard in Western and in other parts of the country. During weekdays, the Council of Governors chairman is busy running his county and coordinating measures taken by counties to fight Covid-19, but on weekends, he is busy shuttling from one political meeting to another. Last Saturday, Oparanya held a closed-door meeting with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi at his Kabarak home. A day later, he hosted a delegation of leaders from West Pokot county at his Likuyani home in Kakamega. The Kabarak meeting evoked fury from some leaders in Western, who accused him of auctioning the region. The leaders who expressed anger are key allies of Deputy President William Ruto, who is a rival of Kanu boss Moi in Rift Valley politics. With Oparanya at the Kanu chairman’s home were trade unionist Francis Atwoli, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa  and National Assembly Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe. Oparanya, Atwoli and Wamalwa have also held private meetings with President Uhuru Kenyatta in the company of other leaders from Western Kenya. Oparanya also has led delegations from Western Kenya, including governors and MPs, to Atwoli’s Kajiado’s residence. The Kakamega county boss, who is also an ODM deputy party leader, said he is not putting the breakes on his activities to “unite the country and drum up support for the Building Bridges Initiative.” Teh former Planning minister said he will be relentless in asking Kenyans to support the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. That truce and cooperation agreement is considered shaky by many experts. “Those who are making noise about my meetings should concentrate on revitalising their parties. My goal is to unite Western the nation as we popularise the BBI,” he told the Star. Political and communications strategist Advice Mundala said Oparanya is championing the interests of Raila in Western, which advances his own personal political interests. “He understands that working with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula puts him at a distant third, fourth or fifth in the arithmetic since he is obviously politically junior to them,” he explained. Mundala observed that politics is a game of positioning and proximity to the power source is integral. “Oparanya realises that championing Raila’s interests in Western places him only second after Atwoli who is a passive political player. This stamps him as the number one active player and coach of Raila's team in Western. This number is good for his personal negotiations," he said. Political analyst Kariuki Ngunjiri said Oparanya — being a long-time public servant, deputy leader of a ranking party and chair of the Council of Governors — makes him feel he is a heavyweight in Kenyan politics. “It's clear that Oparanya is ready to chart his own path, far from the likes of Wetang’ula and Mudavadi, perhaps to join other frontrunners in the presidential bid like Deputy President William Ruto, who are not from his own party and region,” Ngunjiri said. He added that by staying away from ANC and Ford Kenya, he is presenting himself as “an alternative leadership within where he belongs". The analyst added it would not be shocking to see Oparanya work with Ruto, Governors Amazon Kingi (Kilifi), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) or Mwangi Wa Iria (Murang’a). “For now, his role in the Luhya politics is overshadowed by the dominant personalities like Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. It might seem like he's advancing the interests of the ODM party, but his ambitions can only thrive outside that political party as Raila is still in control,” he added. Nonetheless, legislators led by Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, a Ruto ally, said the meeting between Oparanya and Moi was inconsequential. Washiali, Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) and Malulu Injendi (Malava) went on to ask Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to join forces with Ruto for 2022. During the meeting with West Pokot leaders, Oparanya said plans were underway to revitalise ODM in Ruto's North Rift home turf. Oparanya said the Saturday meeting was aimed at exploring and making alliances ahead of 2022. He has been holding meetings to consolidate their influence in the region, with the blessings of the Luhya Elders Forum and former Cabinet ministers. He has held several functions in Trans Nzoia, Busia, Vihiga and Kakamega. Oparanya’s tours started soon after a meeting at Atwoli’s Kajiado home on May 29. More than 30 MPs and leaders from Western Kenya's four counties attended. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula were absent. Atwoli has since announced he will host a second Bukhungu Stadium rally to declare the Western Kenya spokesman. Awoli had already declared Mudavadi the Luhya spokesperson in June 2017. Mudavadi dismissed the meetings by Oparanya in Western, saying he is a messenger of other people. The ANC leader has insisted he wants to lead the Western community to form the next government and not to join the next administration. Mundalo added that since his term as governor is expiring, Oparanya’s focus is on national politics “in the forecast of an expanded Executive through BBI.” It is unclear, however, if there will be a referendum on BBI's likely recommendations for an expanded Executive. The final report hasn't been presented, referendum timelines are tight and the Covid-19 pandemic has slammed the brakes on popularising BBI. The Kenyan people appear to have more serious concerns than a plebiscite, such as putting food on the table. “When Raila looks West, Oparanya fits onto the table. Raila is also keen to use Oparanya since his political experience and wit denies him a chance to negotiate in an equal capacity with him, unlike Mudavadi and Wetang'ula, in an expanded Executive,” Mundalo said. He continued, “a deputy premiership or Cabinet slot would sort the aspirations of Oparanya and that isn't difficult for Raila to give. That would sort the political relevance of Oparanya for another five years.” Ngunjiri said Oparanya might end up as a Cabinet Secretary in the next government depending on whom he supports. “From his politics, Oparanya is a boardroom philosopher king but he has not adapted well to Kenya's political ecosystem. That's why people continue to perceive him as a king maker as opposed to an heir prince,” he added. 