A committee has been set up to end a boundary row and fighting between Garre and Murulle communities in Mandera county. Attackers torched houses and destroyed houses in recent fighting over the boundary between Lafey and Mandera South. The 21-member team comprising elders from the two communities, officials from the county and national governments and the cohesion commission was created following four days of peace talks. The talks covered a lot of ground and built consensus on the need for peace and cohesion within Mandera county, officials said. County commissioner Onesmus Kyatha led the security committee discuss nine key issues. Participants agreed upon seven issues while two remain unresolved. Among issues agreed upon were contestations over electoral and administrative boundaries. The stakeholders resolved that full implementation of 2005-2008 Umul and related accords should be implemented immediately. The teams also agreed that elders convene to confirm and verify all unresolved previous incidents and chart way forward using Umul and related peace accords and in line with Somali customary laws. National government officers and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission will henceforth arrest and charge any person peddling inciting messages. Such persons must face the full force of the law. Perpetrators of conflict must also be arrested and prosecuted. Clan elders will take full responsibility for the disbandment of any existing militia. All hostilities must stop. The government resolved that a 14-member negotiation team together with two religious leaders should go to the conflict areas to preach peace and cohesion. Kyatha on Wednesday last week warned the two communities that they would be vulnerable to al Shabaab attacks if they do not stop their feuds. He said suspected al Shabaab militia sighted in the area had taken advantage of the fighting to advance into the county. Governor Ali Roba called on the two communities to stop more bloodshed and destruction of property and instead give dialogue a chance. “It is easy to start a fight but difficult to end it. I have seen many killings of women, men, children and youth. However, we managed to bring sanity and calm. Going forward let us not witness any ugly scenes, at the end of the day we are all brother and sisters who belong to the same God," Roba said. 