Interior CS Fred Matiangi has cautioned security agencies against harassing religious leaders. While speaking in Kisii on Friday, Matiang'i said it was in bad faith for the officers to storm religious gatherings while subjecting faithful to unnecessary disruptions. He said the government had collaborated with the Interfaith Council to come up with protocols to reopen places of worship. He said in situations where a certain church has broken the laid down protocols, the officers should liaise with the interfaith council to seek a solution. “We have clear protocols put in place put in place to guide on procedures of places of worship. Let us not harass religious leaders but address any issues through the interfaith council,” Matiangi said. He said the protocols that are in place are simple to follow and will play a key role in the containment of the disease. “This is not about the national government or the county government but individuals. Let us avoid shortcuts that will endanger our lives. Let us talk to one another in a sober manner because I believe we are one family and strong as we work together,” he said. The CS further urged all Kenyans to dedicate some time in prayer for the leadership of the country. He said despite the turbulence, President Uhuru Kenyatta had shown dedicated leadership in overcoming the pandemic and prayers for him would increase God’s intervention. “It is a tough time to be president of any country or minister for health, My brothers and sisters let us pray for those who are directly involved in this fight because it is only God’s intervention that will sail us through,” he said. Matiang'i also warned bar owners that their businesses will be closed if found operating against the directive by the Ministry of Health. “Bar owners are warned that their businesses will totally be closed if they are found operating against the protocol,” Matiang’i said. He urged church leaders to following the directive and thus told the police to stop harassing them and the faithful. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe at the same time urged the devolved units to ensure that money for Covid-19 is well utilised saying that wrong to  misuse the same. Kagwe said that his ministry had received reports that some individuals given the mandate to oversee the use of the money have been misusing the same. “I am urging all county governments to ensure that money for Covid-19 is used for the purpose it is intended for,” He added. He praised Kisii Governor James Ongwae  for the measures  his administration has taken including setting aside 300 isolation beds as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said that county governments should take charge in combating the disease noting that with increasing cases, the national government has no capacity to receive transferred cases. This comes as Kenya’s virus cases hit 25,138 after 727 more people tested positive. This was from a sample size of 6,814 that was tested in the last 24 hours. However, 14 more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities in the country to 413. On a positive note, 674 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 11, 118.