The government is cracking down and trying to restore order around Lake Naivasha to end illegal fishing by invading youths who also vandalise flooded property. Authorities have increased patrols and closed one corridor recently opened by the youths, many laid off from flower farms and other businesses hit by Covid-19. The lake has 18 corridors leading to the water but only four are open. After youths virtually took control of the lake area, the State ordered immediate closure of the corridor near Sopa Lodge along Moi South Lake Road. A month earlier, a Naivasha-based environmental group, White Eagle CBO, forced the opening of the corridor that had been deregistered by the State. For years that group has been advocating reopening the corridor, leading to battles along Moi South Lake Road. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mbogo Mathioya said on Tuesday investigations showed the youth group was illegal and involved in illegal fishing. He said that after gaining access to the lake, the youths had subdivided land and burned vegetation, apparently in preparation for planting or building. “We decided to close this corridor that has been misused by some criminals to illegally enter the lake and vandalise property that is flooded or submerged,” Mathioya said. The commissioner said trespassing on flooded private property was increasing. “We have received complaints from landowners over an upsurge in trespassing and vandalising structures around the lake. Action will be taken against those people arrested,” he said. Earlier, the county banned foot fishing along the shores and increased patrols to stop increased illegal fishing. Agriculture CEC Dr Immaculate Maina said the county was committed to conserving the lake that was under pressure from various quarter. She told a stakeholders meeting recently a task force would be formed in two weeks to investigate the problems facing the lake and recommend solutions. “Fishing will only be allowed between 6am and 6pm and 100 metres away from the shoreline. Anyone selling fishing gear must be licensed by the county,” Maina said. She said fishermen with expired licences will work with interim licences only. “Fishing licences will only be issued on an interim basis – only to one boat with 10 nets of four inches square and above. Fishing in breeding zones is banned,” the CEC said. Small-mesh nets catch immature fish and endanger the fish population. (Edited by V. Graham) 