Members of a Senate committee were left frustrated after Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia failed to show up before them because she is on leave. National Cohesion, Equal Opportunity and Regional Integration Committee said it will summon Kobia again and order sanctions against her if she fails to turn up. Nominated senator and chair of the committee Naomi Shiyonga, said members are aware that the Cabinet is on leave but some CSs have still appeared before legislators. Shiyonga said Kobia should have at least written to the committee, well in advance, to inform them that she would not be available. “Why did she wait until the last day to inform members that she would not be coming because she is on leave?” she asked Shiyonga ordered Kobia to be summoned again in accordance with parliamentary rules. “How could the CS say she is on leave yet we have seen Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i appear before a Senate committee when he is on leave?” Article 125 of the Constitution gives Parliamentary committees powers similar to those of the High Court regarding summons. President Uhuru Kenyatta sent all Cabinet members on a 14-day working leave starting August 17. Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries, chief administrative secretaries and the Attorney-General are expected only attend to national emergencies during the period. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua communicated the decision saying the next Cabinet meeting will take place on September 3. The Tuesday sub-Cabinet meetings, officially known as the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee chaired by Interior CS Fred Matiangi are however mandatory. Kobia was to appear before the National Cohesion committee on Thursday morning to respond to a question by Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala. She was to outline ethnic distribution in high cadre jobs in public service. During the meeting, it emerged that Kobia had asked for two weeks to respond to the question. “We are now well into the fifth week and she still cannot come. My committee will not take this for granted,” Shiyonga said. Nominated Senator Judith Pareno said being on leave should not have been an excuse to snub the session. “Let us now summon her because it appears she is reluctant to appear before us. If she fails to come, then action should be taken against her,” she said.  (edited by o. owino)