The Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology has made changes to its top management. The institution has remained without substantive leadership for close to two years after the contract of the late vice-chancellor Frederick Otieno expired on November 31, 2018. The university has had three acting VCs since Otieno's exit. They are Prof Joseph Bosire of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University, Prof Asenath Sigot (MMUST) and Prof Solomon Shibairo who was appointed in March for a six-month term. Bosire led for six months and Sigot one year. All deputy VCs have also been holding their positions in an acting capacity for over a year. Last week, the university council appointed Prof Judith Achoka the new acting deputy VC in charge of Planning, Research and Innovation. Prof Achoka replaces Prof Charles Mutai who was moved to Administration and Finance in an acting capacity. Mutai replaces Dr Patrick Ojera, who will now take charge of Academics and Students Affairs in an acting capacity. Ojera replaces Dr Benedarte Sabuni. In March, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha replaced four of the five council members, including chairman Jeremy Bundi, whose term had expired. Magoha appointed Jane Mutua as the new council chairperson. In April, Magoha appointed Prof Solomon Shibairo acting VC for the institution for a period of six months pending recruitment of a substantive office holder by the Public Sevice Commission (PSC). The PSC last year conducted interviews for the VC and DVC positions but the process was challenged in the labour and industrial relations court by civil society activist Okiya Omtatah. Omtatah protested against the involvement of the previous council in the recruitment process and wanted the process nullified and restarted. The suit is yet to heard and determined. MMUST new council members are Ahmed Diriye, Stephen Mutoro of the Consumer Federation of Kenya, Gathu Kiragu and Joshua Onyango. They replaced Bundi, Sam Michelule, Vayonda Sirma, Dorothy Kimeu and Joyce Migure. Diriye is the only one still serving from the old council.