Former Makadara MP Benson Mutura has been picked as Jubilee’s candidate for the upcoming Speaker’s election of the Nairobi County Assembly. He was confirmed by party secretary general Raphel Tuju on Thursday at Jubilee’s headquarters in Pangani . Mutura’s  name was part of the seven shortlisted candidates announced by the acting clerk Pauline Akuku. Other candidates are former Nairobi Assembly County Speaker Alex Magelo,  Abdi Ali Abdi,  Odingo Odhiambo Washington, Mike Obonyo Guoro, Allan Chacha Mang’era and Kennedy Okeyo Ng’ondi. The post fell vacant after Beatrice Elachi resigned on Tuesday citing life threatening incidences among other issues. Tuju confirmed that  after consultations it was agreed that Mutura was the party's candidate. “We have had serious confrontations among the members of the county assembly and the leadership of Nairobi . I’m aware there are five or six people who have shown interest in the contest for the seat which became vacant,” he said. “ We have zeroed in as a party and support Benson Mutura as a Jubilee candidate. All other candidates are free to go lobby MCAs but as for the 66 MCAs our candidate is Mutura,” Tuju added. MCAs will on Friday elect the new speaker . The Star has established that President Uhuru Kenyatta  called during  the meeting and confrimed Mutura's endorsement. He also warned members not to go against the party's wish on the matter. Deputy Majority Whip Waithera Chege said that Mutura was best fit for the position, considering his knowledge and experience in Nairobi politics. “ This assembly needs someone who will understand the political climates within Nairobi. Someone who will unite the members irrespective of party affliction,” she said. “Benson fits in this show very well. He has been in Nairobi politics long enough including serving as a councilor. We shall give him a super majority vote tomorrow,” Waithera added. Mutura was one of the councilors who became an MP after the March 4, 2013 General Election. He was the Former Kimathi Ward councilor. Under the TNA party ticket, Mutura became Makdara MP. He had garnered 37,644 votes, beating former Nairobi Mayor George Aladwa who got 36,079 votes. However, in the last August General Election in 2017, Mutura under the Jubilee Party ticket lost to ODM’s Aladwa . Aladwa garned 41,874 votes while Mutura had 39,731 votes. However, for Mutura to be elected as the Speaker, at least 85 MCAs will have to vote for him as provided by the law. The assembly is expected to hold a special sitting on Friday at 2.30pm to elect their new Speaker.