ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi is positioning himself as Mt Kenya's safest pair of hands to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The one-time Vice President on Thursday assured Uhuru's backyard that they should not worry as he has nothing to revenge against. Mudavadi, who has heightened forays to penetrate Uhuru's turf, said unlike him, some of his competitors would most likely pursue revenge. “I want to assure Mt Kenya people that I have no business of revenge in my heart. In my leadership there should be no fear," Mudavadi told the Star on Thursday. Mudavadi said he has built long-standing friendly ties with Mt Kenya people since he joined politics. He said he has neither offended the region nor has the vote-rich region upset him. "Maybe others are bearing grudges that they will revenge once they get power. That is not me." He, however, did not reveal the names of his rivals. ODM leader Raila Odinga, Deputy President William Ruto and ex-VP Kalonzo Musyoka are the other 2022 hopefuls battling for the region's attention. This is Mudavadi's most bold political move aimed at appeasing the region whose support might decide the next president. He is set to intensify his forays into the region as he prepares to take a second stab at the presidency. He is scheduled to have more meetings with regional leaders during visits there and at his Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi. He said the region’s support base in the forthcoming general elections will be crucial for any candidate. The ANC leader has been meeting various groups of people including current and former leaders from the larger Mt Kenya region. In the last two months, Mudavadi has hosted at his centre six meetings with representatives of at least four Mt Kenya counties of Kiambu, Nyeri, Murang’a and Meru. Sources say he has been involved in other secret meetings with the top leadership of the region, especially key political and decision-making leaders from Murang’a and Kiambu. The latest was a visit by former Jubilee elected leaders and members of the party from Murang’a on Tuesday. Former Maragua MP Peter Kamande said they are ready to popularise ANC in Central and the larger Mt Kenya region since they have seen him as a potential successor to President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We unanimously resolved to support Mudavadi’s presidential bid and support ANC to strengthen its support base in the region since we don’t see an alternative leader who will fix the economy of Kenya post-Uhuru,” he said. Mudavadi took to Twitter to say he met former Jubilee leaders and members who have officially defected from Jubilee and joined ANC party. “Among them was former two-times Maragua MP Peter Kamande aka Wambugu. The delegation led by former Jubilee chairman in Murang’a Simon Gikuru has unanimously resolved to support my presidential bid and support ANC party to strengthen its support base in the larger Mt Kenya region,” he wrote. Mudavadi has also been involved in talks on concerns raised by Mt Kenya residents on delays by the government through the Ministry of Agriculture to supply fertiliser to coffee and tea farmers. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has also paid a courtesy call to Mudavadi, a meeting that was convened on May 29 at a city hotel which was also attended by former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Sally Kosgey, who served as head of Public Service during former President Daniel Moi's regime. After meeting Mudavadi, Karua hinted at a possible alliance bringing together her Narc Kenya, ANC and other parties ahead of 2022. The meeting between Karua and Mudavadi came just a day after Kiambu Senator Peter Wamatangi had another discussion with the ANC leader. On July 15, Mudavadi hosted close to 20 ward representatives from Nyeri county. They assured Mudavadi that they are ready to support his presidential bid. On June 19, Meru MCAs paid him a courtesy call and deliberated on issues related to national unity, party democracy and the state of the nation. The MCAs were led by the Deputy Speaker Elias Murega. Edited by R.Wamochie