Members of Parliament want the haulage of all state agencies' imports to be done through the Standard Gauge Railway. They also want all bulky, dangerous, dirty cargo as well as any above 32 tonnes to be compulsorily transported through SGR. The lawmakers are in talks with the Transport ministry on the arrangement with a view to giving other importers and exporters the leeway to choose their preferred mode of transport. Transport committee chairman David Pkosing (Pokot South) said these were among the deliberations during a stormy closed-door meeting with Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia on Tuesday. “We underscored the importance of coming up with a competitive tariff that is cheaper than other alternative means of hauling goods,” Pkosing said. “We want SGR to attract business in a willing buyer-willing seller arrangement. We are looking at ways SGR can sell itself and make its business sustainable without directives.” Pkosing said they also explored the need to give importers a 0.5 per cent relief for railway development levy and provide last-mile services to importers. The meeting also explored the possibility of selling container spaces to regular importers in advance and reserving a few for ad hoc importers. MPs also want transporters be given a one-package cost to cater to not only delivery of goods to warehouses but also for return of empty containers. “The competitive tariff we are bidding for should have a last-mile component to enable users return empty containers within the same cost package,” Pkosing said. The proposal followed a petition by Coast leaders led by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir against orders for compulsory use of SGR by importers. Whereas the government says no one is compelled to use SGR, truckers and their unions maintain they are not allowed to pick cargo from Mombasa Port. The situation, the petitioners say, portends a jobs crisis not only at the port or Coast region per se but also stands to disrupt economies along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. The purported directive that all cargo be hauled by the railway is slowly shaping Coast politics ahead of the 2022 elections. Coast leaders are split on the SGR question as each side attempts to prove their effort to address the situation which has impacted negatively on the region’s economy. Nassir and his Kisauni counterpart Ali Mbogo, together with rights activists have on many occasions led demonstrations against the directive. However, a group led by Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa recently accused the leaders coalescing around ODM leader Raila Odinga of failing the region. Ali accused Nassir, Mbogo and Likoni MP Mishi Mboko of turning a blind eye to the jobs crisis that the locals are staring at. Nassir protested the assertion, saying Coast residents know well how much his team has done to save the region’s economy. The letter to Macharia from Parliament was pegged on questions the MP raised in the House on August 6, 2019, June 2 and June 25. “If indeed they were committed to this cause, ask them where they were today when we had a chance to face the government on this matter,” the lawmaker quipped. Nassir added that for him, the quest remains that the thousands of port jobs, which is a source of livelihoods for majority of Coast residents, must not be interfered with. Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan and Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi attended the Tuesday committee meeting. Last August, Macharia told MPs that the malpractices at the Mombasa Port were the reason why the government directed that all imported cargo must be hauled by SGR to the Nairobi Inland Container Depot. Ali’s attempt to impeach the CS flopped after members deserted his petition, a matter that has since escalated the SGR politics. The CS, in a brief to the committee, said the main reason for issuing the directive in respect of the Naivasha ICD was to contain the spread of Covid-19. On May 21, the ministry directed that cargo destined for Uganda, Rwanda, and South Sudan should be transported through the SGR to Naivasha. KRA, in its submission, said cargo that has overstayed beyond the set 21 days and destined for the neighbouring countries, should be transferred to the ICD.   - mwaniki fm