The Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation and Allied Workers has said it is ready to agree with the Agriculture ministry on the payment of arrears that led the court to stop a leasing process. This follows a Friday appeal by ODM leader Raila Odinga to those who went to court to withdraw the case. On Thursday, Kisumu court Judge Mathews Nderi Nduma stopped the leasing of the five state-owned sugar companies until workers’ issues are addressed. The workers are demanding among others, Sh5 billion salary arrears. The injunction was issued pending the hearing and determination of an application filed by KUSPAW secretary-general Francis Wangara under a certificate of urgency. “Let the process go on as other issues can be discussed later,” Raila said, adding that the salaries they are demanding cannot be made if the factories remain in the current state. While speaking to the Star on Saturday, Wangara said parties are allowed to agree outside court if they can. “We are, therefore, ready to engage with the other party if they feel they can do so, the end game is that we want the arrears to be paid," he said. He said Agriculture CS Peter Munya must come up with a framework on how the arrears are going to be paid and give a specific timeframe. The SG said they will be comfortable if that happens, knowing workers' issues are being addressed and exactly by whom. “We can then enter into consent with an MoU which we shall file in court." He said it was important for the matter to be cleared before the companies so they can start on a new slate. In the case, the respondents include Munya, the Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA), Kisumu county government and the Office of the Attorney General. It cites Chemelil, Miwani and Muhoroni (both in receivership), South Nyanza and Nzoia sugar companies, named in an advertisement on July 10. Judge Nduma also ordered that the application be served and responded to within 14 days of service. A hearing will be held virtually on August 30. Speaking to the Star, Wangara said workers have suffered for a long time because of salary arrears. He said the union had written to Munya asking for leasing not to be concluded until the workers’ affairs are sorted. No response has been received, Wangara said, even though the leasing process is coming to an end. “It should be clearly known that we are not opposed to leasing, but this an opportune time to ensure the matter is put on hold to address the plight of workers,” he said. “They must clear what is owed to the workers because it has been a trend that when such processes [leasing] are being undertaken, workers are left languishing in poverty.” The official said passing the salary debt onto new investors will inflict more misery on employees. Wangara said workers are the engines of production and without them, no money can be made. However, he said, the debt of public sugar mills does not cater to workers’ arrears. The government has started the process of leasing five sugar millers - Chemelil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Nzoia, and South Nyanza companies. The International Expression of Interest was advertised on July 10 and closed on August 3. A Request for Proposal will be sent to all firms prequalified. CS Munya has said the government only wants serious investors who can partner with the government to revive the sector. “The ministry has had consultations with governors in the sugar belt on these issues and the leasing process is on course,” he said last week. In the July advert, AFA director Solomon Odera said that in preparation for leasing, the authority has started approving restructuring of each company’s balance sheet. The plan is to write off the amount owed to it and to the former Kenya Sugar Board Commodities Fund as at December 31, 2019; write off tax penalties and interest as at June 30, 2009, and any additional interest and penalties accrued since then. The objective is to facilitate the turnaround of the sugar companies to profitability through modernisation and efficient management. This will improve competitiveness in Kenya, the EAC, Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) and the global market. Edited by R.Wamochie