President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to restore order in Kenya's capital after bringing together NMS Director General Mohammed Badi and Nairobi Governor Sonko on Wednesday. Uhuru warned that continuous "baseless" political blame games between the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and County Government of Nairobi would be detrimental towards service delivery to Nairobians. He told both NMS Director General Mohammed Badi and Governor Sonko to work together and avoid anything and anyone trying to bring division between them. “I have said enough is enough and I don’t want to hear about political fights in Nairobi. My brothers seated behind me work together. Si kila saa ni vita na matusi..Jukumu letu ni kuhudumia wananchi,” Uhuru said. Referring to NMS, the President made it clear that it is not a political office and told Sonko to stop politicising the matter. “My Major General here is not a politician and not interested with the office of the Governor, MCAs or Speaker. He is here for the work I have given him and after two years he will return back to the military,” Uhuru said. The President also warned that anyone who is not for development will be put aside. “I dont want to hear about those politics going on... We need to work together because I will not allow upuzi kuingia kati yetu (foolishness to come between you),” he said. The Head of State added that at the moment there is no room for meaningless political games and it was time for working. “We have to bring development interns of clean water, infrastructure and good health. Our duty as leaders is to deliver services to our citizens so that they live decent lives, let’s put politics aside and do what we have been elected to do,” Uhuru said. In addition, the President gave credit to NMS for the work they have achieved including drilling close to 93 boreholes in Nairobi since the office was established in March. Uhuru added that very soon, development will be seen in informal settlements starting with Mukuru Kwa Njenga where roads are being built. He spoke at KICC  while officiating the issuance of 2,000 ready title deeds. In attendance were Badi, Sonko, NMS officials, City Hall staff and a section of MCAs. Also spotted was former County Assembly Beatrice Elachi.