A form 1 student from Mwingi has touched the hearts of many after using her pocket money to buy and donate sanitary pads to other needy girls from Mwingi town. She donated sanitary towels to over 40 needy girls who reside within Mwingi Town with each girl getting two packs of the towels. Tracy Kanini, a form one student at Alliance Girls’ High school says that she was touched by the news on how the future of most young girls has been ruined due to teenage pregnancies, which according to her is as a result of lack of simple things like lack of sanitary pads and parental love. “My act was moved by stories of vulnerable girls lacking basics like sanitary towels and I decided to use my pocket money to put a smile on the girl’s faces,” said Kanini Kanini said lack of love and absence of parental care among teenagers has caused them to seek companionship and care elsewhere, hence many falling prey to rogue members of the society. She urged both the national and county governments to focus their attention on school going teenagers especially girls and ensure that they never lack sanitary towels and other essential items for hygiene. “I urge our leaders to embark on programs aimed at donating sanitary towels to vulnerable girls,” urged the 15-year-old. Juliana Vaati, a form four student and one of the girls who benefited from the donations thanked the young girl for the wonderful initiative. She said that life for teenagers is currently not so comfortable for them, owing to the many predicaments facing them while at home during this prolonged period of Covid-19. “Times have been hard especially this time when the country is battling COVID-19 and majority of girls are suffering silently,” said Vaati. Ann Mueni, another beneficiary who is a form three student said that it was a great blessing seeing a younger girl come to the rescue of even her seniors. She urged girls to stay put at home and to focus on studies despite the available challenges. “I plead with my age-mates to stay home, focus on studies and avoid all misleading companies so that we return to school safe once this viral battle is won,” Mueni advised peers.