Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has again warned people he describes as lazy county workers. County workers who do not meet their performance targets, he said, should be ready to face the sack. Ojaamong said his administration will not tolerate county staff who do not work towards making Busia better. Every county worker, he said, should strive to leave Busia better compared to 2013 when he took over as governor. “It will not be business as usual. I will visit departments on a weekly basis to check on how officers are discharging their duties to the satisfaction of county residents,” he said. “My government is most stable despite teething challenges I faced as pioneer governor. There has been a lot of pressure on health workers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I thank doctors, clinical officers, nurses and all health workers for their dedication to the call of duty.” The county chief was speaking while overseeing the signing of performance contracts by chief executive committee members, chief officers and departmental directors at his office in Busia town. “Performance contracts will be a deliverable tool to be replicated yearly, my executive should discharge their duties meticulously to enable me realise my legacy,” he said. “This is a wake-up call to the chief executive committee members, chief officers and directors to strive and deliver on their mandates. All service providers should sacrifice to ensure proper service delivery. Health workers should dedicate themselves for the sake of humanity.” Ojaamong issued the warning eight months after he made similar remarks, warning county workers who under-perform to be ready to be fired. In his 2020 New Year message in January the former Amagoro MP said he would work with people who will enable him realise his legacy when he exits office in 2022 after serving as Busia governor for two terms. “The delivery of services to the people of Busia County is paramount for them to improve and realise their dreams,” Ojaamong said then.