Kenyan footballers have begun to embrace aggressive marketing techniques in a bid to sell their image. They have propelled the world of fashion to entirely new heights. The country is witnessing a rising trend in fancy hairdos among top flight footballers. From a quiff to a pompadour to a mohawk, the flamboyance displayed on the head of soccer players in the stadia during matches is simply amazing. This has given the sport a new dimension as the pomp and glamour exhibited by footballers provide them with the much needed muscle to elbow out musicians from the celebrity pages of newspapers and magazines on the basis of looks. Celebrity status comes with money and fame as players get offers from organisations to endorse their products. Until recently, footballers have been known to be the usual rusty and dusty villagers with poor grooming. All that has changed drastically as more of them continue to spruce up their identity. To some extent, the transformation has played a big role in boosting the image of the players and keeping their social media pages abuzz. Away from the football pitch, they’ve invested in fashionable apparel. Like in rugby, more female fans are now being drawn to the once empty stadiums, as the improved looks serve as a bait. So elegant in style and fashion have Kenyan footballers become that much is said about their grooming and dressing as is their ability to deliver on the pitch. During the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, Simba SC’s new signing Joash Onyango, hit the headlines after sporting a peculiar hairstyle that caused a huge traffic on social media pages. The trend is not phenomenal to Kenya. England and Manchester United legend David Beckham earned more popularity for his haircut than his exploits on the pitch. It’s what draws a clear line between Messi and Ronaldo. A talented footballer with a good nose for style therefore becomes an instant gem. Mathare United attacking midfielder Daniel Otieno Okoth suits that description. Besides making a name for himself as a clinical finisher in the penalty area, Otieno’s popularity has been punctuated by his dazzling hair styles. In one season, he spotted three different peculiar hairdos that separated him from teammates and opponents alike. Daniel Otieno Okoth was born on October 13, 1998 in Nairobi’s sprawling Kawangware slum. He is the third born in a family of eight children. Otieno was eight years when he began playing football after joining Vapour Academy where he was taken through his initial steps by coach Maggy. “I took myself to Vapour because the academy had opened its doors to anyone interested to join them,” he says. He began his primary education at Huduma Primary School but was later transferred to Lavington Primary when he reached class 4. Otieno said he played football at school but didn’t achieve much there because his teachers were indifferent to sports. This explains why their football team was weak. “We never managed to play past the district. Our team was weak,” he says. Otieno says their teachers laid too much emphasis on academics at the expense of sports. That notwithstanding, he began displaying a lot of potential in football during his formative years. “I was awarded the top scorer’s award when I was roughly about 11 to 12 years.” It took his father, Paul Okoth and mother Caroline Awuor some pretty good years before they eventually allowed him to pursue an activity that he was so much passionate about. “At first, my parents didn’t welcome the idea of me playing football but they later slowly warmed up to it. They realised I was in love with the game and could do nothing much to keep me off the pitch,” says Otieno. In fact, his father later even began to buy him football boots. Unfortunately, he lost his mother in 2015. Otieno sat for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) in 2010 and afterwards joined Kamukunji High School. In the meantime, he had matured enough both in age and football stature to play in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Nairobi County League. In 2013, he left Vapour Academy to join Reformed United and featured for them in the Nairobi County League. A year later, he emerged the season’s top scorer. This success was not replicated in school though, where Kamukunji hardly made it past the county stage of school competition. “We were bundled out by Makongeni in the semifinals of the Nairobi County games. They pipped us by a solitary goal at Starehe Boys Centre,” he says. As much as things didn’t work out so well for them at Kamukunji, they never left empty-handed. They clinched the Lenana Open tournament a year later. He was at Reformed United for a whole season before Gor Mahia Youth FC came looking for him in 2015. They had watched him play and got impressed. They got even more interested in his services after he topped the scorers’ chart. He had an impressive run with Gor Mahia Youth in 2016, winning the county league with them and once again scooping the season’s top scorer award after netting 20 goals. At Gor Youth, he got to meet the likes of Teddy Osok, Amos Nondi, Cliff Nyakeya and Derrick Onyango. “We only received a trophy and some medals for the players. We were not given a token,” says Otieno. In 2017, feeling eager to join the big boys club on the top flight stage, Otieno proceeded to Hope Centre in Kawangware to try out for Nairobi City Stars who were then participating in the Kenyan Premier League. “I went for trials with Nairobi City Stars at Hope Centre. Coach John Bobby Ogolla took me in immediately.” When Ogolla inked a deal with Muhoroni Youth to be their coach the following year, he took Otieno with him to the lakeside club. “Almost immediately after coach Ogolla moved to Muhoroni, he invited me to join him there. I stayed there for one and a half years.” At Muhoroni, Otieno lifted his first silverware on the big stage. This was after Muhoroni upset Gor Mahia 1-0 to win the Top Eight tournament at Nyayo National Stadium in 2017. At the end of the season, he received a call from Sony Sugar coach Salim Babu asking him to travel to Awendo in Migori to join the Millers. He obliged and penned a three-year deal with the KPL side. In 2018, Otieno traveled with the U-23 Kenya national team to Uzbekistan for a friendly match where they triumphed 2-1 under coach Francis Kimanzi. He joined Mathare United in 2018 but had to follow his first five matches from the bench. It was coach Salim Ali who spotted him and invited him over to join the Slum Boys. Otieno’s best KPL match so far was their encounter with Nzoia Sugar at Kasarani in 2019. “I netted a beautiful curler against Nzoia at Kasarani. It was my best goal ever.” His worst match ever was when they met AFC Leopards at Mumias and got clawed 3-0. His local role model in football is his former teammate at Mathare United Kevin Kimani who has sinced inked a new deal with Wazito. Internationally, he admires six-time Ballon d’Or winner Lionel Messi who currently plays for Spanish La Liga giants Barcelona. He has a piece of advice for upcoming footballers: “They should put God first and work harder.” Otieno says he spends his free time playing on the playstation.  BIOGRAPHY  Date of Birth: October 13, 1998 Place of Birth: Kawangware, Nairobi Position: Offensive Midfielder Strong Foot: Left 2003-2006: Huduma Primary School 2007-2010: Lavington Primary School 2011-2014: Kamukunji High School 2013-2014: Reformed United (Nairobi County) 2015-2016: Gor Mahia Youth 2017: Nairobi City Stars 2018: Muhoroni Youth 2019 to-date: Mathare United