Enterprise Cup champions Kabras RFC have enlisted the services of South African Felix Reyon as an assistant coach. Reyon will double up as a backs coach and will team up with head coach Mzingaye Nyathi and Director of Rugby and former Kenya 15s head coach Jerome Paarwater. Former Kenya Simbas scrumhalf Edwin Achayo will be in charge of youth and development in the side. Reyon, 49, has had stints at Port Elizabeth Harlequins — in 2005 and between 2019 -2020 — as well as coaching Uitenhage progress between 2006-2009. He also coached Eastern Province in Currie Cup in 2009 and also in the Vodacom Cup in 2010. Kabras chairman Phillip Jalang'o said: “Our coaching setup is complete now with the addition of Reyon, who we know will add quality to our coaching and high performance work ethic as we try to win silverware in the forthcoming season.” Meanwhile, Jalang'o was delighted that a good number of Kabras players are now in the Kenya Simbas and Chipu squads. “In a short period, we have had a couple of our players donning the national team jersey and we need to continue with that trajectory,” he observed. Jalang'o said the suspension of the league has seen the sugar millers go back to the drawing board to sharpen themselves. “It’s been a silver lining for us. We have reviewed our matches from last season and seen where we went wrong and look for ways of improving ourselves,” he added. Despite the uncertainty that clouds the resumption of rugby in the country, Jalango observed that the team cannot afford to rest on their laurels. “We don’t know when the season will start, probably in November if all goes well, and therefore our planning and preparations must continue and attention to detail must be first class if we are to be competitive come the start of the new season,” noted Jalang'o. The Kakamega-based out are looking at bolstering the playing unit with seven signings once the transfer window is opened. The core of the side that did duty last season will remain intact with the likes of internationals George Nyambua, Dan Sikuta, Asman Mugerwa, Hillary Odhiambo, Brian Tanga, Felix Ayange and Nick Barasa. Prop Ray Mwale is expected to depart for a professional stint in Portugal Kabras topped the group phase with 74 points and were due to face the winner of the Mwamba v Impala clash in the semis before the league was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.