Governors in the North Rift have warned that delays in paying salaries of county workers will stall the war against Covid-19. They want the Senate and Treasury to quickly find a solution to the revenue sharing formula stalemate and frequent late disbursement of funds so that devolution can work effectively. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who is the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) said workers were yet to receive their June and July salaries. He accused Treasury of underrating counties yet they are constitutionally established. “We cannot continue asking the workers to risk their lives fighting Covid-19 yet they cannot afford basic needs like food and paying rent for their families. We are being put in a complicated situation that undermines the war on Covid-19,”  Mandago said in Eldoret on Saturday. Similar concerns were expressed by Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba and his Elgeyo Marakwet colleague Alex Tolgos. They said devolution was facing many challenges mainly because of inconsistency in funding which demoralises workers and interferes with implementation of projects. “Our main problem has been inconsistent funding from Treasury. We always have to beg so that funds are released every month and that is not healthy for successful implementation of devolution,”  Tolgos said. Mandago said payment of salaries was not negotiable and wondered why Treasury had already paid salaries for national government workers but failed to release the money for county government workers. “We wonder where Treasury got money to pay the national government workers. We thought we are in the same country but it seems Treasury is demeaning counties,” said Mandago. He said they want the money for salaries released immediately to avoid a situation where workers will be forced to go on strike. “If the workers will go on strike, then the war on Covid-19 will have been lost and we don’t want to reach that level,” Mandago said. Workers in the counties have threatened to down their tools this week if the delayed salaries will not have been released. Mandago said the counties were facing a cash crunch with no money to pay the workers and facilitate other operations.  The effects of the pandemic have also heavily affected operations in the counties where collection of internal revenues has dropped by a huge percentage. The counties in the North Rift are collecting less than 50 per cent of what they used to get as taxes including land rates, trade licenses along with other fees and charges. Edited by Henry Makori