Charcoal burning and tree poaching in Eburru forest have ended after the recruitment of people previously engaged in the criminal activity into forest custodians. The hiring was a collaboration of the Rhino Ark, Kenya Wildlife Service and Kenya Forest Service. Rhino Ark fence community manager Joseph Mutongu said the employment of the former poachers and charcoal burners was a blessing in the conservation of the forest in Gilgil. Mutongu said six of the reformed poachers were hired in the first phase. They joined Bongo Surveillance Programme, whose main objective is to protect the endangered species. “Since we decided to use the reformed group, cases of charcoal burning is now a thing of the past. Poaching is on its deathbed,” he said on Tuesday. The reformed group knows the forest well and had helped in tracking the location of the bongos (forest antelopes) and their poachers. “Apart from protecting the forest, this group has engaged their former counterparts who have agreed to leave the forest and are now involved in bee-keeping and farming,” Mutongu said. He said special cameras will soon be used to track and count the number of bongos in the forest. Meanwhile, the government has allocated Sh200 million for the  construction of an overpass along Moi North Road for use by wild animals on their way to Lake Naivasha. The overpass will link Eburru forest and Lake Naivasha. “The plans and design for the 60-metre wide overpass are ready. The job will be done by the Ministry of Roads,” the Rhino Ark official said. KFS Eburru forest manager Samuel Mundia said the involvement of members of the community had assisted in the conservation of the water tower. He said they had for years fought poachers and illegal charcoal burners who knew the forest better than the KFS officers. “Some sections of this forest are very steep and dangerous, making it hard for us to venture, but with the reformed poachers on our side we have nothing to worry about,” Mundi said. He said the regeneration of the forest through tree planting had ensured the flow of water in various streams in the forest to neighbouring villages. “The move to erect the 44km fence around the forest has seen cases of human-wildlife conflict reduce, making our work easier. It’s now upon us to protect this catchment area,” he said.  - mwaniki fm