Two years after the completion of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Nairobi to Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, more than 30 families are yet to be compensated. Their houses were brought down to pave the way for the multi-billion railway line. The families accuse officers from the Ministry of Lands and Kenya Railways of failing to address their grievances. Speaking in Mai Mahiu on Saturday, they said they would petition Parliament to address the issue of compensation, which has dragged on for years. Grace Nyambura says she was forced to dig out a grave where she had buried her husband as part of the agreement with the State. The families were promised pay within months but this had ended up in a three-year wait. “Before compensation, we were first directed to pull down all the structures, which we did, but up to date we have not received even a penny,” she said. The granny said they have been reduced to squatters as they seek shelter and food after giving away their land. This was echoed by another victim, Peter Ndidi, who noted that the modern railway line had destroyed their lives. He said they had visited the Ministry of Lands many times only to be referred to Treasury in the never-ending game. “We fully supported this project and agreed to demolish our houses but we have been reduced to paupers with nothing from the government,” he said. Ndidi called on area MP Jayne Kihara and Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika to come to their rescue. “We cannot farm or construct houses on this land as Kenya Railways has taken it with our consent but the problem is lack of compensation,” he said. On his part, Zachayo Mutua accused the government officers of taking them round in circles, adding that more than 50 families were never compensated. “We suspect that these government officers colluded and took our money and we are asking the Head of State to intervene,” he said. A senior officer with Kenya Railways and who declined to be named said that the issue had been reported in their offices and they would look into it.