@robertomollo3 Hundreds of patients were on Tuesday turned away at public health facilities in Homa Bay following a strike by health workers. Security guards at the gates had a hectic time telling residents looking for health services to go back home due to the strike. Health workers in public facilities went on strike from Monday on grounds that the county government had failed to pay them salaries and allowances for June and July. At Homa Bay County Referral Hospital, a security guard had to repeatedly tell people that no medical service was being offered. “Nobody will attend to you even if you get into the hospital. You better go to a private hospital because no medic will serve you,” the guard told a patient. On Monday, doctors, nurses, clinical officers, laboratory technicians, dentists, nutritionists and pharmacists downed their tools. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union officials instructed their members across the county not to attend to any patient until their grievances are addressed. Nyanza KMPDU chairman Kevin Osuri and his Homa Bay counterpart Amos Dulo told the medics to observe the directives of staying at home. A spot check at the referral hospital revealed that tens of patients were being turned away. “It’s unfortunate sick people are going back in agony and without treatment because the employer has refused to pay us what is our right,” Dulo said. Some patients who insisted on getting into the hospital were found the waiting benches at the outpatient section of the empty hospital. The same situation was at the paediatric unit where mothers who took their children for immunisation and other child care services were told to go to private health facilities. Dina Awuma and Judith Ouma both took their children for immunisation. They waited for services for more than 30 minutes without being attended to by any nurse. “Nurses are just walking along the corridors without attending to us. They are turning us away despite difficulties we’re undergoing,” Auma said. The mother expressed concern that her child could contract diseases that can easily be prevented through immunisation. “Dressed medical staffs were just in groups, not working but telling stories,” she added. Critically-ill patients also had to taste the pain of the second day of the strike. Gabriel Onderi who was transferred to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital for chemotherapy was turned away. Onderi said doctors failed to check his chest using an x-ray for the second day due to the strike. “I’m advised to go on dialysis. I’m feeling pain and I don’t know when services will return so I get attended to,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie