@alalmaurice Vocational and Technical Training Institutions have been directed to ensure they comply with the Covid-19 protocols in readiness for reopening. Vocational and Technical Training PS Julius Jwan said some of the institutions were yet to fully comply. Jwan said that the TVET institutions have been given funds to prepare for reopening based on the coronavirus infection trend. He said the decision on opening was premised on the need to ensure the safety of all learners and teachers. The PS spoke while on a Covid-19 preparedness inspection tour of the Kisumu National Polytechnic on Wednesday. Rift Valley Technical and Training Institute and Mawego Technical Training Institute are among institutes that have made much progress, he said. Others are Keroka Technical Training Institute, Bureti Technical Training Institute, and Kitale National Polytechnic. Jwan told heads of the learning institutions to install handwashing points and automated sanitisers at strategic points for use. He added that the floors in the lecture halls, dormitories, toilets, bathrooms, and kitchens should be tiled to ensure the safety of trainees and trainers. Kisumu National Polytechnic Principal Chanzu Lomolo said they will complete the installation of the requirements in two weeks. “We are working on the installation of pedal-operated handwashing points and automated sanitisers,” Lomolo said. He said they are fabricating 100 pedal-operated handwashing machines to be installed at strategic points within the institution. He said several handwashing stations and automated sanitisers have so far been strategically put in place. The automatic sanitisers are to minimise surface contact. Handwashing stations, Lomolo said, are made in a way that enables users to limit contact. “We have in place enough materials to guide on how to wash your hands and use each of the equipment,” Lomolo said. Before entering the college compound, he said, one will be required to wear a face mask, wash hands, and undergo mandatory temperature check-up. The floors of public spaces at the institution have been marked up for social distancing. The government had announced September as the reopening month for colleges but rescinded the decision. Education CS George Magoha on Tuesday said education officials are studying the coronavirus trend and can review the decision if the infection curve flattens. 