@alalmaurice Farmers and a workers' union have agreed to withdraw a case stopping the leasing of five state-owned sugar factories if certain conditions are met. They want the government to outline plans to clear workers' salary arrears and farmers' overdue pay and representation in the leasing committee through their general secretary. The government must gazette the general secretary's inclusion in the leasing committee before they can withdraw the case. The decision to withdraw the case was ratified in an agreement between the Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation and Allied Workers and the Lake Region Economic Bloc. The workers were represented by their general secretary Francis Wangara while LREB chair Wycliffe Oparanya signed for the governors. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o and LREB chief executive Abala Wanga witnessed the signing of the agreement after a meeting on Wednesday. Last week, Labour court judge Nduma Nderi halted the process of leasing the firms until the case filed by the union is heard and determined. The union argued that their concerns of Sh5 billion salary arrears and debts owed to them by the factories had not been addressed. The factories include Chemelil Sugar, Miwani Muhoroni (under receivership), Nzoia Sugar and Sony. Oparanya said the agreement smoothens the roadblock that would have seen the process which is currently at the tail end hit a snag. He noted that the union has a valid case of salary arrears and statutory deductions that require to be considered during the leasing process. They also agreed that union general secretary will be a member of the interim management committee on leasing of the state-owned sugar mills. The meeting resolved that the millers shall pay all the salary arrears for the workers and if there is a dispute arising from the arrears the government will take over. Upon the gazettement of the general secretary, the parties agreed that the union shall withdraw the case consequent to payments of the arrears. Oparanya said the journey to bring back cane growing in the region to productivity has been long, with the LREB taking the lead in steering the process. Through their lobbying, President Uhuru Kenyatta formed the Sugar Task Force which recommended the leasing as opposed to the privatisation of the mills. The Sugar Task Force was co-chaired by the then Cabinet Secretary for Agriculture Mwangi Kiunjuri and Oparanya. "The signing of this agreement is part of the long journey that the LREB leadership has had to make to midwife the process of the revival of this sector in the region," Oparanya said. The Kakamega governor thanked the union for agreeing to withdraw the case. “All that we have ever done in this whole process is to put the interest of the farmer first. There would be no sugar sector just as it is today unless we have satisfied farmers,” he said. Nyong’o said that revival of the sector will revitalise agro-processing in the region. “With functional mills, the sector will create an environment that will attract more investments leading to more job opportunities. Last week, ODM leader Raila Odinga also appealed for the withdrawal of a case for the leasing process to proceed. “If the process is stopped then it is the farmers and wananchi who are going to suffer,” he said in Kisumu on Friday. Raila criticised the Employment and Labour Relations Court for issuing an injunction stopping the leasing on Thursday. “I am shocked that the court can easily issue an injunction without inviting the government to shed its side of the story,” he said. On Wednesday, Wangara accused Agriculture CS Peter Munya of ignoring their concerns despite writing a letter to his office. He said they do not oppose leasing but want the concerns of more than 5,000 workers to be considered. "We have no problem with anybody and we are open for discussion," Wangara said. The union boss said workers had not been engaged in the tendering process and in picking the team to spearhead the process. “We feel workers have been ignored. We are ready to listen to the government but they must pay our arrears before the process continues,” he said. Among investors interested in managing the sugar firms are two companies linked to tycoon Jaswant Rai, West Kenya Sugar Company and Sukari Industries. Others are China CAMC Engineering Company Limited, Shenzhen Start Instruments, Mehta Group, Kibos Sugar, Butali Sugar Mills, Mini Bakeries and Kuguru Food Complex. Successful investors are expected to lease, redevelop and operate the sugar complexes and diversify into co-generation of export power, production of bio-ethanol and allied co-products. (edited by o. owino)