A woman who was burned alive on August 1 over a land dispute in Kathuma village, Machakos county, was laid to rest on Saturday. Juliana Mwikali's son Jackson Makau who escaped with deep cuts said the attackers, mostly relatives, tied his mother's hands and legs using a binding wire, poured petrol on her before setting her on fire. Mwikali was buried at her son's farm but not at her matrimonial home where the murder incident took place. The family fled the home in fear of more attacks. Speaking at the funeral, the husband Nelson Ngui said he and his wife had reported death threats to Machakos police station in April. He said if police had taken the necessary action the arson could not have taken place and his beloved wife would be alive. "This matter has caused us a lot of pain because when my wife and I took it to the police and recorded a statement, the police did not act accordingly because if they did, they could have prevented my wife from losing her life," said Ngui. He urged the national government to intervene and end insecurity in the area where a man was also burned alive for reasons yet to be defined. "I urge the national government to make sure that we are protected as citizens of this country because we are living in fear. Let justice be served for the death of my  wife," he added. Mwikali, a mother of seven, was murdered in her home in Machakos on the same day  her husband was attacked by people armed with crude weapons in his Mtito Andei farm in Makueni county. Purity Nthenya, a daughter, said the family lived in fear as her father and brother escaped death by the a whisker during the attacks. "My mother died a painful death and although we are trying to forget, we will live with those painful memories. We are hurting especially after seeing that some of the suspects are not yet arrested," Nthenya said. Machakos subcounty detectives have so far arrested five suspects linked to the murder who are close family members. The attacks are believed to have emanated from a land dispute. Mumbuni location chief Mathew Mulee confirmed this was the second incident  after a 70-year-old man was lynched in a similar manner in the same village early this year. Edited by Henry Makori