An Australian firm has lost a bid to stop the Kenya Bureau of Standards from proceeding with a multibillion-shilling tender for verification of products before importation. TUV Austria Turk had sued the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board and Kebs accounting officer Bernard Njiriani for alleged unfair treatment during the tendering process. The tender was for the enlargement of provision of pre-export verification of conformity to standard services. It sought to have more firms to ensure products being imported are verified. The tender attracted three bidders: Premier Verification Quality Services Dubai, TUV Austria Turk and TUV Rheinland. Justice John Mativo said bidders should comply with tender conditions as set after TUV Austria conceded before the board that it omitted to provide the bid security, which was a requirement. Mativo termed it inconceivable for TUV, which had admitted noncompliance with the bid terms, to expect the board to allow its request for review. “The requirements are very clear. Allowing the Request for Review on the face of the glaring  omission to provide tender security is an open invitation to the Review Board to throw out of the window the tenets of fairness,” he said Kebs advertised the international tender for enlargement of pre-export verification of conformity to standard services in December last year. TUV was among the bidders, The tender closed on January 7. The firm was later served with a notification of regret indicating its tender was non-responsive. It, however, challenged the letter and filed a review before the board. Justice Mativo observed that a germane ground upon which TUV’s request for review collapsed before the board because its tender was found to be non-responsive for failing to comply with mandatory bid terms. It turned out that TUV failed to provide tender security which the board held was a mandatory requirement. “The tender having been found to be non-responsive, it’s unclear how the firm expects this court to breathe life into it,” he said During the hearing, Kebs argued that the tender evaluation committee established that TUV had failed to meet all the preliminary requirements set out in the tender document. It said the firm was notified that it did not meet the preliminary evaluation requirements specified in the evaluation criteria of the tender document. But TUV, aggrieved by the decision, moved to court to have Kebs stopped from awarding the tender. It also sought an order terminating the current procurement process with respect to the tender. But the judge said there was dishonesty on the part of TUV by purporting to shift blame to Kebs even after it admitted that it did not provide security at the evaluation stage. “The attempt to cover the obvious non-responsive Tender by citing other grounds does not help at all,” he said.