The Senate committee trying to broker a deal on the divisive revenue sharing is on Monday  expected to announce consensus: We are good to go. Head of the 12-member committee Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja told the Star on Sunday they "have made good progress". “We have had a presentation from the Commission on Revenue Allocation and Treasury. We will brief the country tomorrow (Monday). We are good to go,” Sakaja said on the phone. On Monday night last week, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka was forced to adjourn for the tenth time to allow the Special Committee formed by opposing sides to reach a consensus. They are grappling with the Third Basis formula for allocation among counties. The committee includes Senators Sakaja, Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Moses Kajwang' (Homa Bay), Ledama Ole Kina (Narok), Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu), Stewart Madazyo (Kilifi) and Nderitu Kinyua (Laikipia) and Mahamud Mohamed (Mandera). The formula, developed by the House Finance and Budget Committee, cuts allocations to 18 counties by Sh17 billion. The formula has deadlocked in the Senate for more than two months. It has been opposed by the senators from the counties that suffer cuts with the support of seven senators from the gaining side. Over the weekend, President Uhuru Kenyatta distanced himself from the standoff that has seen the arrest of rhree senators opposed to the formula that appears to be backed by the State. “This is not Uhuru’s money. This formula was crafted by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and went to the Senate. The revenue should be shared justifiably such that everyone gets their fair share,” Uhuru said on Friday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. Deputy President William Ruto on the other hand has appealed for a formula that will not disadvantage any of the 47 counties but ensures devolution is strengthened. "Hence, it should be guided by a win-win situation whereby populous counties get their fair share of revenue just as those that are considered marginalised or geographically small in size,” Ruto said on Saturday at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu. (Edited by V. Graham)