Turkana youths have opposed the proposed formula for sharing national revenue, saying it will disadvantage some counties. They said when oil was discovered in Turkana county, they agreed that every county would benefit from the proceeds. In 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced an agreement on sharing revenue from Turkana oil. He said 75 per cent would go to all Kenyans through the national government, 20 per cent to the county government and five per cent to the local community. Turkana County University Students Association leader Thomas Kiyong’a decried the 'one man one vote one shilling' campaign conducted by some politicians in support of the proposed revenue sharing formula that favours population over landmass. It doesn’t address the needs of Turkana people, Kinyong'a said. “When oil was discovered in Turkana, we said the oil is for all Kenyans and we agreed as a county to share our resource with other counties. We are shocked when it comes to revenue allocation that Turkana people are few and Turkana is vast county thus they don’t deserve much revenue allocation for development,” he said. He said the proposed formula is meant to suffocate the already marginalised counties. “Don’t criticise marginalised counties on revenue allocation because we have been marginalised for 50 years. Central region and other parts of Rift Valley have been enjoying mega-projects from the national government while Turkana only depends on county allocation to run the race of development,” he said. Kiyong’a added: “As Kenyans of goodwill, let’s be happy when marginalised regions begin to see the light of development and support win-win situation because we have a right to get all the allocation as a people and as a county.” Simon Echom said since the inception of devolution in 2013, Turkana and other marginalised counties had benefited greatly from devolution. Echom said the one-man-one-vote-one-shilling campaign would ruin the lives of Turkana people. “Who doesn’t know that Turkana is poor? Who doesn’t know the level of illiteracy is high in Turkana? But since the inception of devolution the county government has tried much to offer development by constructing health facilities, schools and good roads,” he said. Moses Ekal called upon senators to represent the interests of citizens and support a fair revenue sharing basis that will not hurt any county. Ekal said those claiming that Turkana had received billions of money since the inception of devolution without development were telling a lie. “Looting of public resources has been there for many years. There is no way you can punish citizens by denying them their rightful share of revenue allocation because of corrupt and incompetent leaders. We urge the government to arrest those who have misappropriated public funds and charge them according to the law. We demand our revenue allocation for development,” he said. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has asked senators to stand up and be counted by supporting a win-win revenue sharing formula. “The revenue sharing formula must portray a united Kenya that equitably develops its entire territory and its people and leaves nobody behind. I appeal to senators to stand and be counted by history on this. Make Kenya’s future all prosperous and fulfilling,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori