North Rift counties will introduce Economic Stimulus Packages to aid recovery from the effects of Covid-19. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu said on Sunday the stimulus packages will finance recovery in key sectors such as agriculture and business that can quickly help counties to recover economically. He is chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb). Supporting cottage industries will also be important, providing many jobs. Mandago said the pandemic has reversed most of the counties' economic gains. He urged county assemblies to assist executives in finding creative strategies to deal with the effects of the pandemic. “We need to be very innovate if are to support our economies to recover quickly because the effects of the pandemic have been quite devastating," Mandago said. He hosted the County Assemblies Forum leadership in Eldoret. The CAF team was led chairman Ndegwa Wahome who is also speaker  of the Nyandarua County Assembly. Mandago asked MCAs in all counties to work closely with their executives. He said his administration has engaged the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry to develop a recovery strategy for Uasin Gishu. Wahome said they were working within regional caucuses to enhance close collaboration among county assemblies and executives. “The assemblies are keen to ensure local economies get back on their feet. We wish to see the vibrancy of the business sector, which is key in helping the country regain its economic footing," Wahome said. The leaders also discussed budget allocations in the 2020-21 financial year. MCAs said they would work with the executive to ensure that devolution and recovery succeed. Present were CAF secretary general Kipkirui Chepkwony, who is also the MCA for Tindiret in Nandi county, Uasin Gishu Assembly Speaker David Kiplagat and several MCAs. Mandago said counties would support the growth of cottage industries that can create many jobs. He said his county had set up the Inua Biashara Fund with friendly and flexible interest rates to support small businesses. Mandago spoke at his office when he hosted Peter Kamau, the proprietor of Gorgeous Shoe Dealers, a large-scale shoe manufacturer in Eldoret. (Edited by V. Graham)