Patients with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and allergic rhinitis have been warned to be careful when lighting fires in houses to keep warm during this cold season. The Health ministry on Monday warned that whereas it is important to keep warm, smoke can as well trigger allergic and asthmatic attacks worsening the situations of persons suffering from those conditions. The country has been experiencing a cold season from June and is expected to run all the way through August. The development comes as 13 more people succumbed to coronavirus in the country, out of whom 10 had multiple underlying health conditions. The 13 include a 32-year-old nurse who passed on at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital on Sunday evening. The number of fatalities now stands at 382. Further, the ministry has warned that a poorly ventilated and confined room is the perfect scenario for the spread of respiratory infections such as influenza, TB and Covid-19 due to lack of adequate space for social distancing, if two or more people are living together. Health CAS Rashid Aman noted that there has been an upsurge in Covid-19 cases in the country during this cold season, with concern that being an infectious airborne disease, cases might rise further. “This should be a wakeup call to all those with respiratory illnesses to take extra care because it is in this period that the conditions can suddenly worsen. Most people tend to congregate in closed spaces in a bid to avoid the cold, while others will light fires in their houses to keep warm,” the CAS said. “The cold season poses various challenges for people including children and the aged, particularly during this pandemic period.” According to the CAS, cold seasons like winter can impact lung infections. He noted that the risk of TB transmission appears to be greatest during cold seasons, particularly in overcrowded and poorly ventilated settings. Kenyans have been advised to dress warmly to avoid any triggers, keep social distancing, wear masks at all times while those with chronic illnesses have been urged to ensure they have adequate supply of medication to avoid running out of stock. The data from the ministry shows that the case load in the country as at yesterday was 22,597 after 544 more people tested positive from a sample of 2,653. The cumulative number of tests now stands at 318,376. The new cases comprised a year-old infant. “On a positive note 263 patients have recovered from the disease. From this number 176 are from the home-based care programme while 87 have been discharged from various hospitals, bringing the total number of recoveries to 8,740,” Aman said. Nairobi continues to lead in the number of new infections after recording 412 new cases on Monday, followed by Kiambu with 27 cases, Machakos and Kajiado 17 cases each while Garissa had 16 cases. Other counties that recorded new cases include Uasin Gishu 14, Mombasa nine, Nakuru eight, Nyeri and Narok five cases each, Makueni four, Laikipia two while Murang’a, Kilifi, Busia, Embu, Bungoma, Kisii, Kwale and Meru had one case each. The CAS, however, maintained that Tanzanians have not been stopped from coming into the country, adding that just like the case in road travel for truckers, those landing via air travel will have to present a Covid-19 free certificate. “We have spent quite a lot of time in the spirit of East African cooperation to work out mechanisms by which that flow of traffic can still happen across the borders, and we agreed it was a consensus that this will be done on the basis of a reciprocal  acceptance of a testing certificate.” On Thursday, the government released a list of 11 countries whose citizens are allowed into the country from August 1, an issue that has sparked a diplomatic tiff. Edited by R.Wamochie