Kenya on Monday recorded 245 more Covid-19 cases, bringing the  total number of cases to 30,365, CAS Rashid Aman said. This is from 3,150 samples tested in the last 24 hours. This brings the cumulative number of tests to 394,566. 237 are Kenyans while while are foreigners. The youngest is a one month old infant and the oldest is a 79 year old. The country has also experienced 504 recoveries, bringing the total to 17,160. However, eight more people have succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of deaths in the country to 482. Five out of the eight who died had underlying issues. Mombasa and Nairobi continue to have a higher number of infections. CAS Aman added that over 29,000 cases in Kenya are communally spread which is equivalent to 98 percent of all cases. "We need to be extra careful in adherence to measures , all Counties have COVID-19 cases now," he said. The distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi 149, Kiambu 23, Kajiado 14, Mombasa 10, Garissa and Machakos nine each, Nyeri and Narok seven each, Busia four, Kilifi three, Laikipia, Murang'a and Kitui  with two cases each while Kisumu, Uasin Gishu,  Kwale and Tharaka Nithi have one case each. As for the cases in the sub counties are distributed as follows; In Nairobi the 149 cases are in Lang'ata (25), Kasarani (14), Embakasi East (12), Embakasi South (11), Makadara (11), Dagoretti North and Embakasi West with 10 cases each, Roysambu nine and Ruaraka and Starehe have eight cases each. Others are Embakasi North, Kibra and Westlands with six cases each, Dagoretti South four, Embakasi Central, Kamukunji and Mathare with three cases. In Kiambu the 23 cases are in Limuru six , Ruiru five, Kikuyu four, Thika three, Kabete two, Juja, Kiambaa and Kiambu Town have one case each. In Kajiado the 14 cases are in Kajiado North six, Kajiado Central five and Kajiado East three while in Mombasa, the 10 cases are in Changamwe and Kisauni with three cases each, Jomvu two while Likoni and Mvita have one case each. In Garissa, the nine cases are in the town while nine cases in Machakos are in Athi River with six cases, Machakos Town two and Matungulu one case. In Nyeri, the seven cases are in Nyeri Central and Tetu with three cases each and Mathira East with one case, while the seven cases in Narok are all in Narok East. In Busia, all the four cases are in Teso North, while in Kilifi the three cases are in Kilifi South with two cases and Malindi with one case. In Laikipia the two cases are in Laikipia East and in Murang'a the two cases are in Maragua while the two cases in Kiyui are in Kitui West. The case in Kisumu is in Kisumu East, the case in Uasin Gishu is in Soy and the case in Kwale is in Msambweni. The case in Tharaka Nithi is in Chuka.