 The national Kazi Mtaani hygiene programme has started to improve lives and the environment in slums and low-income areas in Laikipia East. It is reducing crime and discouraging young people from using drugs, alcohol and engaging in immoral behaviour, officials say. At Likii village on the outskirts of Nanyuki town, youths on Wednesday were collecting garbage, clearing drainage, cutting down bushes and improving infrastructure. Likii has been known as a breeding ground for criminals and a den for illicit liquor, but the perception is changing. Laikipia East deputy county commissioner Esther Dhahabu said the Ministries of ICT and Youth Affairs have greatly helped to inform young people about many programmes to equip them with entrepreneurship skills. The skills and business training will help them after the Sh10 billion Kazi Mtaani programme ends. Dhahabu said the government will also reach out to people older than age 35 to engage them in other programmes. "Over the years, we have had insecurity issues at Likii where thugs would waylay passers-by. We have cleared the bushes to boost security for our people. Use of  drugs and other dangerous substances has declined because young people are busy," she said. Dhahabu praised the 1,095 recruited youths for being disciplined and transforming the community at the grassroots. She said the youths are also partnering with the Kenya Forest Service to plant more seedlings and increase forest cover. There is a nursery with 125,000 seedlings and the aim is to have 250,000 seedlings cared for and planted by young people. "By the end of Kazi Mtaani we are optimistic we will achieve the target and plant the seedlings next year. This will help attain the goal of 10 per cent forest cover by 2022," Dhahabu said. I believe this will help the President attain the 10 percent forest cover by 2022, she said. Laikipia East subcounty director for Environment Mercy Wahome said the programme has enhanced proper sanitation at the grassroots. "Previously, we were unable to reach out to some areas but the programme has gone the extra mile in ensuring that proper sanitation is maintained all over," she said. The county could not have afforded to recruit youths itself, Wahome said. "In the last 17 days, my department has collected over 50 tonnes of refuse that have been cleared by the youths in Nanyuki town," she said. Simon Njeru, a Nyumba Kumi elder in Likii, said Administration Police officers had been struggling to fight crime and said the programme was improving safety. (Edited by V. Graham) 