Garissa Governor Ali Korane has said his administration’s mission of offering residents from the county clean and safe water is on course. Speaking on Monday during the groundbreaking of Tawakal, Rahma and Mzuri Water Supply at Maramtu site, Korane said his administration has successfully sunk 71 boreholes across the county in the last three years. “We are more than ever determined to ensure that our people access clean and quality water in all corners of our county. It is not something can be done overnight, but with resources, we will surely achieve this goal. All that is required is patience,” Korane said. The governor also laid the foundation stone for the proposed Garissa County Maji House, the headquarters of the county Water and Sanitation department and Garissa Water and Sewerage Company. He said provision of water was one of his promises during the campaigns and one that he still intends to fulfill. “The offices and the water supply project, which are part of the key county flagship projects, are within the transformative roadmap of my administration of laying the basic infrastructure with a focus of enhancing service delivery for the residents of the county,” Korane said. Upon completion in six months, the office complex will accommodate the technical and non-technical staff, multifunctional areas with boardrooms, conference halls and public lounges. Korane said the office buildings are essential to the proper functioning of the county which, for years now has been short of space for its staff and operating from rented premises. He said other offices that have been completed include the County Headquarters, Afya House and subcounty headquarters in Ijara and Fafi subcounties. The water supply project that consists of three boreholes, a 300,000-litre elevated steel tank and a 7km water pipeline is set to end the perennial water shortage in seven settlements in Garissa town, including Tawakal, Rahma and Mzuri. Korane further said meaningful development will only be achieved in a conducive environment where residents and leaders are united. Edited by EKibii 