The number of people Kenyans who have tested positive for Covid-19 hit 34,000 mark after 263 new infections were confirmed yesterday. The case load now stands at 34,057. The new cases were from 4,424 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 450,146. In terms of age, the youngest was a one year old with the oldest patient being 83 years. All were Kenyans except four, comprising of 180 men and 83 women. On a positive note, 98 more people recovered from the virus, 79 from home-based care while 19 were discharged from hospitals. This brings the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered at 19,688. “We thank our healthcare workers for the good work that has enabled us to achieve these results,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement. Two more patients succumbed to Covid-19 virus on Sunday, raising the total fatality in the country to 574. “Our sincere condolences to the families and friends of all those who have lost their loved ones,” Kagwe said. Nairobi continues to lead after recording 81 new cases with Kiambu following with 26 cases, Embu 20, Makueni 18, Nakuru 15, Nyeri 13, Taita Taveta and Busia 10 cases each, Mombasa nine, Garissa eight, Kajiado seven, Kisii and Kitui each recorded six new cases. Other counties that recorded new infections include Tana River with five, Migori with four, Machakos, Lamu and Narok with three cases each, Kisumu, Baringo, Bomet, Laikipia, Meru and Murang’a with two cases each while Siaya, Vihiga, Isiolo and Kilifi each recorded one new infection. In terms of Subcounty distribution, the 81 cases in Nairobi are in, Langata and Starehe nine cases each, Kibra and Makadara eight cases each, Embakasi West seven, Embakasi East, Embakasi South and Roysambu five cases each, Dagoretti North, Kasarani and Westlands four cases each. Others are Dagoretti South and Embakasi North with three cases each, Embakasi Central, Mathare and Ruaraka two cases each and Kamukunji one case. In Kiambu, the 26 cases are in Thika ten, Kiambu Town six, Ruiru five, Kikuyu four and Lari one.