Football Kenya Federation presidential aspirants want the Electoral Board  to furnish the public with  an alleged communication from Fifa which advised them on the next course of action regarding the delayed polls. Last week, the board's chairperson Kentice Tikolo revealed that her office had received directives from Zurich and Aduda wants her office to share them to the public before embarking on organising the exercise which has been twice nullified by the Sports Disputes Tribunal. "The Electoral Board of Football Kenya Federation is in receipt of communication from world football governing body FIFA, directing the Board on the next steps with regard to the pending FKF Elections. Consequently, and in the spirit of transparency and fairness,the Board will publish the road map and regulations to be used in overseeing the said elections on Tuesday (today)," read a statement from the board. However, several aspirants in the crowded field insist the Board must make public the Fifa communique before anything can go ahead. Gor Mahi CEO Lordvick Aduda questioned the board's decision to keep the letter under wraps unlike the previous ones which have been shared with the aspirants and the football fraternity. He said Fifa's last communication dated April 6 directed that the way forward will be agreed from a round-table meeting involving all stakeholders. "Fifa's last communication was clear on how the way forward would be arrived at. They said that after the travel restrictions imposed as a precaution to the spread of coronavirus are lifted up, they will jet in and convene a stakeholders meeting to deliberate on how the elections will be conducted," said Aduda. "The board said last week that they received a communication and we ask the board to share with the aspirants and the rest of Kenyans since it touches on public office. I haven't seen it neither have the other aspirants and Kenyans at large." As a candidate for the FKF presidency, I am happy about hastening the process of conducting a new election since its long overdue but the exercise must be transparent, free and fair," added Tom Alila, a former National Executive Committee member. "We want an election which is all inclusive. Let all registered football clubs be allowed to vote as per Clause 3 of last year's judgement by the Sports Disputes Tribunal which required all registered clubs to be given an opportunity to practice their democratic right." At the same time, Aduda cautioned the Board against sticking to the 2019 electoral code which the Tribunal faulted in its March 17 ruling. The Tribunal said the section four of the code was designed to lock out potential aspirants and consequently worked against the spirit of fairness. "We are nearing return to the pitches and I ask the Board to adhere to the rule of law to avoid long and unnecessary battles in the courts. The Tribunal rendered a ruling in March which singled out a number of issues to be amended in the code and since they are insisting on sticking to it, then we will not sit down and watch them get away with it," warned Aduda.