Kenya and the world must remain committed to the fight against terrorism, ODM party leader Raila Odinga has said. The AU envoy was commemorating the 22nd anniversary since the August 7, 1998, bomb attack on the US Embassy in Kenya that killed 213 people and injured more than 5,000 others. "We must remain committed to the cooperation among nations that has seen some perpetrators brought to justice," Raila said via Twitter on Friday. Raila thanked Kenyans for their resilience towards the fight against terrorists. "As we remember the lives lost, I recognize our military, intelligence and security professionals who risk their lives to keep us safe," he said. "Congratulations to our diplomats who foster the understanding of our ideals. Thanks to our partners in the war against terror and hateful ideologies. May God comfort the grieving families. May God bless Kenya." In a tweet, the US government also paid tribute to Kenyans who died or were injured in the attack. "Today, we remember Aug 7, 1998 & mourn those who were killed. We stand with all who were injured or affected by this brutal attack," ambassador Kyle McCarter said. "In an awful moment, the lives of thousands changed forever. Kenya & USA remain united and steadfast in the fight against terrorism." The twin blast masterminded by the Osama bin Laden-led Al Qaeda terror group killed 11 people at the US Embassy in Dar es Salaam and injured 85 others. Twelve Americans died in the attacks, including two CIA agents at the Nairobi embassy. The death toll in Dar es Salaam was low because the embassy was located outside the city centre. A water truck also prevented the suicide car from getting closer to the building. Kenya was overwhelmed because it had never witnessed a terror attack of such magnitude. Records by the FBI show the attack was masterminded by Osama bin Laden assisted by the current Al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri. Fazul Mohammed, who was later killed by Somali forces in 2011 in Mogadishu, executed the plan in the Kenyan attack, while Abdullah Ahmed commanded the twin attack in Tanzania. The bombings were widely believed to be revenge for US involvement in the torture of members of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad.