Over 25,000 needy residents of Kirinyaga have benefited from a relief food aid programme initiated by the county government. This will bring to 45,000 the number of food aid beneficiaries since the programme was started in May. Another 20,000 have already received the food support. Governor Anne Waiguru said the initiative seeks to shield vulnerable families from the effects of Covid-19 pandemic. She launched the initiative on Friday last week. The distribution was done by the county executive committee members over three days, covering over 6,500 homes across the county. Waiguru said the programme will continue to support the elderly and the vulnerable groups until the pandemic is managed. “I am also asking the people of Kirinyaga to look out for each other and support those who are struggling so that we do not lose lives to starvation,” she said. The governor said despite the fact that the county is ranked among the richest in a report by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, it still has people living in poverty, especially among the elderly and people working in the informal sector. The situation has been worsened by the pandemic, which has led to loss of income for many people. As a result, many elderly persons who depend on their children and well-wishers for their survival are going without help. Agriculture executive Jackline Njogu, who led the other CEC members in the food donation drive, said the most vulnerable were targeted. Beneficiaries received maize flour, rice and face masks, which were made at the county’s Kaitheri Apparel Factory. It produces over 1,000 masks daily. Julius Muchire, a beneficiary from Gichugu, lauded the county for the donation, saying many have been hard hit by the pandemic. “Most of us are struggling to access basic needs such as food due to lack of jobs,” he said. Such rations, he noted, help them survive for several days as they seek other ways of providing for themselves. “We hope that the situation will get better soon so we can get back on our feet and stop struggling because the pandemic has drastically reduced job opportunities,” he said.