LG Electronics has unveiled a new range of artificial intelligence (AI) powered Televisions, which includes Smart, LED, UHD, NanoCell, and OLED AI ThinQ models. The latest lineup of LG’s NanoCell TVs features five new models in various sizes with expansive screen sizes including the 86-inch version. “These new models represent the pinnacle of LCD tech with advanced AI-based picture quality and audio processing that make for a great TV or movie watching experience,” the firm said. According to management, the new theme of these displays is the trendy destination for entertainment platforms such as DSTv Now, Showmax, Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+ and Hulu. “Consequently, the impressive technological engineering makes console gaming better than before,” it said. LG’s 2020 8K NanoCell AI ThinQ TVs surpasses the industry requirements for 8K Ultra HD TVs as defined by the Consumer Technology Association, the company notes. This means that they are among the pioneer 8K TV models with the qualification of utilizing the CTA 8K Ultra HD logo like the LG’s 2020 ZX series of 8K OLED TVs. LG’s NanoCell TV with AI technology boasts an elegant color reproduction of one-nanometer sized particles that filter out impurities outputting an accurate natural, lifelike color, regardless of the viewing angle. The LG NanoCell 4K TVs, which include the LG Nano90, Nano86 and Nano80 series all feature the α (Alpha) 7 Gen 3 Intelligent Processor for a spectacular viewing and cinematic sound experience – except the LG Nano80 4K TV series. On the other hand, the LG 8K NanoCell TV (LG Nano97, Nano95 series) models are equipped with the α (Alpha) 9 Gen 3 AI Processor 8K, the same processor that was used in 2020’s LG OLED TVs. This processor makes use of AI technology to deliver a real picture quality with an optimized 8K viewing experience. The picture quality in the LG series Nano97, Nano95, Nano90 and Nano86 has been enhanced by the Full Array Local Dimming, which renders backlighting into smaller blocks, for precision control and to improve black levels as well as the overall contrast. “LG's 2020 NanoCell TV with AI technology promises premium experience in all aspects. It supports all major HDR formats,” the company which launched the first LG ThinQ Experience Zone in Kenya, this month, said in a statement. The 2020 TV models also feature other technological advancements designed to enhance the viewing experience. These features are the UHD Alliance's Filmmaker Mode and the HDR Gaming Interest Group's (HGiG) HDR gaming profile. The latter enables yNanoCell TV to deliver true images as intended to be seen by the creator.