The government has been urged to prove its commitment to ending teenage pregnancies by providing sanitary towels for free like it does condoms. This follows increased cases of teen pregnancies which have been aggravated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Currently, thousands of teenage girls have no access to sanitary pads which exposes them to men who take advantage of their need for money to ask for sex. Malindi-based Karisa Foundation founder Kenneth Karisa Mulewa said many girls in the grassroots are suffering in silence and require support accessing sanitary pads. Speaking during the launch of a programme to issue sanitary towels and underwear to 5,000 teenage girls to mark International Youth Week, Karisa said they have discovered that girls who cannot afford the facilities engage in sexual behavior which puts them at risk of getting pregnant. The government, he said, was providing sanitary towels in schools but since the pandemic, the girls are unable to access them. "If we can get free pads from the government it would be an excellent thing," he said. Karisa said his foundation had identified 200 Muslim girls who would benefit from the products. He said the girls stay at their homes and cannot come out as their culture makes it hard for them to get the necessities. Karisa said they will support the Muslim girls first. "We will give them the presents door to door during this pandemic with our volunteers," he said. Foundation chair Penina Mweni said the initiative was meant to address the problem of teenage pregnancies. She said many girls are affected because of poverty while others are orphans and have no one to support them at home. Mweni said many teenage girls drop out of school due to early pregnancy. "Some girls are orphans, some are being brought up by single mothers and others have parents who cannot afford to buy the pads," she said. At one time, she said, they toured Sosobora, Langobaya and Chakama and found out that girls had no undergarments, leave alone sanitary products. At the end of the programme, she said, they will come up with another one to help prevent the boy child from engaging in drugs. Edited by R.Wamochie