Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha has called for speedy resolution of the Sh21 billion Kenwind project stalemate following nullification of its establishment plan by the county assembly. The project is under Baharini Wind Power by Belgian firm Elicio in collaboration with Kenyan firm Kenwind Holdings. It is expected to generate 90MW of power once ready. The initial project plan includes up to 38 turbines and 90MW capacity to be constructed within the 3,206 acres at Baharini village, located about 40km from the new Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (LAPSSET) corridor in Kililana. Two weeks ago, the county assembly of Lamu unanimously voted to nullify the project citing failure by the investor to meet certain conditions. The move has been opposed by the affected land owners who accused the MCAs of malice and arm-twisting the investor. Speaking in Lamu on Tuesday, Governor Twaha appealed to the parties involved to resolve the stalemate and consider the project's internal rate of economic return for the county economy and work opportunities for the youths as a win-win situation. He said it would be unfortunate if the investor decided to shift base to another county as Lamu would lose. "We must not risk loss of the project but, most importantly, we must not harm the farmers. The investor must not benefit at the expense of mwananchi. As a government, we want to see mwananchi benefit in similar terms to the Kenwind investor," Twaha said. The governor said the government continues to welcome private investors such as Kenwind Holdings for the benefit of the county economy and residents. "We would like to see more private sector investments in Lamu county because they provide employment and other opportunities for qualified individuals in the county, " the governor added. Twaha was responding to concerns from a delegation of residents led by Bahari MCA Anthony Njomo. "We reverted to the legal county assembly route to protect the farmer. Most farmers have been concerned that unless the land resettlement issue is solved first, their future is  not guaranteed" Technically, the Sh21 billion wind power  project is in legal limbo following nullification by the county assembly. "We all want the project to proceed but the key stakeholder must be taken care of first, as per the law and earlier agreements," Njomo said. Edited by Henry Makori