Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai are set to appear today before the Senate Security Committee following arrests of three senators. Senators Steve Lelegwe (Samburu), Christopher Langat (Bomet) and Cleophas Malala (Kakamega) were arrested on Monday just hours before the contentious motion on revenue sharing formula was set to be determined. Following the arrest, senators shifted their focus from the revenue-sharing formula and demanded that the three be released. Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka echoed their cries, saying that when a senator is harassed, they must stick together. "The chair of the security committee should convene and get all parties to give information on whereabouts of the senators and report back on the progress," Lusaka said. Senate Committee on National Security and Foreign Relations chairperson Yusuf Haji had informed the House that the CS failed to appear before the Senate on Monday afternoon, citing that he was on a leave. "They've sent an SMS and one of the officers at the office of the CS did inform us that the CS is on 10-day leave which was given by the President, therefore he was not available," Yusuf said. He added that "And by extension, the PS, the IG, and the DCI cannot come without being accompanied by the minister. Therefore, the committee decided to report accordingly. Mr. Speaker, you can give us further direction." Senator Lang’at was taken to Bomet Police station for interrogation before being set free. He was accused of assembling a group of youths to take an oath against the neighbouring community, the allegation which he dismissed. Malala was also taken to Mumias police station for contravening Covid-19 measures but was released on Tuesday without any charges. Samburu senator was also released after being questioned on Tuesday. ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto were on Tuesday united in condemning the Monday arrest of senators ahead of the debate on the revenue sharing formula. Ruto said that ‘the abuse of police and criminal justice to bully citizens, threaten and intimidate leaders and now blackmail senate is wrong." He said Kenyans did not elect Jubilee to bully citizens.’