Kenya Sevens vice captain Jeff Oluoch and utility back Dennis Ombachi are expected to be fit by October for the start of the World Sevens Series Team physiotherapist Lamech Bogonko said the Homeboyz star, who suffered a recurring wrist injury during the Vancouver Sevens,  underwent surgery in May and is on the road to full recovery hence expected to start training in October. “Oluoch is in good shape. The surgery was successful and he should resume training once the government gives us green-light,” he added. Meanwhile, Ombachi who joined the team training in January this year after missing out on the 2018-19 season due to a wage dispute with the union, is on course to fight for a place in the squad after extensive training for the better part of the year. “He is at 90 per cent fit and by September, he will be full strength. He has been training at home and he is in good shape,” observed Bogonko. The rest of the squad is injury-free. World Rugby early this month cancelled the opening two legs of the World Sevens Series in Dubai and Cape Town, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and Bogonko says the cancellation offers the teams ample opportunity to have a solid pre-season schedule. “ It’s a blessing in disguise. We can get our players in good shape and look at various combinations as well ahead of the new season,” he added Kenya Rugby Union are expected to announce the new head coach by the end of the month with interviews currently ongoing, according to chairman Oduor Gangla. The union had received 14 applications for the role with 11 foreigners and three locals eyeing the job. The new coach, who will replace New Zealander Paul Feeney is expected to be given a two-year contract. Feeney quit the job by mutual consent following the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Feeney had steered the team to 12th spot on the log with 36 points from six tournaments played. The team qualified  for two Main Cup quarterfinal appearances in Cape Town and Hamilton. Feeney guided the team to win the Africa Cup Sevens in Johannesburg, thrashing Uganda in the final and qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.