More than 750 pastoralist women in West Pokot will be trained in professional beadwork using machines so they can sell their jewellery internationally. The women said they will benefit greatly from the income and will no longer have to sell to middlemen at throwaway prices. Middlemen then sell internationally at huge profits. Pastoralist women are traditionally denied their right to own property, so they have virtually no income. The project will be implemented for five years in seven counties - Narok, Kajiado, Samburu, West Pokot, Turkana, Marsabit and Baringo. In the Kenya Ushanga Initiative, they will work with the government to produce enough beadwork for both the domestic and international markets. Culture and Heritage Principal Secretary Josephta Mukobe visited the region last week and said the government will train 150 women from each of the five subcounties. Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson Mary Mariach said women have traditionally made beads for personal decoration. "It has been a traditional venture. We are happy the government has recognised us and we are now going to turn the venture into a lucrative business," she said. Mariach thanked the government for transforming the cultural activity into a business to help transform the lives of pastoralist women. “Our women have been selling their beads at a throwaway prices to middlemen who sell to the international market, making huge profits,” she said. Marich said the training will help women in saving time since they will learn how to use machines to make work easier. “The machines will help women improve on designs, increase efficiency and make different items that will be competitive in both local and international markets,” she said. Pauline Loyara, a beneficiary, said pastoralist women are denied their right to own any property and this has prevented them from having their own money. She said the project will help end some problems keeping girls from furthering their studies. “Most girls drop out of school since they don’t have funds to purchase sanitary pads. This programme will enable women earn money to buy pads for their girls. It will provide money to buy food and reduce malnutrition," Loyara said. “We have been surviving on budgets set by our husbands since we don’t own anything. This project will empower us financially,” she said. Mariachi called for cooperation from development partners to help more women since the level of poverty among Pokot women is high. The Ushanga Kenya Initiative is a national government project to uplift women who make bead jewellery. (Edited by V. Graham) 