The Micro and Small Enterprises Authority (MSEA) has partnered with local entrepreneurs, helping them build water tanks to boost the war on Covid-19. The authority has provided space, electricity and lathe machines to local entrepreneurs, who have won tenders to construct tanks for water storage is mostly arid and semi-arid areas. All the metal bars and plates are sourced locally. At least three entrepreneurs are currently at the center constructing water tanks and water towers. One of the entrepreneurs, Paul Maina, has won the Sh2.8 million contract from World Vision to build a 500,000 liters water tank. The project is funded by the world bank. His company Nicep Enterprises has three weeks to deliver the tank to Hollow Community in Banisa, Mandera County. “The World Vision wants the tank ready so that residents can have water to wash hands and help keep Covid -19 at bay. They told us to hasten the process,” Maina said. World Vision has already drilled a borehole which is solar-powered. The tank will stand on a 12-meter-long tower which he is also constructing. Maina is also hoping to get other contracts after the World Vision advertised for a tender to drill 20 boreholes and tanks in Mandera and Marsabit Counties. “When you work from here, you save a lot. It's expensive to hire a go -down and store your equipment and materials. But it is also cheap because you don't pay for the lathe machines. The costs are subsidized thus we can save and have some money,” he said. Savana Onduso, another entrepreneur, is constructing water tanks for South Sudan. His company-Praxton Services supplied eight tanks to Juba in December. Victor Ochieng Okoth is also constructing water tanks. His company-Brims Engineering is constructing water tanks for Athi Water Services Board. MSEA’s assistant director of enterprise development Safia Hassan said the authority is supporting the government to win the war on Covid-19. “Water is a very essential commodity in the war against Covid-19. Especially for the pastoral communities. Our goal is to ensure that we support small enterprises earn during this difficult time as well as help the community gets water,” she said. She said more than 300 water tanks have been constructed at the centre since the first Covid-19 case was announced in Kenya, in March. MSEA CEO Henry Rithaa said the Authority is keen on assisting small enterprises remain afloat during these difficult times. “Our role is to facilitate the growth of enterprises. We will increase the number of lathe machines and other crucial equipment,” he said. The authority has also partnered with Kenya Bureau of Standards which has waived standards for products, such as masks.