Harambee Stars head coach Francis Kimanzi yesterday led the football fraternity in eulogising former Mathare United striker Kevin Opiyo Oliech who passed on Sunday evening. Opiyo,a younger brother to former Harambee Stars captain and all-time top scorer Dennis Oliech and former defender  Andrew Oyombe, succumbed while receiving treatment in Germany. Kimanzi, who worked with Kevin and even won the league at Mathare in 2008, labelled Opiyo as a talented and disciplined player who would score goals at will. He revealed that the former Thika United player's deadly combination with 2008 'Golden Boot' winner Francis Ouma played a massive role in delivering the title to the 'Slum Boys'. Apart from Mathare, Kevin featured for Tusker, Nairobi City Stars and Ushuru. "It is a big loss to us all and I pray to God to comfort the family and the football fraternity. He was young and talented but we can't question God's decisions. I won the league with him at Mathare in 2008 and he rests as a champion. His partnership with Ouma upfront was a nightmare for the opposing defenders," said the former Sofapaka coach. He added: "He came from a football playing family but he worked his way up without invoking the success of his brothers. He didn't want to live in the shadows of his brother as he worked hard to build his own brand," added the former player. Meanwhile Kenyans from all walks of life also condoled the family of the fallen star.  “It is with deep sadness that I have learned of the passing on of Kevin Opiyo Oliech who played for various Kenyan and international clubs. Kevin was a talented and hardworking soccer player who made great contributions to the growth of the sport in the country. “I convey my condolences to the family, friends, relatives, fellow footballers, and the entire sports fraternity for this major loss. May God rest his soul in peace,tweeted Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed Stars skipper Victor Wanyama conveyed his condolences on his official tweeter account. "My deepest condolences to the family and friends Of Kevin Oliech. Prayers to the family during this time of sorrow," wrote the Impact Montreal midfielder. "Kevin was part of our 2008 title-winning squad and always gave his best whenever he donned the yellow and green jersey. He continued the legacy of the Oliech family at Mathare United adding to Dennis Oliech’s goals and Andrew Oyombe’s composure in midfield," wrote Mathare United. "Saddened by the untimely death of former Gor Mahia player Kevin Oliech, brother to former Harambee Stars Captain Dennis Oliech, a member of the Nairobi City County Sports Board," Said Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. 