Indiscipline among teenagers in school and at home is to blame for the upsurge in teen pregnancies, Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala has said. She said on Monday caning in school played a key role in instilling moral values in children and reducing truancy, hence its withdrawal meant children could now do whatever they want as caning is what they feared most. “In our days, when we were schooling, we belonged to society. When you are found misbehaving around, you are punished. In the present time, society is not playing that key role,” Adagala told the Star on the phone. She wants Parliament to reintroduce corporal punishment in schools through legislation to curb spiralling "immoralities" among children. "The 21st  century children have gone into immoralities and we can't bear that. Discipline must be considered at this stage. These are our future generation and we can just sit back and watch this weird character," she said. "Teenage pregnancies are alarming countrywide and the situation will worsen if indiscipline cases are not handled so first." The lawmaker, however, said teenagers who have found themselves in the pregnancy mess should be given a second chance in their education. “The majority are underage, where will they go? We will engage them, advise them and give them a second chance to rectify their mistakes,” she said. The legislator called upon NGOs and units that protect children's rights to speak up against indiscipline, which she said is on the rise. For his part, Vihiga Education executive Henry Lumbasio warned parents whose children are on the Ottichilo scholarship programme that the support they get will be withdrawn if they do not behave well. “We won’t condone mischievous character at any point, even the governor himself said so,” Lumbasio said, urging parents and guardians to guide children. County director of education Hellen Nyang’au said the majority of pregnant teenagers are school dropouts. He, however, added that they are still analysing data to come up with clear figures.