Human rights organisations, civil society and family members of victims of extrajudicial killings held protests in Kwale county on Sunday to marked the International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances. Activists from Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi had put on white sacks, flecked and written with red and black ink to symbolise torture and bloodshed. They carried fake coffins and placards, highlighting the suffering of the bereaved. The protesters said extrajudicial killings have been on the rise and demanded justice for victims even as they cautioned the police against the use of brute force. Led by Kashi Jarmaine and Mathias Shipeta of Human Development Agenda and Haki Africa respectively, they called for the fight for justice, saying extrajudicial killings have become alarming at the Coast. "So many people have lost lives and we know the culprits that's why we want justice for them," Jarmaine said. Their procession on the Ukunda-Lunga-Lunga highway disrupted transport and business. They chanted dirges, creating a sombre mood. At times they would stand to sing the national anthem to emphasise their love for the country and the need to protect its citizens. Then they would lie in the middle of the road crying for what they termed a neglected Constitution. They also sang Independence songs, demanding their rights to freedoms of speech and expression respected. Armed police officers would often time try to stop them but to no avail. The walk started at Dr Babla Ground to Kona ya Beach and eventually ended at the Diani police station where they submitted a memorandum to Msambweni subcounty police commander Nehemiah Bitok. Bitok assured that they are investigating some of the cases and urged the activists to team up with the police in finding justice rather engaging in a blame game. The letter was also copied to the Interior ministry and the Office of the President. In the memorandum, the activists demanded reports on the missing persons and stern actions against the 'killer' cops, among other things. At Kona Ya Musa, the protesters lit candles to commemorate the dead and those yet to be found. They said for the past three years more than 100 victims have disappeared while some killed mysteriously. In June, Mohammed Mapenzi and his three children, including an infant, died in a police shootout at Kibundani in Ukunda, Kwale.