Elders from Embu and Kirinyaga counties have proposed constitutional changes to enable governors nominate and sack deputies after the election. Led by Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders chairman Andrew Ireri from Embu and Sospeter Njoroge from Ndia in Kirinyaga County, the elders said the system in which deputies are elected as running mates of governors puts them at par and a governor cannot sack a misbehaving deputy. The elders, who met at Kiangwachi Village in Ndia Constituency of Kirinyaga, said they have made the recommendation to the Yusuf Haji-led Building Bridges Initiative Taskforce through a memorandum and they hoped it will be considered. The elders said if governors are allowed to appoint their deputies after election with the approval of the county assembly, this will ensure the deputies remain loyal to their bosses. The elders argued that in most cases, governors and their deputies are rivals after elections, and that governors isolate deputies to prevent them from becoming popular. They further suggested that in order for rampant impeachments of governors by MCAs to end, the constitution should be amended to provide for public participation and only if 75 per cent of residents support the impeachment can can it be discussed and approved by MCAs. The elders said the simple way in which governors are impeached after approval by two third majority of Ward Representatives puts them under their mercy. They recommended that when MCAs feel there is a need for a governors’ impeachment, there should be a provision that 11-member committee be  formed to collect views from the residents. They said the same should be done in the impeachment of the President and that deputy presidents should also be appointed by the President after elections. The elders condemned a trend in which some people from both Embu and Kirinyaga counties have been extorting residents claiming they would enable them be allocated land in the controversial Mwea settlement scheme in Embu. They noted that the government is professionally handling the settlement and knows the genuine beneficiaries.