The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has cautioned Kenyans against turning the revenue sharing debate into a battle among communities. Commissioner Wambui Nyutu asked Kenyans to engage in the debate without disrupting the peace in the country. Wambui said some political leaders have been making utterances that may incite Kenyans against one another as they fight over the third basis for revenue sharing among the counties. She noted that every Kenyan has a right to government resources and services and that no one should feel more entitled. “Kenyans should not turn against one another over the revenue sharing dispute.  The debate should be steered towards ensuring everyone has an equal chance of accessing government services,” Wambui said. The commissioner said the formula that is before Senate will see 29 counties from all parts of the country gain while 18 lose. “Nairobi will gain at least Sh1.2 billion, Kiambu Sh1.3 billion and Uasin Gishu Sh983 million. It is a Kenyan debate that should not be used to turn people against particular regions,” she said. The third formula, she said, is an improvement on the second one as it introduces 10 revenue sharing parameters as opposed to the four that were previously used, including prudent use of resources and agriculture. The commissioner noted that densely populated counties are disadvantaged as a huge part of the revenue they receive goes towards paying salaries. “Personally, I support the new formula as it will see the 18 counties contribute a little bit of their revenue to counties that seem to have been oppressed and supports the growth of all counties. Whichever side one supports, let them do it while upholding the peace,” Wambui said. The Senate postponed adoption of the formula for the sixth time last Tuesday and is set to resume the debate on Tuesday. The stalemate has paralysed county government operations with governors asking senators to agree on a formula urgently. Wambui spoke on Saturday at Ihiga-ini Primary School in Maragua constituency where her foundation, Wambui Nyutu Foundation, is undertaking renovations worth Sh2.5 million. One block of classes at the school was condemned due to its poor state and performance and enrolment of pupils has dropped over the years. The foundation is renovating all classes and offices, constructing new latrine blocks and landscaping the school compound. “The school was built in the colonial period and has never been renovated. We are also making new desks for pupils as the ones they have been using were worn out and the floors are cracked,” Wambui said. Wambui said a class has an average of 24 pupils as more and more transfer to the neighbouring Nginda and Gakoigo primary schools. The foundation also sponsors students and is constructing a computer laboratory at Nginda Mixed Secondary School. Edited by Henry Makori