Is there a plot to unveil the much-awaited BBI report very soon for damage control as the government battles to save face following an avalanche of errors? Corridors understands some functionaries close to the seat of power are urging swift release of the report to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The essence of the timing would be to distract, change the narrative and limit the damage. The government is already facing allegations of massive graft in spending Covid-19 funds and claims of strong-arm tactics to 'win' support for the revenue sharing formula. Whether releasing the BBI report will defuse the mounting pressure on the Executive will soon be known. The BBI task force is led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. *** A top union official is under fire for sponsoring individuals to create a splinter union after his mission to sneak legislation through Parliament failed miserably. The official’s plan was to weaken his union and sister trade unions so that he could take control of them, making it easier for him to seize the Cotu leadership. But according to our mole, his clinching the Cotu leadership is next to impossible. He is not among those considered qualified to lead the giant union and he should be patient when he wants to take over any organisation, not employ chest-thumping and unorthodox means. *** Talking of Covid-19 billionaires and their odious gravy train, the rot is far worse than Kenyans can fathom! Cartels the Health CS talked about are feeding off the misery, anxiety and despair of the masses who are at the mercy of ruthless, cold-blooded and  well-connected ‘tenderpreneurs’. Apparently, there are Covid-19 kits that can produce accurate results within a short time. They are far cheaper than the reagents-based kits that are making overnight billionaires at the expense of those whose lives are being snuffed out during the time it currently takes to confirm results. There are those who are dying of Covid-19 as others are dying to make a fortune. *** The divisive subject of division of revenue is not only emotional in the Senate, it has also sharply divided leaders throughout the country. Take the example of a popular WhatsApp group of opinion leaders from Mt Kenya where emotions ran high on Monday night. A commissioner of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission dismissed those calling for dialogue in the Senate. The commissioner termed calls for dialogue “nonsense". That response caught members by surprise. A number of those who questioned the response were kicked out. The group has over 100 members, including opinion leaders and politicians. The administrator who started the group is also a blogger in the Office of the President. 