Migori deputy governor Nelson Mahanga is at the centre of national attention after his boss Okoth Obado was charged with corruption. Mahanga was picked to be Obado’s deputy in 2013 by elders of his minority Kuria community under the little known People Democratic Party ticket. He has stuck with his boss for two terms by keeping a low profile. Obado's deputy keeps away from the limelight and whiles away his time at his Gwitembe village in Kuria East subcounty where the Star caught up with him. An ardent member of the Seventh Day Adventist church, the Star found Mahanga at Bagembo SDA church during the closure of the annual camp meeting. “You found that I was about to join fellow church members for service. I will grant a short interview,” he said curtly. Last Thursday, Obado and other persons, including his four children, were charged with 28 counts of economic crime, money laundering and conflict of interest for fraudulently acquiring Sh73.4 million from the county government of Migori. The money was allegedly stollen between 2013 and 2017 when Obado was serving his first term. The suspects denied all the charges. Senior principal magistrate Lawrence Mugambi directed that they be detained until Monday when a ruling on their bail application will be delivered. Tension is high in Migori over fears that the governor may be denied access to office like his Samburu colleague Moses Lenolkulal and former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu. But Mahanga was diplomatic on chances of taking over should Obado be barred from accessing his office. “I would like to tell the Migori residents and Kenyans that we don’t have a power vacuum in Migori. The county will continue to function well and we have  robust county executive committee meetings,” he said. Mahanga urged Obado to be strong. He said in life, especially in politics, there are up and downs and Obado will emerge stronger. “I know the truth will be uncovered if the law is followed,” Mahanga said. He said Migori residents and the media should avoid speculation as the county development was still on course. Mahanga said his working relationship with his boss has been smooth and being picked again for a second term proved it. On Friday, there was excitement in Migori town when Mahanga was spotted in his official vehicle after a long time. “I have been away because of ill health. And I want to assure residents that our development agenda will still move on,” Mahanga said. The deputy governor went to Friends School Kamusinga and later graduated with a degree in Lands Economics from University of Nairobi in 1977. He worked as a estates officer in Ministry of Housing. In 1990, Mahanga obtained a masters degreee in business administration from USIU with a bias in marketing and  management. He has another degree on banking from the London Chartered Institute of Bankers. He worked with the Agricultural Finance Corporation, Cooperative Bank, Kenya Commercial Bank, Standard Chartered Bank. He was a senior lecturer in banking before joining politics. “I vied on the National Democratic Party under Raila Odinga and when I lost I kept away from politics and turned into consultancy on banking, marketing and cross border trade,” he said. He said with the onset of devolution elders picked him to steer a negotiated democracy pact between the majority Luos and minority Kurias as deputy chairman after former Kuria East MP Shadrack Manga was picked as chair. “Since Manga was elected as Kanu chairman and the pact was being pushed by ODM, he dropped out and I was tasked with the move,” he said. After bungled ODM primaries in Migori when ODM picked Prof Edward Oyugi and Anne Anyanga as his deputy, Mahanga said he dropped links with politics and went back to consultancy. “The pact was to give the Kuria community the deputy governor post among other posts. It was the Kuria elders who prevailed on me to be Obado’s deputy,” Mahanga said. He said he re-entered politics reluctantly for the second time and was lucky that residents gave them a chance with Obado to lead Migori. “For the period we have been with Obado we have managed to bring change and development in Migori. The county we inherited in 2013 was marginalised and a far cry from what we have achieved,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori