As the local transfer window opens on Monday, Chemelil Sugar holding midfielder John Ochieng is looking forward to a move away from the club. Ochieng said he is still consulting on which offer to take among the three he has received so far. The window is expected to be open for 12 weeks and will officially close on  November 2,  and November 9 for the top flight and the National Super League respectively. Ochieng, who has been arguably the outstanding player for the relegated club, revealed that Gor Mahia and Posta Rangers are among clubs who has made offers. Others are Tanzania's Biashara United, who are coached by former Kenyan international Francis Baraza. Baraza ditched the struggling millers in November last year for the Tanzanian club, which he unhooked from the jaws of relegation to a top-ten finish. Ochieng was on the verge of joining Gor in January after his performance caught the eye of coach Steven Polack, who recommended him to the management but the deal fell through. Besides Gor, 2009 champions Sofapaka were understood to be eyeing him in January but dropped out of the race too. His strong links to Gor saw Chemelil drop him hours to the closure of the January transfer window. However, he has Football Kenya Federation Player Status Committee to thank for intervening and saving him from the axe, a move which would have rendered him jobless for not less than six months. "I have three offers and hopefully I will sign next week. I am still doing research on the teams which have expressed interest before making up my mind. I have to consider whether playing time and my welfare will be guaranteed before putting pen on paper," said the youngster. In the meantime, the former Tusker midfielder said he was anticipating the management of Chemelil to furnish him with his release letter this week. He revealed that he had requested for the letter last week despite his contract with the Awasi-based club coming to an end in December. "I haven't received my salary for almost a year now and I expect them to give me my release letter this week to enable me complete the transfer. I wrote to them last week and I am expecting them to issue the document as soon as possible," he added.