@Waithaka06 Laikipia North MP Sarah Lekorere on Sunday appealed to Interior CS Fred Mariang'i to strengthen security along the Isiolo-Samburu-Laikipia border. Lekorere said more than 600 families have been displaced due to persistent cattle raids at Tiamamut village along the border. Kenya Red Cross central region manager Gitonga Mugambi urged Matiang'i to set up an Anti-Stock Theft Unit camp between Tiamamut and Narasha villages. The villages are on the Laikipia North and Isiolo North subcounties respectively. Mugambi spoke to the media after distributing food to persons displaced from their homesteads at Ngaboro, Tiamamut and Kimanjo areas in Laikipia North in the last three weeks. Red Cross further disbursed packages to another 400 vulnerable persons in the community "We were informed that the displaced persons are yet to get back to their homes because of tension. We conducted an assessment in the area and scouted for enough food and other essentials from well-wishers," Mugambi said. Lekorere urged the government to arm the National Police Reservists to curb the attacks. "Isiolo and Samburu are among the 47 counties which are within the Republic of Kenya and it should not be difficult for the Ministry of Interior to retrieve stolen herds of cattle that are driven towards those directions," Lekorere said. In the latest attack, cattle rustlers raided a homestead at Tiamamut village and drove away 83 heads of cattle from a local farmer. Lobara Ole Mosieny's homestead was raided at around 6.30pm and his entire cattle herd driven away. The attacker fired in the air repeatedly to scare and scatter his neighbours. The suspected bandits also took away his six donkeys and drove the herd towards Isiolo. Mosieny said the about 40 attackers were armed with assault rifles. "This group of bandits emerged from the hills at the border and raided my homestead in the evening. My sons scampered for safety and the attackers threatened to kill me if I brought any resistance," Mosieny, 84, said. "I have been rendered poor but I am appealing to the security personnel to speedily intervene and recover my livestock," he added. 