 Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia made midnight changes to his cabinet on Wednesday, exactly one year after a similar move. But unlike in August last year, where four executive members were sacked, this time no one was sacked. Some departments were restructured and executive members transferred. In a statement sent via Nyandarua Media Forum WhatsApp group by chief of staff Charles Wachira at 12:13am, Kimemia said the changes are aimed at “improving efficiency, effectiveness, productivity, integrity and value for money.” Both executives and residents woke up to the changes Thursday morning. Finance and Economic Development executive Mary Mugwanja, who is deemed as Kimemia’s most powerful and trusted lieutenant, has been moved to the Transport docket. She replaces Ndung'u Wangenye, who moves to the Education department. The Finance and Economic Development docket will be taken over by Stephen Njoroge, who is also the acting county secretary and head of public service. Njoroge, who was transferred from the Education department, has gradually been emerging as a powerful actor and is fondly regarded by his cabinet colleagues as the “chairman”. In the changes, Dominic Murani was moved from the Youths department to the Public Administration and ICT. Murani swapped positions with Ann Gathigia, who moves to the Youths, Sports and Gender docket. The Gender and Social affairs were domiciled under the Education and Social Services department but have now been transferred to the Youths docket. Agriculture and Livestock docket remains under James Karitu, Lands (Lawrence Mukundi), Health (Njenga Mungai), Water (Milcah Wanjiru) and Industrialisation (Raphael Njui). Urban Development which was under Lands and Physical Planning docket has been moved to Njui’s Trade and Industrialisation department. "The changes will take effect immediately," Kimemia said in a statement. Some of the affected executives welcomed the changes, while others requested time to take over their new departments before commenting. Wangenye told the Star on Thursday that moving him from the Roads to the Education department is like “taking a fish into an ocean. It will just start swimming". He said the changes are positive since he is now in familiar territory. Wangenye, is a former Laikipia Kenya Union of Post Primary Education executive secretary Murani said he is okay with the changes. “Every department comes with its share of challenges and it is good that you did what you could where you were,” he said. However, Gathigia said she needed time to take in the new changes before commenting. “Please allow me not to comment at this time. I am also waking up to the changes,” she said. Njoroge said he would comment later. Mugwanja did not pick up calls or respond to a text message. In last year's surprise move, Kimemia sacked four executives, among them Rose Wamuiya (Trade), Simon Nganga (Water), Kariuki Mbataru (Public Administration) and Faith Mbugua (Education). Edited by A.N