A Nyandarua assembly team has raised concerns over the county’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19. A status report by the county assembly committee on health services revealed glaring gaps in the isolation facilities. The report was tabled on Tuesday last week by committee chairman and Gathanji MCA Ngumo Ngamau. The team filed a report after visiting Bamboo Health Centre, JM Kariuki Memorial Hospital isolation unit, Ol Joro Orok ATC staff quarantine centre, Ngano Health Centre isolation unit and Engineer Hospital isolation unit. The aim was to establish the status of infrastructure and equipment in place to facilitate the handling of Covid-19 patients. Members also sought to determine the number of frontline health workers dedicated to handle the Covid-19 cases. The team compiled a report which indicated that as at July 31, 2020, all the isolation facilities in the county were partially compliant to the MoH guidelines. The findings indicated that JM Memorial Hospital and Ngano Health Centre isolation units have a lot of pending work such as plumbing, signage and separation of male and female wards. At JM Memorial Hospital, the maternity has been transferred to a 13- bed capacity ward adjacent to the outpatient unit. The report notes that the location of the temporary maternity was deemed not ideal due to its distance from the theatre in case of delivery complications. The ICU facility at JM Memorial Hospital is not yet operational. Further, the hospital has a deficit of 157 nurses. At Ngano Health Centre, all other services have been relocated to the old block hence the reduced capacity. Health workers at Ngano also had not been trained on Covid-19 management at the time of the committee’s inquiry. The report also revealed that patients were admitted at Bamboo Health Centre despite lack of basic needs, including water. At Engineer Hospital, the main theatre is no longer operational as it was converted into a general ward for Covid-19 patients. Currently, all cases requiring surgery are handled in the same theatre. The team also noted that Bamboo Health Centre had no trained health worker on Covid-19 management by the time of admission of the first patient, thus exposing them to more harm and trauma. Currently, the county has only one accommodation and quarantine facility at ATC, Ol Joro Orok, which is dedicated to medical staff handling Covid-19. The facility is not conveniently placed for workers in South Kinangop due to the distance. The team also found out that of 300 beds needed to handle Covid-19 cases, only 126 beds have been installed. In addition, all the health facilities lack enough oxygen cylinders to cater for current needs. Nyandarua Health executive Njenga Mungai said he has no comment on the matter. The first case of Covid-19 was confirmed in Nyandarua on July 5, 2020. On Sunday July 19, 2020, the Nyandarua Health department recorded the second and third cases of Covid-19. By August 15, 2020, Nyandarua had 36 Covid-19 cases. Edited by A.N