Kiambu MCAs have asked Governor James Nyoro to appoint a chief officer responsible for own revenue collection. The Finance and Economic Planning committee said the appointment will improve internal controls and audit mechanisms. The committee said it had established that revenue ends up in corrupt individuals' pockets through dubious ways. The loopholes must be sealed, committee chairman Samuel Kimani said on Thursday. This financial year's county own source revenue collection target of Sh5 billion is unlikely to be realised. Annual targets have never been realised. The committee asked Finance executive Wilson Mburu to review the appointments of all revenue collectors and address the welfare of the officers involved in revenue collection and enforcement. The members made the recommendation after touring slaughterhouses, factories and building construction sites in Kikuyu subcounty on Wednesday. “At Dagoretti slaughterhouses, the revenue collected through cash method did not match the number of livestock slaughtered. Customers paid for services but the money went into some individuals' pockets,” Kimani said. He said nobody collected parking fees although hundreds of vehicles were parked outside the slaughterhouses. There also were no pay-to-use public toilets from where more revenue could be collected. The Kinoo ward representative said none of the buildings being put up had  proper approval documents. “Ninety per cent of the buildings being constructed did not have approvals and the documents produced were fake. The owners claimed they had paid for the approvals, but they could not produce receipts," he said. Some of the approvals indicated the buildings were to be four-storeyed "but we found many were six-storeyed,” Kimani said. The committee recommended the Finance department collates and submits to the  assembly quarterly performance reports of the inter departmental building inspectorate committees 30 days after the end of each quarter. The department should also prepare a comprehensive report on the problems experienced in the collection of building and construction fees and permits as well as land rates and rent. The committee also recommended all payments to be made through mobile phone platforms. Members further recommended the setting up of CCTV cameras in all revenue collection points with the assembly clerk office granted read-only access. - mwaniki fm