Sexual harassment has become the norm in many organisations be they media, teaching, public service and the private sector. Many people have complained either to the management about the acts, words or innuendoes to their friends, neighbours, relatives and even harassers. Sexual harassment does not only happen to women but to men as well. However, women are the ones who usually register their complaints or displeasure to relevant authorities or supervisors. Some men feel they are above reporting or they think ‘real’ men are not supposed to report any sexual harassment. Some companies have put in place policies in regards to this while others do not know there are rules that can be put in place to stop this kind of misbehaviour. On Thursday, a damning report released by the Judiciary of Kenya indicated is sexual harassment in that arm of government supposed to protect everyone's rights. According to the report, Judiciary staff - both male and female - are suffering in silence as while plagued by sexual harassment in the corridors of justice. The audit shows that employees report bullying and sexual harassment in significant numbers but formal complaints are rarely filed or successfully addressed. Worse still, the harassment continues unabated, even at the level of senior managers. "It is wrong but what do we do? It is very hard if it is someone very high up like in the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court," an employee says. In the report, at least 17 per cent of staff reported having suffered inappropriate comments on their appearance, physical invitations or suggestive advances. But how can we prevent it? First, know what sexual harassment entails. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours and other verbal or physical harassment of a sexual nature in the workplace or learning environment, according to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Sexual harassment does not always have to be specifically about sexual behaviour or directed at a specific person. It can be unwanted jokes, offensive words about clothing and unwelcome comments to you, repeated requests for dates that are turned down or unwanted flirting, displaying sexually suggestive objects, pictures, or posters, playing sexually suggestive music, among other actions. Sexual harassment can occur in a variety of circumstances. The harasser can identify with any gender and have any relationship to the victim, including being a direct manager, indirect supervisor, coworker, teacher, peerr colleague. Train your staff about harassment at workplace. This should be a mandate by the Human Resource manager at any organisation. The HR manager should conduct regular and ongoing training for employees and supervisors. This can be done once a month or on a need basis. Publish an anti-sexual harassment policy. Your organisation should publish a sexual harassment at work policy and ensure all staff are familiar with it. In most cases, when a new person is employed, he or she should be aware  there is a policy. When she or he is signing the contract, she or he should be given the document and warned. If you are unaware of such a policy in your workplace, speak to your line manager about having one put in place. In the policy, the company should state in no uncertain terms that it will not tolerate sexual harassment, state that the firm will discipline or fire any wrongdoers and set out a clear procedure for filing sexual harassment complaints. Raise awareness among staff. Those who are aware of behaviours that can be interpreted as harassment are less likely to behave in that way and more likely to notice any form of harassment. You need to ask your staff members if they understand what sexual harassment is and its forms. Deal with any allegations immediately. Do not delay in addressing such issues. If you are a sharp HR manager who knows what is expected, the cases reported should be dealt with immediately and with  confidentiality. The clear procedures in place should allow for the concern to be raised promptly and efficiently. Encouraging a positive workplace environment. By implementing the above steps, a positive environment will be fostered, which will also encourage staff at all levels to be proactive about preventing sexual harassment or calling it out when it occurs. (Edited by V. Graham) 