The 'deep state' or system will neither choose a president nor impose one on Kenyans in 2022, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi said on Monday. That will be the preserve of Kenyans come the 2022 general elections, Mudavadi told Luhya vernacular stations Vuka and Mulembe FM. “It is the democratic right of any group or individual to have personal preferences and views as to who will be president in 2022. But they won’t impose the same on Kenyans,” he said. The former vice president said the 'deep state' narrative is misplaced as Kenya is a mature democracy and people will exercise their will freely. He called for strengthening the IEBC to ensure a free and fair election. “We want an efficient and independent IEBC and a sound democracy where Kenyans will be able to vote for their leader freely without being intimidated by the so-called 'deep state'", Mudavadi said. He said he was not scared of the "deep state". The ANC leader stated, “We are waiting for the so-called 'deep state' or system. They can come with the 'deep state' but we will be with the people and God.” His views were similar to those of Deputy President William Ruto who a week ago came up with the 'deep state' narrative. This followed Opposition chief Raila Odinga’s brother Oburu Oginga's assertion that the ODM leader would win the presidency in 2022 because he now enjoys the support of the system, which he lacked in the past. Oburu’s remarks had the baacking of Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe. The two said that Raila was the best person to succeed President Kenyatta in 2022. But Mudavadi said the system [former President Moi] preferred Uhuru Kenyatta to be president in 2002. This did not happen as  Uhuru lost the election. "What does that tell you about 'deep state'?” he asked. At the same time, Mudavadi downplayed the exit of former ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka and party member Eliud Owalo. He said Owalo was never an ANC official. “On behalf of ANC, I wish to thank Barrack Muluka for working tirelessly for our party. He helped us come up with a new party constitution. As the leader of the party, I wish him the very best in his future endeavours,” Mudavadi said. He insisted that ANC and Ford Kenya are still Nasa coalition members. “When you see us engage, we are doing so with the continued spirit of our Nasa agreement,” he said. Mudavadi said Nasa was being undermined by confusion created by certain individuals for personal interests. “What is ailing Nasa now is the confusion being bred by some people. They want to hold the Minority positions in Parliament and at the same time occupy or join the Majority side's positions,” the ANC leader said. He said the law is clear that there shall be a Minority (opposition) and the Majority (the government). “You can not be in both sides at the same time.” The ANC boss stated that he will vie for the presidency in 2022. “I'm offering myself for President of the Republic of Kenya with the main agenda of bettering our economy. We have a debt burden which is [adversely] impacting our economy,” he said. His party’s new constitution prioritises good economy as key pillar for the country. The former vice president said the unconcluded debate on Division of Revenue Allocation is unhealthy and hurting the counties. He said a bill fronted by nominated ANC Senator Petronila Were will save the country and the counties. On corruption in management of Covid-19 funds, Mudavadi said, “As we face this Covid pandemic, I urge the government to speedily take action against anyone who has embezzled the funds.” He said it was immoral to steal from the sick and called on the President not to let the culpable get away unpunished. - mwaniki fm