IPOA received over 1,500 complaints ranging from death from police action, to sexual offences in just half a year. This was from a report released on Tuesday for the period between July to December 2019. According to the report, the authority received 1,578 complaints from death from police action, enforced disappearance, sexual offences, abuse of office, physical assault, and arbitrary arrests, among others. The complaints were received through walk-ins, letters, telephone calls, social media, email, website, outreach activities among other modes. Nairobi recorded the highest number of complaints at 746, Mombasa 194, Kisumu 192, Eldoret 113, Garissa 104, Kakamega 70, Meru 58, Nakuru 55 and Nyeri 46. The complaints received by the authority were from members of the public, police officers, state and non-state actors and others. Chart by Nancy Agutu The biggest number of complaints received was on police inaction (468), followed by abuse of office (292), physical assault (196) and harassment(142). The authority also conducted a total of 371 investigations during the same six-month period. Out of these, 134 case files were fully investigated. Sixty investigation case files were forwarded to the ODPP out of which eight were cleared by the ODPP for registration in court. Three investigated cases were referred to NPSC, one to EACC, 92 cases were recommended for closure while 67cases were under active investigations. As at December 31, 2019, IPOA said 75 case files were before courts. 31 case files are at advanced court hearing stage, 29 at fresh hearing, 12 are closely being monitored, one each at plea taking, judgement and defence hearing stages respectively. In February, IPOA attributed the low number of misconduct cases prosecuted to the limits of their role. The authority said after investigating and referring cases to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for further action, they cannot manage their progress. Commissioner Doreen Muthaura told a forum that the technicalities of the judicial process may lead to delays in hearing and determination of cases. During the period, no death notification was made to the authority on death as a result of police action or death in police custody as required by law. This does not mean there were no deaths. During the period under review, the authority offered counselling and psycho-social services to a total of 212 (116 male and 96 female). The services provided included Psychological First Aid to first responders and persons attending to critical incidents such as crime scenes and post postmortems, groups and individual psychological therapy, psychological education and motivational sessions. IPOA said it encountered challenges including non – cooperation from some members of the NPS, withdrawal of complaints by some witnesses and failure by the NPS to notify the authority about deaths and serious injuries as required by law, parallel investigations on police misconduct by IPOA and DCI and slow review of files by the ODPP. The Authority recommends among others; disciplinary measures be taken by the IG on non-cooperative officers, training of NPS officers on integration (conversion courses), training of OCSs on financial management and faster review of files by the ODPP.