Ongoing skirmishes between two communities in Eastern Mau have threatened to scuttle the drawing of forest boundaries, the Star has established. The Kenya Forest Service has been leading a multi-agency operation to flush out encroachers and reclaim Logoman, Sururu, Likia, Kiptunga, Mariashoni, Nessuit, Baraget and Oleposmoru forests within the complex. The operation started on June 27 and involved 100 officers from KFS and the police. Authorities said the rangers want to stop all the illegal human activities in government forests. On July 22, settlers in the Eastern Mau Forest got a reprieve after the Environment ministry put evictions on hold. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko announced that the flushing out of settlers had been stopped to allow a multi-agency team to establish the boundaries before evictions resume. The multi-agency team is composed of elders from the Kipsigis and the Ogiek communities, officials from the Ministry of Interior, KFS, regional commissioner George Natembeya and his team. The flare up of fighting has, however, slowed down the process, with scores being arrested. On Monday, 16 people were charged in Nakuru with four counts of murder, arson, assault and walking in public places while armed. The 16, who included a KDF officer, an assistant chief and a former MCA, appeared before senior resident magistrate Lilian Arika. Arika allowed the DCI to hold them for 10 days in Bondeni and Njoro police stations to allow investigations to be completed. They were arrested on Wednesday last week following the eruption of clashes in Mariashoni. On Tuesday, Natembeya told the Star on the phone that peace meetings are being held in parts of Njoro and Molo areas to quell the tension. “I’m already at the Baraza, I will call you later,” Natembeya said. Already, five people have died while over 80 others have been injured. Close to 200 houses have been torched. Tobiko announced the move during a virtual meeting with the Senate Committee on Lands, Environment and Natural Resources. The CS had been invited by the committee to shed light on the ongoing evictions after Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika made a request. Scores of settlers have already been kicked out. Tobiko said the boundary will be agreed upon before those found to have encroached on forest land are kicked out. The team has 14 days to complete its work and senators will then tour the area on a fact-finding mission. “The evictions will be humane,” Tobiko said. On July 20, the Environment and Lands Court in Nakuru issued orders barring the government from evicting settlers. Nakuru county assembly deputy speaker Joseph Tonui had filed a petition seeking to stop evictions on behalf of more than 44,000 families in Mau. Tonui sued KFS, CS Tobiko and Natembeya in a case where the Law Society of Kenya is an interested party. The judge certified the matter urgent and ordered that the application be served to all the four respondents for an inter-parte hearing on July 30. During the virtual meeting, Tobiko said the government had no intention of harassing anybody, only protecting and conserving water towers. Tobiko was accompanied by KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau, Nema acting director general Mamo Mamo among other officers. The Senate committee chaired by Senator Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua) thanked the CS for suspending the eviction until an amicable solution is reached. Already, the government has secured more than 11,119 acres from the Eastern side of the Mau Forest complex. Tobiko had said the Maasai Mau was the most critical ecosystem "yet it is now on its deathbed following massive destruction”. Edited by EKibii