Hospital Ward representative Patrick Musili can breathe a sigh of relief following stay orders suspending recent changes in the county assembly Minority leadership. Musili, who belong to the Wiper Democratic Movement, had been kicked out of the deputy Minority position and replaced by nominated MCA Melab Atema during the August 19 assembly leadership changes by the Orange Democratic Party. Karen MCA David Mberia also lost his Minority leader position to Embakasi's Michael Ogada while his Nairobi West counterpart Maurice Gari was replaced by nominated Catherine Okoth as the Minority representative in the County Assembly Service Board. However, Musili challenged his replacement in court on August 24 under certificate of urgency. The court issued an interim order staying the implementation of the decision made by ODM vide an August 18 letter to the county speaker on the changes to the Minority leadership. The stay orders were received by Speaker Benson Mutura on August 25. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok had on August 18 notified the office of the speaker on theMinority leadership changes. “Pursuant to Standing Order 21 (8) of the Nairobi City County Assembly Standing Orders, I hereby communicate leadership changes in the Minority party (ODM) as per the attached correspondents from the party,” Imwatok wrote. In additional to the stay order, Political Parties Dispute Tribunal chairperson Desma Nungo ordered that all respondents and interested parties to file and serve their responses to the pleadings within seven days. The interested parties include Wiper party, Mberia, Gari, Ogada, Okoth and Atema. The case will be mentioned virtually on September 8. The leadership changes by ODM have raised concern with a section of MCAs against the manner in which they were done. Wiper Nairobi branch chairman Roy Kivusyu has accused ODM of violating the Nasa coalition agreement stipulating that the position be given to a member of the Kalonzo Musyoka-led party. "ODM must respect Wiper. We can’t understand why a single party can afford to share all the seven positions in the assembly and ignore Wiper when we are a coalition. We will not allow ODM to bully us," Kivusyu said. Musili faulted his removal. “For leaders to be removed from office, there must be a meeting attended by two-thirds of Nasa members. There also must be minutes of the meeting and signatures of the two-thirds of members.  This did not happen.” However, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna defended the changes, saying Musili was removed because members showed no confidence in him and "decided to remove him."‘ ‘We don’t speak for Wiper party but what I can say is that the honourable members said they no longer have faith in him and if he feels that he has votes then let him demonstrate that," Sifuna said. Meanwhile, the other changes have already taken place. Last Thursday, both Okoth and Ogada moved to their respective county assembly offices. Leadership wrangles in the minority side have been evident since the changes were made. Mberia wrote to Mutura complaining about Imwatok. “I am in receipt of complaints of a grave nature from the membership of the party at the county assembly regarding the conduct of the Minority Whip, Peter Imwatok. "Attached are minutes of a meeting held on July 2, where his removal was discussed leading to the collection of signatures.” On August 6, ODM's Nairobi county chairman George Aladwa said he had received complaints about the conduct of Imwatok with MCAs claiming the Makongeni MCA had become a bully. Aladwa said Imwatok had disrespected the Minority leader. The focus will be on the speaker next week when he is expected to communicate the changes to the assembly.  - mwaniki fm