Chaos erupted as MCAs engaged in fists fights at the county assembly of Homa Bay during a debate on removal of the clerk. Differences emerged when Kakelo-Kokwanyo MCA Dan Were was moving a motion to remove clerk Daniel Kaudo after being accused of misuse of his office. The House began getting charged when Kabondo West MCA Godfrey Juma Anyango stood on a point of order and asked why Were, who is not a member of the assembly service board, was moving the motion. Anyango argued that the motion was supposed to be presented on the floor by an MCA who sits and knows the problems Kaudo has caused in the board. The fracas started when MCAs Evance Marieba (Gwassi North), Walter Muok (Kanyadoto) and Paul Adika (Lambwe) stood up in support of Anyango and asked  speaker Elizabeth Ayoo why she did not allow members with different opinions to speak. Some members began engaging Ayoo in a shouting match accusing her of being biased. “No!no!no ! madam speaker you’re not neutral the way you run the assembly because when a member stands on a point of order they should be allowed to air their views,” Marieba shouted. As Marieba was speaking, a group of MCAs went straight to Anyango where they boxed, kicked and stripped him. The legislative house was turned into a battle field as different MCAs exchanged blows and kicks as some female members ululated. “Goye kabisa!(beat him thoroughly),” a female MCA shouted. During the fight, a group of MCAs in collaboration with the sergeant at arms threw out Marieba, Anyango, Adika and Muok from the assembly. Later, the speaker read a statement and suspended the four MCAs from attending the assembly for 15 days. “During the suspension, the assembly committee on Powers and Privileges will investigate the cause of violence,” Ayoo read. But speaking to journalists outside assembly, the four MCAs vowed not to succumb to intimidation. Marieba argued the conduct of the speaker and some MCAs who support her are the cause of chaos in the assembly. “Within two weeks when Ayoo returned as speaker, she has un-procedurally disbanded the assembly service board, removed the clerk and dismissed her deputy,” Marieba said. Muok said they were opposing the removal of Kaudo because the matter was in court. “The matter is in court and we’re not allowed as members to debate about it. We’ll not go down as members who disobey the law,” he said. Adika and Anyango asked EACC to investigate Ayoo and some MCAs on grounds that they collude to embezzle funds in the assembly. “I will sue the speaker and her accomplices for misusing public funds. They want Kaudo out because he has refused to get compromised,” Adika said. Anyango said they will not face the disciplinary committee and instead will bring a motion for impeaching Ayoo a fresh. Anyango insisted he still the deputy speaker of the assembly. “Let Ayoo resign as the speaker of Homa Bay county assembly because uniting members has defeated her. We’ll impeach her since she’s unpopular,” Anyango said. Ayoo could not be reached either on phone or at her office. 