Senators were on Friday forced to adjourn a meeting to probe alleged loss of Covid-19 money after the suspended Kemsa CEO snubbed the sitting. Acting CEO Edward Njoroge and the team that accompanied him said Jonah Manjari was admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital. However, the lawmakers derided the excuse saying there was no proof the officer was sick. They equally dismissed a letter which was purported to be from the hospital. The letter signed by a Dr Ngugi was judged inadmissible as it was not addressed to the Senate. The meeting was co-chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbitho and nominated senator Sylvia Kasanga. Senators Abshiro Halakhe (Nominated), Ledama Olekina (Narok), Beatrice Kwamboka (Nominated), Fred Outa (Kisumu), Sam Ongeri (Kisii), Beth Mugo (Nominated), Mary Seneta (Nominated) and Christopher Langat (Bomet) attended the meeting. The acting Kemsa CEO was accompanied by Douglas Onyancha of Usaid and Director of Procurement Charles Juma. Olekina dismissed the Whatsapp message received by Njoroge claiming Manjari was admitted to KNH. "Do you have evidence? Any documents submitted are supposed to be tabled. A WhatsApp message is abuse of Parliament procedures. We are dealing with lives and billions of shillings. Can we authenticate it?" the senator demanded. Olekina said a letter  from the hospital would have been addressed to the clerk of the Senate and chair of the committee. Ongeri questioned the alleged date of hospital admission. "If there was a genuine admission, we would have received the letter from CEO. Letter should be delivered to the clerk, and produced as evidence. Let's bear in mind the current situation and huge sums of money as well as lives involved," he said. Outa said the CEO must be answerable to Kenyans. "This is the height of impunity in Kenya. Thieves hire lawyers. Where are the drugs and PPEs. He must tell Kenyans how he has used Covid-19 money. His sentiments were echoed by Abshiro and Kwamboka who said Manjari should present himself in person and explain where the billions went. Kemsa has been in the spotlight after it emerged that officials dished out tenders to mysterious entities under the cover of the Covid-19 pandemic. This came hot on the heels of an audit that exposed procurement and financial irregularities that put at risk more than Sh100 billion of donor funds and taxpayers' money. Manjaro was last week suspended alongside Charles Juma (head of procurement) and Eliud Mureithi (commercial director) to allow EACC complete investigations into the matter.