National team head coach Cliff Owuor believes Kenya has a good chance to play in the World Cup but only if they work extra hard. The tactician is convinced that with proper support, Morans has what it takes to reach the semi finals of next year’s Fiba AfroBasket and book themselves a ticket to the global event slated for 2023. Owuor, speaking after a luncheon hosted by management consultant Eliud Owalo over the weekend, said what the team needs is the support from every Kenyan to make the dream a reality. "I am encouraged by Owalo's words. This is what we need to motivate us as a team. He did what has not been done. Given the support, we will qualify for the World Cup," Owuor said. Informed by the challenges all sportsmen are currently facing owing to Covid-19, Owalo made a donation of Sh350,000 to the Morans and Lioness as a short-term mitigation measure. "I noted with great appreciation that the Morans has advanced to the qualifiers of the 2021 FIBA Afrobasket Championships slated for November," said Owalo, a former basketballer. He appealed to the corporate sector and relevant stakeholders to give the team the prerequisite material and logistical support to make their dream a reality. “I can assure you that if we get the kind of support that we need and manage to get our best players home, there is no reason why we should not make it to the global show,” noted Owuor. “The target that we have set now is bigger and I am convinced we can reach the AfroBasket semis and earn a ticket to the World Cup." The FIBA Basketball World Cup will take place in Indonesia, Japan and the Philippines. It will mark the first time in the competitions history that it will be staged in more than one country. But for Kenya to make it to the continental championships slated for Kigali, Rwanda next year, they must shake off African giants Angola, Senegal and Mozambique in a four-team qualifier set for November. Owuor said he has big plans for the team that will see them produce favourable results against Africa’s best. The two-phase series ends in February and Kenya will book a return ticket to the continental podium for the first time in 27 years. "For me to also make a name and market myself as a top tactician, I must first clear the hurdle ahead of me — the qualifiers," added Owuor. Owuor wants to emulate the late Tom Munyama, who guided the side to national womens team to a silver medal in Africa in 1992. The feat also gave them a ticket to the 1994 World Cup in Australia. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) chairman Paul Otula,  women's Ronny Owino and the two captains Erick Mutoro and Hilda Luvanda also attended the gathering.