Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Suna East MP Junet Muhamed engaged in an exchange for words on Monday over graft allegations at Kemsa. This is after ODM party leader Raila Odinga issued a statement saying thorough investigations should be done to reveal the truth. Junet echoed Raila’s take on Twitter, saying that ODM stands for “an exhaustive audit that produces incontrovertible evidence to make a watertight case against anyone found culpable.” Junet asked the Jubilee party Tangatanga faction to declare its stand. In a quick response, Murkomen asked Junet to resign and "expect to be arrested" together with his colleagues over the saga. “To start with, we are calling for your resignation and immediate arrest as you await your fellow suppliers to meet you in court,” Murkomen said. Murkomen also said that it is ironic that ODM has already issued two statements over the same matter when the Jubilee party is yet to say anything. “It is so strange that there is no Jubilee leader in the National Assembly or Senate who has come out to defend the Kemsa Covid-19 heist, Not even Tuju. Ironically ODM Party Leader and SG are busy outdoing each other as to who can give the best defence to the looters.” Junet asked Murkomen to table any evidence linking him to the scandal. Raila said that his party wants a speedy professional audit that will lead to the prosecution of the culprits and that the party will not defend anyone linked to the scandal. “ODM will not defend anyone, including members or relatives and friends of its officials, found to have benefited from the fund and other resources meant for fighting the pandemic,” part of Raila’s statement read. The earlier statement issued by ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna had criticised Deputy President William Ruto over his remarks that he will not be blamed for embezzled Covid-19 funds. Sifuna said it was improper for a senior government official like Ruto to go public and state that "at least now nobody will blame me for stealing Covid-19 funds". “This statement suggests that it is okay for the funds to be stolen if he is not to blame, or even more unsettling, it expresses the jealousy of being left out of the gravy train,” Sifuna said. He added that it was wrong for Ruto to make such remarks at a time when he should be helping President Uhuru Kenyatta crack the whip on corruption cartels within the government.