Hundreds of mitumba (secondhand clothes) traders from Kibuye market in Kisumu have denied visiting Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi and pledging support for DP William Ruto. The traders said they were not part of the delegation that went to Sudi's home in Eldoret on Saturday. Sudi is a close ally of the deputy president and is said to be lobbing support for his 2022 presidential bid. The traders' vice-chairman Christopher Obaje on Thursday said they have been wrongly accused and linked to the visit. "We want to categorically state that we never went to Eldoret and were not party to that event," he said. Some youths (and elders) from the Nyanza region, mainly Kisumu county, met with the lawmaker in what was said to be part of Ruto's strategy to raid ODM leader Raila Odinga's political base. The delegation was christened 'Nyanza Youths for Ruto 2022 Presidency'. A person purporting to be an official of Kibuye mitumba traders attended the meeting. But the traders say he is not one of them. "He is not a mitumba trader but sells eggs. So it will be right for him to speak the truth and not claim to be one of us," Obaje said. He reassured residents of their unwavering support for Raila, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Governor Anyang' Nyong'o. Obaje regretted that the allegations have portrayed them as rebels and turned them into targets of political mud-slinging. He also distanced themselves from a section of traders who took the county government to court to halt the upgrade of the market. "None of our members were among the petitioners. We are solidly supporting the construction of the Kibuye market," Obaje said. He added that they are ready to go back to Kibuye once its upgrade is complete. The county will this week advertise tender for the project. Phase one will cost Sh200 million. Similar sentiments were shared by secretary Molly Onyango, who denied knowledge of those who went to court. She also reiterated that no mitumba trader went to Sudi's home. "We are only being witch-hunted and maligned for no apparent reasons," Onyango said. The traders further decried mitumba shortage and appealed to Uhuru to allow importation to boost their income. On March 24, the government banned mitumba clothes imports over the Covid-19 pandemic. The ban was aimed at securing Kenyans from the spread of the virus and promoting local production. "We are in a serious shortage crisis. This has led to a drastic decline in our earnings. Currently, we are selling those we had before the ban," Obaje said. They said the ban has taken its toll on their lives.  Edited by F'Orieny