The battle with coronavirus can only be won if the public fully follows health guidelines to contain it, Mandera Governor Ali Roba has said. Speaking to the press in Mandera town on Saturday, Roba said time has come for everyone to take greater individual responsibility than ever before. “We are seeing a worrying trend where patients undergoing management and are stable one minute suddenly degenerate in condition the next minute and succumb to Covid-19,” he said. Roba expressed his concern over the increasing number of deaths, and in which he said no age group is spared. The county has suffered two Covid-19 related deaths. He said the war against the virus has ‘has just started getting nasty’ and emphasised the importance of the residents equipping themselves  with knowledge on basic prevention measures. Present were Deputy Governor Mohamed Arai and Health executive Mohamed Aden. Roba directed private health facilities to immediately refer any patient with signs of Covid-19 for appropriate care in Mandera county health facilities. He said it is only the staff from those facilities who have been trained on such care, adding that the county government will hold responsible any private health facility who delays referral of patients with such symptoms. “This disease is a living threat to humanity and we are in a phase where deaths are increasing, and from the look of things, the worst is yet to come. More developed countries have lost and keep losing lives in hundreds of thousands,” he said. “We have seen graves being dug by heavy earth moving machines in countries like Brazil to cope with the huge number of dying people. Our young people and the energetic members of society should protect their parents by observing personal protection.” Roba further appealed to residents to observe basic rules of Covid-19 prevention during burials, which he said has become an area of concern. “All over Muslim world, Janaza prayers are done while also adhering to health guidelines to avoid transmission. Let us all cooperate and stop our don’t-care attitude that will only cost our lives,” he said. He also announced that the county will soon start testing for Covid-19. “The Kenya Medical Research Institute staff and testing machines are already on site and we are currently putting up necessary safety measures in place before we start testing, which is a critical component of Covid-19 containment.”