The ODM party has waded into the wrangles facing County Assembly of Nairobi. The party through a letter by ODM National Chairman John Mbadi, has summoned 12 MCAs who are expected to appear at the party’s headquarters next week on Tuesday before the party’s disciplinary organ. The legislators include Hon Wilson Ochola, Maurice Gari, David Mbithi, Cecilia Ayot, Caroline Mayunzu, Hafsa Khalif, Jared Okode, Redson Otieno, Nicholas Okumu, Millicent Okatch, David Okello and Hajj Nimo. “ By this letter, you are hereby summoned to appear before the party’s disciplinary organ sitting at the party headquarters at Chungwa House on Tuesday, August 11, 200 at 9 am to show why disciplinary action should not be taken against you with regard to your violation of the Party Constitution, Code of Conduct, regulations and the law,” reads the letter dated August 4, 2020. The first letter was written on July 27, 2020, to a section of the legislators, following the return of Jacob Ngwele to occupy the office of the assembly clerk, where some of the MCAs mentioned escorted him to the office. Ngwele had made a comeback to the assembly on July 23, 2020, escorted by both Jubilee and ODM MCAs. According to Mbadi, the party Minority Whip Peter Imwatok on July 24, 2020, wrote a letter of complaint concerning the MCAs. “We are in the recipient of a complaint from the Office of the Minority Chief Whip dated 24, July 2020 on your conduct in the recruitment of the Clerk to the Nairobi City County Assembly,” reads the letter. The Suba South MP revealed that the party had directed the minority leadership to ensure the process was done in keeping with the ideas of fairness, justice and meritocracy. The MCAs summoned have been accused of actively participating towards defeating the above position. “Your conduct and open defiance of a party directive is a gross violation of Article 5.3.1(e) and (h) of the Party’s Constitution and code of conduct which you signed,” Mbadi said. Failure by the MCAs to appear next week, the ODM National Chairman indicates will attract appropriate actions as provided for in the Party Constitution without any further reference.