A total of 640 women have started reaping from a mass eggs production project started by Kirinyaga county government in February. The project funded in partnership with the World Bank saw 32 community groups benefit from chicken pens, each accommodating 1,250 hens. The pens were constructed in a group member's home but the groups will be required to replicate the project. Through the project, farmers will produce one million eggs per month and earn at least Sh10 million. The project is one of the agricultural investments the county government is implementing through the Wezesha Kirinyaga economic stimulus programme aimed at increasing productivity and profitability. Some 40,000 chicks were delivered to the groups in March and have now matured into layers with about 100,000 eggs having been collected in the past one week. The layers are, however, expected to attain optimum laying capacity next month. The eggs are collected and taken to a cold storage facility for packaging and branding before being taken to the market. The facility handles around 3,500 trays of eggs. The Kirinyaga Investment Development Authority sells the eggs on behalf of farmers, guaranteeing them good returns. Governor Anne Waiguru who commissioned the project on Wednesday said the county government has already identified buyers, including local eggs distributors, and that there is still a huge demand for the eggs. Once the hens are fully matured, farmers will be able to earn at least Sh1,000 daily to adequately support their families while allowing them to engage in other income generating activities as the project is not time-consuming. The county government has been providing certified and affordable chicken feed manufactured at Kirinyaga Agricultural Training Centre. The feed factory has so far produced 478 tonnes of feed, which has been distributed to the farmers at various development stages of the hens. While the project is run by group members, veterinary and livestock extension officers attached to the project offer technical support. Waiguru said the project was informed by the huge deficit in eggs production in the country which had resulted to importation of eggs from neighboring countries such as Uganda. The governor noted that the county government acquired chicks from certified breeders on behalf of the groups to ensure they got the right breed of layers. “Wezesha poultry project is aimed at improving livelihoods of Kirinyaga people mainly through women and youth by providing an alternative income source and reducing overreliance on the conventional cash crop farming,” the governor said during the launch. She said the county government has incorporated 42 more groups in the second phase of the project to benefit more residents. The county government is also supporting tomato farming groups with disease tolerant seeds and alternative pest control and management systems. It also plans to construct a milk processing plant to enhance dairy production from the current 20,000 litres to 50,000 litres per day. Edited by Henry Makori