The Court of Appeal has dismissed a case in which Kakamega county commissioner Pauline Dola and her family were claiming a property in Kisumu belonging to the Lake Basin Development Authority. Pauline, her husband Tom Dola (now deceased) and their son had sued the National Land Commission and Chief Land Registrar for revoking their title deed after acquiring a property by virtue of employment. Dola, a former LBDA employee, died in 2018. A judgment delivered by Justice Asike Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M’inoti on August 7 noted that Dola had expressed notice and knowledge that the suit property belonged to LBDA and that he occupied it as his official residence due to his employment. The judges also noted that Dola could not claim to be an innocent purchaser when it was his wife who applied to be allotted his employer’s house. They ruled that Dola misled LBDA that the suit property was acquired by "some Kalenjins” when he knew that it was his wife who had applied for its allotment. The judges said he was an active participant in the illegal and irregular transfer of the suit property from public land, belonging to LBDA, to private land belonging to him, his wife and son. “For all the foregoing reasons, we have come to the conclusion that this appeal is totally bereft of merit. The same is dismissed in its entirety with costs to the commission, its chairman and LBDA,” the judges ruled. In the case, Dola occupied the property from 1993 while serving as a fisheries officer. He lived with his family on the property. In 1996, Pauline applied to the Commissioner of Lands to have the property allotted to her. This was despite the fact that the property had already been transferred to LBDA. Records indicate that the property was allotted to Pauline in 2002 with two other people listed as tenants with equal shares. Dola would later be sacked by LBDA. LBDA lodged a complaint with NLC in 2016 to protest the acquisition of the property by the Dola family. Dola appeared before the commission but lost the fight for the property. The commission then directed the Registrar of Lands to revoke Dola's title deed and hand the property back to LBDA. In its defence, NLC said the suit property belonged to LBDA and the title deed for the property was fraudulently obtained. Edited by A.N