Kwale county is leading in enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings, according to human rights activists. Human Development Agenda project manager Kashi Jermain said the Coast region has more than 100 cases of abductions and killings of innocent people, 62 of which are from Kwale. "We have 28 people whose whereabouts are not known since they disappeared and 32 more died mysteriously," Jarmain said. The 28 cases were recorded in 2019 and January-February 2020. Most of the incidents are linked to individuals who identified themselves as police officers. Jarmain said unknown men have been targeting people in mosques, churches and some taken from homes in the middle of the night. He spoke on Sunday at Ukunda where they marked the International Day of the Victims of Enforced Disappearances. He urged the government to take responsibility and tell victims' families where their loved ones have been taken. "The police should tell us who killed our loved ones. They pretend they don't know, yet they are aware of everything," Jarmain said. He said each citizen is entitled to security and the right to be presented in court for prosecution. This year alone, more than 10 people disappeared in Kwale. Most of them were found dead and dumped in Tsavo West National Park and Makindu mortuary. Juma Sarai, 35, is among those who were found at Makindu mortuary three months after he was abducted by unknown men at Kibundani in Ukunda on October 2019. A report issued by Human Rights Agenda community engagement and partnership officer Chamosi Mwinyihaji stated that Sarai might have been tortured before he was killed. “His body was mutilated and it was almost hard to recognise him,” Chamosi said. Other bodies believed to be of people from the Coast were found alongside that of Sarai. In January, another victim, Markaz Uthman Sheikh Mahmud Mohamad, 27, was beaten and bundled into a double cabin Toyota car in Kombani. He has not been traced to date. According to Jarmain, the killings have left more than 300 orphans and 70 widows in the county. The activists gave the national government 14 days to respond to the grievances. Police in Kwale said they have opened files for the missing people and promised that justice will be served. Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta said they will organise bigger demonstrations if their demands are not met. "We will continue to protest because we are tired. It is an injustice to the Coast people and all the citizens of Kenya,” he said. He condemned the county leaders for remaining silent as innocent people are being killed. Harriet Muganda said they will keep on advocating justice. She called upon the widows and orphans to remain strong and seek justice. Muganda said they will hire lawyers for them and seek international court interventions.