A family entangled in a land ownership battle with a prison will be locked out of their home for now. This follows a decision by Judge Mbogo C G who declined to compel the Machakos prison to allow the family back onto the property in question to ensure the more than 1,000 prison employees are protected against Covid-19. “I would agree with the respondents (prison) and the interested party that in view of public interest, the respondents are likely to be inconvenienced more than the petitioners/applicants (family) should an outbreak of Covid-19 occur within the prison premises courtesy of the petitioners/applicants having contracted the same outside the G.K Prison premises and transmitted the same to the prison community,” the judge said in a ruling dated August 14. The decision arose out of an application by John Mwangi and Martha Wanjumbi seeking to be allowed back into their home. According to the family, the title to the land that was given to them was cancelled by the land registrar on orders of the Permanent Secretary for the Home Affairs ministry. Subsequently, they filed a case challenging the orders. The court gave judgment in 2017 reinstating their title. However, in February 2020, prison officers denied them access to their land and home. The family believes that the action of the prison officers amounts to illegal eviction. They say they have been told to vacate the house immediately and the officers continue to threaten them that they will use all means to make sure they vacate the premises. “Respondents have resorted to harassing them and preventing them from accessing their land and house on the falsehood that they are accessing prison land, yet they have title to the land," the family documents say. They explained that their house is far away from the prison establishment and they are in no way seeking access to the male and female prison buildings. The court was told that the only intention the prison has is to grab the land, which is aimed at causing the family great harm at a time when there is a pandemic. Their case is opposed by the Prisons Department through an affidavit sworn by Peter Kambo, an assistant commissioner of prisons in charge of Machakos prisons. It was sworn on May 18, 2020. The prison authorities say the family has built a three-storey house comprised of eight units and a separate unit, all of which are occupied by prison staff, save for one unit occupied by the family. This means the family shares common areas with the prison staff and interaction between their family members is inevitable. Secondly, the prison authorities say that since Mwangi is a dentist, he is exposed to high risk of Covid-19, which, in turn, exposes his neighbours and the prison. Kambo asked the family to vacate the prison land as they posed a serious health threat to the prison community owing to the fact that they go in and out of the prison premises as they wish and interact freely with other persons whose Covid status is unknown. In its decision, the court also noted that there was no evidence showing that the family was languishing on the streets. Edited by Henry Makori