Human rights lobby groups that agitates for local participation over local resources have criticised a meeting called to discuss effects of the use of the Standard Gauge Railways. The inquiry, called by the National Assembly Transport committee, that took place on August 10 and 11 at Parliament Buildings, saw Coast region MPs, state officers and transport stakeholders participate. However, Okoa Mombasa and Muslims for Human Rights on Wednesday said Parliament side-lined a critical group of people in the important conversation. “We applaud the move by the committee to conduct an inquiry into the use of the SGR. However, we take note that your office left out the civil society and members of the community in this important conversation,” wrote Ernest Cornel, on behalf of Okoa Mombasa and Muhuri, to national Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai. In the letter, dated August 10, Cornel said the conversation needed a structured public participation, which he said lacked. Speaking to the Star on phone Wednesday, Cornel said Parliament took a route that side-lined locals, who are the most affected by the SGR and the government policies. “There must be structured public participation. Not calling a few people in a board room to present views of people they might not have an idea how deep the effects of the SGR run,” said Cornel. Those invited for the inquiry in the August 3 invitations sent out by Serah Kioko on behalf of Sialai include Transport PS Solomon Kitungu, his Regional and Northern Corridor Development counterpart Margaret Mwakima, KPA acting MD Rashid Salim and Kenya Railways Corporation MD Philip Maringa. Others are KRA commissioner general James Mburu, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, Kenya Private Sector Alliance CEO Carole Karuga, Kenya Trade Network Agency (KenTrade) CEO Amos Wangora, Kenya Transporters Association CEO Dennis Ombok and CFS Operators Association of Kenya CEO Daniel Nzeki. However, Cornel said there are tens of thousands of locals who were affected directly and indirectly by the SGR and the government’s ‘illegal’ policies including mama mbogas and spare part dealers, who ought to have also been invited but were not. “These are the people who now feel the pinch the most yet they were left out of the conversation. That was not public participation and Parliament should not cheat us that it was. It doid not meet the threshold for public participation,” said Cornel. He said Parliament must ensure that a structured public participation is held so as to capture the views of the mama mbogas and Wanjiku. Cornel also noted that while Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale governors were invited, there was no time allocation for them.