Living a healthy lifestyle is something many of us struggle with and is mainly based on our financial status,well most of the time. We would want to eat a balanced diet every now and then but sometimes that's not possible. Our lives have changed drastically ever since we recorded the first case of Covid-19 in the country. We have been given directives that we need to follow so as not to contract the rapidly spreading virus that has brought most global activities to a halt in the past few months. Washing hands, sanitising, wearing a mask when going out and social distancing are some of the major things we are required to do at the moment, of which if the instructions are followed, we can reduce the spread of the virus. According to the famous words by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe: “Anybody can get it. You can get it, I can get it." But living a healthy lifestyle comes in as an important requirement during these times and that is why it's important to eat the right food which in turn will boost your immune system. So which kind of foods can boost your immune system and not necessarily because of fighting Covid-19? Here are seven foods you should consider consuming to boost your immune system; 1. Garlic We use garlic in right about everything, from cooking different meals to even making a concoction. For those who might not know what garlic is, garlic is a strong-smelling pungent-tasting bulb, used as a flavouring in cooking and in herbal medicine. Just like many other foods, garlic has several health benefits. Eating garlic helps to lower the cholesterol levels. This is because of the anti-oxidant properties of Allicin. Another benefit is it helps regulate blood pressure and blood sugar levels. Garlic also helps fight viruses that cause the common cold or flu. You can either choose to chew it, cut it into tiny pieces or crush it to produce allicin which gives garlic its immune-boosting properties. 2. Ginger Ginger is another food that plays a very big role in our bodies and acts as medicine. It can be used to cook and also to make a concoction that helps fight flu. There are people who prefer to crush it while others prefer chewing or cutting it into small portions just like garlic. This natural food helps to decrease inflammation, which in turn helps reduce sore throat and inflammatory illnesses. People who on many occasions feel nauseated, ginger can help with that as well. 3. Spinach You can never go wrong when it comes to consuming vegetables like spinach and kales. Spinach is rich in vitamin C and it’s also packed with a number of antioxidants and beta carotene. They both can help in boosting your immune system. It also has a high dose of Vitamin A and Vitamin E, which help fight off infections and also replenishes the blood cells to give a boost to your system. It's advisable to slightly cook your spinach so that the nutrients are not lost. 4. Turmeric Turmeric is a bright yellow aromatic powder obtained from the rhizome of a plant of the ginger family, used for flavouring and colouring in Asian cooking and formerly as a fabric dye. When it comes to its benefits, the curcumin in turmeric has strong anti-inflammatory properties that block the action of inflammatory molecules in the body. People suffering from conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease have seen positive effects of curcumin. Try and incorporate turmeric into your meals so as to keep your immune system in check. 5. Pawpaw (Papaya) We are constantly advised to eat as many fruits as possible because fruits have different components that play a role in boosting our immune system. Pawpaw is a fruit that not many people have embraced or rather consume but it is packed with nutrients. One pawpaw contains more than 200% of your daily requirement of Vitamin C, which in turn makes it makes it great for your immunity. 6. Chicken Chicken is one food that is favourite to many people if not all. When one gets sick, most times you reach out to some chicken and make some chicken soup. As you know, chicken is a protein and is high in vitamin B-6. Its protein is what helps boost your immunity. It's advisable to incorporate plenty of veggies because they are rich in vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, all of which play a big role in fighting cold and flu. 7. Cassava Cassava is the starchy tuberous root of a tropical tree, used as food in tropical countries. It is another food that many people do not consume but the root of the plant is rich in vitamin C. The leaves contain beta-carotene, lysine, and other compounds beneficial to the skin and metabolism. It helps boost your immunity and also regulates digestion. Consuming these foods will help boost your immune system and help fight off the flu or other infections, helping you live a healthy lifestyle. But eating right is what will play a bigger role. Learn how to measure your intake. It doesn't mean that eating these foods will guarantee that you will not get a cold or other infections. Measuring your portion and when to consume can help you monitor your body's functionality. Share with us other foods that play a big role in boosting our immune system.