Residents of Faza island in Lamu East have raised alarm over increasing deaths and injuries at a narrow footbridge serving the area. At least 10 people have fallen off the bridge and died in freak accidents in the last few months, which many believe would have been avoided. Hundreds of others have been left with lifelong injuries. The footbridge measuring about 500 metres long and 2.5 metres wide is the only entry point into and out of Faza town in Lamu East. Pleas to the county government to expand the bridge for safer movement have not borne fruit in the past decade. The bridge, which was built two decades ago, is the only means of crossing for over 3,000 Faza residents, most of whom are fishermen who depend on it for travel. The biggest hurdle is for motor vehicles, motorbikes and bicycle riders who risk their lives to across. Donkeys have equally not been spared by the deadly bridge. Last week, boda boda passenger Fundi Chero died on the spot after falling off a motorcycle and plunging into the deep ocean below as the the rider attempted to avoid hitting a donkey. Locals are appealing to both governments to intervene and expand the footbridge to guarantee the safety of people and animals. “All that is needed is a little expansion and we will be good to go, otherwise it’s a shame that in this day and age people still die from such carelessness,” Ali Wahdhry said. Due to the narrowness of the bridge, a lot of time is wasted as users have to take turns to cross. It is suicidal for anyone or an animal to run or attempt to overtake on the bridge. “Normally vehicles, motorbikes,donkeys and those on foot have to line up for their turn to cross and its extremely irritating and time wasting,” Ahmed Shallo said. Lamu East MP Athman Shariff indicated that he has already written to the Ministry of Transport to expand the bridge. "I am aware of the dangers posed by the narrow footbridge at Faza. I have written several times to the concerned ministry and, as we speak, processes are underway to have the footbridge rehabilitated. The coronavirus situation is delaying the processes but I am confident the footbridge will be reconstructed. Let's be patient," Shariff said. In 2015, a motorcyclist died on the spot after he fell into the ocean while attempting to avoid hitting a donkey on the bridge. In November 2016, seven Administration Police officers and two civilians narrowly escaped death after their land cruiser slid off the bridge and plunged into the Indian Ocean. Edited by Henry Makori