Diamond says he will only marry one wife because he fears many women will bewitch him. The marriage of his sister Esma Platnumz provided him with the perfect opportunity to disclose he wants to marry soon. During the maulid ceremony in Madale, Diamond was interviewed about when he will marry, declaring it will be ‘soon’. He also indicated his intentions in a caption on Instagram, saying, "Inshaallah Mwenyez Mungu anijaalie Iddi ijayo, nami niile nikiwa kwenye ndoa." During the ceremony, Diamond said he wants to get married, but only to one woman because many women are stressful and expose a man to witchcraft because of infighting among co-wives. "Mimi namuomba mwenyezi mungu inshallah nikipata mtu wa kunipenda sawa inshallah. Mwenyezi Mungi anipe baraka tuu," Diamond said. "I can't marry many women coz they will bewitch me. When women are many, there will also be so much drama and I am busy. So my mind is set on one wife now." Diamond has in the past called out his baby mama (Hamisa) for attempting to bewitch him and his family so he could marry her. Diamond claimed Hamisa and her mother were trying to kill his mother, Bi Sandra Dangote, and also trying to twist stories to make it seem like his mother and sister Esma Platnumz are the evil ones. Diamond has also been recently romantically linked to former Miss Tanzania Jihan Dimack and said he would be marrying her. She denied it, saying in an interview with Sky Walker and Creez Favors of SnS that they are friends. “We know each other because we are in the same industry. He is somebody who is respected very much, he is very humble, he is a nice person and very hard working, so I do respect and admire him, but we are not as what people think we are (dating). Let me just clarify that," she said. "It’s very crazy, I’m getting even phone calls from Russia. They are like, Jihan, I heard you are getting married to one of the biggest musicians. "Everyone is talking about it but it’s not what people think. But why is it that every time I attend these events, I trend, people, pair me with somebody else." Edited by T Jalio