Did a senator highly critical of the controversial revenue-sharing formula hold 'consultations' with President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) at State House on Monday? Corridors is informed the highly respected senator had the session with the aim of changing his mind. But he was then tasked by the President to whip his colleagues to back down in favour of the CRA formula as tabled by the Finance and Budget Committee. It has emerged the senator spent the better part of Monday night lobbying his colleagues through phone calls to support the President's position. He is also said to have held meetings with a couple of senators at a hotel in Nairobi's Upper Hill as lobbying went into overdrive. The board chairman of a state corporation under the Ministry of Trade is under siege. He is said to have come up with all manner of schemes to undermine the CEO. He has bullied the CEO to employ 10 relatives from his home county in senior positions. Companies belonging to him and his proxies have taken all mega contracts in the company. Recently, he was busted by DCI officers after he forged a certificate of good conduct, alleging the CEO used a fake document when applying for the job. However, when the DCI officers dug deeper, they discovered the chairman himself has a fake bachelor’s degree and master’s certificate. Insiders say it's just a matter of days before the DPP orders his arrest over corruption. Recently, we told you about a broke former MCA from a county in Nyanza who has been pleading with his colleagues to give him a job – any job. Now, Corridors  understands that the once-flamboyant ward representative is planning to sell his matrimonial home. So broke is the man that he is unable to pay electricity bills. Recently, a top politician in the county, who is said to be planning to buy the house, visited him. Those in the know say the man will soon vacate his posh home. A top official of a relatively new state body has set tongues wagging with his involvement in local politics. The official is said to be using his immense powers to provide round-the-clock police protection for a senior official in the county government who has fallen out with local politicians. The police have been ruthless with politicians who cross the path of the county official. Recently, the agency boss convened a meeting of loyal politicians in his office where he promised them police protection. Other politicians are now asking why the man is deeply involved in politics yet he is a public servant who is supposed to be apolitical.