 Isaiah Ochanda woke up as fit as a fiddle on the morning of May 20, 1987. He was ready for the task of the day, training the Kenya wrestling team for the All-Africa Games later that year. But something terrible happened. Ochanda fell down and got hurt. He became disabled. It has been decades now for the ex-KDF man to get paid his compensation award. But he has not given up. He needs medical attention but cannot get it because the state is yet to pay him Sh19 million that was awarded to him as compensation by the court on March 2, 2011. The award was given by retired judge Kalpana Rawal. Ochanda filed his case against the state in 1996. Twenty-four years later, he has returned to the courts for help to get his award. The former soldier wants Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai summoned to explain why he has not arrested the principal secretary in the Ministry of Defence for disobeying a court order. Ochanda filed the case under a certificate of urgency on August 18. “If only for the good of humanity that transcends beyond the wood and stone that are the walls of the respondent’s offices (Principal Secretary), this cause ought to be subjected to the urgency and conclusion that it deserves pronto,” he said. During the tragic fall, Ochanda suffered neck injuries and dislocated his spinal cord leaving him paralysed. While at the Forces Memorial Hospital, Ochanda was advised to seek specialised medical attention in Britain. But when he submitted the doctor's note to his employer, he was asked to provide details of the UK hospital where he was to go for further treatment so that the military could contact the hospital to get an estimate of the costs of his treatment. In November 2011, Occhanda was issued with a certificate of taxation against the government for Sh22.9 million. And in October 2017, the principal secretary for Defence was found in contempt of court and fined Sh5 million. The money remains unpaid. An arrest warrant was issued against the PS. The order for the fine against the PS was given by Justice Roselyne Aburili in 2017. The state never gave any reasons the principal secretary has continued to disregard the court order. Ochanda argues that while those in authority continue to enjoy gross impunity, his health has continued to deteriorate immensely leaving him bed-ridden and in urgent need for medical attention.  