Former President Daniel arap Moi had a special liking for the Cheramboss family. Samson Cheramboss was his Presidential Escort unit commandant. His wife Hellen was the principal of Moi Girls' High School, Eldoret, for 21 years. And Moi was the chairman of the former Highlands School's Board of Governors from 1965 until his retirement in 2002. It was as if the destiny of the Cheramboss family and Moi's were interwoven. So close was their relationship that Moi often drove to the school impromptu to inspect projects first hand whenever he was in the neighbourhood. He made similar visits to the Cheramboss rural Aldai home in Nandi “to see how they were living.” Hellen Cheramboss, a woman described by her husband as  "the pillar of the family," collapsed and died of chest pain on Monday aged 73. Samson said she had complained of chest pain after the Sunday evening family prayers. The pain persisted early on Monday morning. She collapsed and was rushed to Kaptumo Subcounty Hospital where she was pronounced dead. “I left her with the grandchildren and went upstairs after our evening prayers. She was in good health but started complaining of body weakness in the wee hours of the morning,” Samson told the media. Buoyed by her unfettered proximity to state power, Hellen put the school to regional and national limelight. It was one of the country's academic giants. She told K24 TV in 2018: "Moi taught me discipline and time-keeping. He would go straight to the point and was meticulous in planning." It was also easy to get government support and special treatment, she said. The mother of five and an ordained canon of the Anglican Church, Hellen Cheramboss was on the board of several state institutions, among them Maasai Mara University and Koitalel Samoei University College. She and Samson retired to farming and businesses. Samson was moved to the GSU as the boss in 1999 following a mini reshuffle. The reshuffle came a day after he denied reports that there was a burglary at President Moi's Kabarak home and that a 20kg gold cockerel with a black market value of Sh2.5 billion was stolen. He was replaced at the Presidential Escort by David Kimaiyo, who later became the Inspector General of Police.   - mwaniki fm