Teachers from a primary school in Narok have accused their head teacher of defying the government’s directive on community-based learning programme. They said Margaret Kamau, the headteacher of Entapot Primary School in Narok East, ordered them to report to the institution immediately, contrary to the directive by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) that teachers should only teach in nearby institutions. “The school head has started threatening us with disciplinary actions if we will not report to the school this week and guidelines were clear you report to the nearest home station as part of plans to not spread Covid-19 to other areas,” said one of the teachers who wished not to be named. They spoke to the Star on the phone at the weekend. They added that they have already reported to the nearest teaching stations and some of them have begun classes. The teachers urged TSC boss Nancy Macharia to intervene and settle the matter. But Kamau said she contacted the local TSC office, which gave her permission to recall all her teachers because there are no teachers within the locality. “There is nothing I could have done on this matter because we have only three teachers in the school and the pupils have reported in large numbers and the classes have begun,” she said. Recently, the TSC directed all teachers to submit details of their current location and immediately start teaching small groups of learners living nearby under the community-based learning programme. According to the circular released by Macharia, all the teachers under its employment would undertake the CBL without charging parents, with effect from August 12 until further notice. Stephen Tiparo, an education official, told the school head and the teachers to work together and find a lasting solution to the matter. “I have advised them to set aside their differences and ensure the programme is a success. We don’t want an incident where variation can escalate and affect learning at the institution when the schools reopen,” Tiparo said.