 The government has provided fish feeds to farmers countrywide to increase production, Agriculture CAS Linah Kilimo has said. Kilimo said fish farmers have been struggling due to the unavailability of fish feeds in the market, while others were unable to buy them. “We have now introduced an e-voucher that will help farmers access fish feeds up to 70 per cent. The rest 30 per cent of the feeds will be efforts of the farmer,” Kilimo said. She spoke at the Kaiga animal feed factory in Kerugoya Kutus, Kirinyaga county on Thursday. The CAS said that in some cases, farmers have been forced to use poultry feeds, which were not conducive for their fish because of financial challenges facing them. She said the Fisheries department and the International Fund for Agriculture Development will help farmers increase incomes, food security and nutritional status of poor rural households. Kilimo said the government was committed to transforming the lives of rural communities through fish farming. She said aquaculture helps create jobs, thus leading to industrialisation. If the potentiality was exploited to the maximum, fish farming would transform the lives of Kenyans especially those in rural areas, the CAS said. “The government has invested in the construction of dams in arid and semi-arid areas besides stocking them. We intend to have a fish demonstration farm in every county. We are helping construct dams and stock them for the community to benefit from such as demonstration centres,” Kilimo said. Fisheries Principal Secretary Micheni Ntiba said 50 per cent of fish now in the world market was from aquaculture. “People all over the world are now embracing aquaculture fish where developed countries are now returning to rural areas to engage in this kind of farming,” Ntiba said. He asked farmers to embrace intensive aquaculture activities to generate more income. “This venture is very profitable. If you embrace it, you will soon be driving good cars and flying helicopters. Let me tell you; nothing is impossible,” he told the farmers. The PS said there is a lot of demand for fish as white meat is currently more preferred for its health benefits. Ntiba asked Kenyans to move away from the traditional fish mongering to value addition by freezing, making fish sausages, fillets and other products. He said the national and county governments would continue to work together to help fish farmers improve on their production to get enough fish for local consumption and for sale. 