The management of the Nyayo Tea Zone Corporation failed on Tuesday to reach a deal with Nandi farmers to end a three-week boycott and blockade over low prices. Operations have been paralysed by vandalism; processed tea cannot be transported to the Mombasa Tea Auction. A highly charged meeting on Tuesday at Chomisia grounds, within the precincts of the Kipchabo NTZC factory, ended in disarray as both farmers and the corporation disagreed over the green leaf buying price. Hundreds of police officers cordoned off the factory to keep it safe and prevent more vandalism. The meeting was presided over by the NTZC Managing Director Peter Korir and attended by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Woman Representative Tecla Tum and many others. The state-owned Kipchabo Tea factory has been closed since the beginning of August after it unilaterally reduced prices for buying green leaves from its out-growers from Sh22 to Sh19 per kilogramme. Over the three-week protest, farmers cut off the factory from the rest of the county by digging deep and wide trenches and pushing huge rocks on roads leading to the factory. The farmers also vandalised a water pump and two ground pipes, paralysing tea processing. A lorry was set ablaze. Operations have been stalled. Several meetings failed to end the stalemate. MD Korir said tea prices were dictated by supply and demand in the international market and the factory could not pay Sh30 per kg as demanded and stipulated by contract. “I have no powers to increase the prices of the green leaves I have to carry out proper consultations within the corporation,” Korir said. However, angry farmers said the factory would not be allowed to operate, threatening dire consequences if the corporation buys from their own fields and farmers. The out-growers denounced the Sh20 offered by the factory as a temporary measure, saying the contract they signed was binding at Sh30 per kg. Farmers rejected Korir's pleading to allow factory reopening on grounds that processed tea needed to be transported to the Mombasa Tea Auction. The farmers numbering about 2,000 said allowing transport would amount to locking them out of negotiations for better prices. Last week, a lorry ferrying fresh leaves belonging to NTZC was set ablaze a few kilometers from the factory. The MD agreed to transfer the firm's regional manager over claims of alleged hiring improprieties. Protesters were not placated. (Edited by V. Graham)