Kiambu Governor James Nyoro says there’ll be no impeachment as he waded into the row between ward representatives and Speaker Stephen Ndichu. Nyoro told MCAs their bid to impeach the speaker is detrimental to service delivery with less than two years left to the 2022 General Elections. Kiuu MCA Daniel Ngugi is the brains behind the impeachment motion against Ndichu. Seventy of the 92 MCAs have appended their signatures to the motion. Only 33 votes are required to pass it, so it can be debated. The ward reps accuse Ndichu of abuse of office, citing alleged skewed appointments to the executive, irregular hiringand firing  tose who disagree with his style of leadership. They say the speaker is incompetent and has violated the Constitution by denying information to the public and failing to adhere to public service values. They also complain abuut the spending of the Sh1.2 billion the assembly receives for recurrent expenditure from the Treasury. They allege that the money is controlled and used by the speaker and his associates. He denies allegations of impropriety. Ndichu is a close ally of Nyoro and was instrumental in the impeachment of former county boss Ferdinand Waititu last year. Nyoro said the supremacy battle will heighten politics and frustrate development to the detriment of service. “We have less than two years remaining and it’s time we should concentrate on working for our people. Are we going to focus on development or engage in small fights over the speaker’s position?” Nyoro queried. He spoke in Thika on Saturday during the distribution of food to 500 families by Broadways Company Ltd, Capwell Industries Ltd, Bakex Millers, the Jain Youth League and the Indian community. Nyoro accused a section of MCAs of faking signatures to push the impeachment motion. He said he was engaging the ward reps to ensure that the motion fails. He also called for dialogue between the opposing parties. “No one is perfect; I’m not perfect either. Only God is perfect. Let’s forget about the impeachment thing,” Nyoro urged. His sentiments were echoed by Kamenu MCA Raphael Chege, who said some ward reps are being coerced to back the motion. “The speaker is there to stay. We will ensure that he finishes his five-year term,” Chege said. Nyoro said 30,000 vulnerable families in the county had received food rations under the Adopt a Village, Feed a Family model. “We will continue to mobilise resources as well as food donations to help the needy afflicted by the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.  - mwaniki fm 