A Senate oversight commit has asked Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to arrest and present before it Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria for disobeying its summons. The County Public Accounts and Investments Committee also fined the governor Sh500,000 for disobeying its summons. The committee issued an arrest warrant for Wa Iria after he failed to appear before it for the third time to respond to audit queries. The committee chaired by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri wants Mutyambai to arrest and present the governor before the committee on September 10. “In view that the governor came under summons last year, and this year he has failed to honour summons, I order that this committee summons under police escort Governor Mwangi wa Iria to be produced by the IG physically to this committee room on September 10, 2020,” Ongeri said on Friday. The chairman invoked the Powers and Privileges Act that grants the House committee the power to order arrest of any witnesses who snubs invites and summons. “Where a summoned witness does not appear, or appears but fails to satisfy the relevant House pf Parliament or committee, the relevant House of Parliament or committee may order the arrest of a person who fails to honour a summons,” the Act states. The law further gives the committee the power to impose fines, ranging from Sh200, 000 to Sh3 million. The committee had issued summons against the governor on August 11 after he snubbed an invite to respond to the audit queries for financial years 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. According to a letter submitted to the committee, the governor said he could not appear as the county offices have been closed following the reported cases of Covid-19. The governor told the committee that the Health CEC has advised the closure of the county offices for between 14 and 20 days to allow for fumigation. “It will, therefore, not be possible to assemble because the documents necessary for the committee to interrogate and resolve the audit queries and other issues are not available. Most of the senior staff who were to appear before the committee are in the vulnerable category and there it will not be possible for them to appear,” reads the letter read out by Senator Ongeri. But the chairman said the action to close the county offices was suspect and amounts to avoiding accountability by the governor. “Muranga has had total Exchequer release from 2014 to 2018 amounting to more than Sh24 billion. The people of Murang'a have a right to accountability the county chief executive who they elected,” Ongeri said. Wa Iria now becomes the fourth governor to be fined by the committee. Last year, the panel fined Kitui’s Charity Ngilu. Earlier, the committee fined and ordered arrest of Governor Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega). Edited EKibii 