Power intrigues in Ford Kenya escalated on Monday with one group stating that a National Executive Council meeting had resolved to expel three members of a rival faction. The expelled members, speaking at a separate meeting, said they were considering ousting the group that purported to have ejected them from the party. A group led by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula and Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa held a NEC and parliamentary group meeting at a hotel in Nairobi where attendants resolved to kick out the three for gross misconduct. Wamalwa said members agreed to expel Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, his Kanduyi counterpart Wafula Wamunyinyi and nominated MCA Cynthia Mutere. Members also resolved to hold the General Council as well as National Delegates Congress before September 20 to approve the resolutions of the meeting. "The party decided to subject the trio to subsequent disciplinary proceedings which NEC deliberated on today," Wamalwa said. Wetang’ula said the three stand to lose their seats in Parliament and the Bungoma county assembly. “These are the consequences. When you do something against the norm, consequences await you around the corner,” he added. The Bungoma senator said they will soon notify the Registrar of Political Parties to strike off the names of the three from the party membership list. Addressing the press in another hotel, Eseli and Wamunyinyi dismissed the move saying the NEC meeting was not properly convened and constituted. "I'm still the interim party leader. Those were not NEC members but people in party colours and uniform," Wamunyinyi said. Simiyu termed the move to expel them as “the biggest joke of the year, which has brought comic relief to Kenyans during these hard times. "I am still the secretary general. I want to warn Weta that we may have a by-election in Bungoma if he continues like that." He said Wetang’ula should be grateful that they had allowed him to remain as a member of the party after his removal as party leader. “Weta cracked the funniest joke so far this year. He is a lawyer but his legal mind seems to be dwindling because the matter is before court but he goes ahead to purport to hold such a meeting,” he added. Wetang’ula stated that they would rather have fewer members who are disciplined than have a lot of rebels in the party. He added that discipline remains key in the success of any party. “Discipline is needed for better order and better management of any party. We are preparing for 2022 because we will field a presidential candidate,” he explained. Wamunyinyi said the NEC meeting was illegal since it lacked quorum and was not convened by the secretary general. “We have 75 NEC members and for the meeting to proceed, there must be 50 per cent or more of members. We have 46 members on our side. So, who were those people?” he posed. Ford-Kenya wrangles started on May 31 when a group of officials convened a meeting in a Nairobi hotel and announced they had replaced Wetang’ula with Wamunyinyi as party leader. Wetang’ula responded by suspending Wamunyinyi and at least three officials who endorsed the latter. The wrangles have persisted in one of the country’s oldest political parties, which fought for multiparty democracy in the 1990s. Edited by Henry Makori