 A majority of Kenyans are opposed to calls for a referendum to amend the Constitution. Sixty per cent of citizens say the supreme law should instead be fully implemented without any amendments. That is the finding of an opinion poll conducted by Infotrack. The results of the survey were released on Wednesday. The poll was commissioned by civil society organisations including Amnesty International, Transparency International, Katiba Institute and ICJ Kenya among others. The results of the survey are part of the activities to mark the first decade of the Constitution, following its promulgation in 2010. A majority of those opposing amendments to the supreme law are aged below 49. Opposition to amendments is highest in Eastern (68 per cent), Western (67 per cent), Central (64 per cent), and Nyanza (64 per cent). Support for amendments is highest in Coast (54 per cent) and Northeastern (51 per cent). The results are a blow to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga who have been pushing for a review of the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative. The respondents calling for amendments are concerned with challenges relating to leadership and integrity and devolution. The poll shows that only 23 per cent of Kenyans are satisfied with how the Constitution has so far been implemented. Another 43 per cent feel the implementation has been slow or disappointing. "Thirty-four per cent are dissatisfied and 43 per cent staggeringly are disinterested and have no view either way," the survey says. Northeastern is leading with satisfaction in implementation at 43 per cent while dissatisfaction is highest in Western at 46 per cent. A sample of 1,500 people was interviewed over the phone between August 16 and 21. The respondents were spread across 24 counties. Fifty-one per cent of them were female. In terms of age distribution, 37 per cent were aged between 30-39, 31 per cent between 18-29, 20 per cent between 40-49 and four per cent aged over 60. A majority of the respondents (64 per cent) were based in the rural areas. The margin of error is ±2.53% with a 95 per cent degree of confidence. The response rate of the survey was 97 per cent. Seventy-five per cent of those interviewed said they were upbeat the Constitution through devolution has improved their lives. They said there were development projects and services that were directly connected to devolution. However, 87 per cent of respondents who said they were familiar with the Constitution associated devolution with corruption and misuse of public funds. Most of them were in the Rift Valley, Nairobi, Western and Northeastern. “While this is troubling, it is hardly surprising given the numerous corruption scandals that have tainted devolved governments since their inception,” the report says. Another 55 per cent of the respondents believe that corruption and impunity are the greatest hindrances to the full realisation of the fruits of the Constitution. Some 15 per cent cited the high cost of accessing justice. A further 34 per cent are concerned about increased taxes associated with the cost of the devolved units and multiple layers of political representation. In terms of the part of the Constitution which the public is most conversant with, the report says the chapter on the Bill of Rights is the most known. Central leads with this knowledge at 64 per cent followed by Western at 53 per cent. “The highest level of familiarity with the Bill of Rights is among women (52 per cent) and Kenyans between 30-39 years (54 per cent).” Most respondents, at 66 per cent, called for stricter enforcement of the Bill of Rights. Specifically, 41 per cent want increased enforcement of the laws relating to the rights of arrested persons and 16 per cent want even stricter enforcement of the Patient Rights Charter. “The call for stricter enforcement of the Bill of Rights is loudest in Northeastern (67 per cent), Western (66 per cent) and Nyanza (66 per cent). Five of every 10 people at the Coast want firmer enforcement of the rights of arrested persons,” the report says. To achieve these objectives, the report shows 45 per cent of those polled want the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights strengthened. They also want the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (28 per cent), Human Rights Organisations (18 per cent), Judiciary and the Judicial Service Commission (15 per cent) strengthened. The report also shows that most Kenyans are concerned about police brutality. In fact, 49 per cent of the respondents would rather be poor than suffer violence, harassment and intimidation at the hands of law enforcers. Most people, 68 per cent, believe police are the greatest perpetrators of human rights violations followed by judges (21 per cent), politicians (17 per cent) and lawyers (16 per cent). Fifty-seven of the respondents said the perpetrators should be jailed with another 24 per cent preferring they be barred from holding public office. But 36 per cent said they would not seek recourse in law if their rights are violated. Another 33 per cent said they will report to the police while 27 per cent will publicly demonstrate against violators. Overall, 35 per cent of Kenyans said they are prepared to join protest marches against police brutality.  Edited by P.O