Twenty households will be homeless in a matter of seven days after the National Environment Management Authority gave a demolition notice. Nema told the owners of nine illegal structures on Nairobi River riparian land to bring them down or else it will do so at the owners' expense. "The structures are mainly toilets and temporary dwelling spaces," Nema director general Mamo Boru Mamo told the Star by phone. The targeted structures discharge effluent in Nairobi River. They belong to among others Peter Ndung'u, Peter Kamau, Kinyanjui Njoroge, Njenga Nduati and Esther Ndung'u. On Wednesday, Nema inspectors accompanied by police officers combed Kabiria River, a tributary of Nairobi River, from Naivasha Road to Kinyanjui Road. At Riverlands, the team found permanent and temporary structures including ablution blocks belonging to Peter Ndung'u. Mamo said Ndung'u had been ordered to demolish the structures on the riparian reserve. A few metres away were Kamau's permanent and temporary structures (houses and ablution blocks). Kamau too was ordered to demolish the structures on the riparian reserve. Njoroge's permanent and temporary houses and ablution blocks are off Naivasha Road. The Nairobi River cleanup is a collaboration of Nema and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. "They (NMS) are giving us equipment to remove solid waste while Water Resource Authority is helping us to know the size of the riparian reserve," Mamo said. Last month, Nema flagged 148 polluters of Nairobi River for action to be taken against them. Soon after, Environment and Forestry Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko issued a 90-day crackdown notice to be spearheaded by Nema. Tobiko spoke from Michuki Memorial Park, which was commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 14. "The crackdown will start from here (Michuki Memorial Park) all the way up to the source of the river at Ondiri swamp. We will also be dealing with Nairobi River tributaries,” the CS said. Some sewer lines belonging to Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company are also blocked, rendering them dysfunctional. Some of the lines are dilapidated and are in a sorry state while some landlords have erected walls and toilets in riparian reserves. Nairobi River snakes through informal settlements where foetuses and bodies of adults are often found floating. Last month, two bodies of infants were retrieved from the river in Korogocho by members of Komb Green Solutions, bringing to 21 the number of bodies retrieved from the river in the informal settlement since the launch of the Nairobi River Restoration Project last year. On August 15, Nema arrested three landlords whose property had encroached on the Michuki Memorial Park. The three were arrested a sting operation conducted by Nema inspectors in collaboration with security agencies. Mamo said their property had been extended to the riparian reserve. During the official launch of the park, President Kenyatta said the recreation facility has been restored, ending criminal activities that had been going on there. “We have moved it from a safe haven for criminals to a place of serene beauty and peace; from blackening waters of Nairobi River to a swimming destination for ducks and mudfish; and from a lifeless habitat to a life-supporting ecosystem, leading to the re-emergence of birds," he said. He added, "We can restore the former glory of our great city of Nairobi to what was referred to as the 'Green City in the Sun'". The President said the opening of the park marked the early steps of re-making and re-birthing Nairobi. “We are here to affirm that a city is not great because of its lofty and towering brick-and-mortar assets. A city is great because its citizens are great; and its environment is great.”  - mwaniki fm