The construction of a Sh300 million Kenya Medical Training College campus in Kangema constituency, Murang’a, has started. The campus is being built in Kangema town on 10 acres donated by the county government. It is expected to be complete in January next year. MP Muturi Kigano said the Constituency Development Fund allocated Sh37 million to start the construction as they await more funds from the national government. “The national government has pledged to fund the project to a tune of Sh200 million,” the MP said while inspecting construction work on Wednesday. Muturi said the college will help elevate Kangema Subcounty Hospital from a Level 3 status and improve health services in the area. The MP said that the KMTC board has assured that the campus will receive its batch of 2,000 students once it is completed. A third of the students admitted will be from the constituency. “We are starting with the basic infrastructure including classrooms, laboratories and administration blocks. The rest will follow after the college starts operations,” he said. A perimeter fence will be put up first at Sh10 million. The college will boost the local economy by giving residents an opportunity to provide foodstuffs. It will also increase the local population and boost the cash flow in the rural town driven by tea proceeds while increasing the value of property. The MP urged local businessmen with properties near the site to establish hostels that will accommodate the students. He, however, pointed out that the KMTC board will decide the courses that will be offered on the campus. “The county government has established specialised treatment centres and the board can decide to make the campus a specialised medical care college,” the MP added. Magdalene Muriithi, a youth, said the college will provide job opportunities for locals during construction and after it opens. Muriithi who supplies foodstuffs to workers at the construction site lauded the government for the project that she said will further grow their town. The students, she said, will use their resources in local businesses, improving the lives of residents. She was hopeful that her small business will thrive once the first batch of students is enrolled. “I am only selling snacks to workers right now but I hope to establish a small eatery that will take advantage of the campus,” she told the Star. The government also plans to establish another campus in Kigumo subcounty, bringing the number to three in the county and 71 across the nation. (edited by o. owino)