Citizen TV's Willis Raburu says his father taught him work ethics and the word of God. His father, Peter Raburu, was a powerful man in government during the late President Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi's regime. He was a provisional commissioner in Rift Valley during the Moi era. Speaking to MC Jessy on YouTube, the 10/10 presenter said his father was and still is a disciplinarian. "He was a strict dad and still he is even today. Even when I am about to do something wrong, I ask myself what he is going to say about it," he said. "I fear him so much." Willis says his father is also a staunch Christian who prays a lot. "The first time we got to know about salvation, we were very young. He was the one who conducted that procedure," he said. "He told us with my siblings to be introducing ourselves as saved. Later is when we understood what salvation meant. I rededicated my life to God." Willis recounted of a time in high school when he got in trouble for having a girlfriend. He was suspended for two weeks. "I went and confided to a teacher that I was not going home. He went and told my dad," he said. "My dad sent a Landrover Defender 110 and two police officers. They escorted me home. At that time, I was the organising secretary of the Christian Union (CU)." Willis says most of the preaching from that time forward was done using him as an example of how not to be a Christian. He was also asked to step down from his post as the organising secretary. "My dad called me and said, 'Willis, we are busy praying for the Lord to wash you with the blood of Jesus and you are dreaming about washing (bathing) with your girlfriend. Can you focus on your studies?'" Wilis says his father was and still is firmly rooted in God. He was always concerned that they had a good education and that they knew right from wrong. "He stood firmly on certain principles and it was his way or the highway on some matters, especially going to Church," he said. In a past interview, Willis said his father was a very hardworking man, who would wake up very early in the morning and head home late. "He has an amazing work ethic and even to date, I meet leaders he worked with and they all say two things :'He was strict and loved God'. And that is what I call a legacy," he said. Edited by T Jalio