The Homa Bay nurse who died from Covid-19 has been buried, as her colleagues called for the transformation of the health sector. National and Homa Bay union leaders on Friday attended the burial of Marianne Awuor and called for more support as they fight Covid-19. The brief ceremony was at their home in Nyandonge village, Kasipul constituency. Police were present to ensure Covid-19 protocols were adhered to. Kenya National Union of Nurses chairman Alfred Obengo and deputy Moses Chirchir, Homa Bay KMPD liaison officer Amos Dulo and Rachuonyo South Subcounty Hospital medical superintendent Stephen Okello asked the government provide necessary facilities as they fight the virus. “The administration of health facilities should be more serious with medics as they deal with Covid-19. The guidelines for preventing the disease are known and no medic should be exposed to unprofessional working environment,” Obengo said. They called for improvement of their welfare, including timely salary payment, provision of enough Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and a good working environment. Awuor died last Sunday at Kisii County Referral Hospital after she was transferred from Rachuonyo South Subcounty Hospital in Oyugis town. Despite being seven-month pregnant, she still offered services to patients who were at the hospital theatre This led to Obengo to question why Awuor was not given a break, despite having complained of being sick. “It’s unethical to continue making a pregnant woman work when they should be given leave. The World Health Organization does not recommend medics to work in such an environment,” Obengo said. He said the union has lost five nurses to Covid-19 since the outbreak of the disease. Chirchir said attributed some deaths to low supply of PPE. “Medical workers in Homa Bay are on strike and demand two months’ salaries. Let the government ensure we’re protected,” Chirchir said. Lake Basin Development Authority chairman Odoyo Owidi asked Homa Bay government to be a responsible employer. “We don’t know why an ambulance could take more than five hours to help people at Rachuonyo South transfer Awuor to the Kisii Hospital,” Owidi said The LBDA chairman urged residents to continue complying with health directives to protect themselves from Covid-19. Dulo said they will not relent from asking the Homa Bay government to give them what is their right. “All health workers through their unions signed an agreement with the government. We need all the deals to be implemented,” Dulo said. Okello described Awuor as a dedicated worker who responded to emergency calls. Edited by EKibii 