Did a governor from the larger lower Eastern region receive some unwelcome visitors a few days ago? We are told the county boss, who has been under siege for a long time, is under probe by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (headquarters pictured). Officials from the anti-graft agency are said to have carted off documents crucial to an investigation. The issue is not publicly known but there are reports the probe could be about multi-million shilling tenders handed to cronies and relatives through proxy firms. As the investigations gather pace, the county boss is worried his flourishing career could be ruined over alleged corruption and abuse of office. A key official of a political party has found himself in trouble with the secretariat because of his radical outbursts. The official is also being accused of issuing statements contradicting the official party position on national issues. His remarks have often exposed the party's soft underbelly as the 2022 political landscape is fast shifting. In one instance, the official mounted a fierce defence for a controversial national issue, consequently throwing his leader under the bus. His remarks caught the party leader off-guard. It has now emerged there are behind-the-scenes schemes to replace the high-ranking official as part of a damage control plan. A governor from one of the counties from Nyanza did the unthinkable. The county boss, with a penchant to please a few political leaders from the region, decided that three leaders would be awarded tenders to supply of Covid-19-related items. The beneficiaries of the contracts, said to be worth over Sh70 million, used firms fronted by their close aides to throw auditors off their trail. However, some contractors, well aware of the dirty tricks executed in the award of the tenders, have raised the red flag and petitioned the investigating agencies. It is a matter of time before the lid is lifted from what may turn out to be another classic case of officially sanctioned graft. A vocal politician from the Coast is a man under siege. The politician is said to be cloaking his personal interests behind his push to protect the rights of the people of the Coast region. There are claims that the battle to control lucrative tenders at a strategic facility at the Coast could be behind a push to 'alleviate suffering' of the people of the region. The politician is among powerful individuals who were controlling the multimillion-shilling tenders before an overhaul in the administration of contracts kicked them out. In the latest move, the politician is said to have lost a Sh300 million contract at the strategic facility, triggering a major storm.