 People who have encroached on the Nakuru-Nyahururu railway line will not be forcefully evicted, officials have said. Kenya Railways Corporation MD Philip Mainga on Thursday said they will engage those who have encroached on the line so an amicable solution is reached as the railway is being revived. He spoke in Ol Kalou during the official launch of the revival of the 78km railway. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, Nakuru Deputy Governor Eric Korir and Laikipia Infrastructure executive Shuel Joseph were present. “The assurance I have through the governor is that, as Kenya Railway, we are not evicting residents. What we are going to do is have an engagement to have a commitment with people with businesses, those who have built along the line, those in our houses and our godowns to come up with a well-articulated process to be engaged as we revive this line,” Mainga said Maingi also assured local leaders and residents that KRC will fully utilise local labour and construction materials to revive the line. He said apart from the elephant grass, this line is intact, and thanked the residents for protecting it over the years. The line has not been in use since the 1980s. The scope of works for the project entails track rehabilitation, ballast screening, geometry correction, drainage rehabilitation, track renewal, ballasting, bridge and culvert repair and rehabilitation of station buildings and maintenance depots. Kimemia said ways to regularise the businesses along the railway corridor will be explored to achieve a win-win situation with encroachers. Those not necessarily interfering with the railway line, he said, can be allowed to continue, while those too close will be asked to move their business a bit further. Kimemia said those who want to do other businesses including those who farm along the railway corridor are encouraged to lease and plant whatever they wish so long as it is agreeable with Kenya Railways regulations. Maingi and Kimemia were responding to concerns raised byMCAs Ken Mukira (Karua), Mbugo Mburu (Weru) and Joseph Kariuki (nominated) who said it would not be fair to kill businesses and destroy livelihoods while rehabilitating the line. “As partners, we are worried as we have 640 businesses along the railway line in Ol Kalou. Our humble request is that you make sure these traders do not close shop and return to the villages,” Mukira said Mburu, who is also the chairman of the Nyandarua county assembly committee on Transport, Roads and Infrastructure said there are 100 women operating small kiosks along the railway line in his ward, and tens of business premises built along the line at Ol Joro Orok town. Kariuki urged for public participation to ensure no one is adversely affected. The Gilgil-Nyahururu line is part of the Meter Gauge Railway that is being revived countrywide. Completed in 1929, it has been dormant for more than 30 years. The line traverses Nakuru, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties. The main commodities that are expected to be transported on the line are beef, milk, horticultural produce, cement, hardware materials and fertiliser. There is the potential to move cargo for the Gilgil military base and it is also expected to be linked to the Naivasha dry port  Edited by P.O