Newly acquired Wazito winger Boniface Omondi has promised to fire 'Money bags'  to win titles in the future. The speed-star joined Wazito from Gor Mahia after his contract expired in June. "We are pleased to announce the signing of the speedy  Omondi from Gor Mahia. An alumnus of St Ignatius Loyola Magadi Secondary School in Kisumu, the winger has previously turned out for Agro-Chemicals, and Nzoia Sugar before joining Gor Mahia,"said the club on its official social media pages Omondi in an interview,  said he was keen to use his experience in the Caf matches to help them transition from punching bags to champions. During his three-year stint with K'Ogalo, the player has proved an asset, netting and assisting often hence establishing himself as one of the Mashemeji Derby heroes of recent times. Wazito had a largely underwhelming campaign after returning to the top flight last year and were among a host of teams battling to beat the drop before Football Kenya Federation concluded the season in April. “I want to thank God for the opportunity to join Wazito FC. I know that it is a good side because I have faced them in the league. The goal is to help the team lift titles and I know that it is possible. To the fans, I urge them to keep rallying behind the team and everything will be alright,” he said. The club's head coach Fred Ambani said the arrival of the diminutive winger, who had also been linked with a move to KCB, will spur the team to register positive results going forward. "Boni is a good player. He is a serial winner with a very good winning mentality and that will be a boost for the team. He has played in the Caf Champions League and Caf Confederation Cup. Joining  Wazito with such experiences is definitely a big positive for the team,” Ambani stated. Omondi becomes Wazito's fourth signing after Vincent Oburu who was snapped from AFC Leopards, Mark Otieno who left Leeds United, who ply their trade in the Super 8 Division and Harambee Stars attacking midfielder Kevin Kimani who arrived from Mathare United.