The chief Health officer in Uasin Gishu has quit after one month, citing "hindrance from the department" where Covid-19 supplies were purchased at grossly inflated costs. Joseph Karoney who had been appointed by Governor Mandago resigned a few days ago, thanked the governor, returned his salary and said he had been unable to perform his duties. The former Moiben subcounty administrator did not elaborate on "hindrances". Sources told the Star, however, Karoney was disturbed by graft in the department and other challenges that he tried but was unable to address because of cartels. “Due to unavoidable circumstances and hindrance from the department, I cannot discharge my mandate as per the law and hence tender my resignation," Karoney wrote to Mandago. Members of the  Uasin Gishu Assembly chaired by Hosea Bundotich summoned  county secretary Edwin Bett and questioned him over the resignation. MCAs said they were concerned about management of the department. “We are concerned with the continued serious problems in the department even as we plan to vet the new officer appointed for the same position. We cannot just watch as this key department is dogged by serious challenges," Bundotich said. Bett said the committee was surprised by Karoney's sudden resignation, saying he did not explain in detail the hindrances and circumstances that forced him to quit. “We just received the resignation letter which was accepted by the appointing authority and processed by the Public Service Board," Bett said. Two weeks ago MCAs questioned the inflated prices prices of Covid-19 supplies purchased by the county at more than 200 per cent above the market prices in many cases. They summoned Health Health executive Everlyne Rotich and a former chief officer Kenneth Mbeka to explain irregular purchases, exaggerated prices and nonpayment of health worker' allowances. The chief officer had tabled a report in the assembly, indicating that most required supplies were purchased at costs well above the fair market price. The items costing more than Sh70 million were purchased for use at quarantine and isolation centres. Rotich and Mbeka explained that Covid-19 was an emergency and some suppliers took advantage of the situation to inflate the prices. Among the items was a pair of gumboots costing Sh3,500, though the market price was not more than Sh1,000. The county bought water flasks at Sh4,200 instead the market average of Sh2,000. Thermoguns were purchased for Sh15,000 each, while the market price was Sh6,000. N95 masks cost Sh1l,400 instead of Sh650 per piece. Assembly Covid-19 committee chairman Patrick Bundotich (Tarakwa MCA) warned that the officers responsible for the procurement may find themselves in trouble. “When we look at the document provided on the purchases, the prices are so high and we wonder if this is prudent expenditure of public funds. We don’t want to find ourselves in the same situation as that of the wheelbarrows in Bungoma,” Bundotich said. In 2015, Bungoma county purchased 10 wheelbarrows for more than Sh1 million - about Sh109,000 each. Seven people were convicted and ordered to pay fines or serve jail terms. (Edited by V. Graham) 