The High Court has extended orders stopping the Nairobi government from demolishing Gigiri mall owned by businessman Madatali Chatur. Chatur is seeking to block the county government from reclaiming a piece of land in Gigiri. The businessman, through Scorpion Properties Limited, wants Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohamed Badi included in the case as an interested party. Last week, Scorpion Properties Ltd rushed to court, accusing Badi of threatening to demolish the premises and repossess the land, which the county claims was set aside for a fire station. But the company said it has been the registered owner of the land, under leasehold tenure since January 1989. The company said it has been occupying the premises for the last 14 years. The company moved to court last year and obtained orders stopping Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko from demolishing the building. However, on July 23 this year, Badi threatened to repossess the land, an act the company described as impunity and flagrant disregard for the law. Badi allegedly directed the company to demolish the premises and vacate, yet he was served with a court order issued in January 2019. “No law permits the intended interested parties to violate constitutional rights of citizens and or permits the same to unduly intermeddle with title to private land,” the application reads. The company submitted that the premises is under threat of being demolished and tenants forcibly evicted from the premises in contravention of the court order. The tenants, the court heard, are apprehensive of losing their businesses and property unless stopped by the court. Lawyer Bernard Obae for the company said the property has been charged to a bank with a loan of Sh278 million and the planned demolition will cause the company irreparable loss. Further, the firms claim that some of their tenants are planning to vacate the properties, noting that it will cause damages since they used bank loans to put up the buildings. Hearing resumes September 17, 2020.