@alalmaurice The Bunyala Irrigation Scheme is expanding its acreage and cropping intensity and diversification to boost production for food security. Scheme manager Edwin Manyonge said they are hoping to boost the yield per unit area. He said on Tuesday that the initiatives have led to increased food security. In the 2019-20 financial year, the rice yield increased to 6,524 tonnes up from 4,863 tonnes the previous year. Currently, Manyonge said the scheme irrigates 2,144 acres with 2,052 farming households. The scheme was started in 1959 with an initial 534 acres under rice production. Irrigation water is pumped from River Nzoia and flows by gravity through open earth channels to the farms. He said with the increased demand for rice, two new pump sets were installed in 2005 and another two in 2007. So far, the government through the National Irrigation Board has extended the canal at Muluwa to bring under irrigation an additional 200 acres. The canal at Mudembi will irrigate an additional 200 acres and has already been extended at Ruambwa/Mudembi Phase V. Manyonge said cropping intensity was increased from 90 per cent to 150 per cent by introducing two crops in a year as opposed to one. “This has not only reduced field fallow time but has also increased production under the same acreage,” he said. The current expansion commenced on April 17, 2018, with earthworks. The construction of irrigation and drainage structures is in progress and the area is targeted to be under rice production next season. Sensitisation of farmers’ is ongoing. Manyonge said the scheme is focused on increasing rice production hence improving farmers' livelihoods through efficient and effective irrigation systems. He said the irrigation potential in the area is about 20,000 acres (on both banks of the river) with over 20,000 direct beneficiaries spread over Busia and Siaya counties. Manyonge said about 10 percent of irrigation potential has been utilised with the remaining portion yet to be developed. Upon completion of the Sh5.3 billion Lower Nzoia Irrigation Development Project, 10,000 acres on the left bank under the first lot will be under rice production. “The second lot will bring similar acreage under irrigation on the right bank,” Manyonge said. However, it will take three to four years before the construction of the first lot is completed with modalities of the second lot still under discussion. Manyonge said there is a need to urgently increase irrigation agriculture in the region n order to boost food production. “Due to increased demand for irrigated agriculture in the area, the scheme has been expanded on both banks of the river,” he said. They include left bank – Muluwa, Nemali, Munaka, Luwamoro, Nanjomi, Buhowa and Siamungu with Ruambwa/Mudembi on the right.  Edited by P.O