It is laughable to have a debate on changing the Constitution before it is fully implemented, Deputy Present William Ruto has said. Ruto said on Saturday priority must be given to the two-thirds gender rule so it is fully implemented before thinking of amending the supreme law. “If there is one conversation, debate or issue that must be of priority because it is not only a social, economic or human rights issue but also a constitutional right, then it is that of gender parity,” the DP said. He spoke at Burhaniya Sports Ground where he met with women from Mombasa county. The women and girls got dignity kits from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). “I dare suggest that before we have any other conversation about the Constitution, let us have a conversation about the two-thirds gender rule because it affects more than half our population. "If that is not a priority, then I don't know what is," he said. The DP's sentiments were supported by politicians who accompanied him, including women representatives Gladys Sholei (Uasin Gishu), Rehema Hassan (Tana River), Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga) and nominated Senator Christine Zawadi. Also present were MPs Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Ichung’wa Kimani (Kikuyu) and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar. Omar said women's positions are not about tokenism but rather their constitutional right. “We are not raising girls to be housewives. We are raising them to be respected leaders in the country. Your rights are constitutional," he said. Referring to Ruto as the “fifth president of Kenya”, Omar said the DP will be a president for all the people irrespective of gender, ethnicity, religion, race or stature. And for Ruto to endear himself to women, who make up 52 per cent of Kenya's population, Omar said, "I will propose that your running mate be a woman so that for the first time we lay a genuine ground for a woman to be the sixth or seventh president of this country." Nyali MP Ali criticised those calling for constitutional amendments before full implementation. He said it is a sign that some leaders are only after selfish interests and have no interests of the women at heart. “We cannot change something that has not been implemented yet. We cannot jump into changing the Constitution, yet we are not following the current one as it is,” he said. Ruto said he is raising girls in his house, thus has an idea what their interests are. "I am a father of four girls, therefore, I know what I am saying. They deserve as much a chance as any other boy in Kenya." Sholei said Kenya will only change for the better if women are empowered. “I want Parliament dissolved because it has failed to meet the two-thirds gender rule. Constitutionally, the President should dissolve this Parliament,” she said. She said having women in decision-making places is not only a human rights issue but also an economic one. “Let's support the DP so the country can move forward because he has the interests of women at heart." Zawadi, Haika, Ngirici and Rehema said women are the majority voters in the country and if they speak with one voice and support Ruto, he will clinch the presidency in 2022. "We've suffered enough. God has brought us a saviour. Let's use him," Rehema said. Ruto said women issues in Kenya need serious attention from leaders and government institutions. He urged women not to allow themselves to be misused by men. “As you have rightly put it, it is scratch my back, I scratch yours. You should not accept a one-sided conversation,” he said. The DP said the UNFPA and the government have partnered to economically empower women. “Women are the backbone of our country,” he said, adding that women have borne the brunt of the Covid-19 crisis. He expressed concern that of women and girls aged between 15 and 49, about 50 per cent have suffered sexual or gender-based violence since the outbreak of the virus in the country. “This means half of our women have been affected,” he said. In Mombasa alone, in every 72 hours, more than 360 girls suffer GBV, defilement or any other form of abuse. “We have a serious problem that must be accorded the attention it deserves by every leader and government institution in Kenya. We must protect our girls and women," Ruto said.