Youthful football administrator from Nairobi  West branch has castigated efforts to thwart the Football Kenya Federation again through the court process. Last week, the FKF Electoral board unveiled a road map for the twice cancelled polls and Hannington Kimathi said enough is enough of court battles in regards to the FKF elections. "Individuals sensing defeat have taken it upon themselves to seek for litigation in the courts in a bid to scuttle the election process instead of going to the ballot and fight it out where the winner will be determined," claimed  Kimathi. The Nairobi West Youth Representative  added: "The Sports Disputes Tribunal (SDT) has been misused by these individuals as they get entertained there in pursuing their ulterior motives and selfish ends. SDT has twice frustrated the football family from exercising their democratic right of electing their leaders." The John Ohaga-led  Tribunal nullified the first elections citing the Electoral Code was not subjected to public participation. FKF did abide by that ruling and went ahead to conduct stakeholders’ participation which kicked off the elections process for the polls which were to be held on March 27th, 2020. Back to the Tribunal after public participation was done and ahead of the March 27 polls, FKF sought for clarity on matters to do with registration of counties. "Ohaga allowed non-members to enjoin themselves in the case and a case that was supposed to guide on County Registrations is all over sudden turned into a case discussing Eligibility criteria. Of course, FKF got guidance on the registration of counties but in the same ruling, he went ahead to nullify the just concluded FKF County Elections citing irregularities in Chapter 4 of the Electoral Code," Kimathi alleged. Last week Kentice Tikolo and the electoral board released the road map where the eligibility criteria, which was a bone of contention, was amended. "But even before dust has settled, they have shifted blame from the eligibility rule and are now complaining about the voter register. The circus has to come to an end. Elections must be allowed to proceed and conclude within the shortest time possible.It’s time Ohaga denied them that leeway of using the Tribunal and order them to exploit the available FKF dispute resolution mechanisms as laid down by the federation’s constitution," said Kimathi. "The FKF Electoral Board has an Appeals Committee to hear disputes and cases arising from nominations, voters list, results and other issues that may arise from the electoral process."