Mount Kenya University has partnered with Thika Level 5 Hospital to prepare for its reopening. MKU vice chancellor Prof Stanley Waudo said all requirements as directed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19 have been met. Waudo on Monday said MKU developed the protocols in line with the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Health Covid-19 Prevention and Management guidelines. “The guidelines will form the reference point upon which MKU will conduct its activities to reduce the risk of new infections and safeguard the lives of all members of the university fraternity and the general public,” the vice chancellor said. During a tour to MKU last week to assess the state of preparedness at the institution, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha hailed the collaboration between the university and Thika Level 5 Hospital, saying it had worked positively. MKU has an anatomy laboratory located at Thika Level 5 Hospital, which also serves as the General Kago Funeral Home. Magoha noted that only two universities have so far met the requirements by the Health ministry on containment of Covid-19. They are MKU and Strathmore University. He said the two have put in place measures that guarantee social distancing and provide for fast isolation and medical attendance whenever there are suspected cases of coronavirus. “The institutions have enough automatic thermoguns and automatic handwash and sanitiser dispensers and other measures to ensure that students maintain cleanliness and social distance,” Magoha said. The CS, however, noted that government is yet to clear any university for reopening. Due to the low levels of preparedness, the ministry has pushed the reopening dates for universities to January 2021. It was earlier expected that universities would open in September. Measures MKU has so far implemented include adjusting sitting capacity in classrooms and computer laboratory to comply with social distancing. To avoid crowding within the university facilities such as libraries, the university has enhanced Wi-Fi at the study villas for students. The university has also been auditing and reorganising campus hostels to ensure compliance with social distancing. Once it opens its doors, students will only participate in sports and games that allow social distancing. The university is also planning to enforce mandatory use of face masks or face shields by learners, lecturers and non-teaching staff alongside provision of adequate hand washing and sanitiser points. Edited by EKibii