After  trailing Kakamega Homeboyz winger Peter Thiongó for the last five months, AFC Leopards can now rest easy after the player agreed to join them. The lanky winger, alongside his agent Joseph Kiarie, were holed up in a meeting with Leopards honchos on Wednesday afternoon where the player confirmed to have accepted a two-year long stay at the den. The national U-23 Emerging Stars trialist has proved a hot product in the transfer window where the senior clubs have been looking for his services. Other clubs, who were pursuing his signature, are defending champions Gor Mahia, high spending Wazito, KCB and former champions Tusker. Leopards' secretly began chasing the speedster on March 8 during the Mashemeji Derby, where the player was among the thousands of fans who watched the match from the Moi Stadium, Kasarani stands. After the duel, which was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, Thiongó had his first discussion with Leopards' chairman Dan Shikanda. Thiong'o revealed that joining Ingwe was his childhood dream and was not afraid of competition for playing time from the senior players at the club. He also admitted that Leopards' policy of giving young players a chance played a big role in convincing him to pick them ahead of the rest. Budding players who have punched above their weights at the den include former national U20 Rising Stars skipper Yusuf Mainge, Stars' trialist Austin Odhiambo,U23 forward Jaffari Owiti and former U17 goalkeeper Maxwell Mulili. The club in January also roped in the duo of Dan Musamali and Omar Somobwana from St Anthony's Boys High School and St. Peter's High School-Mumias respectively. "I have agreed to join Leopards for a period of two years although they wanted me to sign a lengthy deal.We have been in talks with them for months and after meeting my demands, I penned a pre-contract with them which also prevents me from signing another deal with another local club. I have been a big fan of the club due to their policy of giving young players a chance to showcase their talents," revealed the youngster Meanwhile, Thiong'o, a former St Joseph's Youth player,  is looking forward to his unveiling next month. The club is understood to be planning to unleash their new arsenals in their new club uniform, which Shikanda jetted out yesterday to inspect before the shipment. The club had announced that the much-awaited merchandise will be readily available at their shop by the end of the month. "They are planning to unveil me possibly at the start of next month and I can't wait to join my new teammates when action resumes," said the former Nakuru All Stars player.