Fast rising Wazito custodian Bixente Otieno has warned the club's new catch and former Gor Mahia man Peter Odhiambo to brace himself up for unrivalled competition for playing time. Wazito yesterday confirmed the arrival of the experienced Odhiambo who is their eighth signing from the time the transfer window opened. “We can confirm the acquisition of goalkeeper Odhiambo from Gor. A serial league winner, He comes in to beef up our goalkeeping department ahead of the 2020/21 Kenyan Premier League campaign. He has previously played for KPL side, Mathare United as well,” said the club on its official pages Otieno, admitted that Odhiambo was and he is still his mentor but warned him to prepare for a gruelling competition for the starting roles. Otieno said he is  tired of  warming the bench and will be seeking to establish himself as the first choice goalkeeper in the new season. “He is among the goalkeepers who have been mentoring me at the Makongeni grounds and it feels good to have him as teammate. However, he should know that walking to the starting team is not a guarantee. I warmed the bench for the better part of last season but I am ready to start in the new season,” said the national U20,Rising Stars' player. After his unveiling at the club's offices, Odhiambo expressed optimism in guiding the club to achieve their target. “I feel good to be here and I want to thank God for this opportunity. I urge the supporters to back us heading into the new season and we will deliver the goodies,” he said. The club's goalkeepers' coach Elias Otieno heaped praises on Odhiambo whom he said they had worked together at MYSA before. He said they will rely heavily on his experience at the continental level to muscle for trophies. “Odhiambo is a keeper I have known and worked with. I coached him while at MYSA in 2009 when he was a little kid and I have watched him develop to become one of the best keepers in the country,” he stated. “He brings quality and experience in the team. He has that winning mentality which is also very important. He has featured in the Caf Champions League and Confederation’s Cup and played against English Premier League side Everton. All that experience has helped make him a better goalkeeper,” he added. “He has a good attitude. When he is playing or not he remains positive. His presence will also be important for a young keeper like Otieno because he will be in a position to learn from him,” he concluded.