 Megascope Healthcare Limited is demanding a written apology from Nation Media Group for "highly damaging allegations" that were made in an expose on alleged theft of Covid-19 funds and donations. In a letter through Njoroge Regeru and Company Advocates and copied to the Media Council of Kenya, Megascope wants NMG to also commit in writing that the media house will stop any further publication of defamatory articles. The demand is in response to an investigative story aired on NTV on August 16 titled "Covid-19 Millionares." The story was done by investigative journalist Dennis Okari. Megascope wants NMG to publish an unreserved, unconditional and effectual apology approved by a lawyer on behalf of Megascope, and publication of the same apology on NTV prime time news bulletin and across all NMG's social media platforms at the company's own cost. The letter also demands that all contents of the expose in any form or shape be pulled down from all social media platforms. Megascope said the allegations made against it have no basis of truth. Megascope has also maintained that they were not contacted for comment on the matter prior to the airing of the story. “The programme that is accessible to hundreds of millions of readers and viewers locally and globally continues to be viewed electronically throughout the world through your social media platforms whose viewership continues to rise with each passing hour,” the firm said. It added, "The programme aired and continued to air various allegations, insinuations and innuendos of and concerning our client which were entirely false and had no basis or foundation whatsoever.” According to Megascope, the allegations were published and aired sensationally, maliciously and recklessly without regard for the substantial loss, damage and injury that would be occasioned, and has indeed been occasioned to the firm. "The programme manifested extreme malice and ill will towards our client and as such was wholly lacking in professionalism and illustrated no attention to the principles of responsible and ethical journalism," the demand letter reads. Megascope has distanced itself from the allegations raised, noting that it was never contracted by the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to clear the consignment of donations on behalf of the agency. The company said it did not receive any donations from China or anywhere else for distribution to Kenyans. “Our client did not receive any masks or any other material whatsoever from Jack Ma or any other donor for distribution to Kenyans. Having not received any kits from any country or any donor for distribution, our client did not divert, resell or misappropriate any kits as alleged or at all.” Megascope dismissed claims that the company's directors are political fanciers as alleged in the report. The lawyers said their client has not manipulated any system and is neither a fraudster, looter or thief. “The malicious intent of the programme is evident from the fact in making the scurrilous and highly damaging allegations that you did against our client, you offered no evidence whatsoever to the viewers in support of the highly emotive allegations of great public interest to Kenyans.” The company said it has built its reputation in the health sector over the years but all that has been irredeemably damaged by the false and reckless allegations. It said the report has exposed it and continues to expose it to ridicule, humiliation, hatred, scandal, odium and contempt in the eyes of all members of the society globally as is evidenced by the ever-growing adverse mentions of the client across various online platform. “It is evident, however, that in your determination to make a quick profit out of false, scandalous and sensational allegations against our client, you could not have been deterred by such considerations,” the letter reads. The company had given NMG until Friday August 21 to respond failure to which it will institute legal proceedings.  