Did some MCAs of the troubled Nairobi County Assembly retreat for a brief party along a Thika Road hotel shortly after speaker Beatrice Elachi threw in the towel? Our small bird confirms a cross-section of ward reps celebrated the exit of the embattled speaker by toasting and tossing down glasses of wine over nyama choma, despite the ban on the sale of alcohol. The venue is owned by a city politician who has been a top gun, pushing for Elachi's removal. The party was held in a hurry within two hours. MCAs were allowed to leave after they agreed on a rendezvous outside Nairobi in the coming weeks. Is Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss Mohamed Badi (pictured) aware of cartels saying they work with NMS to mint millions of shillings from contractors and suppliers? Well, Corridors understands a clique of brokers has been demanding money from the desperate contractors who have not been paid for years. The cartel is promising to facilitate the contractors’ payments by NMS. The clique is also said to be pushing for all pending bills incurred by the county government to behandled by NMS. The contractors, some offering critical services of garbage collection, are now threatening to down their tools, if the cartels are not wiped out. Still on Nairobi county assembly, did Beatrice Elachi meet a senior national government official days before her resignation as speaker, citing threats to her life. She is said to have held a secret meeting with the official at a hotel along Denis Pritt Road a few days ago. The secret meeting could have sealed Elachi's fate after she agreed to step down. There are claims the ex-speaker could have been offered a silver-lining exit that would keep her in the political limelight in coming days. Only time will tell. A senior security official at Vigilance House is reportedly refusing his transfer to a county in Northern Kenya. The official, who fell out with his seniors over administration issues, was alerted to the intention to move him outside the Police Headquarters but refused to move. However, feeling the transfer, although of the same rank, amounted to demotion, the officer has pledged to stay put. He has turned up the heat on his seniors. The officer has maintained he is qualified to remain in his current posting, despite instructions recommending his exit from the headquarters. Some junior staff have been taken aback by the boldness of the officer to refuse a transfer order. They believe the man is enjoying protection from higher quarters outside Vigilance House. The power games continue to unfold.