The government is exploring sourcing for medicines and other health products from other countries in the wake of export restrictions from India and China. There are also plans to ban export of medicines from Kenya to other COMESA markets amid fears of dwindling stocks in the country. The move is aimed at ensuring stocks are available in preparedness for any eventuality. India, the world’s largest producer and exporter of drugs, has now restricted the export of drugs as factories continue to be affected by the COVID-19 epidemic. Kenya is one of the countries likely to be affected as almost two thirds of medicines used in the country are imported either from India or China. Reports indicate that already the prices of basic generics have gone up by more than 50 per cent in the past three weeks. “Before even the emergency response committee was put in place we had started discussing as a board how we can come in. We came up with 10 key points among them promoting self-sufficiency through regulation of importation and exportation of healthcare products and technologies by the local industry,” the board’s chairman Jackson Kioko said. Kioko spoke on Monday during the launch of the PPB 2020-2025 strategic plan at their offices in Nairobi. “As a country, we have not reported any positive case and that speaks a lot about our level of vigilance. We have the necessary commodities to control this virus. I hope we don’t get to a point that we don’t have to contain the community transmission,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. Despite supplying 50 per cent of the COMESA market and 75 per cent of the East African Community market, foreign firms mostly Asian, supply 70 per cent of drugs worth more than Sh100 billion in the local market, as public health facilities shun local drug makers over quality and price concerns. India’s pharmaceutical companies source about 70 per cent of their ingredients from Chinese factories, many of which have been shut for weeks owing to the coronavirus outbreak. The closure of airports in China has also dealt a blow to efforts to have supplies reach India. According to Kenya Pharmaceutical Distributors Association chair Kamamia Murichu, there are less than 50 factories in Kenya that manufacture pharmaceutical products. “To safeguard our country, the government has to come up with policies and guidelines that will ensure we don’t export everything we make. We must also ring fence to protect our population from anything that may happen,” Murichu said. He added: “We know we don’t have any positive cases that have been reported but it is important that we have enough stocks in case of any eventuality.” Kenya is one of the highly regulated markets when it comes to importation of pharmaceutical products but there is a leeway such as parallel importation should such a scenario arise. “We require to look beyond our traditional suppliers so as to meet any shortage that may come, as long as those suppliers are in a position to meet the requirements that have been set up by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board.” Murichu said the government now has an option of importing from countries in Europe and others such as Parkistan, Russia and South Africa. Edited by Henry Makori