"Most of the weird orders that end up working against the interests of children have been issued by young unmarried female magistrates." So says Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma. In a radical proposal, he said on Thursday that single or unmarried magistrates should be prohibited from hearing child custody cases. The MP was appearing before the National Assembly’s Labour and Social Welfare Committee on Thursday while it considered the Children's (Amendment) Bill, 2019.   The cases, he said, should be the preserve of experienced senior magistrates with families who understand the issue of children. “We need people who know what a child is to preside over these cases. We need people who are mature and knows what is in the best interest of the child,” Kaluma said. He said some weird orders on child custody are issued by "these single magistrates who just graduated from the law school”. Then came his pièce de résistance about incompetent "young unmarried female magistrates". Kaluma also questioned why such sensitive matters as the welfare of children should be entrusted to lower courts. He proposed such cases should be a preserve senior magistrates and above and not junior inexperienced magistrates. The lawmaker cited a January case in Mwingi where a 10–year-old girl broke into tears after an order was issued in favour of her mother in a protracted child custody case. The girl protested the court's decision to transfer her from her father in whose care she had been since she was one-and-a-half years old. Session chair Joyce Chepkoech, who is also the committee vice chairperson, committed the proposals to the committee’s legal team. The Children's (Amendment) Bill, 2019 seeks, among other things, to among invest equal responsibility for parental care and protection of the child in both the father and the mother, whether or not they are married to each other. The Bill proposes to amend Section 24 to compel both the mother and father to take responsibility for a child. The Bill says neither the father nor the mother of the child shall have a superior right or claim against the other in the exercise of parental responsibility. (Edited by V. Graham) 