Cutting a woman’s clitoris cannot be compared to ear-piercing, the Rev Timothy Njoya told a Nairobi court on Thursday. Njoya, who was testifying in a case seeking to decriminalise Female Genital Mutilation, praised his mother for being the first woman in her community to run away from female circumcision. The retired minister of the Presbyterian Church of East Africa said his mother woke up at 2am on January 5, 1925, and ran away to retain the dignity of her private parts. He said piercing the ear is ornamental and it does not bear harmful side effects as FGM. The FGM case has been brought to court by Dr Tatu Kamau. Female circumcision, the renowned cleric said, was an oppressive tool devised and perpetuated by the patriarchal society as a manifestation of male dominance over women and children which the reverend said should not be the case in the modern world. “It’s a false belief that female circumcision would transform childhood into adulthood. It consequently exposed victims to sexual exploitation.” Njoya, who has written on the subject extensively, said PCEA banned clitoridectomy for its members and urged all other churches to outlaw the same. Some of his works include We the People, Divine Tag on Democracy, Delusive Masculinity and The Crisis of Explosive Masculinity. Yet to be published is The Divinity of the Clitoris. Female circumcision in its earliest forms, he said, was practised as a substitute for human sacrifice. It was also practised as an aspect of slavery of black women by their Egyptian masters. Njoya told Justices Lydia Achode, Margaret Muigai and Kanyi Kimondo that the FGM was originally meant to enforce a preconceived moral code against women by men. Since then, it has been carried out as an outward manifestation of fidelity by women in matrimonial relations. “I have studied cultural practices of various communities and in all the communities where the practice has been carried out, its main purpose or function has been to enforce matrimonial fidelity against women by men.” According to Njoya, the practice has no health benefits and it harms girls and women in many ways. “It involves removing and damaging healthy and normal female genital tissue, and interferes with the natural functions of girls’ and women's bodies,” he said. A woman has no right to modify her body and everything should be left as God intended it to be, he said. Cultural chief Ole Lelein Kanunga said the Maa community has abandoned the practice. He said he has witnessed many women and girls die from FGM complications. Edited by R.Wamochie