Fredrick Ouma Oluga is among 37 people identified by the government for deployment to the newly established Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Oluga has been seconded to serve as the Chief Officer for Health at NMS. He has been the secretary-general at the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union until his new appointment to the capital. Following his new role, Dr Chibanzi Mwachonda takes over as the KMPDU secretary general. Mwachonda has been Oluga's deputy at KMPDU. Oluga has been KMPDU secretary general for five years and played a big role in the 2017 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) which was registered at the Labour Court. He was also elected in February 2019 as president of all health workers in the world. In other changes, Michael Ochieng has been deployed from the State Department Transport and Public Works to NMS Transport and Public Works Secretary. Josephine Kibaru Mbae has been moved from the Ministry of Health to NMS Health Secretary. Dismas O. Ogot has also been moved from the National Treasury and will be the NMS Senior Deputy Director Accountant General and will play the same role with George Kihara Gichuru who has also been moved from the National Treasury. Johnson Njuguna, Constance Mwikamba and Daniel Karani Gichuki have been moved from National Treasury and will be the Assistant Accountant Generals at the NMS. The identified persons have been directed to report at the NMS Director General's office immediately but not later than April 3, 2020. Nairobi Metropolitan Service headed by Major General Mohamed Abdalla Badi was created on March 18 in a ceremony presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the State House. The Major General was appointed to his new role last week by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The NMS team has been tasked with streamlining urban renewal housing projects in Pangani and Jevanjee whose contracts were awarded in 2018 but are yet to kick off. The new team was also tasked with actualizing the Nairobi City Railway Master Plan that seeks to create and redevelop 425 acres around the Nairobi Central Railway Station with the aim of creating a world-class multi-model in the Central Business District. The Badi-lead team was also charged with ensuring that garbage was collected effectively and efficiently to restore Nairobi's Green City Under the Sun status. NMS was also directed to crack down on illegal dumpsites and ensure that industries and restaurants did not discharge effluent into rivers. In 100 days, the team is expected to gazette the legal solid waste dumpsites for both public and private solid waste collectors. In the same timeline, the NMS will be expected to come up with strategies of equitable water distribution under the rationing programme.