Kenya’s political space has grown tremendously over the years and with that comes liberation from age-old political tentacles that have for long stifled our democracy. It was therefore baffling to read an article by one Michael Waikenda published on March 3, 2020 edition of The Star, calling for the resignation of Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen over his move to question the processes involved in the handing over of some functions from the Nairobi County Government to the National Government. First, being a civil servant in the Office of the President which is the executive arm of government, Waikenda is out of order to question a member of the Senate - itself an independent arm of government. Worse still, his comparison of Senate Majority Leader to a serpent was not only cheap and preposterous but also utterly disrespectful to the Office that he holds, the Jubilee Party which chose him, the great people of Elgeyo Marakwet that he represents and the people of Kenya as a whole. Secondly, the writer exudes ignorance of how political organs workby failing to recognise that Majorityand Minority leaders in the Senate and National Assembly represent the interests and position of their parties – reached by the National Executive Committee or the Party Parliamentary Group – and not the interest or position of an individual party member or official. Thirdly, the writer should know that one does not lose his conscience, his ability to think for themselves, or his Constitutional rights and freedoms upon the assumption of leadership. Article 96 of the Constitution explicitly outlines the Senate’s mandate to protect counties and county governments. This begs the question, what did the framers of the Constitution have in mind? Whom or what did they want the Senate to protect the counties from? I ask. Here is the fact: the greatest threat to counties and county governments is the national government which has, even up to now, inexplicably tried to hold on to some devolved functions and the resources thereof. The school of thought that Senate Majority leader must kowtow to the National Government or the Presidency is always perpetuated by centralists who are obsessed with resting powers in one office – the State House. Unlike the United States, Kenya’s devolution was derived from a centralised system, which is still occupied by saboteurs who are holding on to devolved functions and resources and starving off county governmentswith the aim of seeing them fail so that they can take Kenya back to a centralised system of government. Majority LeaderMurkomen therefore, has a primary responsibility of leading the Senate to defend counties from the onslaught of the national government and people like Waikenda. In fact, it was lack of bold and courageous legislators like Senator Murkomen in the first Senate (in the ‘60s) that led to the decimation of federal system of government and the eventual winding up of counties. If the incessant attempts to muzzle Murkomen and other outspoken Senators and stop them from defending county governments succeeds, we will likely witness history repeating itself. Far from what the writer suggests, Murkomen’s position in the floor of the House should represent resolutions of the Party’s National Executive Committee or the Party’s Parliamentary Group. For some reason, though, Jubilee Party has not had a Parliamentary Group meeting for two and a half years, and has essentially been cruising on autopilot. It is therefore only accurate to assume that Murkomen did not know what the position of the party was on the matter of transfer of functions from the Nairobi County Government to the National Government. Fourthly, the transfer of function from county to national government is not a partisan, single-person issue; it is a matter of national interest and must involve all stakeholders. Murkomen’s statement therefore must have been made based on the legal understanding that neither Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko nor the Cabinet Secretary for Devolution Eugene Wamalwa have the powers to bind a nation or county government to a deal of such magnitude without a resolution of relevant county and national organs plusthe involvement of the people through public participation. The decision of the Governor is not the decision of the County and its constituents. The fact that the National Government has now begun the process of public participation, days after the takeover, is a knee-jerk reaction that signifies an oblique admission of fault. Fifthly, the comparative example given by Waikenda juxtaposing the United Kingdom and the United States to the Kenyan scenario is misguided. This is like comparing apples to oranges. Unlike the ruling parties in the developed countries that have robust democracies, Jubilee Party has run its affairs in utter disregard for party democracy and party Constitution. The references that Waikenda has made to substantiate his allegation that Murkomen has gone against party lines are therefore based on non-existent party resolutions. How can he accuse Murkomen of contravening the Jubilee Party position on the handing over of some of Nairobi County government’s functions to the National Government, BBI, and lifestyle audit when the party has no formal position - known or otherwise – on these issues? Can Mr. Waikenda make available to the Kenyan public any party resolutions orformal position on these issues, or any notice of meeting that was called to discuss these matters? I bet he can’t. And even if we were to consider the writer’s assumptions (for argument’s sake) it would be a falsification of facts to claim that the United States Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell never criticises his party leader and President of the United States, Donald Trump. In drawing this conclusion, the writer deliberately chose to ignore the several cases where McConnell and Trump have clashed, in private and in public, over the President’s public pronouncements, and his position on critical issues of national and international interest. Case in point, in the wake of a march by neo-Nazis in Charlottesville and the clashes that ensued, President Trump said: “There were fine people from both sides”, leading to open condemnation from McConnell, who responded that: “There are no good neo-Nazis, and those who espouse their views are not supporters of American ideals and freedoms.” The US Senate Majority leader has also criticised Trump over what he termed as “excessive expectations” at an event in Northern Kentucky after Trump accused him of underperforming, saying he (Trump) had no idea of how government and the Senate works. McConnell would again blast Trump late last year over his decision to withdraw U.S. troops from northern Syria, calling the move "a grave strategic mistake". And so on and so forth. Furthermore, it not always that Murkomen differs with the Executive. In fact, I would go out on a limp and say that when it comes to voting for government Bills, Murkomen has always sided with the President. Sixth, Waikenda’s claim that Murkomen represented Governor Sonko in court against the President’s wish is baseless and merely sensational. As he has openly stated before, Murkomen was present in Court during Sonko’s prosecution as a defender of devolution in the same manner that President Kenyatta in Sonko’s defence summoned members of the Nairobi County Assembly to State House to implore them to abandon their initial plans to impeach the Governor over allegations of corruption and abuse of office. Even if Waikenda is right on Murkomen’s relations to Sonko, how come he is quick to condemn the Senate Majority leader, and spare Murkomen’s boss and party leader Uhuru Kenyatta? Is it that when Murkomen defends Sonko it is considered conflict of interest but when the President - who has given countless speeches on his commitment to fight corruption - does it, it is considered a matter of national interest? What a paradox! From where I sit, Murkomen iswithin his rightto stay true to the oath of office that he took and defend the Constitution in the Senate as he did with the issue of Nairobi-takeover. President Kenyatta has always emphasized that this country needs leaders who can stand by the truth even if they stand alone. Murkomen is aproper exemplification of such crop leaders, and because of his boldnessand willingness to protect the interests of Kenyans, any party leader or prospective presidential candidate who means well for this country should be fighting to have him in their corner. Having said that, it is clear that Mr. Waikenda(who was recently hovering around Parliament lobbying for the impeachment of Governor Waititu despite being a public servant) is nothing but a gun-for-hire who is being used to push someone else’s agenda. And like it is said of a dog that barks, who is the owner!? As a civil servant, where does the writer get the audacity to write this kind of denigrating article about a man of the stature of the Senate Majority leader and an elected representative of the people? Isn’t this a blatant violation of the codes of conduct for public servants? Why does the writer express misplaced contempt for Senator Murkomen for doing his job of defending the Constitution and for voicing the concerns of the people of Kenya? By propagating such a divisive narrative, Mr. Waikenda is not only trying to create rifts within the Jubilee Party but also turning into an agent of division headquartered at the Office of President - an office that should otherwise be a symbol of unity. This is a matter that should catch the attention of Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, and attract his immediate suspension from working in the Office of the President, as he awaits a stern disciplinary action. That is the only way to show that Kenya is country which observes values and principles that govern public service!