Kwale government has assured residents that the county is well prepared to handle the Covid-19 disease. Through the county press, Governor Salim Mvurya and his deputy Fatuma Achani said isolation rooms have been set aside in subcounty hospitals. "We have arranged four quarantine areas in our Msambweni Referral Hospital, Kwale, Kinango and Lunga Lunga health facilities," Achani said. The statement comes even as residents said the county is taking the matter lightly. Led by Suleiman Sauti, they said other counties are busy taking precaution 'while leaders in Kwale remain silent on the issue'. "On television, we see Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho moving from one hospital to another ensuring protective gears and equipment have been installed but on our side governor is not doing anything " he said. Sauti said even as the number of coronavirus infections is reported in Kenya, the county has not tried to create a campaign to sensitise the public on the matter. But Achani said they had healthcare providers trained to combat the virus while preventing and attending to suspected patients. She said they have improved community hygiene in all the health centres and county offices by providing sanitisers in the exit and entrance points. On his part, Mvurya said a response team is on standby and ready to act over any alarm raised. "We have our team ready for this pandemic all over our subcounties," he said. The residents had complained there were no sanitisers. They said nightclubs in Ukunda are still vibrant even after the government banned public gatherings. Shaban Jirani said the security wing must be alert because people might come from other counties and spread the virus. "Mombasa is on complete lockdown and in Kwale bars are still operating. This might force people to shift to this area and infect us if they carry the disease," he said. On Monday, Matuga deputy county commissioner Isaak Keter banned all the muguka joints to contain the spread of coronavirus. Edited by R.Wamochie