Imagine a police officer known to you sprays your loved one with bullets and then forces you to pay Sh3, 000 for every bullet fired. He stops you from holding burial meetings and threatens to kill you and your entire family if you dare report the case to any station, any agency. In some sections of Kenya, should your relative mysteriously disappear they may start searching for them in a forest near you or, at best, in a mortuary, The bodies are often badly mutilated with torture and strangulation marks. These are the harrowing experiences many poor Kenyans, especially those living in slums and informal settlements in Nairobi and other major towns, are subjected to at the hands of killer cops. The police officers are terrorising poor slum dwellers and villagers, arresting, torturing and killing young people at will. Their targets are young people aged between 14 and 30 years. The officers have formed a gang that appears well coordinated around the country. On Wednesday, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority and Amnesty International, the IMLU and Society Justice Center working groups narrated to the Senate Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee how officers operate with impunity — kill and demand money from the families of their victims. “Once your son or husband has been killed, you are not supposed to conduct burial meetings because you will be denied a permit. Some families are forced to pay for the bullets that were used, they tell you seven bullets were used and they ask you to pay Sh3,000 per bullet. You pay to the police,” Society Justice Center coordinator Wilfred Olal said. Olal said arbitrary arrests have become the order of the day in slums with victims being detained in rented torture cells. Their families are asked to pay at least Sh1,000 to secure their release. If they are unable to raise the money, the men are arraigned on trumped-up charges or at worst, executed. the Independent Policing Oversight Authority has documented 210 cases of police executions and forced disappearances in the last 15 months. Most of the cases — 45 — happened in Nairobi’s slums of Dandora, Mathare, Huruma, Kwa Njenga and Kariobangi. Ipoa and rights groups told MPs the police stations where torture and killings are rampant are Nyeri police station, Eldoret Central police station, Isiolo Central police station, Nyali police station, Dandora, Pangani, Huruma, Mathare, Kariobangi, Mukuru Kwa Njenga and Kamukunji stations in Nairobi. According to Amnesty International records, 107 people were either killed or disappeared last year alone. Fourteen cases have been recorded this year. The Independent Legal Medico Unit (IMLU) places the deaths caused by police at close to 1,000 between 2015 and 2019. Ipoa chairperson Anne Makori said that the authority has completed investigations into 110 cases over the period. Of these, 75 are currently before the courts, 34 are pending at ODPP and 20 files are set to be submitted to ODPP. She added there been six convictions over the period, with two former policemen being sentenced to life imprisonment. “The Authority has been making relevant and necessary recommendations, including prosecutions and disciplinary of culpable officers, and on improvement of policing services. However, there had been restrained progress, the resulting being continuous abuse of the use of force and firearms, occasioning deaths,” she said. The attributed the slow progress in investigating and prosecuting cases to a shortage of investigators — only 70 are available to oversight more than 100,000 officers — lack of specific regulations on the use of force and firearms and lack of other enforcement agencies. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said the murders and disappearances increased by 48 per cent in the last one year. While eight bodies that were discovered in Tsavo West National Park last month, Khalid said the rogue police are torturing their victims and mutilating their bodies before dumping them in forests. “Last month, in Makueni eight bodies were found at Tsavo Park, four bodies were identified, not killing but the manner in which it is done — the four bodies had serious torture marks, strangulation indicating the use of wires and pieces of clothes tucked inside their mouths,” he said. The organisations called for a judicial commission of inquiry into the increasing extrajudicial killings in the country. The Senate JLAC committee chaired by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei is probing the police executions following petitions by several senators. Last month Nairobi Senator Johnston Sakaja sought a statement on the floor following the recent wave of arbitrary extrajudicial killings of innocent young Kenyans by police officers across in the city. “It is sad and totally unacceptable for us to continue condoning the level of impunity that is being displayed by our police officers in broad daylight. The mission of our National Police Service is very clear; to provide professional and people-centred service through community partnerships and upholding the rule of law for a safe and secure society,” he said. Amnesty International's Kenya executive director Irungu Houghton said extrajudicial executions, unlawful use of lethal force and forced disappearances continue to undermine the rule of law. “Nairobi and the Coastal counties contribute the highest incidents of police brutality and violence. We require Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to provide police data on police killings and enforced disappearances in Kenya and to respond to the Missing Voices annual figures on police killings and enforced disappearances,” Houghton said. Further, he wants Mutyambai to provide a status update on the progress of investigations and prosecution of four police officers linked to excessive use of force at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology demonstrations and other demonstrations. “We expect an investigation into the circumstances around the deaths of persons during demonstrations and peaceful protest since the 2017 elections as documented by three Kenya National Commission on Human Rights reports during that period on excessive use of force and sexual and gender-based violence,” he said.