Kisumu will have a radiotherapy centre in the next two years if a Sh300 million project by the county government is implemented according to plan. Construction of the Kisumu Comprehensive Cancer Centre project will start soon. On Wednesday, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's administration advertised a tender. The advert came after the final approval of architectural drawings by the International Atomic Energy Agency last month. It will house two bunkers and a brachytherapy unit. Besides Kenyatta National Hospital, it will be the only radiotherapy centre offering linac services. This development will position the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital as a premier facility in the region. It will offer radiotherapy, chemotherapy and palliative care services. This is a plus as a Kisumu population-based cancer registry was launched last week to establish the disease burden in the county and help in identifying and tracking the impact of different clinical initiatives. The centre will be stationed at the Kisumu Kenya Medical Research Institute and will offer measures to improve cancer care. The national and county governments will use the data to come up with policies and guidelines for treatment and prevention. Nyong’o earlier said phase one of the project will be completed in two years. The county intends to have a Sh1 billion facility in five years with the support of development partners. Nyong’o, himself a cancer survivor, decried the lack of specialised cancer care countrywide. "Despite 60 per cent of cancer patients requiring radiotherapy management, there is only one public hospital offering radiotherapy management — Kenyatta National Hospital," he said. "For a long time, our people have had to travel long distances to seek cancer treatment at very high costs that force them to dig deeper into their already starved financial coffers." The county chief said the radiotherapy centre will make Kisumu a focal point for comprehensive oncology management in the Western circuit and other Lake Region Economic Bloc counties. He said his administration's emphasis will be the reduction of cancer incidence and deaths through access to population-based primary prevention, early detection, quality diagnostics, treatment and palliative care. "It is the priority of my government to expand access to cancer screening services to ensure cases are identified early enough," he said. Cancer impacts negatively on the economy through increased medical costs, lost income, and the financial, physical and emotional burden on families and caregivers. In Kenya, about 40,000 new cases and 28,000 deaths occur each year. This makes it the third leading cause of mortality, accounting for seven per cent of all annual deaths. Cancer is one of the leading causes of ill health and deaths worldwide, with about 14 million new cases reported annually. Globally, every one in six deaths is due to cancer. (Edited by F'Orieny)