The Ministry of Health has declined a request by people living with HIV to give them enough antiretroviral drugs to last at least four months. They made the request to avoid possible exposure to coronavirus in clinics where they pick their medicines every month. Head of the Network of People with HIV Kenya Nelson Otuoma said many HIV patients are already fighting tuberculosis and their immune systems will not handle a respiratory disease like coronavirus. However, acting director general for health Patrick Amoth told the Star such a measure is not necessary. "There is nothing to warrant that at the moment," he said.  Amoth said the government will review measures depending on how the coronavirus crisis unfolds. The people with HIV made their request through a letter to Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. "Our concern is mainly that over one million people collect ARVs in different health facilities and some of the facilities are always crowded. If people get medicines for like four to six months rather than per month, that will reduce crowding," said Otuoma, head of Nephak. The request was made after civil society leaders met in Nairobi last week, and deliberated what to do in case a severe lockdown is enforced. People living with HIV have to take ARVs every day to stay alive. "We face a disproportionate risk of exposure to the coronavirus because of the work and roles we play in daily life, including working closely with the health facilities that will be serving as Covid-19 isolation facilities," Otuoma said. “Also because the HIV programme is dependent on health facilities, they can easily be disrupted when a new threat like coronavirus sets in." Otuoma said the Ministry of Health through the National Aids and STIs Control Programme must adopt a differentiated service delivery model that supports dispensing of enough medicines that a patient can take for several months. He said the coronavirus fear, anxiety, and misinformation is not new. "This is how the world received HIV and in as much as science has now given the world the tools to prevent, treat and manage HIV, the epidemic is still a big threat because of the stigma associated with it," he said. Kenya now has seven coronavirus patients. Health CS Kagwe said at least 11 other patients were being isolated, as their tests were processed. HIV-Aids remains Kenya's biggest health crisis with 1.5 million people living with the virus, and 100 people more getting infected every day. About 69 people are killed by Aids-related illnesses every day in Kenya. (edited by o. owino)