Water companies in Kiambu have been asked to offer the commodity to everybody, including bill defaulters whose supplies have been disconnected. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi also urged the companies to come up with strategies that guarantee their customers supplies as the public heeds the government's directive to observe hygiene and stay at home. The lawmaker said on Monday that doing so will go a long way in supporting government efforts of reducing the spread of Covid-19. The legislator said he intends to talk to water companies in his constituency on the possibility of them offering free water for several months. "Soon and very soon we shall have talks, but I am not sure how we shall talk because gatherings have been banned. "However, I plead with them to support our people who are their customers so that they can wash their hands regularly as the country fights the spread of the coronavirus," he said. With easily accessible water, Mwathi said, people will not only wash hands but also clothes, bedding, utensils, furniture and homes regularly. He said he will try and ensure that his constituents have hand sanitisers and soaps. "It is sad to learn that people have piped water but it has been disconnected owing to non-payment of bills. Others are suffering because of leaking pipes that can be repaired," Mwathi said. This is the time to stand and be counted with the common man, according to the legislator. "Everyone needs to be extra careful and assist one another so that nobody contracts the coronavirus since it is not treatable, nor is there a vaccine against it. But with determination, people can control its infection," he said. Mwathi said many people in different villages are moving around fetching water, even as the government urges them to reduce movement and stay at home. Kabuku resident Samuel Mburu said they have been  experiencing a water shortage for two weeks and called for government intervention. "Much as we fear the disease owing to the number of deaths and infections reported daily, how can one stay at home without water?" he asked. Ngarariga resident Josephine Njoki urged the government to set aside money to fund the supply of water so that even people in the remotest villages have water without travelling far to fetch it and mingling with other villagers. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe never spares a moment in his daily public updates on Covid-19 to urge the public to wash hands with running water and soap regularly to stop the spread of coronavirus. - mwaniki fm