Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito has opposed plans to fence Kakamega forest, saying erecting such a barrier will expose residents to electrocution. He said he will lead residents to uproot the fence if authorities dare erect it around the forest. The entire perimeter of the Kakamega forest is approximately 117km with part of that length lying in Shinyalu constituency. Last week, Kenya Forest Service chief conservator Julius Kamau said plans to fence off the country's only rain were in top gear. But Kizito on Wednesday said due diligence was not done. “You should never dare think about fencing Kakamega Forest. We are not animals so that you put an electric fence that any time we are moving we get electrocuted. If you dare put a fence, Shinyalu people and I shall uproot it,” Kizito said The proposed fencing of the forest which will be jointly undertaken by the County Government of Kakamega, Kenya Forest Service (KFS), Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and the Rhino Ark Charitable Trust. Kakamega environment executive Baraza Wangwe said all the required procedures have been done and that the fencing will start in April. “Let me confirm that there has been serious consultations within the neighborhood of the forest and that there was a validation of the report that constituted the environmental and social impact assessments," Wangwe told the Star on the phone. He criticised Kizito saying "the MP should know that over 80 per cent of the community want the forest fenced.” Wangwe said the project will cost Sh480 million with the county contributing Sh100 million. The rest will be funded by the other partners including the national government. But Kizito insisted his people had not been consulted and maintained residents were opposed to the plan. He said the forest was safely protected by the locals and has never been encroached "so fencing it is a waste of resources." “We cannot want to fence the forest now because that forest has a proper relationship, cultural relationship, social relationship, economic relationship and geographical relationship with our people. We shall protect our forest and conserve it ourselves,” Kizito said. He spoke at Khayega Primary School. He said the funds should be used to hire youths to guard the forest instead of fencing it. (edited by peter obuya)