Makueni police are holding two traders who had shifted their bars to their houses after the government announced closure of all bars in measures to contain the coronavirus, The women were found selling alcoholic drinks in unlicensed premises and against the ban on Friday evening. County commissioner Maalim Mohammed said one was arrested in Wote town while the other was arrested in Nziu market along Emali Ukia road. Three men who were found drinking on the premises were also arrested. Last week, the County Emergency Response Committee restricted bars to operate from 5pm to 11pm before the national government ordered their complete shutdown. “The law is very clear that alcohol should be displayed and sold in a licensed premise. The two were breaking the law  by turning their houses into bars. We will charge them,” Maalim told the Star. The administrator was joined by Police Commander Joseph Napeiyan, Health CEC Andrew Mulwa and assembly Speaker Douglas Mbilu. He said the two rooms where the drinks were being sold do not have space for social distancing, exposing the patrons to the virus should there be a case among them. The two were arrested after a tip-off by members of the community. Police intensified their patrols on Friday night to ensure curfew compliance. A spot check by the Star established that only police vehicles were patrolling the town and its environs. “We have spread eight teams to ensure the curfew is enforced," Napeiyan said. The police boss said they were satisfied that residents had complied and the streets were completely vacated by 7pm. Only drivers of vehicles for essential services were allowed to drive along the Nairobi – Mombasa Highway. Maalim said the county response team had spread its operations to the village level across  through the Nyumba Kumi Initiative and village administration under the county government. “We have reactivated the community policing agents who will be assisting our chiefs and their assistants in disseminating the information on coronavirus as well as give us information on those violating state directives," he said. He said ward representatives will be required to sit in meetings at their level to help national government administrators policies and directives are implemented. Makueni has 37 suspected coronavirus cases in self-isolation. The CEC called on residents to comply with the government's directives saying the county was at a higher risk due to it’s proximity to Kajiado that has recorded a positive case. “Another factor that puts us into danger is the Mombasa- Nairobi Highway that links Mombasa, Kilili and Nairobi counties that have been marked as hotspots of the virus,” Mulwa said. Edited by R.Wamochie