Most political leaders in the North Rift region are at home avoiding public appearances in line with the government directive to observe social distancing and stay home. Except for Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and Moiben MP Sila Tiren few politicians have come out to strongly mobilise Kenyans and residents to adhere to guidelines on controlling the spread of the coronavirus. To a larger extent, Mandago and CEO of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa have taken the lead in coordinating activities and plans to control the virus. While Dr Aruasa has been leading the experts especially medics involved in the fight, Mandago has been personally supervising decongestion in Eldoret town and even personally enforcing the measures. He has been seen in Eldoret town personally stopping and arresting boda boda operators who carry more than one passenger and also going around market centres to ensure residents obey the curfew and keep their distance. “When we tell you people to keep home and also obey the curfew, it’s not a joke. This is a matter of life and death because the coronavirus is real,” Mandago told residents of Chepkanga market on Monday. A stray lion had last month caused panic in the area forcing residents to remain indoors most of the time until it was captured by KWS officers. “Rumours of a lion being around kept most of you indoors for over a week. I wonder why it’s now difficult for you to do the same now that the government is warning you about this killer virus," Mandago said. He asked residents not to assume they can use busaa and chang'aa brews to cure coronavirus the same way they feed cattle with busaa to cure foot and mouth disease. Mandago who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) has also been mobilising joint activities by counties to control of the virus. Sudi has hired a vehicle equipped with public address systems to educate residents on the need to stay safe. “We can see what is happening in Europe and it’s so serious that we cannot ignore the virus and assume all be well," Sudi said. Moiben MP Sila Tiren wants Kenyans to stop ignoring government guidelines and learn from countries like Italy and Spain that have been devastated by the virus. Keep your distance and stay inside when possible, he said. Dr Aruasa has been training medical staff in the region and preparing isolation wards for possible Covid-19 patients.  (Edited by V.Graham) 