Visitors to the 24-hour Muthurwa and Wakulima markets remember them for their filth, garbage, clogged sewer lines and impassable roads and walkways – not the produce sold there. Last week, Nairobians woke up to unswept streets, garbage and waste dumped in the Central Business District, a situation that is characteristic of two markets. Wakulima and Muthurwa markets are the biggest markets in the CBD. They are the heartbeats of the booming businesses of Nyamakima, River Road, Kamukunji and Gikomba. Most of what people in Nairobi eat is sourced from the two markets. In 2006, Local Government minister Musikari Kombo commissioned the construction of Muthurwa market at a cost of Sh700 million. The intention of President Mwai Kibaki administration was to reduce hawking and traffic congestion in the CBD. Built on 15 acres, the market was to host 10,000 traders and vendors. Muthurwa accommodates all sorts of businesses and vendors selling items ranging from electrical appliances, vehicle spare parts, foodstuff to clothes. Now, 14 years later, the market is not only a security threat but also a health hazard. Next to Muthurwa is Wakulima – popularly known as Marikiti. It is the unchallenged fresh produce capital of Nairobi. Trucks and pick-ups laden with farm produce start arriving at the market as early as midnight to offload the merchandise. Some of the trucks bear Tanzanian and Ugandan number plates. The demand for farm produce has resulted in disorganisation at the once-upon-a-time orderly market. Chaotic is the fairest description of the state of affairs at Marikiti. Top on the list of the challenges facing both markets are piles of uncollected garbage. Over time, the county government has found it normal not to collect rubbish and clean the markets on a daily basis. It only gets to perform that duty after it is shamed by the media.  Days later, however, it is "no-business" as usual. Two months ago, the county government complained that the rate of waste production in Marikiti was too much (100 tonnes per week). The situation was not any better in 2005 when 6,000 rats were killed in a clean Marikiti exercise. A Japan International Cooperation Agency report shows a steady increase of waste in Nairobi – 1,848 tonnes generated daily in 2009; 1,924 tonnes in 2010 and 2,353 tonnes in 2015. The study projected that by 2020, the daily generation of waste will be 2,831 tonnes, 3,378 tonnes in 2025, and 3,990 tonnes in 2030. Institute for Law and Environmental Governance director Benson Ochieng says the city has become a dumping ground, choking on waste. Marikiti is due for relocation to a Sh800 million market on Kangundo road. The African Development Bank-funded New Wakulima market will accommodate more than 4,000 traders. The construction of the two-storey market started in July 2017 and is nearly complete. Cleanliness in the CBD will, expectedly, improve when the fresh produce traders are moved to Kangundo road. 