Western leaders still lack a common position on the Building Bridges Initiative as campaigns for its validation gain momentum. While those who support the process say it will benefit the region in terms of development, there are those who still feel the process is vague. During the Western BBI consultative rally at Bukhungu stadium on January 18, regional leaders made a raft of proposals on the process but failed to make recommendations on issues that directly affect the region. They include expanded an Executive with a powerful Prime Minister and two deputies and anchoring of regional economic blocs in the Constitution with a clear leadership structure. Leaders leaning towards ODM fully support the process while those from the ruling Jubilee party are still giving conditions to support the process. Those in ANC and Ford Kenya support the process with caution. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe (Jubilee) says the region fully supports the BBI process because it seeks to strengthen devolution that will spur development. "The region will benefit from the process, being agricultural oriented because it seeks to increase funding of the agriculture docket. "The process will also address youth unemployment and promote entrepreneurship among our young people to create the much needed job opportunities," he said. But Nambale's Sakwa Bunyasi said that the people of Western should be allowed to read the document and make decisions on issues that affect them without being herded around blindly. "What people thought was a report was simply a working document and that is why the BBI steering committee is distilling it into a final report which Kenyans will take a position on," he said on the phone. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said the process should be left to regions to decide what they want instead of ferrying people from other regions just to create crowds at rallies. Washiali wants the process left to the regions to collect views from the grassroots and forward them to the steering committee to collate and come up with a final report for the referendum.