National Youth Service personnel are this morning expected to start clearing heaps of garbage scattered in the Central Business District and markets. The trash has accumulated in almost every part of the city after more than 50 contractors either downed their tools or reduced their fleet over non-payment of dues, running into millions of shillings. Confusion in the city’s finance docket over who has the rights to sign off the release of money at the Central Bank of Kenya has been blamed for the delayed payments that led to the strike. The CBK is said to have rejected Allan Igambi, Governor Mike Sonko’s appointee for Finance CEC, as the official signatory for release of county funds after previous office holder Pauline Kahiga reportedly declined to handover the docket. The government printer on March 6, 2020, gazetted Allan Igambi as the CEC, officially kicking out Kahiga from City Hall. But this had not solved the problem. The result has been a cash crunch in the county government, with crucial services including payment of garbage collectors being paralysed. “There is a small confusion in the finance office but we hope it will be solved soon and contractors paid,” Environment chief officer Mohamed Abdi said. Meantime, Abdi said the county has engaged the NYS and signed an MoU to have the agency deploy its machinery and personnel to various parts of the city to clear the garbage. The county, represented by Abdi and three other officials, on Friday met NYS team led by director general Matilda Sakwa and struck the deal. “We are starting with the CBD and markets – Muthurwa, Wakulima, Lower CBD, Kariokor and Pangani markets – because they are the most critical. After those areas are cleared, then we will move to other areas,” he told the Star in an interview at City Hall on Friday. The NYS will deploy more than 30 trucks that will ferry the trash to Dandora dumpsite. The city has been choking with garbage, with mounts of trash being witnessed in markets, streets, backstreets and roadsides, leading to an uproar and fierce criticism of Sonko’s administration. The situation attracted the attention of the National Environment Management Authority that issued a 48-hour ultimatum to the county government to clear the waste. “Nema gives Nairobi county 48 hours to clear all the uncollected solid waste that has littered the city and report on compliance to the authority within seven days. Failure to which, officers in charge will be prosecuted,” the authority said in a statement on Thursday. Abdi said they are working round the clock to address the situation and comply with Nema’s directive. “We are not sleeping. We are doing all we can to clean the city because it is our responsibility,” he said. More than 80 per cent of the solid waste generated in the city is collected by private firms contracted by the county government. The contractors have their specific areas of operations. However, some of them have been blamed for illegal dumping. The county collects the remaining 20 per cent of the waste. Currently, only 10 out of about 60 trucks owned by the county are functional. Others are grounded.