The government has maintained the cases that have tested positive of the coronavirus in the country remains at three. Spokesman Cyrus Oguna on Monday said so far 20 people have been admitted at the Kenyatta National Hospital. He said out of the 20 patients, only three tested positive. Oguna said three are suspected cases and are awaiting results. The government spokesman said the other 14 cases had exhibited the symptoms and had been isolated awaiting results. “On Sunday we indicated that 22 cases had been reported but after medical procedures, we could not hold two of the patients after they tested negative,” he said. Oguna said out of the three cases that have tested positive, two are imported cases while one was in contact with the first case. “All the other cases in isolation awaiting results were in contact with the three. Currently, we have embarked on a tracing mission to reach out to those who were in contact with those we have placed under isolation,’ Oguna said. He said enhanced screening and vigilance have been reinforced at all the 34 sea, air and land entry points. This he said will play a key role in ensuring that no case sneaks in the country amid efforts to avoid escalating of the already existing cases. Oguna said currently 35 counties have set up isolation and quarantine facilities. According to him, while Kenyatta National Hospital, Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital and Mbagathi hospital will be serving as isolation and treatment facilities, all county centres will be used as isolation and quarantine facilities. He said the testing capacity has been extended to Busia, Kisumu, Kericho and Kilifi KEMRI satellite sites. “It is not just a medical situation but about information, we need to equip our communities with the proper information, If the society is well informed, then we shall have achieved a lot in containing the spread of the disease,” he said. Oguna said, as a result, all police officers, prison warders, bodaboda and matatu operators will be trained on protective measures.