Do you have a bald head that needs to have new hair? A new state-of-the-art hair transplant centre has opened in Nairobi's Parklands. Tia clinic aesthetic doctor Arshni Malde said they do hair transplant using a natural process. "We remove your own hair from stronger areas and plant it back on the base where it is bald. This takes eight months to grow and give you full-fledged results with guaranteed hair for the next 20 years," she said. The cost of the process is determined after the extent of the bald area has been established. Malde said they have three procedure rooms where they treat three patients at a time. "Ideally, when we are doing a hair transplant, it takes a whole day," she said. However, other treatments such as anti-ageing treatment, antioxidant therapy do not take more than two hours. "We can accommodate at least 67 patients a day as we have 2,000 square feet space," she said. The clinic has massage parlours to keep patients in a relaxed state when they visit the clinic. They do not feel they are being treated, she said. The cost of transplant ranges between Sh70,000 and Sh400,000. Football player Wayne Rooney did a hair transplant in 2011 that is estimated to have cost Sh2.2 million. Rooney's baldness started way before he was even 25 years old. Tia clinic also offers anti-ageing treatment through a non-surgical facelift. Malde said a nonsurgical facelift is a combination of minimally invasive and nonsurgical procedures, designed to rejuvenate and refresh the appearance. Compared with a surgical facelift, these techniques do not require large incisions, general anaesthesia or overnight hospitalisation. "It is absolutely natural. It will take one and a half to two years before the ageing process starts again," she said. The clinic also offers stem cell therapy. "We use your own blood to turn into stem cells and we treat pain anywhere in the body from back pain to the elbow and shoulder pain with your own blood," she said. Malde said the patient is guaranteed of pain elimination by at least four to three months. The fourth treatment offered at the clinic is antioxidant therapy. "They are injected to your body at a higher dose. This is because we are trying to threat you from diseases like diabetes and blood pressure. It has a side effect which is good and you become much better." Malde said they also seek to introduce lacer machines to treat skin and hair as well. "I'm here to make a change in the country," she said. Malde said her clinic has a team of five women her included. "I empower women. It is always good to uplift women," she said adding that she has been practising for the past four years.