Senators want affirmative action for local contractors to level the playing field against ‘unfair’ competition from foreigners, especially Chinese. They said local construction companies have been exposed to unfavourable and unfair competition from Chinese firms and have been sidelined in mega infrastructural projects by the government. While tabling a report of the Senate Roads and Transportation Committee on its visit to the Kibwezi-Athi-Mutomo-Kitui Road projects in Kitui, the lawmakers complained that Chinese are enjoying incentives, including tax relief, whenever they win contracts in Kenya, “At the same time, he is expected to compete with Kenyan contractors. A Kenyan contractor will have to pay duty for that truck." Wamatangi, who chairs the committee, said the uneven playing field hurts local firms and many now are on the brink of collapsing. “We have adapted to the situation and failed to see beyond that. That is how the government has ended up labelling every Kenyan contractor a cowboy contractor,” he added. The Mutomo road is being constructed by the Chinese at Sh18 billion. However, the committee found out that locals affected by the construction are yet to be compensated with a few being given as little as Sh500. There have been concerns about the heavy presence of Chinese contractors in the Kenyan market, some taking up projects that local contractors can easily do. In 2018, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said he would draft a bill to bar foreign firms from bidding for government tenders valued less than Sh1 billion to increase the participation of local firms in state projects. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula criticised what he termed as unfavourable conditions that local contractors are facing in  "unfair competition" with their Chinese counterparts. The vocal legislator reckoned that Chinese firms are competing for nearly every project, some less than Sh100 million, edging the locals out. “This country has now literally become a Chinese colony. A Chinese company can win a contract within the context of international competition and law, but there is absolutely no justification to have Chinese truck drivers in Kenya, Chinese sub-contractors and they come as a package,” he said. He called on the President and the Ministry of Transport to take affirmative action measures to help local contractors, some of whom have proved competent to do the work. “I urge President Uhuru Kenyatta and his government to give affirmative action to Kenyans so that they can generate and create wealth. When people generate and create wealth, the temptations for corruption goes down,” he added. Senators Enoch Wambua (Kitui), Gertrude Musuruve (nominated), Agnes Zani (nominated) and Steward Madzayo (Kilifi) all called for the protection of local contractors. Wambua and Zani called on the National Land Commission and Kenya National Highways Authority to promptly compensate the residents whose houses were demolished to pave the way for the project. Edited by R.Wamochie