Working from home or self-isolating isn’t as easy as we thought. But we are in this together, and the least we can do is recommend what to watch to pass the time and get your mind (and the kids!) occupied. To ease the boredom, Showmax’s 3-for-1 deal is still on, and the streaming service has a huge catalogue of binge-worthy Kenyan drama series and kids shows. Selina S1-4 If you are looking for a fairytale romance and loads of drama to keep you company then the award-winning Swahili telenovela Selina is it. One of Kenya’s most beloved shows, Selina follows the love story between Selina (Celestine Gachuhi), a young woman from humble beginnings and the rich Nelson Mackenzie (Pascal Tokodi). While their love is doomed from the beginning, these two will fight to prove that their feelings for each other are stronger than any scheme or evil deed. Monica S1-2 Brenda Wairimu. That’s all you need to add the drama series Monica to your must-watch list. Fully embracing her “bad girl” persona, Brenda (Subira, Selina) plays the titular role of Monica, an ambitious social climber who will do anything to get to the top – seduce the son of the Governor, fake education papers from a top university in London, abandon the love of her life, you name it. Pete S1-2 What happens when a father dies without naming his successor to rule over a coveted island? Find out in Pete, a Swahili telenovela that follows the bitter rivalry between two brothers – the older Mbura (Leon Ongaya) and the younger Jasiri (Mutan Tamim) – who fight for the leadership ring and the control of Funzi Island. My Two Wives Any man who agrees to live with two wives under the same roof is definitely courting trouble. This is the predicament that Zach (Eddy Peter) finds himself in when traditions force him to inherit his brother’s widow (played by Wakio Mzenge, Selina) even though he is already married to the temperamental diva Tonie (Diana Mulwa). Maza S1-2 Brace yourself for the unexpected as Maza, another Swahili telenovela, taps into the supernatural elements the coastal town of Mombasa is known for. Produced by Lulu Hassan (Maria), Maza follows a woman whose envy unleashes an evil act you would not wish on your worst enemy – she turns her best friend into the family cat just so she could have her life which also comes with a husband and a house. This Is Life In This Is Life, young love is tested when an “old” friend comes to the picture while an unforgivable betrayal threatens a close friendship. Created, written and directed by Jennifer Gatero (Best Friends Forever), This Is Life follows a group of people trying to figure out their lives through the challenges of love, friendship, family and careers. New Beginnings A man wakes up from a coma to find that life has moved on without him in the drama series New Beginnings. Produced by Philippe Bresson, New Beginnings follows Sean who wakes up from a 5-year coma to find that his wife is now married to his best friend Derek (Joed Kariuki, How to Find a Husband) who is also having an affair with another woman. Socialites Created and produced by Philippe Bresson (New Beginnings), Socialites follows Cici (Diana Nderitu, New Beginnings) and her two friends as they chase money and fame, and are willing to do anything to get it. Something for the kids Kids love learning from characters they can relate to, and these proudly African shows are exactly what the teacher ordered. Akili and Me Join Akili and her friends to learn English, numbers, letters, art, reading and more! Jabu’s Jungle Jabu, an intrepid nine-year-old from Masiphumelele, Cape Town, and his magic talking drum explore the jungle and help animals in need. This fun series is set to Afro-pop music. Ubongo Kids Kids will love this clever Tanzanian cartoon that teaches maths and science interactively. Get 3 months of Showmax for the price of 1 Showmax’s 3-for-1 deal is still running until 31 March 2020. New and existing subscribers in Kenya can pay for one month of Showmax and get two months free. To take up the offer, go to showmax.com. #Showmaxing Follow #showmaxing on Twitter to get recommendations on what to watch on Showmax. 