Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa now wants Kilifi County to be given priority in the national war against the coronavirus pandemic. This comes after deputy governor Gideon Saburi tested positive for the virus. She said the deputy governor could have infected more people than it was being implied. Jumwa said the county had the department may not have the capacity to deal with the pandemic. In a press statement on Monday, she said the patient has been roaming around for one week after jetting in the country from Germany and could have infected many people during his interactions. The legislator said screening should be done beyond those who interacted with the deputy governor as it could increase the spread of the virus. ''As might already be public knowledge, the alleged infection of Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi with the contagious Covid-19 disease has sparked massive panic across the county, over fears that the patient might have infected others he came into contact with, on multiple public gatherings he attended prior to his admission in the hospital,'' she said. She said the corona emergency response team should also consider compelling persons who came in contact with the Deputy Governor to come public. The move she said will ease the screening and testing work of the response committee and prevent further spread of the virus. Jumwa also called on Kilifi residents to strictly adhere to the government's directives on preventative measures against the Corona pandemic, particularly on maintaining hygiene and avoiding religious and public gathering, to reduce contact incidents and avoid further spread of the virus. "Let's go the extra mile of perseverance, at least for the time being to safeguard our health wellbeing and that of our loved ones,'' she said. The MP said even though the Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe ordered Saburi and others who violate the 14-days mandatory self-quarantine to be prosecuted for endangering the lives of Kenyans, her concern was the current anxiety in Kilifi has not been accorded the seriousness and urgency it deserves. So far 15 positive cases have been confirmed in Kenya with Covid-19 .