A section of women leaders from Garissa wants the government to outlaw the use of alternative dispute resolutions in cases of rape and violence against women. They have called for legislation to protect victims and bar mechanisms, such as mediation, negotiation, conciliation and arbitration, which promote repeat offence. Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organisation branch chairperson Habiba Ali on Wednesday said such mechanisms, locally referred to as Maslah, promote serious crimes. She spoke during a women leaders forum at Garissa University. "Rape against women is traumatising to victims and in most cases, they contemplate committing suicide. Punishment should be meted out on those found culpable," Ali said. "We refuse and condemn the use of Maslah as a form of alternative dispute resolution mechanism on rape cases within our communities." The forum was organised and funded by MYWO. It was an extension of International Women’s Day celebrations. Every year, March 8 is marked globally to celebrate the socioeconomic, political and cultural achievements of women. This year, it fell on a Sunday. Ali demanded the prosecution of any elder found promoting Maslah for rape cases and other retrogressive cultural practices that undermine human rights. "We respect our culture. But when some elders use the same for personal gain as opposed to seeking justice for the victim, then as women leaders we are opposed to it. The victim is never part of the negotiation during Maslah," she noted. "The victim is left to suffer and, in most cases, become traumatised because of being ridiculed by the community. This sometimes leads to suicide." Northeastern region MYWO chairperson Zahara Shurie said women should be respected so they earn their place in society, while men should be responsible for taking care of their families. She said Muslim men should marry a maximum of four wives as the Quran dictates but must able to provide for them equally. Yusta Farah asked the county executive to allocate more funds to the department in charge of youth and women empowerment to support projects that improve their welfare. She called for an end to the treatment of women as second-class citizens, especially during elections. "This is now changing and we urge our male counterparts to support us in pushing for gender equality," she said. She cited Ijara MP Sophia Abdinoor as being a role model to many women aspiring for political seats. The event was preceded by a procession by women leaders and Garissa University students in the streets of Garissa town. (Edited by F'Orieny)