Kisii County secondary schools basketball champions Nyanchwa Boys have been handed a tough draw for the Nyanza region championships to be staged at Rapogo High School next week. Nyanchwa will face Nyanza region defending champions Agoro Sare, former East Africa champions Maseno School and debutants Iraha from Migori County in Pool 'A'. Pool 'B' has former champions Ambira, Kanyawanga, representatives from Nyamira and the second team from Homa Bay. “We are in the group of death but this time around, my boys are ready to face the giants. I have challenged them to rise to the occasion at the regionals,” said Nyanchwa coach Kepher Mogire. Nyanchwa principal Nelson Nyakundi also backed his boys to shine during the regionals. “We have been dominating the county championships. After conquering the county, it's now time to take on the big boys at the regionals,” said Nyakundi. “Our target is to be Nyanza region champions. We have a very good coach in Kepher Mogire while the boys are determined and disciplined.” Nyanchwa Boys defeated Kisii School 65-47 to defend the Kisii County title during the county championships held at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. Maseno School coach Paul Mboya also admitted that the group is tough. “All the four teams are champions from their respective counties. They have ambitions but our target is to beat all of them and finish top of the pool,” said Mboya. “We believe that basketball was made at Maseno School. We are going to Migori to bring the trophy home because it belongs to us,” added the tactician who won the trophy with Ambira in 2018. Maseno School defeated Onjiko Boys 66-29 to defend their title while in Siaya, Ambira edged Maranda School 40-36 in a closely contested match. Nyamira and Homa Bay County championships start today at St Kizito, Nyanshongo and Asumbi Girls and Techincal Training College respectively. The regionals will be between March 17 and 21 at St Joseph's Rapogi and St Pius Uriri Boys in Migori. At the same time, the Nyanza region secondary schools swimming gala will be held on Saturday at Aga Khan Primary School, Kisumu. “Since we don't have a standard swimming pool in Migori, we have decided to have the competition at Aga Khan in Kisumu,” said Nyanza Region Secondary Schools Sports Association acting secretary Geoffrey Nyantika.