Human rights groups have termed the death penalty as mental torture for inmates and want it abolished. They want parliamentarians to take a bold move and eliminate it from the law since it has not been implemented for over 30 years. The last execution took place in 1987. “It is mental anguish to hold people for indefinite periods without knowing when they are going to be executed. There is a problem with the criminal justice system,” Director Research, Advocacy and Outreach Directorate Anne Mary Okutoyi said on Saturday. She said there is a need to create awareness about the death penalty so that Kenyans can understand what it is and the human rights implications that come with it. She spoke during a panel discussion and a special showing of film; “Just Mercy” at the Westgate Mall Cinema, Nairobi. The movie is based on a true story and has obvious parallels in Kenya. It carries the powerful message that the death penalty is inhumane and even one lone courageous lawyer can have a tremendous impact. It also advocates for ending systematic injustice and for lawful policing and prosecution practices, criminal justice reform and makes a powerful case for the abolition of the death penalty. The death penalty has been part of Kenya’s legal system for 115 years, 70 years through colonialism and more than 45 years after independence. Hezekiah Ochuka, Pancras Oteyo Okumu, and two others associated with the 82’ coup were the last prisoners to be executed through hanging. In 2003, former President Mwai Kibaki commuted 223 death row offenders to life imprisonment. This included 28 prisoners who were subsequently released after serving 15 and 20 years on death row. Former Vice President Moody Awori, when releasing the 28 death row prisoners, stated his intention to introduce a Bill in Parliament to abolish the penalty. The then Commissioner of Prisons Abraham Kamakil termed the 2003 mass commutation a ‘historic event’, saying that the death penalty should be abolished because it claimed innocent lives. On August 8, 2009, Kibaki further commuted another 4,000 death row prisoners to life imprisonment. This was the largest known mass commutation in the world. The most recent commutation occurred on October 24, 2016, when President Uhuru Kenyatta commuted all death sentences to life imprisonment, removing 2,747 offenders from death row. They were 2,655 men and 92 women. Some 811 prisoners were serving death sentences in Kenya prisons as of 2011. As of November 26, 2018, there were 843 prisoners on death row – 810 men and 33 women. According to the Kenya Crime Research Center 2018 report, 77.4 per cent of Kenyans are of the view that the purpose of sentencing is to rehabilitate criminals. The Kenya Taskforce on the Death Penalty has recommended total abolition. The Supreme Court declared the mandatory death penalty unconstitutional on December 14, 2017, but did not abolish the death sentence. The report indicates that 55 per cent of victims of capital offences do not feel that capital offences should attract the death penalty. The panelists said the circumstances of the death penalty could only be retained only if it is the rarest kind of case and the evidence must be beyond a reasonable doubt – the offender must be accorded sufficient legal aid during the trial so that the judicial officer has absolutely no doubt that the person is being sentenced to death. “It is just one sentence for one offence. If you look at the offence of attempting robbery and you look at the profile of inmates who are in for robbery with violence, you will find that most of the time, they are tied with their economic status.” “You’ll find that it is a father who was trying to get food for his children and even the weapon that has been used, it is very minimal. We still have laws that do not give justice to the Kenyan context. The process has been very long,” Anne Mary said. According to Amnesty, people are executed and sentenced to death by the state as a punishment for a variety of crimes – sometimes for acts that should not be criminalised. Kenya is among the 29 countries in sub-Saharan Africa that retain the death penalty in law. In some countries, it can be for drug-related offences, in others it is reserved for terrorism-related acts and murder. But according to the panelists, the definition of the death penalty in Kenya is extremely vague when we look at the offences that attract it such as robbery with violence. Death penalty taskforce member Pete Ouko said that unemployment and casual labourers are many in prison with certain profiling of people, based on what they do or who they are. He also said that over-policing in certain areas has led to the increased numbers of persons in prisons, especially those who come from informal settlements and rural areas and end up in the criminal justice system. “The criminal justice system does not seek to favour someone from a lower household income, and who does not have access to resources to get proper legal representation. And unfortunately, it is quite biased,” he said. They said it takes a lot of culture change, mind shift, advocacy, lobbying and bringing in a lot of people on board in terms of what it means to execute someone. Amnesty International Kenya, Still We Rise, a network of the African American Community in Kenya, human rights organization co-organized the event and also as part celebrating Black History Month. October 10 is the World Day against the death penalty.