Women leaders under the Inua mama slogan will soon resume their countrywide tours after a three-month break, nominated Senator Alice Milgo has said. Dismissing claims of divisions within the group, Milgo said they had paused towards the end of the year to allow members to go for their December holidays and were set to resume by the end of last February. The government’s alert over the possible spread of infectious coronavirus disease during large gatherings, she stated has, however, forced them to reschedule it again. Milgo pointed out that the group was still united and ready to embark on their economic empowerment programs across the counties. “We are intact and we shall soon hit the road again with our programs of empowering women and vulnerable groups in our regions…we have been consulting one another over the same and we might have to wait until May which is the same year we started last year,” she said. “The situation as it is currently in the country has forced us to postpone the meetings until a later date when the risks of infections have declined... huge gatherings have been cited as the areas where the disease might be spread," the senator added. Speaking to the Star, the senator stated that apart from supporting women and articulating issues affecting them in the country in their rallies they will also be seeking to voice their concerns on the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) discussion. She said that as women they have issues facing them and which should be addressed in the BBI reports to warrant their support. “The BBI discussion seems to have taken a political dimension and so once resume we shall be announcing our stand on common issues because we want it to be an all-inclusive thing where everyone is free to participate in it without being threatened in any way,” added the senator. She noted that despite showing support for BBI, as women leaders they are much concerned with the manner in which the process was being undertaken where leaders perceived to be allied to Deputy President William Ruto are being sidelined in the ongoing popularization rallies. Milgo wondered why only ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allied legislators were being given preference to the exclusion of those from the Jubilee wing. She said the only way all Kenyans can feel part of the process is when leaders from all parties are brought on the table during the decision making so that when such rallies are planned no individuals feel sidelined.