A major cleanup aimed at conserving the environment and Lake Victoria has been launched in Kisumu county. The 10-day multi-agency exercise, which includes waste collection, targets to tackle pollution in Lake Victoria and its environs. It has brought together the National Environment and Management Authority, the county government, Kenya Red Cross, Plan International, the Lake Basin Development Authority (LBDA) and Kisumu Water Sewerage Company. Nyanza regional coordinator James Kianda said the concerted efforts will restore the lake and water catchment areas to their former state. They have been ruined by pollution. Kianda spoke on Tuesday while launching the programme at Nyanza Golf Club, Kisumu. A similar programme will be rolled out in neighbouring Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori counties. Kianda said they will also plant trees along the lakeshore and along River Kisat. The team will also cover Kisumu estates such as Obunga, Manyatta, Milimani and Nyalenda. The team manually removed the noxious water hyacinth from the lake. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, county commissioner Susan Waweru and LBDA managing director Raymond Omollo took part. Kianda said environmental conservation is a collective responsibility and urged all stakeholders to play a key role in the success of the programme. "We have had discussions with factories and learning institutions over pollution. We have told them what should be done and we are happy some have complied," he said. Kianda decried persistent pollution of Lake Victoria, game parks and wildlife conservancies by industries, organisations and farming activities through raw effluent and other chemicals. He appealed to the county government to take stern measures against those behind poor disposal of solid waste. Owili termed the initiative good as it will ensure the environment is clean, a remark supported by Nyong’o, who added that it is part of measures to make the county free from pollution. Nyong'o urged residents to turn up in large numbers in their areas whenever the exercise is carried out. "This is our county and we must conserve the resources available. Let us all work together to make our environment clean," he said. The county government provided recks, spades, lorries, wheelbarrows and spades, among other machines and tools. Local factories and institutions are accused of discharging raw effluents into Lake Victoria and rivers. Residents in the informal settlements with no proper sewerage system have also been put on the spot over improper disposal of garbage and human waste.