As the coronavirus continues to spread after it was declared a global health pandemic by WHO, church leaders have urged the nation to pray. Deliverance Church overseer Bishop Mark Kariuki, JCC ministries' Bishop Allan Kiuna and Neno Evangelist's Pastor James Ng'ang'a all called on Kenyans to remain calm and turn to God, not to panic. Bishop Mark told Word Is the church will remain open since there are people who prefer to pray in church during a crisis. "You cannot lock the church, but we will watch the number of people who attend the services by reducing the chairs in church, and arrange them in a distance of one metre away from each other," he said. "The time of the services will also be reduced to accommodate many services for people who want to pray in church." Mark added that coronavirus is not a death sentence but we all need to stay safe. Pastor Ng'ang'a told Kenyans to be prepared for more disasters if they do not pray and respect God. "This pandemic is bigger than how we can see it and it is only God who can save this country, but if we do not seek God, six more plagues are coming all over in the world," he said. Ng'ang'a said the locust invasion was also a punishment by God to Kenyans. On whether he will hold the normal church service, Ng'ang'a said the church is not a gathering but a worship place for God. He said that his faith allows him to go to church and pray. "The church will remain open for those who will want to come, but I am not calling anyone to come. If you don't believe in Him then stay at home, I don't go to church because there is no problem, but every time to seek God," he said. Bishop Allan Kiuna said he will be giving his congregants the way forward today. "Coronavirus is a serious pandemic that needs to be approached with seriousness but not with fear," he said. He said his ministry had to suspend evening prayer meetings. "Kenyans should stay in an act of prayers and know that God is in the throne and this, too, shall pass," he said. Kiuna urged Kenyans to reach out to family and friends and care for each other in these trying times.