A Machakos High Court judge has upheld a man's 10-year sentence for assaulting his wife, saying the sentence was very lenient and he deserves to be in prison. Justice George Odunga on Tuesday told the man who wanted his sentence reduced, “You ought to count yourself lucky that you've got away with such a light sentence in these circumstances." The man was charged with causing grievous harm to his wife, on June 19, 2016, in Matungulu, Machakos county. His wife told the court that she left her matrimonial home after enduring years of death threats and violence from her husband. Together with her four-year-old child, she went back to her parents but the man followed her with beatings and abusive words. “I was cooking when he suddenly appeared. He held me by the neck while choking me. He then took a knife and stabbed me several times in the left ear and hit me on the head with a piece of wood," she told the court. She said her husband ran away with the knife and wood he used to attack her. She was taken to Kangundo Hospital by strangers before she was transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital, where she was admitted for a week. The Kangundo clinical officer, Dominic Mbindyo, said the woman was bleeding through the nose and ears, had a blood clot in the bran and a skull fracture. The couple has four children but the mother lost a baby to miscarriage due to frequent beatings. The husband went into hiding until he was arrested on February 8, 2017, on another matter. He denied beating his wife, claiming she went to live with her parents after quarrelling with a neighbour’s wife who threatened her. He claimed that her miscarriage was due to her long walk after she left home. He was framed because he had married another wife. A lower court found him guilty and sentenced him to 10 years in prison. He appealed, said he was remorseful, said he was reformed and had fatherly duties. Justice Odunga dismissed his appeal, saying he pursued her right up to her parents’ home where she sought refuge, burst into her mother’s kitchen and continued brutalizing her, and leaving her unconscious. (Edited by Frank Obonyo)