Kilifi County Hospital medical superintendent Eddie Nzomo has dismissed claims of a strange disease killing children in the county. Nzomo said six children died from pneumonia, while 11 were treated and discharged. Several parents from Mnarani in Kilifi had complained of a strange disease that kills children within 24 hours. Speaking to the Star on the phone on Sunday, Nzomo said all the 17 cases were referrals from private hospitals within the county. “There is nothing like a strange disease. All the children had pneumonia and they were brought to our facilities a bit late when. The problem with our people is they take their patients to private hospitals and only bring them to the county hospital when they are almost passing out," he said. Adding, "It is sad that a parent takes a sick child with breathing problems to a private facility and the child is treated and allowed to go home. Such cases need close monitoring and the best way is to admit that child." Nzomo noted that samples were taken to Kenya Medical Research Institute in Kilifi for analysis. “We work closely with Kemri and after the analysis, they confirmed that it was pneumonia. We equally thought it was a different disease. The children were also tested for the coronavirus because they presented such-like symptoms but they all turned out negative." The medical superintendent confirmed that the children died in a span of three days last week. He said several others who were taken to the government facilities on time we treated and they are doing well now. “We receive many cases and some of them we manage to treat while others, unfortunately, do not make it. The most important thing is for people to make sure they seek medical attention immediately and have faith in our public health facilities. We have doctors and nurses who can handle these diseases if the patients are brought on time,” Nzomo said. Nzomo said pneumonia is the leading killer disease for children under five years. Health executive Anisa Omar said the cases were referrals from a private hospital within Kilifi town. Omar said a death audit will be conducted by Monday afternoon to ascertain the number of deaths. “They were Covid-19 negative. Tomorrow (Monday) we will visit their houses,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie