Tokyo’s contract with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) allows it to postpone the Games until the end of the year, Japan’s Olympics minister said yesterday, amid concern the coronavirus outbreak could force the IOC to cancel them. “The contract calls for the Games to be held within 2020. That could be interpreted as allowing a postponement,” Seiko Hashimoto said in response to a lawmaker’s question in parliament. Under the hosting agreement, the right to cancel the Games belongs to the IOC. Thomas Bach, president of the IOC, last week said his organisation was “fully committed” to holding the Tokyo Olympics on schedule despite the coronavirus spread. Hashimoto said Japan’s government and Tokyo were still committed to hosting the sporting event, due to begin on July 24. “We are doing all we can to ensure that the Games go ahead as planned,” she told parliament. Any halt to the Games would be costly. The latest budget is 1.35 trillion yen ($12.51 billion), with Japan’s government providing 120 billion yen to build the Olympic Stadium and 30 billion yen toward the cost of the 2020 Paralympics, Hashimoto said. Japan’s Board of Audit put government spending between the bid in 2013 and 2018 at 1.06 trillion yen. Meanwhile, The Japan Para Sports Association and Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic organisers moved to cancel this month’s wheelchair rugby test event due to the coronavirus outbreak. The wheelchair rugby test event, scheduled for March 12-15, is the latest sporting event to be cancelled in Japan as concerns mount over Tokyo’s ability to host the 2020 Olympics scheduled to begin in July. A boccia competition which was to double as a test event for this year’s Tokyo Paralympic Games was postponed last month, whilst the Tokyo marathon on Sunday was closed to general participation with only elite athletes allowed to take part. The J.League also announced that all domestic soccer matches have been postponed until March 15, whilst Japanese pre-season baseball matches are also being played behind closed doors. “The Japan Para Sports Association (JPSA) informed us the 2020 Japan Para Wheelchair Rugby Championships, scheduled for 12 to 15 March, has been cancelled,” read a statement from Tokyo 2020 organisers. “Tokyo 2020 nevertheless will carry out the wheelchair rugby test event in some form in April, after ensuring a safe and secure environment.” Both Tokyo 2020 organisers and the International Olympic Committee have stressed that the Olympics, due to run July 24 - Aug. 9, are scheduled to go ahead as planned despite the coronavirus outbreak. “We will continue to stay in close collaboration with all relevant organisations as we prepare to deliver a safe and secure Tokyo 2020 Games,” concluded the statement. 