Parliament has renewed its quest for financial autonomy amid efforts to create a fund ring-fencing its allocations from the exchequer. The National Assembly is working on a proposal that would see the Houses of Parliament have a say on how much to invest in projects and human resource. Leader of Majority Aden Duale wants the Public Finance Management Act amended to effect the change. Currently, the Parliamentary Service Commission runs accounts from which it expends allocations whose receipts are defined by the National Treasury. The PFM (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to change this to give the PSC powers to establish procedures for managing the Fund. Going by the current Budget Policy Statement 2020 ceilings, the House is likely to control about Sh39 billion should the Bill be passed and assented to. PSC will also establish accounting procedures and systems for the funds and property tied to the kitty. The commission chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi will also superintend the expenditure of money as well as account for the same. Financial reports from the Fund, if the Bill is passed, will be reviewed and opinions given by the Office of the Auditor-General. Duale’s Bill further seeks to amend the Act to give the National Assembly power to approve borrowing and guaranteeing of loans by the Executive. “In particular, it seeks to provide that the national government shall only borrow money from the budget approved by the National Assembly,” the Garissa Township MP says. MPs want the Treasury to establish a national government public fund for various purposes, among them debt guarantees. Parliament has been on a journey to attain immunity, including efforts to be free from court injunctions as well as the clips of the salaries commission. There have been instances of tension between PSC and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission over perks and allowances. In this regard, separate efforts to box out SRC from the hold on MPs' salaries were thwarted by a memo from President Uhuru Kenyatta. The lawmakers have now adopted a multi-pronged approach in the quest for autonomy. Part of these efforts is to shield themselves and MCAs from prosecution that may arise from matters before any House. Specifically, they want the High Court barred from interfering with proceedings of Parliament and county assemblies. Citing the principle of separation of powers, the lawmakers want any other state agency blocked from defining or varying their terms of employment. The aim is to "limit interference by the respective organs of government in the internal functions of each other as may be mandated by the Constitution". The Constitutional Amendment Bill fronted by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni also envisions a Parliamentary Fund free from scrutiny and "interference by other state organs". Kioni wants SRC barred from varying the remuneration and benefits as well as terminal dues payable to MPs. His suggestion is that the Fund is used to run Parliament administratively, including paying salaries for MPs and staff. The administrator of the Fund will draw estimates of what is to be charged on the Consolidated Fund, the same to be approved by PSC. “Upon approval by the National Assembly, the funds shall be paid directly into the Parliamentary Fund,” Kioni's Bill says. He argues that the Bill if passed – though it is yet to prioritised in the order paper –  would enhance the independence of Parliament. On the courts' issue, MPs want Judiciary powers limited to determining the constitutionality of laws made by Parliament and not to issue injunctions. “A member of Parliament is not liable in an action or suit in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in the lawful performance of a function in Parliament,” the Bill states, the same being the case of county assemblies. “The High Court, therefore, enjoys no supervisory role over Parliament but its powers are limited to determining the constitutionality of laws made by Parliament,” Kioni says. Edited by R.Wamochie