Radio Africa Group will be seeking their maiden 'Road to Anfield' five-a-side football title when the 2020 edition of the annual tournament go down at St Mary’s School tomorrow. The seeded Westlands-based team will battle Computer Technology, PWC, Bedersdoff,  Sanlam Group and Vivo Energy in Pool 'C' as they eye a  better outing compared to 2019, where they fell in the quarter-finals to ICPAK. The ninth edition of the event has attracted 41 client and 40 staff teams. Radio Africa captain Brian Ndungu, believes they are well prepared for the challenge ahead. “Experience has taught us that there are no pushovers despite being a corporate event and we have to give our best to go all the way," said Ndungu. At stake will be once-in-a-lifetime three day trip to the UK. The 2016 finalists were among the six seeded media teams alongside Capital FM, NMG, Royal Media, Standard Media and Media Max. Standard Chartered Bank Associate Principal Dennis Sitienei said they expect a more competitive event this year, despite only 41 teams registering compared to 51 last year. “We are proud to be the title sponsors of the global event for the last eight years and we’ll continue ensuring our partners and staff get the chance to visit Liverpool annually,  through the sport,” said Sitienei. Letshego emerged winners last year after beating 2016 world champions Capital FM 3-2 in post-match penalties having drawn one-all in normal time. Left Foot Sports Managing Director Aman Bhasin who’ll be the event organiser for the third year running said rules will be followed to the letter. “All nine participants in a team must have staff identifications and captains will produce a letter from the HR confirming all individuals are staff," said Bhasin. Pool 'A'  has Mediamax, Bamburi, APHRC, Craft Silicon and KPMG, while Royal Media are in Pool 'B' alongside Diageo, Car and General, ICPAK and Sandlam Group. Former world champions Capital, Gertrudes Hospital, Sama Source, Britam and Schneider are in Pool 'D'. Standard Group are in Pool 'E' alongside Multichoice, USIU, Jubilee Insurance as well as Davis and Shirtliff. Nation Media Group lead Pool 'F' alongside Sameer Africa, Nestle, Zamara and JH Prego while Pool 'G' will see EABL square it out with AC Nielsen, Total Kenya, Unilever and Galana Oil. Pool 'H' comprises of Deloitte, NAS, Tallow Oil, MFI and BAT.