 "I don't have life, I'm penniless and stressed," Maria (not her real name) says after a two-minute silence that felt like hours. She then goes into silence for another minute before breaking down. She recalled the day two men were sent from Somalia to deliver news of the death of her second-born child John Muthee. Muthee was her only son among three daughters. The emissaries said they had planned to transport some of Muthee's ashes to Maria for burial at their rural home in Tala, Machakos county. A half an hour into the interview, Maria breaks into tears again. She adjusts her sitting position to hide the tears. After writing his KCSE exam in 2010, Muthee travelled to Nairobi to join his mother and help her run a second-hand shoe and clothes business in the city's Gikomba market. Being a bright student who scored a B- at Miu Secondary School, it didn't take him long to learn the ropes of the business.  Maria would soon entrust him to bank profits on her behalf. They were in a joint business with another man and they would rake up to Sh1 million monthly in returns. One day, the man tells Maria to convert into Islam. "He said he had other ways of helping my son if only we converted to Islam," she says. But she refused. The man would then go behind Maria's back and convert Muthee successfully. "One time we had travelled to our rural home to build a house for my son, while the construction was halfway, he disappeared," Maria said. His sister in Majengo, where they were staying in Nairobi, told her mother that Muthee was picked by unknown people in a Nissan vehicle. She told Maria that the strangers disclosed that they had left for madrassa lessons at an undisclosed location. Later, Maria reported the disappearance of Muthee at Shauri Moyo police station and visited an Anti-Terror Police Unit in town where an officer showed her more than 300 portraits of young men who had disappeared. "When I saw my son's photo among the 300, I almost fainted," Maria said. The boys were among those on ATPU radar for joining a radicalisation centre at Nguluni in Machakos, which would be closed four years later by the government for engaging in terrorism activities. Muthee would later call his mother while in a Middle East country. Maria later realised Muthee's sponsors had paid Sh2 million to take him for more radical teachings in the foreign country. After six months, he returned home speaking Arabic languages. Then one time in 2012, in the company of other youths, Muthee attacked two police officers, sliced them with knives and left them for dead before escaping with their guns in Majengo. "He became a wanted man. Police would frequent my house telling me to produce my son. I was occasionally summoned to several stations." Later, Maria would visit then Interior Minister George Saitoti in person whom she said promised to help snatch her son from the hands of the radical Islamists. "Unfortunately, one week after I visited Saitoti, he died in a plane crash before he could help me get my son back." Muthee then began visiting Maria at their rural home while driving expensive cars. "I began fasting and praying for him, every time I would plead with him to return home. He would just apologise for his actions and then disappear again," Maria says.  Muthee was then taken to Somalia via Mombasa but he maintained contact with her, she said. "My son had joined al Shabaab. I used to hear helicopters and gunfire when he called. He told me not to pray for him." A year after Muthee's stay in Somalia, two men visited his mother one day at around 6am. They introduced themselves as Muthee's fellow militia from Somalia and that they had come to report that he would soon 'graduate' and that they had to deliver the news. The graduation in this context meant that Muthee was about to be killed. "They travelled back and came back with his remains and told me to bury the ash," she said with tears welling up in her eyes. Although she struggles to remember most timelines in the entire interview, she said her son died on July 14, 2015. Her wealth was depleted while trying to follow up on his whereabouts. She now survives by selling water for Sh2 per 20-litre jerrycan and doing laundry for cash. "I'm very lonely. My two daughters are married and I live a very stressful life," she says, throwing up her right hand in a hopeless gesture.  'BRAINWASHED AT MOSQUES' Another mother, Zena*, narrated how her firstborn son Michael Salim Ochieng, 17, was shot dead alongside five others and their bodies doused in acid in Nairobi's central business district in November 2010. Police said they were criminals and that they had recovered pistols from them. Zena says Ochieng's father got into alcoholism in an attempt to erase memories of the sight of his son's body at City Mortuary. He died in 2012 due to alcohol addiction. In August 2013, her second-born Hajj Gathongo, 14, started observing Muslim practices strictly and began accusing his mother of not being a real Muslim. He was in Form 1 at Kamukunji Secondary School when he disappeared from home during the August holidays only to call a week later to say he was in Somalia. His mother said although Gathongo wasn't good in class, he was a good footballer. She would endure weeks of impromptu police raids at her home and intense questioning of what she knew about al Shabaab. The same year, Gathongo's younger brother, then in Standard 7, attempted to escape to Somalia. Zena said Gathongo kept constant communication with his brother and had been persuading him to join him in the war-torn country. Fortunately, after she reported Gathongo's disappearance to authorities promptly, he was accosted in Mombasa where he was being prepared to be sneaked out through the porous border in the North Coast alongside other youths. When asked how her two sons could have been lured to join the terror group under her watch, Zena said, "I think there are people in mosques who brainwash our sons." "Sometimes, poverty contributes. If the child comes home and there is no food while his peers have money, he'll find all means to uplift the family, including joining terror groups," she said.  KIDNAPPED EN ROUTE TO SCHOOL For Marriam*, her 14-year-old son Abdallah Salim alias Dalla disappeared in 2011 while in Standard 8. "He was reporting to school on the first day of the first term. He did not return home. I tried to trace him for a week and I gave up. He later called while in Somalia crying." At one time, Marriam tried to book a flight to Somalia at Eastleigh but the fare was too much for her. "I don't know Som (Somalia) but I was determined to go and rescue my son," she says. She uses Som among other code names to hide the subject of discussion from passersby in the entire 20-minute interview at Fourth Street in Eastleigh. "My son was kidnapped by people known to us. He would call me from strange numbers crying every time saying he wanted to return home," she says.  Another youth in the neighbourhood known as Rama – who had been to battlefields of Somalia and returned to Majengo slums – promised to help facilitate Dalla's return. But Rama was shot dead by police one morning in 2014 while going for morning prayers in a mosque at Pumwani. One year later, her firstborn son Ali Salim was picked by people on a motorbike at his home and he disappeared. Two days later, his body was found at City Mortuary with bullet wounds. She believes Salim was kidnapped by well known Shabaab operatives in Majengo. The operatives who kidnapped Salim would be killed by KDF officers in Boni Forest, Lamu county, two years later. "The mother of one of the kidnappers confessed to me that indeed his son was an al Shabaab militant." "I hate the government up to date. People who radicalise our sons are known and roam freely in the streets. Life lost meaning after losing two sons. At one time I almost turned mad due to stress." The three women described their lives as full of trauma. They say many other women have lost their sons to the terror group and have crossed to Somali never to be heard from again. Edited by R.Wamochie