There were empty classrooms and abandoned hallways in schools as the shutdown ordered by President Uhuru Kenyatta to stem the spread of coronavirus took effect. Uhuru directed Sunday that learning be suspended progressively from Monday, starting with day schools. Boarding schools have until Wednesday to close down while universities, colleges and technical training institutions were told to stop operating by Friday. The school term had three weeks left and it is unclear what plan there is to cover for time lost during the closures. A spot check by the Star Monday found most institutions closed or preparing to do so. Moi Girls Nairobi School allowed parents to begin picking up their children at 1 pm while learners kept off City Primary School. City Primary head teacher Susan Muthwii told the Star they will make arrangements for the learners to collect belongings they left lying in the classrooms on Friday. Mount Kenya, Multimedia, the Kenya Methodist and Nairobi universities had suspended learning on their campuses. Directives Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Monday directed schools to consider transporting learners back home using school buses. Magoha in a circular to schools and directors of education instructed public transport vehicles to desist from having other passengers on board. "The vehicles should be cleaned, sanitised and inspected by the head of institution before boarding,"  the circular dated March 16 reads. No alternative has been issued for public schools as some private institution seek to exploit online options to ensure continuity of teaching and learning. Brookhouse International School, which offers British curriculum, will be offering classes through video conferencing sessions between the teachers and the students. In a tweet, the institution said Monday that it had successfully piloted the online tool and will be using it as an alternative to attending classes. Mount Kenya University vice chancellor Peter Wanderi said they will be extending the online learning platform to regular students through a partnership with Telkom. The don said Open, Distance and Electronic Learning (ODEL) and distance, institution-based and electronic learning students will continue their studies uninterrupted. "Online learning will be supplemented through televised lectures in collaboration with TV 47," Wanderi said. When the government announced it would close schools on Sunday, Peter Ombongi began to stock his fridge and purchase other foodstuffs. The father of two, both in secondary school, said the main concern is that the early holiday will mean increased commitments to parents and unplanned expenses to cater to their children. “Having two teenagers in the house when they are supposed to be in school means going back to the drawing board and ensuring they are safe when you are not working and also they eat a lot so you need a lot of food,” Ombongi said. He spoke to the Star on Monday as he picked her daughter from Moi Girls School Nairobi. The shutdown is expected to affect about 13 million children in primary and secondary schools. Another half a million students in public and private universities will be affected. The government is yet to communicate long the schools will remain closed even as speculation emerges that this could be the end of the first term. (edited by O. Owino)