The head of Nairobi Metropolitan Services Major General Mohammed Badi will today hold his first meeting with County Executive Officials from City Hall. Badi was appointed last week by President Uhuru Kenyatta to head the newly created office that will run Nairobi. He will be meeting the CECs whose departments were handed over to the National Government during the deed of transfer. The departments include County Government Planning and Development services, Transport, County Public Works, Utilities and Ancillary Services, and Health. The departments are headed by Charles Kerich, Mohammed Dagane and Hitan Majevdia respectively. The meeting was announced last week on Friday when Cabinet Secretary for Tourism Najib Balala handed over the regeneration programme to Major General Badi. Confirming the meeting, County Executive for lands, housing and urban planning Charles Kerich on Sunday said they will give brief on each affected sector, their challenges, possible solutions and priorities. “The main agenda being our very first meeting with the Major General will be to give an insight on what is ailing each sector and the possible solutions,” he said. It is expected that us (CECs) will highlight and give a report on projects either planned or ongoing, budget allocation, staff payroll and challenged faced in each affected department,” Kerich added. County Executive for Transport Mohammed Dagane acknowledged the meeting, adding that it was timely. “ As much as we are facing Covid -19, we must ensure that the city is up and running and being our first meeting with the Major General Badi, we shall give a summary on what the county has achieved since September 2017,” he said. His counterpart from Health, Hitan Majevdia said that his sector had a lot in place including finalizing the equipping of the 66-bed capacity at Mama Lucy Hospital and upgrading Mbagathi Hospital to a Level Four health facility. “Plans to ensure that there is a regular supply of drugs from KEMSA, starting of Renal Units and uninterrupted 24-hour power supply to health facilities. We also want to decongest Kenyatta National Hospital that is currently the Covid-19 isolation centre,” Majevdia said. President Uhuru Kenyatta gave Major General Badi and the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) team 100 days to dismantle cartels at City Hall. The team was also tasked to put an end to corruption at the County Government which was said to be the biggest problem faced by Nairobi. The Badi led team will be stationed at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre (KICC) while the CECs will continue operating from City Hall.