Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has cancelled all bar licences after operators failed to close down as directed by the county emergency response team. On Monday, the governor and county commissioner Mohamed Barre said congestion and poor hygiene in bars would aid the spread of the virus. They advised residents to have their drinks at home. The two said inebriated people will not be able to protect themselves. But on Tuesday, the governor said bar owners had failed to adhere to the directive, claiming they have licences to operate. He said the cancellation was in line with the Public Health Act. Wa Iria said he will work with the national government to ensure the directive is enforced. “We met the county security team in the morning and agreed to have the licences cancelled,” he said. The governor spoke when he met clergymen to discuss whether churches and mosques would be closed to discourage the spread of the virus. Wa Iria asked the National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) to give directions on how church services will be conducted before next Sunday. “We know churches are spiritual governments, and we cannot wake up one day and close them without consultations,” the governor said, adding that the churches’ communication will have to be done before the end of the week. Wa Iria urged individual churches to consult with their headquarters and make decisions on the way forward. Churches were also urged to discourage unnecessary travels among the faithful and stop sharing the Holy Communion. “But even as we wait for the communication, churches will have to follow the directives issued by the national government such as ensuring faithful are at least a metre apart,” he said. Wa Iria also asked the clergy to help in communicating the need to ensure burials are attended by minimal people, noting that the county government will not allow multitudes in morgues. He said only a few individuals will be allowed to collect a body from a mortuary. Wa Iria also asked the clergy to stop scheduling weddings until the pandemic is controlled. ACK Murang’a South Bishop Julius Karanu highlighted the need for Kenyans to take the disease seriously and strictly follow the given guidelines. He said church leaders will agree on how to handle issues such as sharing of microphones and the Holy Communion. The cleric urged water companies to ensure an uninterrupted  supply to enable residents maintain hygiene. Sheikh Abdullahi Ali lauded the county government for cancelling bar licences. He also asked for the provision of body bags that will help minimise people’s contact with bodies.  