Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has hit out at Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie for misleading Kenyans about the number of Covid-19 cases in Kenya. He termed Kiarie's tweets about the Kenyan situation as "immoral". "It is immoral to try and gain mileage out of such a situation," Kagwe said on Sunday, during his daily briefing on the Covid-19 situation. "Those in leadership trying to gain political mileag... it is immoral, the worst in political manoeuvre and it is wrong." Kiarie had claimed 7,000 people had been quarantined in his constituency after travel into the country from Wednesday. He said Kenyans should be prepared to face the reality ahead of a rise in coronavirus cases as mass testing begins on Sunday. The MP urged the government to be open and tell Kenyans the truth as far as positive cases are so that they can take the situation seriously. “Kenya Government must forthwith communicate the gravity of the real situation without sugar coating anymore. Let Kenyans know how bad things are about to get. They will be better equipped to make personal decisions and put up with government decrees, measures and restrictions,” Kiarie said. There are four new cases of Covid-19, Kagwe has said. They are one Kenyan and three foreigners from US, Cameroon and Burkina Faso. A total of 69 samples were analysed in the last 24 hours. One patient died on Thursday. The man, who was 66 years old, died at Aga Khan University Hospital. He had diabetes. This means there are 41 Covid-19 cases. One person has also fully recovered. On Saturday, the CS had said that there was a likelihood of an increase in the Covid-19 cases once mass testing begins on Sunday. Tracing of contacts for the 42 confirmed cases is ongoing. The total number of close contacts the government is  monitoring stands at 1,426. Out of this number, 215 have been discharged after completing the mandatory 14-day follow up period. Medical teams are monitoring 919 close contacts with 18 individuals admitted at Mbagathi Hospital awaiting test results. To date, the government has tested 877 persons for Covid-19.