Do not divorce your husbands whenever they go broke or are unable to adequately provide for the families. This is the message a group of female MCAs gave to Lamu women during a special sitting of the assembly on Wednesday. Led by nominated MCA Amina Kale, the politicians asked women to understand that the tough economic situation in the country was being felt by all. It was no reason for them to split up marriages and families, the ward reps said. The MCAs said Lamu women were too expensive to maintain as they constantly demand to live a life of luxury. “ We want families and marriages to stand and that’s why we want them to come down from the high horses they are riding,” Kale said. The situation was forcing their husbands to break their backs to supply the needs, the MCAs said. They said the addiction to the high life was among the causes of the increased divorce rates in the region. “The situation is destroying the family unit as more and more end up in divorce just because the husband became broke or poor,” Kale said. The county lawmakers also asked women to learn to live within their means and according to standards their husbands can comfortably afford. A Lamu resident Kadhi's report from last year showed that the divorce rate in the county is 60 per cent and growing. The MCAs said most men are eventually forced to divorce their wives when they reach the point where they can no longer put up with their expensive lifestyles. The leaders want women to learn to accommodate their husbands so that they are under less pressure and for their marriages to work. Kale also asked women to cut down on parties and weddings, which often turn into a show of who has the most money and expensive item to flaunt. “Marriages have become costly for men here and many prefer to divorce their wives and stay single as it is cheaper and affordable that way,” Kale said. She said most Lamu men are fishermen and forcing them to give you the life an MP gives their wives is unfair. “Let’s stop this greed and save our marriages and homes,” Kale said. Hindi MCA Anab Hajji said the pursuit for the high living has made many women stray from their marriages into extra-marital affairs with ‘sponsors’. Hajji said many of these women despise their once well-off husbands, a move that has cost many marriages and even invited diseases into the unions. “Women are willing to break their marital vows of staying faithful to their spouses and go in search of moneyed men who can take care of their expensive material needs,” Hajji said. The MCAs, however, challenged men to do all they can to provide for their families and avoid challenges faced by children after their parents' divorce. They also asked couples to stay away from drug abuse, including miraa chewing. (edited by O. Owino)