The politics of the system inside the government dominated the weekend with the two political heavyweights Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga having a say. Kenyans have been left wondering and unable to differentiate the meaning of the term system within the government and who has a say between the system and the government. Macmillan dictionary has defined the system as a rule that determines how the country should be ruled or governed. The term in political science has been defined as a process for making official government decisions. The system can be a political, economical or cultural system. During the burial of the late Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei, Ruto said that he is aware of the systematic scheme that is planning to bring him down. According to Ruto, the system allowed botched fake arms deal to take place in his office purposely to tarnish the reputation of his office. "Why did they (system) allow it to take place inside my office," Ruto asked. He added that the same system eliminated sergeant Kenei fearing that he might name them to the investigation boy. "The person who would have told us about the people behind this deal has been killed," Ruto said. The DP further said that being the second person in command, he knows the plans that the system is orchestrating, including using the office of the Director of Criminal Investigations. "The DCI has been mobilised,for political reasons, to discredit & destroy my office with all manner NONSENSE and to bring me down. Those in this scheme are boasting that I will not be there soon. Since the system cannot elect anybody, they can only kill. But there is GOD in heaven," Ruto said through his Twitter account. Lawyer Makau Mutua asked the DP to resign since his remarks indicated that he was in war with President Uhuru Kenyatta. "It’s clear @WilliamsRuto is at war with Uhuru Kenyatta. Otherwise, how can you accuse your boss of destroying  you? It’s time to RESIGN. That’s what Oginga Odinga did under Mzee Kenyatta," Mutua said. Raila who doubles up as the Special Envoy for Infrastructure at the AU responded to Makau's post saying the ongoing politics indicates that the mercenaries, which is the system have dug in and are daring for a fight. "We are entering a dangerous but decisive phase of this tragedy. The mercenaries have dug in and are daring for a fight. I believe we should determine the time, terms and conditions of engagement," Raila said. Senate Majority leader in a rejoinder demanded an explanation of what Raila meant by the tweet. Makau Mutua responded saying, "It’s high noon! I recently wrote that the man from Sugoi had entered the Door of No Return". Constitutional lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi SC  responded to the thread saying, "Very interesting...the takeaway words.."dangerous but decisive phase", "this tragedy", "mercenaries..daring...fight", "time, terms, conditions of engagement"...BABA is a General...that is why he uses military jargon that are Napoleonic and Leninist...and STALINIST...". Former Chief justice Willy Mutunga then responded saying, "I have always insisted that its the ethnicists and their barons who decide when Kenya should be in war or peace. Kenyans should deny the barons both options going forward". Addressing the media on March 5 regarding the puzzle surrounding sergeant Kenei's death, DCI boss George Kinoti said the people behind it will be brought to book. Kenei's death has caused public interest to Kenyans and all eyes are on Kinoti to unravel the people behind the 'system'.