Taxpayers are shouldering Sh340 million in interest after the Ministry of Tourism failed to settle a Sh12 million contract. The interest accrued since 2004 following the ministry’s failure to pay Telenews Africa and Atlantic Region, an advertising agency. The firm, owned by Simpson Senda, was hired for advertising and promotion of business opportunities in Kenya. The tender was awarded by the Ministry of Trade then, where the promotion of business opportunities fell. It was later moved to the Ministry of Tourism. Former Auditor General Edward Ouko flagged the wasteful expenditure in his 2017-18 report On Tuesday, the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee put Tourism PS Safina Kwekwe to task over the tender after it emerged that no formal contract was signed between the ministry and the firm. So far, the contractor has been paid Sh285 million after he sued the ministry for failing to meet its side of the contract. Some Sh67.72 million is still pending. Kwekwe told the Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi-led committee that they have sought direction from the Solicitor General on the possibility of transferring the matter back to the State Department of Trade. “We are disturbed and that is why we want it conclusively addressed. It paints us in a bad light. The state department has sought direction from the Solicitor General on the possibility of transferring the matter to Trade, where we feel it rightly belongs,” she said. The committee demanded to know why the firm was still being paid despite questions about the legality of the contract. "Don’t you read mischief in this? Aren’t you disturbed? This is a serious matter because Kenyans continue to pay money for a mysterious contract,” Wandayi said. In 2004, Telenews was awarded a tender to undertake consultancy work and services to advertise and promote business opportunities in the country. The project was in three phases and the firm was subsequently issued with a government local purchase order for Phase I and II which were settled. Although the contract ended on June 9, 2004, the firm continued advertising without a formal contract. The same year in August, the Ministry of Trade and Industry wrote to the Pending Bills committee regarding non-payment of the Sh12 million claim for Telenews. The Attorney General wrote advising the ministry was obligated to settle the claim since the minister had agreed. However, the Public Procurement Oversight Authority, through a letter dated April 23, 2007, observed that the matter should be referred to the Pending Bills committee. "On December 16, 2011, the Attorney General.... observed that although there was no formal contract for phase III correspondence between Ministry of Finance, Trade and Industry and the State Law Office will be relied upon," Kwekwe said in a response to an audit query. Wandayi said his committee will invite the then Trade Minister Mukhisa Kituyi and Senda to shed light on the contract. Edited by Henry Makori