With less than 100 days left before World Under-20 Championship roars into life, organisers have assured visitors of a world-class event. A total of 2000 athletes and officials plus 400 media personalities from 125 countries are expected to grace the event slated for Moi Stadium, Kasarani from July 7-12. In her speech during the official launch of the event, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amb. Amina Mohammed noted that all necessary measures have been taken to ensure the country delivers a successful event. The launch comes three weeks after World Athletics officials gave Kenya a clean bill of health after running through the country’s progress. “After successfully pulling off the 2017 World Under-18 Championship, I dare say that we are ready for the 2020 World Under-20 Championships scheduled for July this year. We began this journey two years ago when we won the bid to host the event in Tampere, Finland and we remain on course to offer the world another successful event—just as it was the case with the 2017 World Under-18 show. We are aware this is the advanced level of the Under-18 Championships but I want to assure all of you that we are ready to host the world,” Amina said. Amina added that they have also made every necessary effort to positively engage all countries with travel advisories. A number of countries gave the 2017 World Under 18 event in Nairobi a wide berth. “From our last event, we know we are already winners and we will pull off another successful event. As the government, we have set the ball rolling by not only putting in place the necessary structures but also providing the necessary financial backup. For your information, we are not about to stop there because we have our eyes fixed on the 2025 World Championships and we have already presented our commitment letter to the World Athletics.” She went on: “As a nation, we know what it means to host these events and we have already started renovating our stadia. We have worked on Nyayo Stadium and everything looks good. We intend to shift our attention on Moi Stadium, Kasarani in a week or so ahead of the World Under-20.” The launch of the logo was attended by several stakeholders including diplomats, sponsors, LOC and Steering Committee members. Jackson Tuwei, who is the chairman of the Local Organising Committee, said they are going one better to put up a more spectacular event than the 2017 event. Tuwei said: “A lot of work during the last two years has gone into elaborate preparations and with 93 days to go, we are certain of a great event. “As the host association, We have started seeing signs of not only hosting the event but staging a bigger and better event compared to 2017. ‘We are not stopping there as many other events will follow. You are aware we have also been given the hosting rights for the first leg of the Continental Tour on May 2. “Luckily, this event is coming before the World Under-20 and we will no doubt use it as a precursor to the junior event. Of course, you must also have heard that we are interested in the 2025 World Athletics Championships and I want to confirm it’s true.  But you can see the progression from the Under-18, Under-20 and now the World Championships— and that tells you something.”