Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata was Friday forced to postpone a meeting with avocado buyers after Governor Mwangi wa Iria stormed the venue. The senator had organised the meeting in a hotel near Thika to discuss the proposed Avocado Bill. But Wa Iria arrived at the venue earlier than the senator, causing the buyers who had gathered to disperse. The governor said Kang'ata has been compromised by brokers to block the bill meant to liberate farmers from decades of exploitation by middlemen. Wa Iria said he is committed to ensuring the fruits are no longer bought at throw-away prices. “I heard there was a brokers' meeting and Kang'ata would be attending as their lawyer. I decided to attend to listen in on what they would discuss,” he said. He did not intend to disrupt the meeting, the governor said. The county chief wondered why the senator is against legislation that will empower farmers. Wa Iria said he has met several buyers who have agreed to offer a minimum of Sh15 per avocado and some have offered up to Sh60 for the highest grade. “This is why I'm pained to see brokers who buy avocados at Sh5 per piece oppose the bill,” he said. His target, he said, is not large scale farmers but those who have a few trees in their farms and are exploited by brokers. The governor said no buyer should engage a farmer without an agreement and that brokers will not be allowed to dictate how the sector is run in the county. The county government has procured 14,000 crates that will be used to collect the fruits from farmers and ferry them to the buyers, he said. Buying companies will be required to hire pickers and train them to ensure they only pick mature fruits while the county government will provide vehicles. The farmers will be consolidated in subcounty co-operative societies which will then form a county umbrella sacco. The sacco will announce harvesting times on a rotational basis and the resources will be channelled to the particular areas. Senator Kang'ata said he would not give Wa Iria a chance to confront him so chose to stay away when he learnt that the governor had arrived. “He had hired boda boda operators to harass me but I discovered his plans,” he said. The group has rescheduled the meeting. Kang'ata listed several clauses that he said were offensive in the proposed bill, especially the hefty fines imposed on those who breach the law. “The law imposes fines of up to Sh2 million if farmers fail to adhere to the law which is too high for the common person,” he told the Star. (edited by O. Owino)