ODM party leader Raila Odinga has converted the handshake into a tool of political deceit and conmanship, Jubilee MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto now claim. In a press briefing outside Parliament Buildings, the MPs accused Raila of replaying the same script that he used on President Daniel Moi, President Kibaki and now President Uhuru Kenyatta. "Raila’s objective in the BBI process has nothing to do with uniting the people of Kenya, it has everything to do with his insatiable appetite for power that has been evident since the 1982 coup," the MPs said. "Indeed the leopard does not change its spots and even with whitewash; beneath it all, you will still find its true spots," they said. "The BBI process has been fraudulently hijacked by Raila who has been going around the county using it to insult the Deputy President." The legislators spoke moments after their counterparts allied to Uhuru and Raila demanded the resignation of William Ruto for allegedly disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta. They further accused the DP of declaring war against established State institutions and constitutional commissions. However, the DP allies accused Raila of usurping the 'clarity, authority and the credibility' of the president’s vision to his personal ambitions. "He has escalated his personal wants into the national agenda, hijacked national institutions to serve the opposition and Odingaist purposes and threatened the legitimacy of the BBI altogether," they claimed. "The BBI is now used to rubberstamp divisive, hateful and dangerous political actions on the pretext of conducting lawful state programmes." They noted that the president had not complained about his deputy either and nobody should do so on his behalf. "ODM cannot lecture us on loyalty and respect for Uhuru. No one has sacrificed more for Uhuru than DP Ruto. Anyone questioning DP Ruto’s loyalty to President Kenyatta is not only dishonest but also evil," the statement read. The MPs claimed that there were plans to reconstitute the government so that ODM can occupy half of the cabinet. "In the interim Raila is campaigning to be made Chief Minister in President Uhuru’s government. Raila’s plan all along is to use the DCI to plan frivolous accusations," More to follow...