After several curfews imposed one after another owing to terror attacks, residents of Mandera are finding no difficulties obeying the countrywide dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed by the government last week. And they are laughing at other Kenyans who are unable to make it home by 7pm. Insecurity caused largely by terror attacks orchestrated by al Shabaab militants have seen residents' movement restricted since 2014. Mandera town resident Adan Hassan on Monday told the Star the ongoing curfew was no big deal to them. “I can't help but laugh at Kenyans who are finding it difficult to be in their homes before 7pm. For us in Mandera, the curfew is not new because we have experienced it before. It was a tough experience but one which was necessitated by prevailing circumstances,” Hassan said. The businessman urged Kenyans to better adapt and comply with the directive or risk getting into trouble with law enforcers. "During that period (curfew) which really humbled us, we could not exercise our liberty. On the flip side, it taught us positive lessons like how to manage our time, lessons which have come in handy to date,” he said. Halima Mohamed said previous curfews in Mandera hurt businesses and exposed many to police brutality but also allowed families enough time to bond. “I want to urge Kenyans to look at the positive side of the curfew. Families which have never found time to be together for once have all the time in this world to bond, more so our husbands who return to the house late when the children have slept and leave early even before they are awake,” Halima said. County commissioner Onesmus Kyatha said the curfew has been successful in Mandera. Governor Ali Roba recently asked the government to imposed a total lockdown to combat coronavirus. One person has died from the disease that was first reported in Kenya on March 13. There is no case yet in Mandera with all the cases concentrated in Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kajiado counties. The county government has already set aside isolation wards in all its subcounty hospitals. Screening has also been upscaled at the border entry points with Ethiopia and Somalia with the movement of people highly restricted. edited by peter obuya