Kenyans should prepare to pay more for public transport, as the sector stares at possible following government directives to curb the spread of coronavirus Announcing a new raft of measures on Friday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said a 14-seater matatu should carry a maximum of eight passengers, while those that carry 25 passengers will carry a maximum of 15. "All means of public transport should only carry a maximum of 60 per cent of the total capacity," Kagwe said. Covid-19 has so far killed over 10,000 people globally, while Kenya has so far reported 15 cases, following an announcement of eight more cases yesterday. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai yesterday said he does not think it will be enforced. "You cannot take away 40 per cent of the revenue and you do not cushion," Kimutai said in a phone interview. Kimutai said even though they support the government on the fight against coronavirus, the matatu industry cannot perform below its cost. "Unless the government provides a subsidy, the fare will increase," he said. Kimutai said the move risks collapsing the sector. He accused Kagwe of making the announcement without consulting. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai yesterday orders his officers to enforce the various directives to curb the spread of the virsus. Matatu Welfare Association chairman Dickson Mbugua said they support the reduction of the number of passengers. However, he said there is need for sector representatives to engage the government and fuel suppliers. "The fuel suppliers will tell us what percentage they can reduce at the pump price so that they can be seen to be participating in the prevention of coronavirus, " Mbugua said at Nairobi's bus station. Mbugua noted that some matatu saccos such as those plying Rongai have already complied. He noted that the matter needs consultation and a solution as it may make matatu owners ground their vehicles. Other measures announced by the government include preference to mobile money for fare collection and cleaning of matatus. Principal Secretary Housing Charles Hinga on Thursday said the directive is in line with the new guidelines aimed at preventing possible spread of the coronavirus. Speaking at the Kencom bus stage, Hinga said commuters have been advised to avoid skin contact while in public vehicles. Police spokesman Charles Owino yesterday told the Star that the orders took place with immediate effect. "If they {instructions}are not enforced immediately, the person takes responsibility for failing to enforce," Owino said. Already, Mutyambai has recalled all police officers on leave though a memo copied to his two deputies, the director Director of Criminal Investigations and director Internal Affairs Unit. "Due to unfolding events related to the coronavirus, the Inspector General National Police Service has cancelled all annual leaves except those pertaining to proceeding to their terminal leave. "...all officers of all ranks under your respective services he recalled back to their stations respectively," the memo dated March 20 read in part. Amid the pandemic, police officers have been forced to monitor the health of locals with administrators.