A pupil from Ngungani Primary School in Kitui's Mumoni subcounty has missed school for two weeks after he was expelled over another pupil's Sh40 that went missing. The Standard 7 pupil told the Star that after returning to school from a cross-country race, a bell rang notifying the pupils to gather at the assembly grounds. The headteacher briefly addressed them before ordering that Standard 7 and 8 pupils remain behind. He asked the pupils for an activity fee of Sh40, the pupil said. One of the pupils discovered that her money was missing and the teacher ordered all pupils to remain where they were as they were frisked. Inside the boy’s pocket was a letter which he did not want the teacher to see. So he chewed and swallowed it, angering the teacher who slapped him and ordered him to surrender his learning materials and go home, he said. For two weeks now, the pupil has been cultivating his father’s farm as others go on with lessons. “I wish to go back to school and continue with my studies." The boy's father said the act was unfair and unacceptable. He has, however, not gone to see the headteacher. “The teacher should have called me to notify me of my son’s mistakes, not chasing him away from school,” he said. The parent also disclosed that he has been to neighbouring schools to seek a slot for his son but was asked to produce a transfer letter. Another learner has also spent a week harvesting his father’s sorghum after he was expelled from the same school. He said he was reminded by a teacher one Monday morning during assembly that he should have repeated Standard 6 because of low marks. And instead of answering "yes teacher", he nodded his head. The headteacher then dismissed the assembly ordering learners to run to their respective classes. But the pupil walked, he said. He was ordered to go back outside and run back for defying the teacher's orders. However, he refused to comply and was ordered to return school learning materials and go home. His father went to see the headteacher and was told to go for a transfer letter to move his son to another school. He said that personal difference might have triggered the expulsion of his son. The father, a herdsman, said some time back the headteacher asked him to herd his cows but he refused. “The headteacher refused to pay me for the services so I refused." His wife said their son has never been arrogant or indisciplined. “Ever since his childhood, my son was peaceful, he has never shown any signs of arrogance so I am surprised when he is expelled from school." She asked why the teacher would not call them to explain their son's alleged arrogance. “I would wish the headteacher who has been in the school for 24 years now to be transferred for this is not the first case he is acting unfairly to pupils." The headteacher said he would not comment when the Star visited his office. Edited by R.Wamochie