Rift Valley Chapa Dimba na Safaricom Regional Champions Wiyeta Girls have promised to make their mark in the national finals set for June this year. The West Pokot based side thrashed Itigo Girls 3-0 to earn the sole slot. Captain Diana Musiliri was relieved after achieving their target. She said the team is well equipped to fight for the national title. “Words cannot express how happy I feel like a captain. Since Chapa Dimba started we have been chasing the title to no avail and I thank God for this time our efforts bore fruit. I have high hopes that come to the national finals no matter what team we will face, we shall win,” said the prolific Captain. Kajiado's Laiser Hill won 4-2 in post-match penalties after 1-1 draw in regulation time to lift the boy's title. Laiser coach John Mwaura lauded the phenomenal fighting spirit of his charges. “This is our second attempt in the tournament. Last year we were knocked out in Kajiado and I thank God for giving us the win this year. Despite our opponents scoring first, I asked the boys to keep up the fighting spirit which earned us a goal to put us back into the game and finally took the day,” Wiyeta and Laiser Hill have now joined Nairobi’s Dagoretti Mixed High, Beijing Raiders from Starehe, Tumaini School from Makueni, Isiolo Starlets from Isiolo for the national finals. Others are  North Eastern’s Berlin FC from Garissa, Coast region’s Yanga FC from Malindi, Kwale Ladies, Falling Waters from Laikipia and Ulinzi Youth from Nanyuki. The national finals will be played at Bomu Stadium, Mombasa. The two teams each pocketed Ksh. 200, 000. Runners up got half the prize. The competition now moves to Mumias for the Western regional finals set for 21st and 22nd March 2020 at the Mumias Sports Complex. 32 players, both boys and girls will be selected from the 8 regional finals to make up an All-Star team to attend a 10-day training camp in Spain during which they will play friendlies against top Spanish La Liga Football Academies.