Workers at Kibos Sugar Factory in Kisumu fear losing their jobs after the National Environment Management Authority shut the company over air pollution. The closure comes after numerous demands for action from residents and civil society organisations. The pollution has been the subject of numerous court battles. While the closure comes as a relief to the residents, some of the workers in the company expressed fear over their jobs. The company might decide to lay them off. "Some of us are worried because we don't know next what the company's action might be,"one worker said. On Friday, Nema director general Mamo Mamo said Kibos had failed to comply with regulations after being given a 30 days ultimatum. He said the company did not adhere to the Air Quality Regulation of 2014. Mamo said according to the regulation factories must maintain 50 micrometers of what they emit into the atmosphere. Kibos is emits 245 micrometers, more than five times above the national standards. Nema directed that the company must immediately cease operations until they have installed an effective air pollution control system. Mamo said in a letter dated March 5  that the company should implement the emission reduction measures as set out in part IV of the 5th schedule of the Air Quality Regulation 2014. "Further note that section 143(a) provides that any person who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with an environmental restoration order under this Act  commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or Sh500,000 or both." Mamo stated that the company had the right to appeal against closure to the National Environment Tribunal. Last month, Kibos won an appeal case after the High Court in Kisumu ordered its closure following pollution of local rivers. The appellate court in Kisumu dismissed the High Court ruling. Justice Stephen Kibunja in July last year ruled that the company must first carry out an environmental impact assessment and submit the report to Nema for approval for a fresh licence. The judge also ordered the defendants to demolish unapproved structures in Kibos and to restore the environment to its original status. “Should they fail to obtain fresh EIA licences in 120 days and should they fail to comply with the restoration order, the petitioners are hereby authorized to appoint an auctioneer to carry out the restoration order and recover the costs from the first to the third respondent,” Kibunja said. However, last month the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of the company that had earlier indicated that it would relocate to a neighbouring country over a volatile working environment. The judges stated that there was no evidence the company was polluting the environment or that residents who petitioned the miller at the lower courts suffered any damages as a result of pollution. They, however, directed the firm to continue with the annual environmental audit of its projects and activities. During an appeal hearing in October, the firm through its lawyers told judges it was given a clean bill of health by Nema and a Kisumu county assembly committee. Lawyer Tom Ojienda said the two documents showed his client had complied with environmental regulations and that no licence was acquired illegally. “We want to introduce additional fresh evidence in the case — a report by the two entities which was not ready by the time the trial court was making its ruling, hence the filing of this application,” he said. The firm's application was supported by lawyer James Orengo, who represented the Kisumu county government. It was, however, opposed by lawyer Fred Ngatia, who said it was suspicious that the county assembly committee toured the premises days after the trial court concluded the case and gave its orders. Three Kisumu East residents – Benson Adega, Eric Ochieng’ and Bether Opiyo –sued the sugar factory in October last year.