The National Youth Service will soon take over Nairobi garbage collection, NYS director General Matilda Sakwa has said. But how soon is soon? Sakwa said on Tuesday that the NYS was at the planning stage of garbage collection after signing a one-year contract with City Hall. “We are at the planning stage, we will start soon,” Sakwa told the Star on Tuesday. She expressed confidence the mounting garbage in Nairobi will be reduced once and for all once NYS launches its garbage collection programme. Sakwa commented as residents have been protesting against the garbage pile-up following the work go slow by garbage contractors. Garbage collectors are demanding payment. Environment executive Larry Wambua confirmed garbage collectors were on a go- slow over back payment. He did not say how much the city owes garbage collectors. Nairobi'Environment and Finance departments are blaming each other as garbage contractors in the Central Business District are on a go-slow. During the signing of the agreement between City Hall and NYS a few weeks ago, Wambua said the renewable contract was a government-to-government agreement. “We should start the programme early this week and NYS will be collecting in areas recently been neglected by sabotaging contractors," Wambua said at the time. Wambua said that NYS will first move into five zones that had no garbage contractors — Roysambu, Kamkunji, Makadara, Embakasi East and Ruaraka. He said City Hall will still contracting garbage collectors to assist in areas where a lot of waste is produced. The public has mounted pressure to the city-county government as garbage has been spilling everywhere, especially within the Central business district in what some people believe is sabotage. A spot check by the Star in Nairobi's Central Business District and its environs on Tuesday established that the situation was wanting, there was garbage spilt in most parts of the city. Residents told theStar the situation should be resolved as a matter of agency to prevent a disease outbreak. The said the filth was a health hazard. In June 2019, NYS announced a plan to a pay 10-month allowances to  56,000 youths under the Youth Empowerment Programme. Sakwa said the allowance of Sh21,000 each was meant to clear accumulated dues for the past 10 months after the programme was suspended. The director general said the institution had failed to pay NYS their dues after budget allocations were reduced following numerous scandals. “This has been the major challenge since I was appointed. The budget cuts affected us badly but now the President intervened and the Treasury has released the money," she said. Sakwa said some Sh1.3 billion had been set aside through a supplementary budget to facilitate the payments. (Edited by V. Graham)