Malaba town remained deserted for the better part of Sunday afternoon after the Kenya-Uganda border was closed. The closure is one of the Ugandan government’s robust measures to contain the spread of coronavirus after the East African country confirmed its first case of the highly infectious virus on Saturday. When the Star visited the One-Stop Border Post, Ugandan security officers were on standby to block anyone intending to cross into their country. Long distance trucks remained parked on the Kenyan side of the border as clearing agents suspended work to protest the decision by the Uganda government to shut border operations. “Our agents have decided to close work,” Kennedy Osiya, the Malaba border clearing agents chairman, said on phone. “Initially they told us that they will allow only cargo to pass but now even trucks are not allowed to move. We will not work.” The bridge that connects Kenya to Uganda had been blocked by 4pm. Pedestrians were not allowed to cross into Uganda. Ugandans were also not allowed to enter Kenya as Ugandan police barred them. President Museveni on Saturday evening ordered the closure of all Ugandan borders for both entry and exit starting on Sunday midnight. Museveni said more measures would be put in place to make sure movement was curtailed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Museveni said his country would prohibit passengers traveling by road, air and water. Malaba Immigration head Francis Oketch told the Star on phone that the Kenyan side of the border would remain open but maintained that there would be thorough screening of those crossing into Kenya. Traders in Malaba said the closure had affected their business. “I had come to Kenya to buy products for my shop but now I cannot go back to Uganda,” Winny Tumwebaze said as a Ugandan police officer barred her from crossing into Uganda. The stretch that connects the One Stop Border Post and the Malaba-Bungoma highway remain deserted as no people were being allowed to enter Kenya.