The falling-out in Thirdway Alliance party played out yet again during the Building Bridges Initiative validation forum at a Nairobi hotel. A section of the party’s leadership on Wednesday made a presentation to the task force but another group quickly moved to disassociate itself from the proposals. Party leader Ekuru Aukot termed the group that showed up for the BBI presentation as imposters, political merchants and sellouts. National chairman Miruru Waweru made unsuccessful efforts to prevent the group from making a presentation. In a letter seen by the Star, Waweru told BBI joint secretaries Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi that the party had not tasked any official to make a presentation. “We have noted that some individuals masquerading as Thirdway Alliance officials are planning to present their personal views disguised as the party views to you,” the letter reads. Waweru said the people who presented the proposals were expelled by “a majority decision of National Executive Council” and have since gone to court to be reinstated. He named the persons as Fredrick Okango, Angela Mwikali and Hilda Nduta. “Any views presented to you by any or all of the individuals should not be construed to be those of Thirdway Alliance," Waweru said. The three, nonetheless, made their presentation to the task force in the afternoon, even after the team acknowledged having received the letter. Aukot took to social media to announce the expulsion of the three from the party by the NEC. “They're fighting to come back to the party. They've filed cases. Does that give them the right to speak on behalf of the party? Ever [heard] of NEC? It's the decision-maker at the party. Not three disgruntled and expelled former members,” he said on Twitter. In their presentation, however, the three said party NEC members presented a memorandum dubbed Punguza Mizigo Kenya to the BBI steering committee. They declared their unequivocal support for BBI and made several proposals for inclusion in the final report. Thirdway Alliance pushed for a constitutional amendment dubbed Punguza Mizigo but the move was shot down in the county assemblies. Out of the 47 counties, Turkana and Uasin Gishu were the only counties that passed the Bill. Mid-last month, some party officials took Aukot to court seeking to suspend his Punguza Mizigo initiative and demanding to know the source of its funding. Mwikali, Nduta and Wughanga sued Aukot, their party and the office of the Registrar of Political Parties. They accused the leader of failing to disclose the source of funding for the project whose aim is to have the Constitution amended. Edited by R.Wamochie