Bungoma politician Moses Nandalwe now says he is ready to cater for flight expenses for a Kenyan artist to Botswana. Nandalwe popularly known as Mr Moneybags on Monday said he was touched by popular US television host Steve Harvey who said he is looking for a Kenyan painter Collins Omondi. Omondi, who is using pencils to draw pictures had posted on his twitter account a portrait image of Steve Harvey. Harvey is an American comedian, businessman and entertainer. He hosts the famous Steve Harvey Show, Family Feud, Celebrity Family Feud, the Miss Universe competition and  Fox's New Year's Eve. Nandalwe said as a result to Harvey's response he would provide a return ticket for Omondi, when Harvey confirms the meeting date. "Steve Harvey is not just an ordinary person, him wanting to meet a Kenyan youth is a lifetime opportunity that cannot be wasted. I am confident that after that meeting Omondi will be a great role model and mentor to many youth venturing in fine arts,' he said. The vocal politician said his offer to fly Omondi was a way of ensuring neither Harvey nor Omondi is burdened with extra expenses. "I know since Harvey is the one who has requested for the meeting, he will cater for accommodation if need be, thus it is just in order to facilitate Omondi to ease his worries of looking for air ticket," he said. "I am just 31 years old and as a young person, this is such a great motivation for us. We have a big crisis of youth unemployment so when people like Omondi hustle their way out, we can only offer a helping hand to them." Omondi had posted Harvey's portrait saying, "Complete! Pencil drawing of @IAmSteveHarvey. It will be a real boost to my hustle if you have this in your gallery. Waiting with bated breath," Omondi posted. He had sought to attract Harvey's attention and if he will boost his work. After many retweets,  the media personality responded to Omondi adding that he would receive the painting in Bostwana. "Now I’m looking for you it would be my honour to have this .... what size is it and I’ll be in Joburg and Botswana soon let’s hook up then." Omondi was overwhelmed by Harvey's response and pleaded for him to visit  Kenya to receive his pictures instead of Botswana.