A huge financial crisis is looming in state agencies owing to breach of reporting deadlines due to the absence of the Auditor General. Parliament has no powers to extend time for the agencies to present financial statements to the Auditor General. MPs in the Public Investments, Public Accounts, and Special Funds committee concluded that they have no powers to provide the extension sought by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. The CS sought the extension under Section 229 of the Constitution. Yatani said the government needed more time to complete recruitment of the Auditor General. The law states that within six months after the end of each financial year, the Auditor General shall audit and report on the accounts. National and county governments as well as the funds and authorities under their jurisdiction are affected by the delay. Courts, commissions and independent offices, National Assembly, Senate, county assemblies, political parties funded by public cash and public debt are affected. The impact is that the state agencies cannot pay dividends – for those with shareholders -  and may not receive donor funding before accounting for previous year’s funds. The deadline lapsed last December – largely affecting the Central Bank, Kenya Power Plc, KenGen Plc, East African Portland Cement, Capital Markets Authority as well as Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. MP TJ Kajwang’ cited Section 90 of the PFM Act which says the National Assembly has no authority to extend periods stated in the Constitution but statutes law. “There is a problem as we lack power to extend unless we amend the Constitution. Even if we extended to allow for the Auditor General to receive statements, how will we deal with the constitutional requirements?” the MP asked. He said the Attorney General should have sought an advisory of the Supreme Court to save the country from a looming crisis. AG Paul Kihara held a closed door meeting with the joint committee considering Yatani’s extension at Parliament buildings on Thursday. A lawmaker at the meeting indicated that the AG was of the view that nothing stopped Parliament from granting the extension. The committee, however, acknowledges that no authority can direct or control the office of the Auditor General other than the Constitution. The lawmaker added that the AG’s argument arose from a point of view that the extension should considered for its contribution to good governance. “He argued from a point of public good as a motivation for the extension and that it would be better for Parliament to allow the reports to be interrogated later, if not after all,” the source said. “He was of the view that extending the period would be of help in realising constitutional values and principles and would not amount to prejudice.” Yatani earlier said some of the affected agencies had forwarded the reports by September and wanted the timelines adjusted for conformity with the law. “The reports were filed on time and there was no one to express an opinion for them to be submitted to Parliament,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori