Confusion has rocked the appointment of Fidelis Kimanzi as the new national men's hockey team coach. News of the appointment emerged over the weekend that Kimanzi, who coaches men's Premier League side Wazalendo, will take up the mantle from the long-serving Meshack Senge. This was later confirmed by Kenya Hockey Union president Nashon Randiek. However, Kimanzi said he is yet to receive official communication from the union but expressed his laxity in taking up the role. He cited personal reasons and other engagements for the decision. "There had been discussions on who will take over from Senge. Yes, I was consulted sometimes back but I have my personal reasons and other engagements to look up to," said Kimanzi. "It is always a pleasure to guide the national team but at the moment I don't think it is possible." Kimanzi, did his coaching course in the United Kingdom 2009 and is highly rated in the country, said even though it is an honour to coach the national team, he still has unfinished business with Wazalendo, last season's runners ups. He has been at Wazalendo since 2011 and is expected to guide them in representing the country at the African Cup of Club Championship in December this year. "We understand there's pressure for change which is good. Wazalendo is competitive once again. We want to challenge for the title and prepare adequately for the ACCC. Club management is different from the national team," expressed the 2018 Kampala tournament winner. Kimanzi guided the Under 21 ladies team in 2012 to the World Junior qualifiers in South Africa. Kenya are set to start preparations for the North Eastern Regional qualifiers for the 2021 African Cup of Nations scheduled for May 11-17 in Nairobi. Kenya will battle with Burundi, Libya, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Seychelles. The winner and first runner up from each regional tournament will join South Africa and Egypt at the AFCON. The duo booked automatic slots by virtue of being the top two ranked nations in the continent. Whether Kimanzi will change his hard stance remains to be seen. The men's team is currently ranked 48th in the world as of March 1 this year.