Former Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars goalkeeper John Oyemba is eager to return to action next season after a lengthy layoff. Oyemba suffered a career-threatening injury last year in November, forcing Sharks to drop him in the January transfer window. The former Shield Cup holders, however, argued that they parted ways with the player on mutual consent. Oyemba, who was part of the Harambee Stars team in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt, revealed that he had begun light training and was keen to sign a new deal before next season. The shot-stopper said it was just a matter of time before he regains his fitness and was just waiting for the medics to give him a clean bill of health before resuming full training. Sharks'chairman Robert Maoga confirmed that they were footing his medical bills despite cutting ties in January. “I can't wait to return to playing football next season. I am almost fully fit but I don't want to rush as the injury is critical. I am positive that I will get a deal in the transfer window and make it back to the pitch even though I will not be in a hurry to muscle for playing time. I am almost through with my rehab and consequently, I have begun light training,” he said Asked on how he handled the reoccurring back spasms and life off the pitch, the Jamhuri High School alumnus cited his family for offering him a shoulder to lean on. Oyemba had also missed the second leg of the 2018 season due to back problem. He also hailed Sharks honchos and friends in the football family for their support and encouragement which he noted helped alienate him from the possibility of sinking into depression. “My family has been with me through thick and thin. When I was fit, they were my greatest fans and did not abandon me when I got injured. My friends at Sharks, Stars and the football fraternity have been supportive and I will forever be indebted to them. It has been tough on the sideline but I have positively handled the situation and I am glad that I am nearing full recovery,” he added