Fake alerts on terror attacks have compromised the country’s economy, Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo has said. Ndolo said the country had lost lots of revenue as businesses, especially in the hospitality industry, lose clients to fake terror alerts peddled some Kenyans on social media. "We are warning Kenyans to peddle truth about matters, our economy is bound to suffer if members of the public are cheated with fake terror alerts,” Ndolo said. Speaking to the Star in his office on Saturday, the police chief said he witnessed guests leaving hotels because of fake terror alerts when he recently visited a number of high-end hotels. "During the scare, I visited 10 hotels and I found visitors checking out of two of them," the police boss said. He said police had launched investigations to unravel sources of fake terror alerts and that those found capable will be arrested and charged. He said netizens should share information with the police to verify authenticity before they release to the public through various social media channels. “We are well prepared on issues of terror threats, we aren’t going to relent but maintain the posture that we have ever had in the fight against terrorists in Nairobi." Ndolo on March 6 accompanied Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai in inspecting several hotels in Nairobi over terror threat claims. “We visited various social establishments to assess their level of security and emergency preparedness, which we will factor into our capacity adjustment to counter existing and emerging threats. Everyone has a role to play to ensure personal safety and a terror-free tomorrow,” Matiang’i said. He sought to assure city dwellers of their security stating that police were alert and had heightened surveillance within Nairobi including in hotels. Ndolo exuded confidence in winning the war against terror stating that technology had boosted police crackdown on car theft syndicate in the city. “The IC3 system at the Police Command Centre in Jogoo House has enabled us to recover more than 90 per cent of motor vehicles reported as lost in Nairobi.” He said those with stolen vehicles in the city had numbered days. Mutyambai on March 2 issued a statement on what it termed fake terror alert in Mandera county. “The National Police Service wishes to inform the public that there have been no incidences of attacks in Mandera town as purported on social media. The incident being referred to happened today afternoon in Bulla Hawa in Somalia which borders Kenya’s Mandera town." It read further, "We wish to reassure Kenyans that our security teams are on high alert to avert any attempt by militants in Gedo straying into the country." Edited by R.Wamochie