IS TOURISM CS Najib Balala aware of what is happening at one of the key wildlife institutions? A small bird whispers to Corridors that all is not well there. The bird says powerful cartels displeased by the work of a majority of the board members want to kick them out. It is said nearly all decisions previously made by the board have not been acted upon. This, the small bird says, is part of the bigger plan to frustrate the board that has been working with dedication restore to the service that had been driven to its knees.  A NOMINATED MCA from a Luo Nyanza county assembly is on the spot. The MCA is accused of conning a widow on the pretext of securing internship opportunities for some of her children at the assembly. The widow recently stormed the assembly premises demanding her money from the ward rep who has since gone into hiding. The MCA who chairs an assembly committee has perfected the art of conmanship to the extent of even duping fellow MCAs who have now threatened to clamp the ward rep's car when it's parked in the assembly precincts. A GOVERNOR FROM Western region is reportedly terribly stressed by the rebellion that is building up in his administration and in the county assembly. Only recently, some international donors visited and the county chief kept lamenting that he is very well educated yet MCAs who have no papers are harassing and intimidating him nonstop. The governor told his guests that when he goes to meetings outside the county or even abroad, he is accorded a lot of respect, something he could only dream of when he is home. The county chief also complained of being constantly harassed by youths on social media and at public functions, something he said makes him sick. A POLITICAL OPERATIVE plying his trade along Harambee Avenue area could find himself in trouble in coming weeks. There are claims that the ex-lawmaker could have conned some Asian businessman out of Sh5 million in what looked like a genuine contract to supply laptops to a state agency. However, the contract documents allegedly signed at the agency's office never materialised. Despite the flop, the politician had already walked home with his share of the brokerage fee which is now becoming a subject of a push and pull. The whole deal was worth about Sh30 million. The agency is said to have cancelled the contract just a day after the deal was signed and pulled a crucial clause that did not shift liability to the government entity. Just like that the ex-MP pocketed his share and disappeared. The Asian is said to be contemplating legal action.