  I want to be very categorical that more than 90 per cent of the country's health workers and, especially clinical officers, are ill-equipped to tackle the challenges that come with the Coronavirus pandemic. It is disheartening that the very health workers we are putting on the front line to fight the disease are not only ill-equipped but also ill-trained on the challenges of COVID-19. I have personally conducted research and sent questionnaires to clinical officers asking them about their preparedness and, actually, 97 per cent of the professionals have responded that they have no knowledge about the pandemic. When such front line workers are not properly trained and facilitated then it means even the confidence levels among Kenyans seeking medical attention remains low. The clinical officers, as it is turning out, are at the highest risk of contracting COVID-19. The government must walk the talk and move with speed to train clinical officers and other health professionals on how to tackle the virus. President Uhuru Kenyatta came out clearly with the most appropriate approach as part of the measures to contain COVID, but officers working under him, among them the Cabinet Secretary for Health, and a whole coterie of staff in the ministry, must personally lead the war on COVID-19 from the front. The country must avoid making disastrous mistakes that can lead to public anxiety and suspicion just because Kenyans are not getting the right information about the disease. The government must rapidly invest in civic education and even as professionals provide medical solutions. COVID-19 is a public health concern, not only a medical issue. The government must improve the capacity of health workers so they can lead from the front in terms of providing the right information to Kenyans since they are the first point of contact with patients. At isolation centres, suspected patients must not be crowded in one place. Overcrowding is not only a health hazard to the patients alone but also a nightmare to health workers. It is clear that the government has not done enough to work on an isolation plan for health workers working in isolation facilities. The writer is the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary general