Senators are reconvening Tuesday to debate a raft of measures among them the protection of tenants, employees and reduction of food prices. These measures are aimed at cushioning Kenyans against the economic effects of Covid-19. In a motion that will be debated in the chamber on Tuesday afternoon, Majority Leader Kipchumba has proposed the formation of a seven-member ad hoc committee to work around measures to save the masses. In a raft of measures to help observe social distancing, only 28 Senators will be allowed to participate in the debate. According to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, the 28 designated Senators are the only ones who will transact house business on Tuesday and the foreseeable future. Other measures include ending the session at 4.30pm to allow Senators observe the 7pm curfew. The 28 Senators are also prohibited from standing from their seats during the session and must observe social distance when entering or leaving the chamber. The Senate is made up of 67 members. Those aged above 58 years old as well as those who are immunosuppressed or suffering from chronic ailments have been encouraged to work from home. Murkomen has proposed Senators Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia), Abshiro Halake (nominated), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Okong’o Mogeni (Nyamira), Sylvia Kasanga (nominated) and  Mohamed Faki (Mombasa) sit in the committee. "The ad hoc committee shall oversight actions and measures taken by the national and county governments in addressing the spread and effects of COVID-19 in Kenya," reads the motion. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator wants the legislators to discuss ways of ensuring a continuous supply of food and other essential commodities at affordable prices. In the motion, Murkomen also wants the panel to explore how the government can financially support vulnerable persons as well as ways of cushioning small and medium business. He wants a stimulus package established for the micro, small and medium-sized business to protect them from the economic hardships occasioned by the virus. The team will also propose ways of ‘easing’ legislative and regulatory requirements for doing business. One person has died, 50 infected and one recovered from Covid-19 in Kenya since March 13 when the first case was reported. The Senate has been on a two-break occasioned by the need to check the spread of the virus that has killed more than 33,000 people and infected more than 700,000 others across the globe. In Kenya, a number of businesses have closed and several restrictions including dusk to dawn curfew imposed, affecting business and normal operations in the country. In the motion, which was ratified by Senate Business Committee, Murkomen wants the protection of employees from the looming retrenchment and job losses in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. He also wants protection for commercial and residential tenants who could face evictions during these tough times. Murkomen also wants the committee and by extension the house to deliberate ways of enhancing capacity and flexible deployment of healthcare staff across the country. Further, the majority want the team to come up with measures to ensure protection, safety and well-being of healthcare and other front-line workers. “The committee shall address the provision of testing and medical equipment, including adequate ventilators in referral hospitals and in at least one public hospital in each county facilities in each county,” he says. The motion also seeks to address ways of enabling learners in educational institutions to continue with their studies. The government has shut private and public learning institutions in a bid to contain the spread of the disease. The committee shall act as a link between the Senate and the emergency response team and shall present its progress report within seven days. Thereafter, it will be tabling a report on a weekly basis, and subsequently table a final report within six months. Murkomen lauded the National Emergency Response Committee chaired by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for its interventions contain the spread of the disease. He, however, wants the house to recommend the expansion of the team to include more players to help combat the disease. “The Emergency Response Committee on Coronavirus should be expanded to include representation by Parliament, the Judiciary, the Council of Governors, the Media, and Private Sector,” he said.