Police have been allowed to detain a guard arrested in connection with the death of a university student, for seven days. Spencer Kipkorir Kosgey will be detained at Kilimani police station until March 20, when police are expected to have completed investigations. He was arrested on Wednesday after witnesses said he led a group of private security guards deployed at UoN in restraining, beating and dumping Elisha Otieno Odeng, aka Ras, in Central Park. “I have found that there are compelling reasons to detain the suspect…If released, he could abscond court as he had earlier disappeared from his place of work,” magistrate Thomas Nzioki ruled on Friday. He added that University of Nairobi students might riot again if Kosgey is released. The students went on a rampage on Tuesday following Odeng's death. They torched the security department’s head office and a prefabricated hostel. In an affidavit filed in court, corporal Phillip Bett had sought to detain Kosgey for 10 days. He told Nzioki that a death was reported at Central police station on Sunday, March 8, by Brighton Tonny, Odeng's brother. “The brother reported that the deceased was admitted at the Kenyatta National Hospital ICU on the night of Wednesday, March 4, after he was beaten, strangled and dumped at Central Park along Nyerere Road in Nairobi,” Bett said. The court heard that Odeng was arrested by Kosgey and other guards deployed at the University of Nairobi main campus on the night of March 4. He was beaten as he was allegedly being taken to Central police station. “On the night of March 4, an unidentified Good Samaritan rescued the injured Odeng from the park and took him to Kenyatta National Hospital, where he was admitted,” Bett said. He died on Saturday night. A postmortem at Chiromo Mortuary indicated that the cause of death was multiple injuries due to blunt force trauma and neck compression due to ligature strangulation. Police opposed Kosgey's release on bail, saying there has been tension at the university’s main campus. They also said the guard’s character was questionable as he never responded to police summonses and if released he could interfere with investigations. They said his employers could not verify his location on Tuesday, when he was supposed to be on duty as he had gone incommunicado making him a flight risk. Investigators are yet to arrest other associates who are still at large and record statements from witnesses. The defence opposed the police application, saying there was no evidence to link the suspect to the murder. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya