Speaker Justin Muturi's proposal depends on the background of his argument. If it is based on what is making the rounds, or has been proposed [in the Building Bridges Initiative report] that we should go parliamentary, then, it sort of fits the bill. That is, political parties after they go to the election, the party leader is the one to preside over the government whether to be called Prime Minister or President as it is in South Africa. That is very much a parliamentary system. The leader of the party with majority seats or coalition of parties with a majority, whoever they shall have selected to be their leader in the pre-election alliance, then becomes the leader of the government. So, if he is proposing any other system, then it would be interesting to see or hear what he says about the other powers and functions and the removal of powers of wananchi to directly elect a president because these powers must be balanced. For instance, if it is in a presidential system, you cannot remove the powers of wananchi to directly elect the President then leave it hanging. So, it depends on whether he is supporting a parliamentary system where the leader of the winning party or coalition of parties will be called President or he is talking about what has also been proposed of having a Prime Minister from the majority party but there will be a president elected by the people or whether power is going to be split between the two people or if one is going to be ceremonial. On the proposal that the senate vet presidential nominees, it will be interesting to see how that works because if we go parliamentary, like in the UK, they don’t have parliamentary vetting so much. The government is in parliament and ministers are picked from sitting MPs. So, in a way, they are already vetted. Depending on whether we also go proportional representation or mix them up where we have MPs representing geographical areas and others who are from a party but don’t have a specific constituency. The Constitutional lawyer spoke to the Star on the phone