More than three quarters of the country’s employees will face financial difficulties when they retire, a pension administrator has said. Zamara Group, which manages assets worth over Sh300 billion, said out of a population of over 47.5 million, only a paltry 450,000 people have a retirement plan. With the National Social Security Fund covering about 1.8 million people, this means only about 2.5 million people have secured their retirement future. The rest do not know how they will take care of themselves when they retire. The majority of these, about 17 million, are in the informal sector. Zamara Group executive director James Olubayi on Sunday said this was due to low pension services penetration in the country. “This low penetration is a result of the low education about the importance of planning for retirement. Planning for retirement is something many Kenyans take for granted,” he said on phone. Olubayi said the low awareness on pension has resulted in the government being forced to do the cash transfers to the old and indigent Kenyans thus burdening the National Treasury. He said Kenyans cannot afford the decent and comfortable lifestyle they desire after retirement without significant improvement in their current savings levels. “We believe that education should be a key enabler of effecting this change,” the executive director said. He called on education policymakers to incorporate financial literacy in the new syllabus to enhance pension penetration. “We are 47 million Kenyans, which is about 12 million families. NSSF is covering about 1.8 million people and pension schemes, people like us here, just under half a million. “So there is a very big gap that needs to be taken care of. How do we do that?” Olubayi said. Education CS George Magoha last Wednesday said the government was considering over how to get the informal sector to save in pension schemes. Magoha said the pension industry is one of the best run in the country. More needs to be done to ensure the 17 million people working in informal sector enjoy life after they retire, he said. The industry, he said, has grown from a Sh50 billion in 1997 to a Sh1.3 trillion today and schemes now need to employ actuaries on a permanent basis. “It is by law that you require actuaries who are actually the magicians of the process. We are not complying very well because I have found out that some people have them on a part-time basis,” said the CS. He said getting those in the informal sector to save was a question of starting small. The idea is to encourage the players in the informal sector to save little amounts of money regularly. “This is the challenge in the country,” said Magoha. The CS said the government was in the process of restructure the NSSF with state funding. “The Government of Republic of Kenya is on that trajectory and any time from now, hopefully by July, every civil servant will be contributing some percentage of his money and the government will do the same,” he said. At the moment, every civil servant contributes from their own salary. Magoha said this ensures the sustainability of the public service pension scheme. Zamara Group head of consulting and advisory Anthony Kilavi said the current framework in terms of occupational schemes limits Kenyans from saving for their retirement. “A hawker, a boda boda person or a vendor somewhere does not have the opportunity to save for their retirement. So, the informal sector is not covered in the current retirement benefit framework in Kenya,” Kilavi said.