As Apolonary Tulu harvests potatoes at his Wumingu farm in Taita Taveta county, he appreciates the timely and accurate weather updates from the Met. “Weather information updates were quite timely, we were able to plan for early planting and harvest on time,” he says. Tulu, like many farmers in the county, is benefiting from the Agricultural Climate Resilience Enhancement Initiative (ACREI), a project that helps formulate and translate weather partners for every constituency. The 27-year-old farmer says the close working relationship between farmers and the Met played a big role in interpreting weather patterns, increasing crop production. “Weather forecasts for the October, November and December season were timely and simplified. We had a bumper harvest,” he said. Farmers received information on their specific areas through the Adaptation Fund-sponsored project. “The national seasonal weather forecast is broken down and disseminated to farmers. They only had received a general forecast but now it is specified for areas. Taita Taveta county as an Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) has highly benefited," Mary Githinji, the officer in charge of the ACREI focal point, said. Initially, she says farmers relied on general information about weather, but now localised forecasts are playing a key role in helping farmers plan for the entire season. The deputy director at the Metrological department said the weatherman plans to instal more rainfall stations and an automatic weather station to have improved data for more accurate predictions. The ACREI projects is in its pilot stage in Taita Taveta county and being implemented in three other countries in East Africa. Dr Richard Muita, the director at the Mett, said predictions were accurate in October, November and December. “The key indicators we used last season were sea surface temperatures. We also used the Indian Ocean Dipoleto drive the prediction. This data informed the entire season’s forecast,” Muita says. In an interview with the Star in Voi, Muita clarified that the important data was simplified for farmers. The weatherman says media played a key role in highlighting weather forecasts, enabling farmers to understand the data better. Heavy rains across the country since October 2019 have been associated with the serious and widespread of desert locust outbreak, which is threatening food security in more than 23 counties. Locusts are expected to continue breeding and spreading during the March to May rainfall season due to favourable climatic conditions. (Edited by V. Graham)