Private guards have asked the government to equip them to deal with the Covid-19 as they are on the frontline in almost every facility across the country. The Private Security Guards Association said its more than 700, 000 members, without the option of working from home, are the country’s first line of detection and deterrence of the disease. Association chair Cosmas Mutava requested the government to give them basic healthcare training and equipment like masks, gloves and temperature sensors. “This will enable the 700,000-strong private security workforce who stand fearlessly day and night on the frontlines, provide additional critical manpower, detection, deterrence and communication in support of public and private health careworkers and activities in the ongoing war on Covid-19,”Mutava said in a statement. In some hard-hit countries in Europe, even the military has been deployed to help combat spread of the virus. In Germany, the army is being used to help treat the sick, resolve transport bottlenecks and provide essential support to police and local authorities as infection rates climb. France announced that it is at “war” and ordered a sweeping lockdown of the country. In Italy, the worst-hit country in the world, soldiers have been drafted in to help enforce the lockdown. Yesterday, the Private Security Guards Association affirmed that members are committed to support the nation’s war against Covid-19 in enforcing the  directives issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Our members are committed in supporting the war against the disease by putting the lives of Kenyans as the foremost important priority and supporting public health and safety,” the association said. Covid-19 was no longer a medical issue limited to health institutions but a national healthcare crisis, the group said. “This is the time for us to focus on saving human lives and preventing the spread of this disease by all means possible,” Mutava said. The Protective Safety Association of Kenya chairman Enoch Makanga urged the public to stay alert, avoid social contact and panic and to be aware of scams, profiteers, fraudsters and fake cures. Edited by Henry Makori