Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori was on Monday afternoon laid to rest next to his father at his Gazi home in Kwale county. Dori passed away earlier on Monday while receiving treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. He was battling blood cancer, leukaemia. According to a relative, Hamisi Mkungu, the deceased fell ill last Wednesday and was rushed to hospital on Friday evening after his condition worsened. Mkungu said Dori was admitted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) when he failed to respond to treatment. Among the leaders who attended his burial were MPs Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi),  Senator Issa Boi, Aisha Jumwa, Mombasa Mishi Mboko, Lamu Women Rep Ruwaida Obbo, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Kilifi MP Mbeyu Nyanje, Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, Nairobi governor Mbuvi Sonko, Majority leader Adan Duale among others. According to Jumwa, Dori was championing for the unification of all Coast leaders to work towards achieving a common goal of development. "He has severally called peace meetings for all Coastal MPs," she said. Jumwa said Dori has left a big gap not only for Kwale people but the entire nation. The Malindi MP said she had shared a common experience with the deceased and became friends with him. Mboko said the late MP will forever be remembered for his big heart and the love for the people. She said his absence will be felt for he has brought a lot of development in Kwale. Her sentiments were echoed by Base Titanium Environment and Community Affairs General Manager Colin Forbes who said Dori spearheaded community development. Forbes asked leaders who will replace him to emulate his legacy. "I can't believe he is gone but whoever will take his position he must never fail the community because our brother did his best," he said. Director of Coast Development authority Mshenga Rugha said Dori was a God-fearing person. Rugha said he integrated different religious leaders to work together regardless of their indifferences. Rabai MP William Kamoti said Dori's hard work is what made him be chosen as the Chairman of Coast Parliamentary Group. He said his great deeds are enough resources for people to inherit. Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza termed Dori as the pioneer of curb row roads. Tandaza said county leaders used to copy from him in terms of development. "The idea of curb row was brought by Dori in Kwale, " he said. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the deceased was a very remorseful man and used to seek peace whenever there was a problem. Sifuna said the party has no grudge with him and whatever happened earlier in the party was a simple misunderstanding.