Retirees of the University of Nairobi face a bleak future after the institution failed to remit their pension contributions amounting to more than Sh1.5 billion. In an audit report that exposes financial woes at the country’s biggest and most prestigious institution of higher learning, the university has also failed to send statutory deductions totalling Sh600 million. In the 2017-18 report, former Auditor General Edward Ouko revealed that UoN management failed to remit the money to Kenya Revenue Authority, National Social Security Fund, National Hospital Insurance Fund, Higher Education Loans Board and Chuna Sacco despite making deductions from the workers. The institution owes KRA Sh283 million, NSSF (Sh3.4 million), NHIF (Sh10 million), Chuna Sacco (Sh204 million) and Helb (Sh828 million). This was during the reign of former vice chancellor Peter Mbithi. During the year under review, the institution’s revenues dipped by Sh497 million, from Sh1.4 billion the previous year to Sh908 million, further putting to question Mbithi’s strategies to run the university. Ouko’s report further revealed an institution that is in the red – financially. As at June 30, 2018, UoN was operating on negative working capital as its current liabilities by far dwarfed its current assets. The liabilities stood at Sh5.7 billion compared to (current) assets value of Sh4.3 billion resulting in negative working capital of Sh1.4 billion. Mbithi’s administration attributed the financial problems to a decline in capitation from the Ministry of Education, frequent industrial strikes by staff and prolonged presidential elections which led to the closure of the university. The management also explained that it was hit hard after lower entry grade cut student population, adversely affecting the lucrative parallel degree courses in which students paid fees based on market rates. “This impaired the university’s capacity to generate internal revenue. The university, therefore, is apparently facing financial problems and its continued operation will continue to depend on the support of the government and lenders,” it reads. However, during the audit, the management indicated that the university has put strategies in place to improve its financial performance in order to achieve its mandate. During the year under review, the university fell short of the revenue budget by Sh1.6 billion due to shortfall of actual revenue from internally generated revenue, research grants and capitation and other income. “There is a need, therefore, for the university to diversify in its revenue generation sources to boost revenue growth,” Ouko advises in the report tabled in the National Assembly. The audit report also exposed a historical stalled student accommodation hostel at the university’s lower Kabete campus. The project which was undertaken by M/s N. K brothers in 1990 stalled in 1992 after the government stopped funding it. Edited by R.Wamochie