The Athi Water Works Development Agency in partnership with the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company has set up 500 free handwashing points across Nairobi County. This the agency said is an immediate measure to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agency has so far spent Sh3 million on the installation of the water points. Athi Water Works Development Agency CEO Engineer Michael Thuita said handwashing plays a key role in controlling the spread of the Coronavirus and everyone must play their role in protecting themselves and others. “We are installing 500 handwashing points which will be accessible to the public at no cost. These facilities are available in all the police stations and public toilets within the Nairobi Central Business District,” he said. Thuita said GPO, Country Bus Station, Muthurwa Market, Central Bus Station, Burma Market, Khoja Bus Stop, City Market, Jeevanjee Gardens, Uhuru Park and the National Archives are among areas that the water points have been installed. “We have also set up new handwashing stations at high human traffic areas outside the CBD, including Ngara, Kibera, Jogoo Road and Kayole,” he said. According to Thuita, the agency is working closely with Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to repair the existing public toilets to return them to the intended use, which will serve as sanitation areas hence reducing the risk of further spread of the virus. “Together with Nairobi Water, we are ensuring that there is an adequate supply of running water in all these facilities by providing 100 water storage tanks, as well as facilitating constant water supply by use of water bowsers to refill the overhead water tanks within these facilities. We have also extended these services to all the police stations within Nairobi city,” Thuita said. Last week Water and Sanitation Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki issued a circular to all water institutions directing them to ensure that adequate handwashing points are installed within all urban areas including market centres, bus stations, and shopping malls. Kariuki said these points must be supervised to avoid wastage of water by taps being left running throughout even at night. "There must be an effective mapping of densely populated areas to ensure there are adequate water supply and points for hand washing," Kariuki said.