Most upcountry bus termini in Nairobi were deserted Thursday as measures to contain the coronavirus began to hit businesses. The government has closed schools, banned public gatherings and advised for heightened hygiene. At the Machakos Country Bus terminus, operators who spoke to the Star said that most people had travelled upcountry in the past three days. “Since Monday, we have had a lot of students travelling from Nairobi to the Western regions. However, today, there are few passengers and even fewer buses,” Evans, a bus conductor, said. Some companies have grounded their buses upcountry for lack of passengers travelling to the city. “It does not make sense to spend Sh10,000 on fuel driving an empty bus from upcountry to Nairobi to come and ferry passengers you are not sure you will find. Yesterday (Wednesday), this place was full but now people are nowhere to be seen,” Andrew Kiloki, an operator, said. At the ENA booking office in the CBD, the number of passengers to Western regions of Kisii, Siaya, Busia, Sirare, Homa Bay and Migori had drastically declined. “Even though during this period there are usually fewer passengers from upcountry, I would say that this time they have reduced a lot. “We are now worried about what would happen in case of a total lockdown,” Kepha, the office manager at the bus company said. At the Tea Room bus terminus along Accra Road, there were long queues of passengers travelling to Meru, Embu, Chogoria, Runyenjes, Nanyuki and Isiolo. “We do not know how long this situation will last. So rather than waste resources here in the city, it is better in the countryside where we might not incur as many expenses,” Josephine, a passenger travelling to Runyenjes, said. Matatu operators at the terminus also said that the number of passengers travelling from upcountry to Nairobi has reduced. “I was in Runyenjes and finding passengers to Nairobi was really difficult. Out of the 10 matatus under this fleet, six remained upcountry and only four came to Nairobi. The perception back there is that Nairobi has coronavirus,” Joseph, a driver for Neno Travellers Agencies, said. Despite the increased number of passengers travelling upcountry, the company had not increased its fares to Embu from the regular Sh400. The operators expressed hope that the situation would abate soon because failure to do so would further hurt their businesses.  (edited by o. owino)