Two renowned gold traders have been the talk of the town. Reason? The duo is said to have struck a deal and got more than Sh100 million but spent the cash in high-end hotels and with twilight girls making them the laughing stock of their peers. One of them is said to have used part of his share to purchase a house. A mole told Corridors that one of the businessmen, who opted to get his family a home, is depressed because he couldn't meet mortgage obligations and auctioneers were sent to recover the remainder of the debt. He's now paying rent after being a high flyer in one of the city's suburbs. Weeks after Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai announced that there would be no static roadblocks mounted by the police, the outlawed operations are back in some areas. It is not clear if there were orders for the various officers who were spotted manning roadblocks at the weekend. One was set up near Kisumu Airport on Saturday while that of Kabete seems to be back in full swing. Affected motorists who had difficult time haggling with cops when they were stopped at the barriers told Corridors it was time the directive was clarified as there seems to be more confusion than before. An assistant clerk in one of the Nyanza county assemblies recently tried committing suicide after realising he was going to service a Sh5 million loan granted to him by the Assembly Service Board to cover up some Sh2.8 million that was fraudulently acquired by the assembly's deputy speaker. Unknown to the committee clerk, he was being used to swindle money from the assembly coffers. He realised he was in a mess when he was ordered to withdraw the remaining Sh2.2 million and take it to the chair of the assembly service board. Some senior individuals at City Hall are on the radar of anti-graft detectives after demanding a Sh2 million bribe from a suspended employee to facilitate his return. The man, who served as an assistant director in one of the crucial departments, was appointed to weed out cartels in the sector. Soon after his appointment, he embarked on a fact-finding mission of City Hall's facilities in Eastlands.  He discovered malpractices and filed a report that indicted senior individuals who were siphoning public money and frustrating service delivery.  The officials are said to have orchestrated his removal but the courts overturned the decision.  The court ordered that the man be allowed back to his office but the individuals want a bribe before he resumes duties.