 ODM leader Raila Odinga is unsellable in Mt Kenya region and should not be imposed on the people through the BBI process, MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have said. They said it is nearly impossible for anyone to sell Raila in the region. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said some leaders have been lying to Raila that he can get the support of the region through the Building Bridges Initiative. "As a region, we support President Uhuru Kenyatta in everything but supporting Raila is a big challenge," Rigathi said. He was speaking in Kandara, Murang'a County during the commissioning of the Kandara Vocational Training Centre. Deputy President William Ruto and a host of MPs were present. Rigathi said the BBI report should be distributed to Kenyans so they can read and make informed decisions. He said it was disrespectful for the BBI organisers to ferry people from Mt. Kenyans to the rally in Meru last weekend and give them Sh500 to applaud the former Prime Minister. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said Raila was scheming to derail the BBI process to help him ascend to power in 2022. “We know the President’s vision for BBI are to empower Kenyans but Raila’s plans are to disorient the Jubilee government. We are watching him and will not allow anyone to subvert the Constitution," Barasa said. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said he will only support BBI if it remains on the course of uniting Kenyans and not attempting to impose an individual on the electorate. “Raila cannot be forced onto our people. He cannot receive the votes of the Mt. Kenya region and everybody knows that,” Kuria said. Kandara MP Alice Wahome who hosted the lawmakers said she will not support the BBI if the process is led by Raila. “I was in Bomas when the report was unveiled but even before that, we saw Raila with a team going around the country,” Wahome said. She said Kenyans are confused as to why they cannot see the President or his deputy in the BBI team. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro asked the DCI to stop theatrics and focus on its work. He said the DCI is financed by the taxpayers and that Kenyans expect to see criminals brought to justice and not the theatrics the department has been playing in the media. “The DCI recently told us how some people liaised with Safaricom to delete data from the late sergeant Kipyegon Kenei’s phone and so many other things. Kenyans do not want to know all these things. If someone committed a crime, table the evidence in court and have them jailed,” Nyoro said. Ruto had been invited to commission the Kandara Vocational Training Centre. He urged politicians to shun divisive politics. “Kenya cannot be changed using empty words. The challenge we face as a country is not political positions but water, power, education and a stable economy,” Ruto said. edited by peter obuya