The Homa Bay government has been urged to formulate policies and set aside adequate funds for environmental protection, especially Lake Victoria. Conservationists and management experts have expressed concern over laxity by the devolved unit to tackle the impact of climate change on water sources, wildlife and human beings. Speaking on Tuesday in Homa Bay town, they said Lake Victoria is a source of livelihoods to many Nyanza residents. Clifford Omondi, a climatologist and environmental consultant, said the rising water level and pollution in the lake are a result of siltation. Omondi told Governor Cyprian Awiti's administration to come up with guidelines that would ensure the lake is protected for food and economic sustainability. The county is home to at least 60 per cent of Lake Victoria. It also has more than 134 active beaches. "It’s high time the Homa Bay government got keen in engaging in activities aimed at protecting Lake Victoria and the environment in general," said Omondi, who is also a member of the Environment Institute of Kenya. He said some of the environmental challenges being experienced include excess floods, improper waste management and wanton destruction of forests. "We want to see the county government coming up with mechanisms of reducing charcoal burning. Let it introduce green power to supplement other sources of power like hydroelectric power, which is currently under threat because of reduced water levels in rivers," he said. Omondi said the funds should be used to correct some of the negative environmental effects caused by human activities such as deforestation. "Homa Bay county government should train farmers to embrace smart agriculture as a way of conserving the environment and attain the Sustainable Development Goals." He also called for monitoring of upcoming structures in towns to ensure they meet all environmental requirements. Omondi said many buildings are being set up without certification from environmental agencies. "Construction of buildings should be undertaken after an environmental impact assessment is done. This does not happen in most counties in Nyanza," he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)