 One hundred million lives have been illuminated globally through the d.light invented solar energy company showing potential for social entrepreneurs to make a difference in people’s lives. Speaking during the global off-grid solar forum and expo, d.light co-founder Ned Tozun said that meeting the number is gratifying as it shows potential for social entrepreneurs to make difference in the lives of people in developing countries at massive scale. “We are celebrating a win for the climate, our customers, employees and investors who are able to put their money where their values lie and still turn a profit.” Tozun said. The solar inventor provides solar energy solutions for households and small businesses, transforming the way people all over the world use and pay for energy. The Kenya National Electrification Strategy recognizes the key role played by off-grid options, mini-grids and stand-alone solar systems in achieving universal access to electricity for all Kenyans by 2022. The inventor offers a range of solar-powered appliances including televisions, fans, and smartphones. The d. light S250's illuminates a room similar to a three to a five-watt incandescent lamp,  five times more energy-efficient and provides up to 10 times more light than a kerosene lantern. The d.light s300 lumen maintenance output remains after 2,000 hours run time. The number of solar users in the country has risen tremendously in the past decade from less than a percentage to become the most common source of lighting at 19.3 per cent. At least 6.6 per cent of the population is, however, still using tin lamp (koroboi) for lighting with another 2.8 per cent relying on firewood for lighting. Customers can make small weekly or daily payments through the use of a pay-as-you-go (PayGo) financing model, to remove financial barriers. “Our goal is that people across the globe, regardless of their income level, are able and happy to transition to renewable energy.” d.light president Sam Goldman said. In addition, d.light has offset 23 million tons of CO2, the equivalent of approximately five million passenger vehicles driven for a year, or the entire annual carbon footprint of Kenya. “By developing innovative, sustainable and climate-friendly approaches for addressing the world’s greatest challenges, social entrepreneurs are key to achieving the SDG's and ensuring a more sustainable future for all of us,” Goldman added.