Hawkers who sell to passengers and motorists stuck in traffic along Thika Superhighway have been ordered to leave immediately. Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said the hawkers should operate from stalls across the road, not on the superhighway. They sell sweets, water, fruits, nuts and other wares to passengers and motorists trapped in traffic along the busy superhighway. Nyagwanga spoke to the media in his office on Monday morning after meeting the regional security team to discuss coronavirus precautions. “These people must leave the superhighway and operate in stalls across the road. Let them sell their wares from there,” he said. The administrator said they had realised the hawkers do not keep the required distance from the motorists and passenger. They also do not have water and soap or hand sanitises. Nyagwanga said some people travelling in buses using the superhighways may have travelled to neighbouring countries. The government, he said, had put a security team along the road to ensure the business is discontinued. The administrator also put on notice parents and teachers who may be tempted to bring children together for private tuition, saying children should stay at home and be assisted with their homework by parents. Those found allowing such tuition will be arrested and prosecuted, he said. “If people cannot follow these guidelines, then we shall come in to ensure that they are adhered to,” he said. Nyagwanga told security officers to ensure bars remained closed. He reiterated public service vehicles carry fewer passengers to allow for social distancing. “We have stationed security officers in every stage in the region who will ensure that PSVs carry only 60 per cent of the passengers as directed,” he said. Nyagwanga said committees will be formed up to village level to be supervised by assistant chiefs to ensure people who arrive from abroad self-quarantine. He cited a case in Kiambu county where a person arrived in the country on Saturday only to be spotted in the market o Sunday. “But by good luck, members of the public reported the case and the person was quarantined,” he said. Another case, he said, was reported in Maragwa in Murang’a where the person was also quarantined. Nyagwanga said members of the public who include Nyumba Kumi and village elders will work with chiefs to collect data on all people who recently arrived in the county. They should also ensure they are self-quarantined to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the region, he added. The administrator advised those who arrived from abroad not to travel to rural areas but quarantine themselves in Nairobi until the coronavirus threat is over. He said the majority of elderly people, who are the most susceptible to the disease, live in rural areas and should be protected. Edited by Henry Makori