RECENTLY, WE TOLD you about an ODM lawmaker whom Raila Odinga sent away after he appealed to the party leader to expel an ex-legislator who recently returned to the outfit for playing early politics. The sitting MP was afraid that his predecessor might unseat him and had been working round the clock to have him removed from the party. Corridors now understands that after the rebuff, the legislator has embarked on a charm offensive, holding late-night meetings with supporters to checkmate his rival. He has opted to go back to his constituents to ensure the competitor does not turn tables on him come 2022. A CEC from Central may soon find himself in trouble with the EACC. Corridors has it that the anti-graft watchdog is already investigating claims that the county official received a handsome package from an unscrupulous real estate developer to facilitate development approvals in a controlled zone, despite objections by residents. It is believed the executive misled the new county boss to give the project a clean bill of health. However, in a turn of events, the governor learned about the shady deal and it resulted in a nasty verbal exchange between the two during a county heads' meeting at a conference facility after the truth was laid bare. JUST WHAT IS happening with the County Assemblies Forum, which comprises MCAs and speakers of the 47 county assemblies?  Well, some MCAs have disowned it. Some are now openly saying they are neither members nor participants in its activities. Shockingly, some of those disowning the umbrella come from Nairobi, the biggest county assembly in terms of membership. Maybe it is time the forum's leadership convened a meeting to address the apparent falling-out before the group disintegrates. A FORMER MP-CUM-POLITICAL broker has been operating along Harambee Avenue appears to have gone broke after Covid-19 hit the country. With many of the critical offices along the avenue closed because of the virus, the broker has had nowhere to turn to for a living. Initially, he used to dress in sharp suits then pretend to be having the key for people seeking to meet the high and mighty along the avenue. He used to charge his clients some Sh50,000 for meeting a Cabinet secretary and even more for higher offices. Some could be coned while others managed to get appointments. Nowadays, the broker can’t even afford a meal and has been troubling friends with calls for financial assistance.