President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed for the necessary budgetary review and adjustment towards prevention and management response actions on Coronavirus. The President also said that these adjustments should aim at cushioning the economy against the negative effects of the Coronavirus pandemic. He was speaking at State House, Nairobi when he received the initial report of the National Emergency Response Committee on Coronavirus on Thursday. The move comes as different countries across the world report of significant punches to their economies following the outbreak of the disease. There are not positive cases yet in Kenya though Coronavirus has already impacted Kenyan businesses as some close down and events get cancelled. The tourism sector has received the hugest blow as most travellers have cancelled flights to the country. Twelve African countries have already reported positive cases which now stand at 130 including three deaths in the Northern part of the continent. During today's meeting, Uhuru also directed the Committee to develop specific prevention strategies to take care of low income and vulnerable populations especially in informal settlements. "These efforts will leverage existing community structures including chiefs, ward administrators, religious leaders, and Nyumba Kumi elders to raise awareness and coordinate responses," a dispatch from State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said. The meeting also agreed on the enforcement of the directive barring Government officials from undertaking non-essential travel out of the country. "Businesses and private citizens advised not to engage in non-essential travel especially to high-risk areas," Dena said. It was also agreed that all returning Kenyans and other visitors from high-risk areas are directed to self-quarantine for not less than 14 continuous days in line with global practice and as recommended by the WHO. This directive comes just hours before a flight from Italy, which is recording a high number of infections, lands at JKIA this evening. "As part of the continuous messaging on safe hygiene, all educational institutions are directed to ensure that safe hygiene is practised and enforced daily, especially the washing of hands with soap and water," the State House dispatch stated.