Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia has told women to chop off the private parts of anyone attempting to defile them. Women undergoing domestic violence have also been asked to deal ruthlessly with the perpetrators by equally chopping off their organs. Speaking in Lamu town on Sunday, Macharia expressed concern over the growing number of rape and defilement cases in Hindi, Mpeketoni, Basuba and other parts of the county. The administrator also noted an increase in incest cases where fathers are reported to prey on their daughters. He instructed women to arm themselves with pangas and chop of the "transformers" of men found culpable of defiling, raping or impregnating school girls and women. Macharia said such irresponsible behaviour among men has caused many girls to drop out of school after getting pregnant and forced them into miserable marriages. He said the only way to drum some sanity into such men is to have their private organs cut off so that any other individual planning such acts will think twice about losing their organs. Macharia said his office will not hold any woman culpable for an offence if they successfully chop off organs of such men as long as that helps deter the behaviour among men. “Men here are fond of pursuing school girls for sex. Others turn on their own daughters. Once the girl is pregnant, her future is done with. I am telling women to take matters into their hands and chop of the transformers of rapists and defilers. Such people deserve such punishment or worse and they have lost sanity. Our officers will not arrest such women." Hindi MCA Anab Haji accused the community of shielding rapists and defilers adding that most of them are known to the victim and their families. “I support what the commissioner has said that women should chop off the private parts of such men. If that will keep us and our girls safe, why not? As a community, let's rise up and defend our children by speaking up whenever such things occur. Report to the police and seek justice for the victims,” Haji said. Edited by R.Wamochie