Kenya Diaspora Alliance has criticised what it calls the mistreatment of returning Kenyans by immigration officials at points of entry. The alliance has condemned the impression created that only diaspora returnees are transmitters of coronavirus that has been known to infect 38 people as of March 28. In a press release dated  March 27, KDA chairperson Shem Ochuodho says 14-day isolation, while inevitable, must be done in a humane, transparent and civil manner. “There should be no double standards other than for vulnerable groups like the elderly, expectant mothers and infants. Neither should returnees be compelled to stay in and pay for accommodation they can’t afford," the statement reads. Ochuodho also said if the Government has received funding for returnees' accommodation, it be immoral and inexcusable to ask those in confinement to pay. The Alliance wants the Government to explain what became of the more than 200 passengers who arrived from China a month ago and irresponsibly left to self-quarantine. “Have they been all traced as high-risk, and those they came into contact with tested?” Ochuodho asked. The Alliance said some returnees and diaspora professionals have offered to help fight against Covid-19 but their offers have not been accepted. The chairperson said the crowded slum areas with the most vulnerable in society need urgent protection and mitigation before the pandemic come knocking at their doors. “Only top-notch, multi-disciplinary teams can ensure we contain this scourge before it gets out of hand, and time is fast running out. Such offers are not only limited to skill and labour, but also financial and in-kind, including drugs, medical supplies and materials,” Ochuodho said. Militay planners should be involved, the alliance said, they're razor-sharp. In the meantime, KDA has commended the government for declaring night curfews and closing down all non-essential public services. The KDA has strongly condemned the use of excessive force by police on Friday night in 'enforcing' the curfew. "The alliance has recommended the formation of a tailored and government-funded intervention platform to assist the most vulnerable including over-congested slum dweller," Ochuodo said The alliance wants some strategic infrastructure at the local level, including churches and schools, equipped with sufficient resources such as water, food and sanitizers for all aspects of crisis prevention. KDA also urge for the streamlining and fast-tracking of sorely needed drugs and medical supplies, locally and from abroad. (Edited by V. Graham)