Nokia entered into a partnership with Microsoft in 2014, where Microsoft acquired its smartphone business but suffered a setback when there was a fall out on the acquisition forcing Microsoft to retreat from the deal. In 2016, Microsoft sold the Nokia Smartphone business to a subsidiary of Foxconn Technology Group and HMD Global and since then they have been launching Smartphones like their first Android phone the Nokia 6 in January 2017. They have been trying to get back to the market with very classy and smartly designed phones. Last year they released their budget phone, Nokia 2.3 to compete with the likes of Oppo and Infinix which have penetrated the market. It is going for Sh12, 000. Its selling point is its remarkable battery capacity at 4000 mAh which will guarantee you use for two days on a single charge. If your phone is losing charge at a fast rate then you would rather go for this device. It is packed with Android One operating system which is pure Android experience offering a clear and responsive interface without unnecessary bloatware. With this OS in your device, you will have extras like the Google Play Protect and Google malware-scanning security suite.  It will also reduce your power usage by prioritizing background activity for the most important applications. One of the striking applications on the device that caught my attention was the Google Podcasts. This allows the Android user, in this case, the Nokia Users to be able to access their favorite podcast channels to form this app. You have the advantage of subscribing to any podcast for free and download episodes for offline playback. Its camera is impressive for a phone worth that price having a dual-lens at the rear which allows for the improvement of portrait photography with various bokeh effects like the Classic, Butterfly, heart, and Star-shape. Not leaving out the selfie camera which produces amazing shots with a wide-angle lens making it great for fitting everybody into big group selfies. It has the MediaTek Helio A22 Processor that provides power-aware scheduling, thermal management, and user experience monitoring, assigning the right workload to CPU cores at a specific frequency and voltage perfectly matching required performance with the best power efficiency. Nokia decided to add another button on the left side of the device, the Google Assistant button to help in accessing the application faster instead of looking for it as an application. Despite its boasting of a powerful battery, it has a limitation on the storage which gives you 2GB RAM with 32GB ROM. This storage is limited as opposed to other budget phones that offer 3GB RAM with 32GB ROM. It also does not have apps like Gallery, Recorder and video players that are found budget phones around that price forcing the user to download them. The final verdict is that Nokia 2.3 is the phone to go for if you are looking for a device that offers you great quality pictures and longer battery life but if it is for storage you can as well get a Micro SD card.