Even after the confirmation of four coronavirus cases, some Kenyans believe the disease is not in the country and the state is looking for ways to get funds from the World Health Organization. “Shake my hand and forget about coronavirus. The government is trying to lure WHO so that it gets billions that will be looted again,” a  man told a security guard yesterday at a Kibera court in Nairobi, after confirming the case list posted at the gate. “Already, WHO has given the government 1 billion Euros to fight the disease which I know is not in the country,” the man told the guards. The correct position is that the World Bank has given the Kenyan government Sh6 billion ($60 million) to help combat the coronavirus pandemic. The man further claimed that it was difficult for a sick patient to travel all the way from China and land in the country as he would die while on board. “Please let no one lie to you. A sick patient cannot manage to travel from China and land into the country while he is still breathing. He may die while he or she is in the air,” he said. Another man in Kawangware on Sunday claimed the government will even raise the Covid-19 cases to as many as thousands as long as it gets the cash. “ If you are given money to admit that you are Coronavirus patient, will you refuse,?” he posed the question to a colleague where they were fetching water. Inside a Kawangware City Shuttle bus, some touts made jokes to all passengers who entered into the bus with a face mask. “I see you, Mr. Corona, with your mask. Please get in and let’s get to Congo, the city where people are resistant to coronavirus. Sit at the middle of those two passengers you are intending to ignore,” he shouted as other passengers broke into laughter. In the same vehicle, a man refused to seat in the middle of two other passengers on board a KBS bus. “Please move to the middle, I don’t want to sit at the centre,” he told one of the passengers. In a rejoinder, the passenger said,  “ So, you want me to contract corona early than anyone else?  If you don’t want to sit with others, just take an Uber because even your tummy does not belong to this car”. On the streets of   Nairobi, hawkers are now selling dust masks to wananchi, telling them that they prevent the virus. “Corona ! Corona! Corona! Prevent Corona at only 30 bob,” one hawker was overheard shouting. Another one was overheard complaining of bad business. “So you people have decided that you will not buy the corona mask and you better die?” he shouted. At a Kibera court, a man was overheard saying that coronavirus will end the life of a man who defiled his daughter. “Yes, it will get there through these new suspects who will come to take plea and kill him,” he said. The government has suspended all non-essential foreign travel by state and public officers to prevent the spread of coronavirus. So far the state has closed down all learning institutions in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus. 