All gold mines in Kakamega county on Monday were ordered closed indefinitely to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Deputy Governor Philip Kutima said the mines, famously gold mines, are fertile ground for spread of the virus if any worker contracts it. "We have learnt that those mines have people who come in from other countries and even Chinese whose status remains unknown. The only way to stop the virus spreading was to shut them down," he told a press conference. Many mining operations are unlicensed. Above ground, miners work close together. Underground many mine shafts lack proper aeration and could trigger the serious spread of the virus if one infected person entered. In the past, a number of people have suffocated to death in the mines due to poor ventilation. Gold mining is taking place in Rosterman and sections of Ikolomani. Artisanal miners inherited the mines left behind by colonialists in the 1950s. Speaking during a weekly briefing on the status of coronavirus in the county, Kutima directed police to immediately enforce the closure. “We know people earn a living from the mines but the decision to close them down is for their good. We would rather suffer for a short period and laugh later that laugh now and cry forever,” he said. The mines will remain guarded to ensure the prospectors do not sneak back.  Kutima also said matatu operators did not observe social distancing and were still crowding in bus parks and carrying more passengers than allowed. He said boda boda riders still carried more than one passenger and asked police to enforce the limit. The deputy governor said 20 people from five subcounties are under quarantine on suspicion they could have contracted the virus recently. “Thirteen of the persons are said to have interacted with the index case under medication in Nairobi. Their blood samples have been taken and we are awaiting results,” he said. Public health officers were fumigating county offices as well as markets, Kutima said. (Edited by V. Graham)