Kirinyaga county government is upgrading ECDE centres at Sh20.3 million to improve the quality of education. The county will renovate and equip Early Childhood Development Education centres and construct new classrooms. Governor Anne Waiguru said the measures were part of the plan to boost education standards through the enhancement of early childhood education. She said ECDE forms a critical base for subsequent levels of education and can determine the academic success of a learner. The governor said her administration has constructed 10 early childhood classrooms and equipped all the 198 centres with child-friendly materials that serve about 15,000 learners. Last year, the county government established a model ECDE centre of excellence at the Kiumbu Primary School in Mwea constituency. The Kiumbu centre has two new classrooms fitted with modern child-friendly equipment and furniture that would pass for a high-end private ECDE centre. Waiguru toured the centre on Monday and said her government was planning to replicate the model in all constituencies. She said she will continue supporting early childhood education in line with Sustainable Development Goals which aim at ensuring all children have access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-primary education to prepare them for primary education. “Poor early childhood development affects the performance of individuals in their subsequent education. It is a priority for my administration to ensure that it provides a conducive learning environment in the ECDE centres,” Waiguru said. Kiumbu head teacher Wilson Waweru said there was a noticeable change in the quality of pupils received from the ECDE centre since the upgrade was done. “Unlike before, the children have a very positive attitude towards education, enhanced self-esteem and a better grasp of concepts,” Waweru said. The refurbished ECDE centres have resulted in a high enrollment as many parents who previously enrolled their children in private centres now go for the public institutions. The county government has also started a programme to modernise polytechnics to improve training and take attract more students. It has constructed and equipped 13 new classrooms in various polytechnics and built dormitories at Nyangati, Kibingoti, Mutitu and Mucii- Wa-Urata polytechnics. “Early childhood development education and Technical and Vocational Education and Training(TVET) are the only components of education that are devolved and we are committed to ensuring they are well funded,” Waiguru said.  Edited by peter obuya