Shield Cup holders Bandari will have to do without the services of Harambee Stars winger Abdallah Hassan for the next two to three weeks, coach Twahir Muhiddin has revealed. Hassan made a come back after a long injury layoff in their 3-1 win over Mathare United a fortnight ago but according to Muhiddin, the winger got injured on the eve of their last weekend's match against KCB while in training. Hassan, who was part of the Harambee Stars squad that claimed bronze in last year's Cecafa Senior Challenge, has endured recurring injuries this season which have locked him out of league action. However, Muhiddin believes that the former Posta Rangers man will return stronger and with goal hunger enough to aid them to a respectable finish. The club is currently perched 11th with 29 points. "He suffered a knock in our last training session ahead of the last weekend's match. Considering that he had come from a lengthy layoff a few days ago, we did not want to risk him by playing him against KCB. He will be out for about two to three weeks," said the former Stars coach Muhiddin. In the meantime, the Muhiddin tipped their new striker Johanna Mwita as their solution to their misfiring attack after the towering player hit the ground running against KCB. Mwita, who joined the Coastal side from Sony Sugar last month, opened his goal account with the club with a brace, leaving Muhiddin satisfied that he is equal to the task. The experienced tactician also challenged the rest of the hitmen to pull up their socks as they seek to enrich their goal difference. Bandari will host Kariobangi Sharks this weekend, seeking to register their fourth successive win this season. "He is a skilled player who has shown traits of a lethal finisher. He had to keep on working hard and I believe he will soon be the solution to our problems. We have been missing clear cut chances for quite some time and the trend is slowly changing as we can now win matches by more than two goals. The rest of the strikers should also work hard for us to win matches in a more convincing way, " he added.