MPs have raised concerns on the whereabouts of the 239 Chinese cleared into the country last week and ordered to self-quarantine over coronavirus fears. The Chinese nationals arrived in the country on February 26 on a China Southern Airlines plane from Guangzhou. The lawmakers sitting in the Health committees of both Senate and National Assembly criticised the government’s move to allow the passengers into the country. They had sought a meeting with Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiangi (Interior), Mutahi Kagwe (Health) and James Macharia (Transport) to explain the whereabouts of the Chinese. The joint team also wanted assurance that the passengers had been quarantined in a Kenya Defense Forces facility as was ordered by the courts. They also wanted to know who issued the orders clearing a Chinese airline from Guangzhou at JKIA. The Cabinet Secretaries however skipped the meeting and instead sent representatives, a move that angered the lawmakers. Matiangi was represented by director general of Immigration Alexander Muteshi, Macharia by PS Solomon Kitungu while Health CAS Rashid Aman represented Kagwe. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu read misconduct in the actions of the CSs, demanding that the committee report the matter to both speakers for appropriate action. Seme lawmaker James Nyikal said the CSs’ actions amount to lack of seriousness and a demonstration that the government is ill-informed of the magnitude of the scourge which has been declared global health threat. “I get the impression that we are not taking this matter seriously. Countries are closing their schools, factories and here we are not taking this seriously,” Nyikal said. James Murgor (Keiyo South) told the government to enhance its screening services because the current situation where only temperatures are tested is misleading and exposes the country to the pandemic. “Anyone who has high temperatures need only to take antibiotics hours to landing and the screening will not reveal anything,” Murgor said. Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni also raised concerns on the safety of Kenyans manning the entry points. “What is the government doing for our people doing screening at the airports who are more exposed. In other countries those doing screening are in some protective gear while in the airport it is just a mask,” Omogeni said. The cabinet secretaries will today appear before the joint sitting at 3pm to address the members’ concern as well as update the committee on the government’s preparedness and response plan to the pandemic. “We are going to adjourn the meeting until tomorrow (today) 3 pm,” ruled Chege who co-chaired the session with Senate Health Committee chairman and Trans-Nzoia senator Michael Mbito.  (edited by O. Owino)