A programme to help primary school learners lagging behind in reading and writing  was on Wednesday launched in three counties. Bungoma, Turkana and Tana River were identified among the bottom three in a survey assessing the ability of learners who have been in school for three years in basic literacy skills. The skills in question are reading, writing and counting, which should be acquired within the first three years of primary school. To correct this, John Mugo, Executive Director at Zizi Afrique Foundation, said they had introduced an accelerated learning programme. The programme involves subjecting learners to extra class hours under the tutorship of teachers. Mugo terms the initiative a "magic bullet" noting that within 30 days the learners' improved ability to read, write and reason. “So we thought, are we just going to continue doing reports or should we step up and do something? The results were amazing in the first 30 days of implementation," Mugo said on Wednesday during the national annual learning forum. The piloting programme benefited 4,500 learners through literacy camps from 120 schools in Bungoma, Turkana, and Tana River counties. The programme is yet to be expanded. Mugo said interactive teaching methods such as singing, dancing, charts and other illustration materials were used in the learning activities. "If we put the right measures in place like we are doing in these three counties, then the crisis of learning will be broken…The work we are doing is the genesis, but we hope that it will go a long way in correcting the situation across the country," Mugo said. A 2015 survey report by civil society organisation Uwezo indicated that children in the counties of Bungoma, Turkana and Tana River had the most difficulties in grasping basic learning skills. In 2018, a brief assessment by Zizi Afrique reaffirmed this and revealed the situation had not changed in most of the counties, with some posting worse outcomes. In Bungoma, only 43 per cent of children in Grade 3 to 5 could read a Grade 2 book. This was a drop from the first assessment in 2015 where 50 per cent of learners managed the same test. Of all Grades 3-8 learners assessed only three out of five could read a Grade 2 text in Kiswahili. Half of the children in Grade 5 could not read a similar level of text in English. Edited by A. Ndung'u