A governor from Nyanza who has been building a business complex within Nairobi's Eastlands area could soon find himself in trouble. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is reportedly closing in on the county boss over claims of fraud scheme associated with the way he acquired the plot. There are claims that the governor could have bought the land from a rogue firm associated with a form MP who defrauded some women group which is said to be the legal owners of the land. While the county boss is not directly linked to the scheme of defrauding the hapless women, his massive investment might go down the drain. Corridors of Power is informed that the governor who was putting up a five-story expansive business complex has already panicked after he was told to halt the works with the building already on its third floor. A rogue mission hospital within the Nairobi area that has been detaining a female patient for no-payment of hospital bills is back in the light. This time around, the facility is accused of continuing to bill a patient a week after he had died without informing family members. The situation was only exposed after the relatives of the patient asked for a postmortem on the cause of death of their kin after suspecting foul play. The patient was allegedly involved in a road accident and taken to the facility but for two weeks, the relatives were not aware. When the next of kin arrived-14 days- later, they were informed that their kin had died the day before. However, a post-mortem report has turned the spotlight on the hospital after the pathologist said the patient died a week early. Unfortunately, bills sprinted showed he was being treated until the day before. Wonders can never cease. A senator who decamped from Jubilee before successfully winning the senatorial seat is up to something. The senator has been allegedly calling opposition leader Raila Odinga and requesting him to deliver his greetings to BBI rallies in which he is unable to attend. In one incident, after putting up with too many of such public regards, a section of MPs from his county protested at the podium that it was unfair for the same senator to be sending apologies and demanding that they are made public. The senator, a well-known gambler of international repute, is said to be using the BBI rallies to market himself as he plots a gubernatorial debut in 2022. It is not clear why Raila hardly remembers other leaders who send apologies to such BBI gatherings. Many are wondering if the publicly announced apologies are part of an endorsement plan for the politician's entry into the gubernatorial race. A woman representative is causing havoc at a senior Cabinet secretary's office. The female politician from Nyanza usually takes tea in the CS's office and often drops by during lunch hour. Surprisingly, the politician-initially a fierce critic of the CS-has been accused of often pocketing some facilitation allowances dished by the civil servant frequently. While she claims to represent her colleagues whenever she drops by the CS's office, it has now emerged that for some time she has been defrauding her colleagues. A recent incident nearly embarrassed her after one of the MPs from her county arrived at the CS's office without prior notice seeking some financial aid. The MP was shocked when the CS said he had dispatched some 'envelope' for him two days earlier. It would appear the envelope never reached its subject. To forestall a confrontation the CS is said to have reached to his drawer and handed the Mps some Sh100,000. The matter is serious as many MPs have come out to allege foul play. It is only a matter of time before the matter explodes. 