Siaya county on Saturday received health equipment necessary for protecting healthcare workers against coronavirus. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga said the equipment will ensure proper hygiene and sanitation across the county. "We have received non-pharmaceutical items, 4,000 bottles of sanitisers, 200 surgical masks, 1000 face masks, 10 medical disposal/protective clothing, five face shields and 10 goggles," Rasanga said. He added that 1,000 pairs of examination masks were received as well as gloves, gumboots and gowns necessary for protection of health care workers. Rasanga said the equipment are part of the integrated effort with the national government, Unicef and other agencies that are standing with the county during the Covid-19 spread. The governor noted this support and gesture will enhance the county level of preparedness. He added that even as they continue to urge residents to comply with the hygiene directives as well as the directives from the national government, health workers need to be protected to handle any emergency. The governor said the county government has contacted 247 individuals who were in contact with the Catholic priest who tested positive for Covid-19 and asked them to self-quarantine. Rasanga said the first round of testing for some of the suspected cases tested negative and additionally on Wednesday three samples taken to Kemri labs also tested negative. Rasanga also suspended all market-related fees for traders categorised as SMEs on condition that they adhere to the Covid-19 preventive measures as set out by Ministry of Health. He added that bus park fees have also been suspended for 30 days on condition that the public service vehicles abide by the preventive measures stipulated by the Ministry of Health. "They should reduce the number of passengers by 60 per cent and ensure provision of handwash facilities and sanitisers to those on transit. The 14 sitter matatu to carry  eight passengers, 24 sitter matatu passengers to carry 12," he said. Rasanga also extended the deadline for payment of single business permits by 30 days from March 31 to April 30 to give the traders more time to raise the fees. "As these directives take effect, we will continue to examine other sectors where the county government can provide reprieve and also review the same directives where necessary," Rasanga said.