The Thirdway Alliance party has dismissed a group of individuals who appeared before the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee on Tuesday to submit their recommendations. The party Executive Director Andrew Njoroge said the party does not recognise the BBI since the Constitution was not followed in its formation. Speaking with the Star on phone on Tuesday, Njoroge said the party sent an e-mail to the BBI Steering Committee on Monday informing them that the party will not appear before them. Njoroge said he delivered an hard-copy letter to the committee in person on Tuesday morning during its sittings at the Laico Regency Hotel. "Our party as directed by National Executive Council (NEC) has not mandated anyone to present any views before the Building Bridges Initiative and as a matter of fact the individuals purporting to represent the position of our party were in fact expelled by a majority decision of NEC and they have since filed the following petitions seeking reinstatement," the letter seen by the Star read. The party said it had received information that certain individuals were to present their proposals to the BBI committee using the name of the party. "Consequently no one from our party can purport or has been sanctioned to appear before BBI and present our party’s views. Any views presented to yourselves by any or all of the individuals should not be construed to be those of Thirdway Alliance Kenya," the letter signed by party National Chairperson Miruru Waweru read. The party's Executive Director said he was shocked to see the committee receiving the submissions from a group using its name yet it had been informed about their official stand regarding the entire BBI report. "Thirdway Alliance Kenya has not sent anybody to present any opinion of the party," he said. He added that any person purporting to be submitting party recommendations should be ignored. "The person claiming to be sent by the party is just masquerading as a party official and should be treated as a masquerader," he added. Appearing before the BBI Steering Committee in the name of Thirdway Alliance party on Tuesday was former secretary general  Fredrick Tshombe Okango. Okango claimed that the party National Executive Council presented the party's Punguza Mizigo memorandum to the BBI Steering Committee upon their invitation. He added that the views that were presented were endorsed by Kenyans during consultations in the past. In January, the party announced the expulsion of Okango after an agreement from the NEC. The party chairperson said after the expulsion, Okango ceased to carry out any form of business on behalf of the party. The high court declined on March 4 to declare the BBI task force unconstitutional and nullify its report. While dismissing the petition filed by Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot, Justice John Mativo ruled that the decision to appoint the BBI team was done in a constitutional manner. The judge noted that President Uhuru Kenyatta was right to form the BBI and has passed the legality test.