The Nairobi County government is now under immense pressure to clear all garbage dotting the central business district. The National Environment Management Authority has given the top leadership 48 hours to clear the mess. “You are given 48 hours to clear all the uncollected solid waste that has littered the city and report on compliance to the authority within 7 days failure to which officers in charge will be prosecuted,” part of communication to the county dated March 11 says. Article 42 of the constitution guarantees the people a clean and healthy environment. This includes the right to have the environment protected in the present and future generations. The National Environmental Complaints Committee Secretary Dr John Chumo said they have received a lot of complaints from Nairobi Residents about the mess. “People complaint that waste has not been collected for the last two months with the most affected areas being markets,” Chumo said. NECC is the body charged with the task of investigating complaints or allegations regarding the condition of the environment in Kenya and suspected cases of environmental degradation. The NECC also undertakes public interest litigation on behalf of the citizens in environmental matters. Chumo wondered why Nairobi residents pay taxes without enjoying service such as a clean environment. “We feel bad that Nairobi residents have been short-changed yet they deserve a clean environment,” he said. He said Nairobi residents fear that diseases such as cholera will strike soon. Chumo said the county has also failed to either relocate or manage the Dandora dumpsite. Nairobi County Chief officer in charge of environment and natural resources Mohammed Abdi on Thursday heaped the blame on the county finance department. “Ours is to process payment which we did by January. We gave them priority list. The problem is with finance,” Abdi said. On August 6 2019, it was revealed that the county owes Sh927 million contractors for work done in 2018-19. Abdi said they have agreed with some contractors to work as payments are being processed. “We have contractors in every zone such as Muthurwa, Pangani and CBD. The streets are now okay,” Abdi said. Abdi said payments should be processed anytime. Last month, City Hall announced plans to sign a one-year renewable contract with the National Youth Service to help in garbage collection across Nairobi. The contract is to be implemented soon. Nairobi generates about 4,000 tonnes of waste daily. Uncollected solid waste accounts for 774 tonnes per day while private recycling companies handle 654 tonnes per day.