About 53 members of Homa Bay county assembly on Tuesday voted to ouster the acting speaker Evans Marieba and Majority Leader Walter Muok. Marieba was elected acting speaker on October 17, 2018 two weeks before impeachment of the embattled speaker Elizabeth Ayoo. But on Tuesday afternoon, majority of the MCAs changed their minds and replaced Marieba with Kabondo West MCA Geoffrey Anyango. Anyango's vote was by 53 out 60 MCAs. He was voted despite being the only candidate who was proposed for the position during the proceeding. Anyango was sworn into office by the assembly clerk Daniel Kaudo immediately after the election. Speaking after taking the oath, Anyango promised to work closely with the MCAs. “This is a sign of confidence you have in me and I promise to discharge my duty as speaker. I will serve you with dedication,” Anyango said. Soon after the swearing in, Anyango announced that his office had received communication from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party that Muok replaced. Muok was replaced by Kanyaluo MCA Jeff Ongoro who also took over immediately. “I have received communication from the majority party (ODM) that Muok ceases to be majority leader from now henceforth,” Anyango said. However, reasons for removal of the two were unclear. The motion for removing Marieba was introduced by Kendu Bay Town MCA Maurice Ogwang'. “This House has decided to rescind the decision in which Marieba was elected the acting speaker, “ Ogwang' said. The Kendu Bay Town MCA said their mission was to remove Marieba regardless of how he performed during his tenure. “It doesn't matter who did what, when and how but the mission is to ensure that Marieba must be removed, “he said. Marieba and Muok boycotted the assembly proceeding of their removal. The county assembly had wrangles since Ayoo was impeached in 2018. But addressing journalists outside the assembly premises, Marieba and Muok welcomed the ouster to ensure peace prevails in the county assembly. The two said they were proud of the achievements which the county assembly made during their tenure. “We were elected as MCAs and given the positions as per the standing orders hence there is no harm if the same procedure was applied,” Marieba said. They said they upbeat that they helped bring transformation into the assembly during their time. “We passed about 15 bills in the assembly which is better than the previous assembly,” Marieba said. Marieba promised never to subject the county assembly to chaos. “I want peace to prevail in the county assembly. I will not subject the house to any war,” he said. Muok said their leadership liaised with the executive to initiate flagship projects such as the multi-million construction of the Homa Bay stadium. “We also factored Sh800 million ward development projects into the current budget and increased bursary funds from Sh60m to Sh100m last year. I am happy for the co-operation of MCAs I enjoyed during my tenure,” Muok said. Muok however criticized the MCAs for electing leaders from Rachuonyo region. Anyango, Ongoro and Majority Whip Dan Were hail from Rachuonyo region.