Owners of stray livestock in Garissa town have one week to take their herds off the streets or risk hefty penalties. Urban planning executive Abdi Omar said street animals were a health hazard and caused traffic gridlock in the busy streets of the municipality. "The owners of stray cattle have a week to take them off the streets or risk paying hefty fines for the release of their animals from our holding grounds,"  Abdi warned. He spoke during a spot check of the areas with the highest number of loitering cattle in Garissa town. The official said clearing the animals off the streets was part of a wider effort the county government was engaged in to clean up the town. He said his department would take stringent measures in the event owners failed to comply with the directive. Abdi said it was unacceptable for owners to let their livestock wander around town looking for food while hampering crucial services. He was accompanied by municipality manager Abdirahman Shalle and security officers tasked with removing the animals. The directive follows complaints from traders in Garissa town that goats, donkeys and cows roaming the streets destroyed their wares. Abdi said the animals had turned the local market into their grazing field. Speaking to the press, angry traders urged relevant authorities to intervene and clear the animals. Mariam Aden, a grocer at the market, said the animals had caused them great losses. “These animals keep increasing every day. We are unable to sell our merchandise since they are everywhere," she said. "The cows take the opportunity of unguarded stock to snatch it and by the time you react it’s too late.” Amina Yussuf, another trader, wondered why the county was not in a hurry to solve the problem which, he noted, had persisted for too long. “We always ask ourselves who will come to our rescue. You can imagine not being able to leave this place even for a short call," Amina said. "When you try chasing away these animals the owner shows up from nowhere and it becomes a quarrel.” While some traders blame drought for the hundreds of livestock in the streets, others blame the owners for negligence. “Let nobody tell you that these animals freely roaming the town is as a result of drought. Why then is it that when it has rained you will still find the animals around?  This is a classic case of owners deciding not to take care of their animals,” Amina said. Edited by Henry Makori