Lazio went top of the Serie A table for the first time in almost a decade thanks to victory over Bologna. They took advantage of the fact, previous leaders, Juventus’ game against third-placed Inter Milan on Sunday was postponed because of coronavirus. Luis Alberto gave Lazio the lead from just outside the box from Ciro Immobile’s pass and then set up Joaquin Correa’s deflected strike. Bologna had two goals disallowed by the video assistant referee. Stefano Denswil’s effort was ruled out for handball, with Takehiro Tomiyasu penalised for offside. Lazio last topped the Serie A table after 10 games in 2010-11. The last time they were top in the second half of a season was when they won the league in 1999-2000, which was only their second Italian title. Simone Inzaghi’s side are two points above Juve — having played a game more — and could go five points clear next Saturday at Atalanta, with Juventus not playing Bologna until Sunday. The last time anyone other than Juventus won the Italian title was 2010-11 when AC Milan finished top. Meanwhile, Napoli continued their revival under Gennaro Gattuso with a comfortable 2-1 home win over a sorry Torino side who slumped to a sixth consecutive league defeat on Saturday. Napoli quickly took control and went ahead after 19 minutes when defender Kostas Manolas headed in from a Lorenzo Insigne free-kick. Insigne missed an easy chance to increase their lead and then saw an effort saved by Salvatore Sirigu before Arkadiusz Milik hit the crossbar as Napoli continued to dominate. Still, Napoli took until the 82nd minute to add a second when Giovanni Di Lorenzo turned in a Dries Mertens cross at the back post. Simone Edera pulled one back in stoppage time from a rare Torino attack. The match was one of five Serie A matches at the weekend to be unaffected by the coronavirus outbreak which caused five others to be called off including the meeting between Juventus and Inter Milan on Sunday. Napoli are sixth with 39 points from 26 games, having at one stage dropped to 13th, while Torino are 15th.