The man who was being sought by the police for allegedly killing his wife and attempting suicide is recovering at the Makueni Level-4 Hospital. Maithya Waema, 44, was arrested on Friday night. A search for him began after he fled on Thursday night following the death of his 33-year-old wife, Rose Ngina. The father of four was accused of striking Ngina with a panga as they fought in their Kilungu home, Makueni. Their Form-2 daughter watched in horror and was slightly injured as she tried to separate them. After the tragedy, the girl informed neighbours of what had happened and they called area chief Michael Munyeke, who, in turn, informed the police. The police launched investigations and their preliminary findings showed infidelity could have been the cause of their fight. Ngina's body was taken to Kilungu Subcounty Hospital mortuary. On Friday night, Waema's father, Willy Imundi, informed chief Munyeke that he had killed himself. Munyeke said Imundi called and informed him that the suspect had committed suicide in his kitchen. However, when he arrived with police officers, they found him alive. He said Imundi pleaded with him to tell only the police of his death but it turned out the father knew his son was alive and was afraid the community would lynch him if they knew he had returned to his house. "I called the police and when we went, we found the suspect lying on the floor of his kitchen with his head well placed on a rag he had used as a pillow. Beside him was a pullover soaked in blood," Munyeke said. "At first we thought he was dead but when we entered the house, he rose and sat down. However, due to the injury he had inflicted on himself, he became unconscious." Waema was booked at the Kavatanzou police post then taken to Kilungu Subcounty Hospital from where he was referred to Makueni Level-4 Hospital. County deputy police commander Justus Kitetu said his officers will keep a close watch on him throughout his stay at the facility. He will then be arraigned. "We intend to charge him with murder as the first case for killing his wife and attempted murder for attempting to take his own life," Kitetu said. (Edited by F'Orieny)