Vihiga health facilities will share drugs and equipment worth Sh29.8 million in efforts to boost healthcare. Governor Wilber Ottichilo on Monday said they will ensure all facilities are equipped with essential equipment for the diagnoses of all diseases. The project is part of the universal health coverage programme implemented through the Ministry of Health and the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa). It is supported by the World Bank. Ottichillo spoke at the county headquarters when he flagged off the supplies. The county will procure additional Sh44 million drugs besides the Sh77 million consignment from the Ministry of Health to curb shortage. "We have a system in place that will ensure everything is accounted for. For those who will be found stealing drugs in our health facilities within Vihiga county, their services will be terminated with immediate effect," Ottichillo said. Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi urged medical staff to be responsible in discharging their duties. Saisi said county trucks will ferry water to marketplaces to ensure traders have clean water to wash their hands frequently. Meanwhile, ANC lawmaker Godfrey Ososti has urged the government to waive tax on sanitisers so poor people can afford them. He said brokers had taken advantage of the crisis caused by Covid-19 to exploit the Kenyans. "Pay As You Earn, value-added tax and other related taxes, the state must come up with a clear plan to reduce them," Osotsi said. He said countries that were worst hit by the virus had done so to rescue their citizens economically. "With the closure of the borders at the moment, we may run out of sanitiser. The state should commission that ethanol produced at Mumias be used to produce sanitiser that will be distributed if the situation prolongs. That will also help the factory to revive itself from the mess it's in at the moment. "We, politicians, should serve as a good example by staying put to orders issued by the state to safeguard our people. Let's avoid the crowds and holding gatherings that will expose our people to more risks," Osotsi said.