The Embu county government has been ordered to pay a former employee Sh2 million as damages and compensation for violation of his rights. Thomas Mugambi Nthiga, who worked for the defunct Embu Municipal Council, went to court after the county government refused to absorb him on permanent terms despite promises it would do so via memos and internal communications. His colleagues, among them doctors, teachers, driver and ICT officer were employed on permanent terms. High Court judge Nzioki wa Makau, sitting in Nyeri, found that the devolved unit had violated the applicant's rights and ordered that he be paid Sh1 million as damages and a similar amount for failure to meet his legitimate expectation. The particulars of the case were that was employed in August 2009 by the Municipal Council of Embu as an HIV and Aids programme officer as per an agreement between the council and the German Development Service, now GIZ Kenya. His was a five-year contract. The contract said that German agency would pay his salary for three years and thereafter share the cost on a 50:50 basis with the municipal council. Subsequently, he would be employed on a permanent and pensionable basis. “The donors wrote to the local authority on September 19, 2011, before the expiry of his contract recommending that he be absorbed permanently. In May 2012, the  council's Finance Staff and General Purposes Committee resolved to retain me on job grade 10, guided by the Collective Bargaining Agreement,” Nthiga told the court. Six months later, he was issued with a non-renewal of contract notice and his salary was stopped although it had been budgeted for. Nthiga sought general damages and compensation for emotional distress and violation of his rights. County secretary Johnson Nyaga told the court that they had at to time given Nthiga assurance of reinstatement and that the (impugned) internal memos were not addressed to him. “Were it not for the clandestine means of acquiring them, he would never have known of their contents,” he said. Nyaga asserted that the contract did not carry any expectation of renewal upon its expiry in July 2014. Judge Makau ruled that Nthiga had every right to access the memos and there was nothing to suggest they were obtained illegally. “It was, therefore, a violation of his rights to bar him from assuming the office that had been promised him in memos and internal communication,” he said. 