At least four staff of Deputy President William Ruto are lined up for questioning in connection with the murder of his guard Kipyegon Kenei. Detectives investigating the murder of the police sergeant who was based at the DP's Harambee House Annex office will interrogate five other people, including two employees of a mobile service provider. The officers handling the case are yet to make a decision whether they will ask the DP to record a statement on what he knows about Kenei's death. The employees of the mobile service provider will shed light on under whose instructions they managed to access the system and delete Kenei's mobile phone data. Detectives successfully managed to get the data that was flushed from Kenei's phone after the mobile service provider agreed to retrieve it from the servers. In total, the detectives want at least nine people questioned as they seek to establish who killed the officer. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations said Kenei was a key witness in the Sh39 billion fake military tender. The Star has established that the officers from the Homicide and the Special Crimes Unit have already identified the persons of interest who will be grilled as early as this week. Yesterday, a senior officer aware of the probe told the Star “be patient",  when asked if they were ready to give out summonses to the persons of interest. During the course of investigations, it has also become apparent that the slain officer, who was buried on Saturday, was drugged before he was murdered by people known to him. According to information being analysed by the DCI detectives, the killers visited Kenei before they drugged him and obtained passwords to his phone and bank account before sending his wife and father money. There are reports the killers drove with the unconscious officer to Mombasa Road where they shot him dead before returning his lifeless body to his house at Villa France Estate in Imara Daima. The body was discovered on February 20 by curious neighbours two days after he was reported missing. The body was clad in pyjama and without shoes or socks in a scene DCI boss George Kinoti said was stage-managed to look like a suicide. Homicide and forensic experts last week said the officer's bed was neatly spread without indication of any disturbance, meaning there was no commotion or struggle in the room. There was no brain matter in the room although there was some blood. Edited by Henry Makori