Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka wants the Bukusu circumcision season postponed over the Covid-19 threat. The government has banned all public gatherings to prevent the spread of Covid-19. If the ban persists to July and August, it would interfere with the tradition that takes place every even year. Speaking during an interview with a local station on Monday evening, the former Bungoma governor expressed his concern over the highly anticipated rite. Postponing the rite would have ramifications on generational naming or generations and the age of the next group that would be cut, according to elders. Generations or age-sets are named after every circumcision. They comprise people who were circumcised in the same year. A specific name is given to a generation/age-set. The last circumcision took place in 2018. The Bukusu circumcision is one of Kenya’s most-anticipated traditional ceremonies and attracts more than 40,000 tourists, both local and foreign. During the ritual, an initiate travels to his maternal uncles' place, where a ceremony is held during which a bull is slaughtered. He is given some of the meat to carry home. The next day, he is taken to the river in the wee hours of the morning where his entire body is smeared with mud and on return he is circumcised at the gate to his homestead facing west. Former Cabinet minister Burudi Nabwera said postponing the rite would mean two sets of initiates are circumcised the next year. “We, the Tachonis, and Bukusus have similarities in our circumcision rituals. The difference is that Bukusus circumcise facing west while we face east," he said on the phone. "Any postponement means that those who will have been asked not to be cut will be circumcised together with others two years younger the following year.” This, he said, will affect naming of the generation and the resultant generation will have two names. But Luhya Elders’ Forum chairman Patrick Wangamati said August is some way off and it is premature to start talking of postponing the rite. “We still have more than four months before the ceremony. If by August the situation persists then we will have to postpone the ceremony and that will not be the first time because it has happened before,” Wangamati said. But Lusaka said the virus has disrupted many businesses and programmes and should the interruption continue, then the Bukusu circumcision organisers will have no choice but to postpone it. “You have seen the kind of disruption this pandemic has brought to governments, institutions and cultures across the world. If it continues this way, we as the members of the Bukusu tribe will have to postpone our loved culture,” the speaker said. Lusaka’s sentiments were echoed by famous Bukusu elder Mzee Sinino Womukolongolo. “Our tradition requires that we conduct the circumcision every even year but there are exceptions like during war, outbreaks of diseases and other unavoidable circumstances,” he said on the phone. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya