Ahead of perhaps the biggest match in his nascent coaching career, AFC Leopards interim coach Anthony Kimani is relishing the challenge of pitting his wits against  Gor Mahia. Kimani, who has impressed in the few months he has headed the Ingwe technical bench, said mental strength will be key if they are to come out on top against the Kenyan Premier League leaders. "It's a challenge playing against Gor but  I am positive and we all need to embrace it. As a coach, you have to show mental strength because any show of weakness consciously or sub-consciously can trickle down to the players and have a negative effect," remarked Kimani. The former international defender understands how important victory against their traditional rivals is for the fans but urged the players to remain focused on just getting three points. "It cannot be gainsaid how important this clash is for us. We expect a huge turnout never experienced before. It is our responsibility to ensure the players will not be distracted with the sideshows in the build-up to the match. After all, it is only three points that will be at stake and that is something we should not lose sight of," Kimani explained. The form of new signing Elvis Rupia has been crucial to Leopards' consistent rise up the table. Rupia has easily filled the goal-scoring boots of John Makwata who left during the January transfer window and Kimani was effusive in his praise for the former Nzoia United man. "Elvis has done well ever since he joined us—scoring important goals. But what has been even more impressive is his general contribution to our tactical performance as a unit and long may it continue," Kimani said. Leopards are yet to beat Gor in a league match in recent years and Kimani was not interested in past outcomes. "If we play to our capabilities, I will be happy regardless of the result because at the end, we will get what we deserve," concluded Kimani. The match will be played at Kasarani despite initial fears that the stadium might not be available for KPL's standout fixture.