Msambweni MP Suleiman Ramadhani Dori’s childhood was that of tears, struggle and hard work. He hawked mabuyu (baobab seeds) and had to walk for many kilometres to attend school. At some point, he had to drop out of school for lack of school fees to sell charcoal and firewood to make ends meet for his family. This was after his mother was bedridden following a road accident. Three years ago the MP broke down when he narrated his story at a public rally in Msambweni. The life and times of the 42-year-old  leader were characterised by ups and downs. He first stepped into a classroom in Std 6, after studying under a tree for years. The lastborn in a family of 11 is survived by a widow and two children aged seven and two years old. He succumbed to chest and lung complications, pneumonia, yesterday morning at the Aga Khan Hospital, according to family. “He started ailing two months ago and was in bad shape. But he recovered and continued with his normal duties until two days ago when he fell ill again and was admitted,”  his uncle, Salim Shikeli, said. He was buried at his Gazi home according to Islamic rites. A year after being elected in 2013, Dori was mentioned among the “lazy” MPs in the 11th Parliament, having only contributed once. This was despite sitting in several parliamentary committees, including Lands. Between 2013 and 2018, the two-time MP was said to have spoken in Parliament at least 22 times. Widely known as one of Deputy President William Ruto’s allies despite being elected on the ODM ticket, Dori had lined up several projects for his constituents. A post by ODM said, “We are saddened by the death of our member and MP for Msambweni early this morning. Cancer has once again robbed Kenya of a dedicated leader who served his people selflessly. To the people of Msambweni, and the Coast region, poleni sana,” The family has, however, denied the cause of death. SOBER POLITICIAN The MP worked in the transport business long before he joined politics, where he supplied materials. He was also a transporter of semi-trailers to different parts of the region. He had a clearing and forwarding company as well. According to Shikeli, his death is a big loss to the family since his father also passed on two months ago. “We had many plans with him. This week, I was to travel with him to Nairobi after he met Forestry officials to know the fate of the mangroves. Our issue was why the mangrove ban was lifted in Lamu and but is still on in Msambweni. I deal in mangrove business and he had always followed up on our issues,” Shikeli said. He added that Dori was a sober politician who initiated many projects in the region, including the planned construction of a teachers’ college in Gazi, which was scheduled to start this year and opening pathways leading to the fish landing sites in Gazi. Hassan Mwanyoha, Kwale ODM chairman and Matuga MP, said Dori has left a big gap in his constituency. “We differed politically years ago and both of us went our separate ways and only met once during the BBI rallies since the election. We respected each other’s space,” Mwanyoha said. In 2016, after the political tension in the country, Dori dared President Uhuru Kenyatta to apologize to Coast residents after he said they never voted him in. Uhuru had earlier issued title deeds to squatters at Waitiki farm in Likoni, where he made the statement. His confrontational nature also saw him land in trouble with Speaker Justin Muturi in 2015 after he, as the chair of the disciplinarian Powers and Privileges Committee, asked him to apologise to her counterpart, Zuleikha Hassan Juma for allegedly threatening to beat her. Zuleikha had sought the Speaker’s protection after Dori reportedly told her, “... hata pia wewe nitakupiga [I will also beat you]”. In his defence, Dori said, “I am not a drunkard. I don’t smoke bhang. I am not a mad person. I don’t use drugs. Why would I threaten a lady? I can’t fight with a lady. It was a very cordial conversation about the Kwale incident that Mustafa and Zuleikha were having, and I just commented that if someone loses respect, you never know what the public will do.” Kwale Governor, Salim Mvurya, said they will remember Dori as a leader who was committed to serve his people. Mombasa Woman Representative Mishi Mboko said the region had lost a true servant leader. Leaders gathered at Aga Khan Hospital early morning, after hearing about Dori’s death, before heading to Gazi for burial.  TIMELINE October 19, 1977-Date of Birth 1998-KCSE-Tudor Secondary 2012-Diploma, Community Development, YMCA February 13, 2013 to 2016-Coalition for Reforms and Democracy-Member 2013 to 2020- Msambweni MP 2013-2017-Departmental Committee on Public Works, Roads and Transport 2013-2017-Departmental Committee on Lands and Natural Resources 2017-2020-Chairman of the Coast Parliamentary Group