Boda boda and Tuk tuk riders in Machakos have called upon governor Dr Alfred Mutua to withdraw the call to ban them following over coronavirus. This comes at day after Mutua directed that bodaboda, maruti and tuktuk will no longer operate in the county from Wednesday. The coordinator of boda boda operators in Kenya Allan Musembi asked Mutua to instead reconsider the ban. Musembi who is also the chairman of Bodaboda in Machakos Town said the ban will render the operators jobless and increase insecurity in the county. “Where are we going to get food, rent and other needs? How are we supposed to provide for our families” he posed. Erick Musee Mbula a rider Machakos said that they urge the governor to not cut off their income. “We ask the governor Mutua to reconsider this directive as this is the only source of income that will feed our families, this will help us a lot,” said Musee. He said the government should instead supply masks to the riders in a move that will mitigate the spread of coronavirus. Musee said that most of them had taken loans to purchase the bikes hence they will be affected. “Most of these riders have loans that are still being serviced, this ban will really affect those who are yet to pay,” he added. The riders say that the boda bodas have complied with the guidelines by the government as they have sanitizers that passengers before and after boarding. He said his family depended on him as the breadwinner and urged Mutua to reconsider his orders. "If you look at us, this is the only way of income. We have no other way to get money to pay bills, rent and food. We even have loans to pay," said Musee. Governor Mutua argued that bodaboda riders and passengers are always close to one another hence the directive. “We cannot pretend we are keeping the required social distance and still riding on Boda Bodas where the separation between the rider and passenger is zero to 1 mm,” he added. Mutuam also imposed a 7 pm curfew that will see all residents stay at home beyond that time. This he said is in line with the national government directive to minimize crowding in social places.