The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has asked police officers across the country to grant suspects free bonds. Chairperson Anne Makori said Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai should ensure that station Commanders pursue alternative means of addressing those arrests that require cell confinement by granting cash bails and personal (free) bonds in line with the Bail and Bond Policy Guidelines to reduce congestion in cells and detention areas. Makori said this will go a long way in decongesting the cells and contribute towards reducing the risk of contamination for detainees and police officers themselves. “Towards this, the authority’s monitoring officers will closely monitor the efficacy of cash bail and bond grants. IPOA’s Inspection Officers will also visit police detention cells and areas to ensure detained persons are not kept in congested conditions,” Makori said. In a statement to newsrooms on Thursday, Makori said the police should further undertake their duties diligently with professional endeavour and citizen-focus, observing high levels of hygiene, social distancing and frequent sanitizing. She said the authority will continue to undertake its investigative function to ensure police officers are held accountable while undertaking their duties. “The Authority’s Rapid Response Investigation teams are primed to deploy to incident scenes at short notice. Further, in tandem with the Director of Public Prosecution’s Staff guidelines on preventive measures against the spread of COVID-19 in Kenya issued on March 16,  IPOA will forward all completed investigation files on murder, sexual offences and assault for the ODPP’s immediate attention and action,” Makori said. According to her, the Authority will continue to receive complaints from members of the public and police officers. “However, in order to avoid the risk of transmission through physical contact, the Authority encourages complainants to lodge their complaints and seek case updates electronically,” she said. The following contact means will be manned around the clock: Makori said the Authority will monitor the drafting and full implementation of guidelines on new suspect arrests to be issued by the Inspector General of Police as articulated by the National Council for the Administration of Justice in its Press Statement of the 15th March, 2020.