Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju has tested negative for the coronavirus. The test was conducted by the Ministry of Health on Thursday. Tuju, who is also the Jubilee Secretary General, was recently treated in London and has been visited by several individuals, including the country’s political top guns at his Karen home where he is recovering. The UK is among the hardest hit by the virus and has since ordered a three-week lockdown that started on Monday. "I praise God for taking care of me when I was in hospital in the UK where the virus has been more endemic," Tuju said on receiving the results. "Even though it is more than 20 days since I got back from the UK, and besides the fact that I did not exhibit any symptoms associated with the coronavirus, it was imperative that I go through this test. I have been exercising social distancing and all the other behaviourial practices as prescribed by the Ministry of Health.” The CS returned to the country on March 7 at a time when China was the epicentre of the virus. However, Tuju said in the face of media reports and narratives in the social media, it has been a matter of public interest that he voluntarily presents himself for the test. “Thankfully the results are negative. That should clear the air and bring closure to the concerns and anxiety associated with my stay in the UK or encounters with other Kenyans since my return to Kenya" the SG said. Political top guns, including Deputy President William Ruto and opposition chief Raila Odinga, are among those who visited Tuju. Ministry of Health Director General Dr Patrick Amoth led officials from the ministry in taking Tuju’s samples yesterday. Tuju was involved in a grisly road accident at Kijabe while en route to Kabarak for the burial of former President Daniel Moi. He suffered 12 broken ribs, three crushed vertebrae but has since improved tremendously and is able to walk on his own. He, however, has to stick to a supervised exercise regime and physiotherapy sessions conducted by professionals from the Karen Hospital. The CS is among the latest politician to come out publicly to declare their health status after foreign travels. Eldas MP Adan Keynan, his Taita Taveta counterpart Naomi Shaban and Senators Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and George Khaniri (Vihiga) are some of the leaders who have completed the quarantine without showing any signs of the disease. The lawmakers visited London on official business between March 6 and 11. Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro also announced on Thursday he had tested negative for the virus. Mungaro came into contact with Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi who has tested positive for the virus. Edited by A.N