As the Covid-19 pandemic takes its toll on the country’s economy, MPs want the creation of a special fund to cushion local businesses. During their last sitting on Tuesday, they said the measures announced to contain the spread of the virus are anti-business and will push the majority of SMEs into oblivion in the absence of a support fund. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and his minority counterpart John Mbadi appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Treasury boss Ukur Yatani to come up with a plan to save small traders who contribute immensely to the economy. Duale said most SMEs will be unable to service their loans, hire purchase, rents and mortgages, hence the need to support them to ensure the economy does not collapse. “We must sit down with the National Executive and create a fund that Kenyans out there who will fall victim of the domestic and international meltdown will be cushioned,” Duale said. “Matatu people will not be able to pay their loans or hire purchase. We must create an avenue where the government bails out these businesses.” He cited the US and Germany which, he noted, had come out with support funds to bail out businesses during periods of economic meltdown. Mbadi warned the country might not have an economy if nothing is done to critical drivers like the SMEs. He called on Uhuru, Yatani and relevant state agencies to swing into action for the well-being of the country. “As we deal with the crisis and emergency, immediately after that we must look at the economic side of it,” Mbadi said. “The state agencies responsible should take up the matter, and the earlier the better for us as a country, otherwise we will come back at the end of the pandemic and we don’t have an economy.” Yesterday, former Vice president Kalonzo Musyoka urged the government to consider giving incentives to companies to mitigate tough economic times. The Wiper leader noted that the pandemic threatened the country’s socio-economic well-being. He proposed, among other measures, giving tax breaks of three to six months to enable companies to ride over turbulence to avoid mass job losses. “Companies, as well as small and medium enterprises (SMEs), face dire financial straits.  History has proven that during such moments of crises, the most obvious recourse taken by employers is effecting of mass lay-offs,” Kalonzo said in a statement. “I urge employers to avoid sacking their workers at this time and to consider alternatives such as giving unpaid leave. Every company or SME should come up with alternative mitigation measures other than complete shutdowns.” Edited by Henry Makori