Millions of Christians around the world tuned in online to follow church services as they remained at home to prevent the spread of coronavirus. In rural Kiongwani , Makueni county, with no internet coverage, a Catholic priest used a different kind of technology to reach his parishioners—loudspeakers. Father Boniface Kioko started conducting mass at the church at 10am with his voice projected by the loudspeakers installed on a high mast by the late Fr Adriano Bonafante. Bonafante was an Italian priest who started Kiongwani Mission Catholic Church. The loudspeakers were installed in 1989 and the projected voice can reach a three-kilometre radius. Villagers say Fr Adriano used the loudspeakers to reform the Kiongwani society from witchcraft and the tradition of cursing wrongdoers. They say he used to play prerecorded messages urging people to change their ways. “It is not easy for people who are used to being in church on Sunday to be at home during the times of worship, so I decided to turn to the facility to give them hope that they are not far from the church,” Kioko said. He said many could be worshiping in their houses but not all will understand the liturgical procedure. Apart from the mass, which includes Sunday readings according to the traditional Catholic calendar, Kioko also leads worshippers in praying the rosary and observing the Way of the Cross since it is Lent period. The government has banned all gatherings, including church services, sports, burials and market days in bid to contain the spread of Covid-19. Teresia Luka was at her home in the neighbouring Munakye village when she heard the priest's voice inviting those who could hear him to join him in celebrating mass. The catechist stopped whatever she was doing to worship. “The speakers are very clear that even when the priests are conducting usual morning mass in their house, we always follow to the end and it gives us hope,” Luka said. She prays that the Covid-19 situation ends soon. In the neighbourhood lives a nun, Biata Kavithe, who says she started following the priest on Friday during the devotion of the Way of the Cross. Kavithe says she helps her family members to pray at home when the priest goes on air. She cursed the coronavirus for keeping worshippers apart, saying coming together to fellowship gives worship more meaning. “I appreciate late Fr Adriano for installing the mast and the loudspeakers and Fr Kioko for ensuring we don’t go down in faith during this period,” Kavithe said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya