Maanzoni lodge has been closed and declared a quarantine area. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said all the 720 youth who were found meeting at the facility despite social distancing directive will be force quarantined for 14 days and tested before being released. The hotel in Athi River, Machakos County belongs to business man Chris Musau. Earlier on Machakos County commissioner Esther Maina ordered the hotel close after more than 720 youth of between 22-28 years were found at the premises on Tuesday. Musau and another person were arrested over the youths' presence at the hotel on Monday at around 11pm. The two were arraigned at Mavoko Law Courts and charged with facilitating unlawful assemble of the youth and contravening the government's directives and order of holding public meetings and assemblies over the Covid - 19 threat. They spent the night at Athi River police station. The hotel according to the Star's investigations has a capacity of 360 guests. Other sources revealed that the meeting was sponsored by Samasource, a company that deals with  data classification. It is said the staff are to be paid Sh50, 000 per day per head for 30 days totaling to Sh1.08 billion. They were ferried into the hotel in 20 buses on Monday. The organisation said in a press statement said it had rolled out its work from home programme admitting 826 in different facilities in Machakos county in response to the work from home guidance issued by the government amid COVID-19 pandemic. Senior director Faith Nbutu said the organisation had set up Maanzoni lodge and Lukenya Getaway to accommodate the staff. She said health teams from the county had inspected the facilities and stated that they passed all health requirements. "It is standard business continuity planning practice in our industry to have a live work arrangement in the event of an emergency or a disaster situation," Nbutu said. She added, "Our workforce is largely drawn from youths from low income communities with potential but are unable to find jobs because of the high unemployment rate therefore most of our employees live in high-density areas with risky sanitary measures".