It's been three weeks of personal pain and loss during a three-week blackout in Kyuso, Kitui county. Doctors, nurses and midwives have had to use their mobile phone torches and candlelight to deliver babies and handle emergencies. Residents of Kyuso subcounty protested peacefully on Wednesday over blackouts they estimated cost them at least Sh150,000 at Kyuso market alone. Residents said they have not had consistent power supply for three weeks, leading to unemployment and worsening poverty. They say KPLC is unreachable. KPLC says the Tseikuru main line collapsed in a downpour and they are making repairs. Soon Kyuso will be back to normal, the company says. “People who depend on businesses like welding are no longer at work,” resident Maurice Musya said. Musya also said some business people have been forced to use generators, which are costly. He estimated the Jua Kali sector and individual traders and individual businesses have lost at least Sh150,000 in three weeks. The health sector has also been undermined. Musya narrated how he took his pregnant cousin to Kyuso Level 4 Hospital to deliver on Saturday and he was shocked to witness medical practitioners using mobile phone torches and candles to help the patient deliver. Businessman Nzule Kyallo said that they are frustrated by KPLC offices because their complaints and calls for information go unanswered. They may be told the responsible officer is on leave and they get an alternative contact that doesn't go through. “KPLC has subjected us to huge losses in our business yet phone calls to their offices go unanswered," Nzule sad. Rhoda Kilonzo said her hairdressing business that sustains her family and pays school fees is at risk due to the shortage. “My rental shop is now closed after I failed to pay rent for consecutive days because I couldn' work during the blackout. Residents say the Mwingi-Kyuso power line is highly sensitive to slight weather change; even a light shower can cause a blackout. Kyuso deputy county commissioner Mwachaunga Chaunga said area leaders have been notifying KPLC but nothing has been done. Kitui KPLC Manager Anthony Mwangi said the Tseikuru main line collapsed due to a heavy downpour and the area where the lines passes was impassable since it is deep in the forest. Mwangi said repair works have been ongoing and his officers managed to restore power up to Kyuso, adding five poles. Kyuso will have its power back soon, he said. (Edited by V. Graham)