Murang’a county police commander Josphat Kinyua has praised residents for heeding the President’s directive on hygiene. Kinyua said he was impressed that passengers were demanding water and soap before and after alighting. He was inspecting matatu termini to ensure public service vehicles were not violating the directives. The police boss said it is encouraging that residents have understood the gravity of the disease and are proactively taking measures to protect themselves. “This far, Murang’a people seem to be following the government’s guidelines voluntarily. It is our joy to see that they understand the need to embrace the measures taken,” he said. The police chief, however, noted that his team will continue inspecting the matatus until the disease is eradicated. "The National Police Service has a responsibility to ensure all matatu saccos have sanitisers, water and soap, and vehicles are well cleaned." He said he met boda boda sacco officials and asked them to take extra care, especially when handling helmets. Kinyua backed the county government’s decision to revoke licenses of drinking joints, saying it will discourage crowding and congestion. After the second coronavirus patient was confirmed, Kinyua said, there was a noticeable increase in revellers citing the order for closure of learning institutions and working from home. On Tuesday, Governor Mwangi wa Iria revoked all bar licences, saying operators had refused to heed a closure directive issued on Monday by the county Emergency Response team. “They said they will not close down because they have licences so now we have cancelled all them,” the governor said. County community Health officer Stephen Kuria said the county government has procured products to produce its own sanitisers. The sanitisers will then be distributed to markets and shopping centres to further reinforce the required hygiene among residents. “This is because shops have hiked the prices yet one only needs surgical spirit, sterilised water and glycerine to make them." Water companies have installed water points in all stages and markets and soaps provided. Murang’a Shuttle sacco director Martin Wairimu said once the first case was confirmed, the sacco immediately purchased sanitisers and soap. “We took the matter seriously and we have been informing our passengers to constantly clean their hands as emphasised by the government,” he said. Wairimu also lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s decision to set a prayer’s day on Saturday saying the disease requires spiritual intervention. Edited by R.Wamochie