Nandi county has recalled all health workers pursuing postgraduate studies and other cadres to report back to work. Governor Stephen Sang has given them 24 hours to report back for training on how to combat Covid-19.  He also asked all those currently on annual leave to return to their respective health facilities for further directions. "Those taking their courses at the University of Nairobi School of Medicine are hereby directed to report to the health chief officer, those at Moi University taking their registrar courses should report to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO for training," Sang said on Monday. The county is to implement pay cuts of between 25 and 30 per cent for all senior employees on managerial scales to fund the war on the virus. In a press briefing at his office, Sang said the situation requires extraordinary decisions. Money collected from the pay cuts would be placed at the county emergency fund kitty. He said 30 people had been put in self-quarantine after arriving into the county from Europe and that none had shown signs of the virus. Most of them are international athletes, employees working in the Gulf states and a Catholic nun from the Vatican, Rome, Italy. The nun got into the country via Isebania on the Tanzanian border to attend her father’s funeral. "We urge all our brothers and sisters who arrived into the country from those counties hit hard by the Covid-19 to isolate themselves for 14 days,” Sang said. County commissioner Kutswa Olaka said security would ensure all open-air markets, bars and pool joints are closed. Olaka said a multi-agency team is coordinating to ensure the premises identified as potential areas for the spread of the virus are shut down. “We are not going to take any chances because the situation will escalate if we become complacent,” Olaka said. Health executive Ruth Koech said all systems had been put in place, including a ban on hospital visits by members of the public. “No one will be allowed to enter medical wards and police together with county guards have been stationed at all the entries,” Koech added. No one had tested positive for the virus among those in self-quarantine. Edited by R.Wamochie