The character and spirit of the Nakuru Building Bridges Initiative rally will be to bring divergent views together and reverse escalation of negative rhetoric, Governor Lee Kinyanjui has said. The Nakuru Governor said the organizers were working towards the creation of a sober platform for meaningful engagement driven by selfless national interest. "Nakuru must recapture the lost spirit of BBI and live up to the true meaning of building bridges," he said. While updating the public on the preparation for the mega meeting that is expected to bring together all the 14 counties in the regions, the Governor said preparations for the BBI rally on 21st March are on course. He added that the organisers were in the process of forming a secretariat for the meeting even as consultations at various levels were ongoing. Kinyanjui said eight governors in the vast Rift Valley have met President Uhuru Kenyatta in the run-up to BBI rally at Afraha Stadium next week. The county chief said he is grateful for the rare gesture of unity from the governors. "Together with eight other Governors from Rift Valley, we met President Kenyatta, and sought his blessings to build a united platform for BBI," he said. Kinyanjui's statement made it clear that there will be only a single speaker for the entire region which runs right across Kenya and is home to all the ethnic groups of Kenya. The initial schedule showed that there were plans to hold another one in Uasin Gishu. Kinyanjui revealed that all elected Nakuru leaders held a cordial meeting with all MPs, Senator and updated each other on the ongoing plans. He said this was an effort to avoid friction that has characterised previous BBI engagements. "A peaceful meeting will ensure the interests of Nakuru are captured in the BBI document," he said. Nakuru County Police Commandant, Stephen Matu said security had been enhanced ahead of the meeting. "There will be an increased number of visitors who include leaders in the town before and after the meeting and we have taken all measures to ensure their safety," he said. Matu said there have been various security meetings and assured the public that there will be no incidences at the rally. He promised to continue updating the public on the security preparedness.