There is disquiet in Mombasa's business community over the new levies in the county government's 2019-2020 Finance Bill. The business people say the rates which cover transit fees, single business permits, land rates, liquor licences, hotel and bed levies as well as parking fees are exaggerated. The concerns were highlighted in two meetings the stakeholders in the sectors of tourism, hospitality, entertainment, manufacturing, land rates payers, transport and civil society held last month. Some of the levies (applicable from January) have been increased by as much as 100 per cent, substantially raising the cost of doing business. The business people say the county government was ill-advised to increase the levies citing the flight of business arising from the restriction of cargo haulage to the Standard Gauge Railway and other drawbacks. “While acknowledging the need of the county government to increase its revenue base we advise caution as regards the arbitrary and exorbitant increase in levies charged on businesses,” the business community said in a press statement after one of the meetings. The stakeholders said there was a flight of business opportunities after the SGR became the sole freight carrier from Mombasa to Nairobi yet the devolved unit "came up with such outrageous rates,” Dr Sam Ikwaye of Kenya Hotelkeepers and Caterers Association (KAHC) said. A study commissioned by Governor Hassan Joho last year concluded that the county had reached a point of "economic delay" due to the impact of SGR services. The survey was conducted by the University of Nairobi between August and September 2019. Among other observations, it predicted over 8,000 job losses in private dry ports as well as truck drivers, clearing agents and suppliers in the supporting transport businesses. In mid-January this year, the county government hinted at setting up an industrial park in Miritini and emphasised the need for economic diversification and reliance on the logistics sector. ''We all know that the SGR issue has negatively impacted our economy and so we must look to diversification for sustainability,” Deputy Governor William Kingi said. The business community accused the county administration of bent on squeezing cash from an empty basket. “There is already a big drop in business and if you look today in Mombasa things are not what they used to be before,” Monika Solanki, the chairperson of the Coast Business Coalition, said last week. “The restaurants in Mombasa, not just the small ones but even big names are closing down,” Solanki said. Patricia Njeri, the chairperson of the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya (Perak) Mombasa chapter, said close to 10 of their member businesses have closed shop and three more are about to do so. “There is no business. Even without talking about the SGR, Nanyuki, Nyeri and Naivasha have taken away Mombasa's business,” Njeri said. She blamed insecurity for their predicament. "We depend so much on families coming down to the coast as local tourists. No one wants to bring their families here and get caught up in trouble,” Njeri said. A hospitality and entertainment operator who did not want to be named for fear of reprisal said his business licence had been increased to Sh100,000 from Sh52,000. “And my liquor licence went up from Sh60,000 to Sh100,000. Then there is the bed levy which we were not paying but now we have to pay. This is all too much in the current business environment,” he said. Casinos are now levied Sh520,000 instead of the previous Sh100,000. Hospitality players complained of double taxation since they were being levied for beds and catering paid to the tourism fund. Patrick Kamanga of the Kenya Travel Agents Association said doing business in Mombasa was more costly than in Nairobi. “We did a comparison among some counties and we included Nairobi. Mombasa turned out to be the most expensive on single business permits alongside other issues. That was in 2019 and now if we consider 2020 then it is really overboard,” Kamanga. “Doing business in Mombasa is almost impossible now. Actually it is like we are being told to stop doing business and vacate,” he said. The Coast Business Coalition wants the governor to constitute a County Budget and Economic Forum to advise him on economic matters in line with the County Governments Act.