Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said Kenyan students stranded in Wuhan, the Chinese city that is the epicenter of the COVID-19 virus, are safe. "We have said before and we are saying again that the matter of students in Wuhan and other areas is a matter that is still under consideration by the emergency committee. We do not have information of any Kenyan student who is unwell," he told the press at Mbagathi hospital on Friday. He said the students are quarantined. When asked whether they will be brought back to the country, the CS suggested the government might be "making smarter and strategic moves." "What are we proposing that we do? We got those individuals who are okay and safe, we take them to a facility, we bring them together, nobody knows at that point who pass where. We put them in aircraft all together and we fly them into Kenya. When they get here, they get through the airport, they have again to go to quarantine somewhere else, all over again," he said. Kagwe added:" We have to ask ourselves which is the most intelligent thing? You have seen all over the world people making decisions. We might be making smarter and strategic moves. Maybe we are the smarter ones." Last month, the government said it would disburse Sh 1.3 million for the students' upkeep. In addition, Sh500,000 worth of provisions from the Chinese government is being processed. Families of the affected students are piling pressure on the government to bring them home. Kagwe took a swipe at what he termed as "pseudo-experts" misinforming the public. "Do not speak on behalf of the government. This is a time when we need to come together. This is a time for patriotism," he said. Kagwe said it was a criminal offence to forward a message that was not true. Kagwe further warned against criminalizing foreigners especially from Asian countries, saying not all of them had been infected by the virus. Statistics from WHO indicate that 95,333 confirmed cases had been reported globally as at March 5 and 3,282 deaths majority from mainland China. Kenya has investigated 23 alerts involving 31 suspected cases that have all tested negative for the virus. Two of the cases investigated recently were in Nairobi.