Former Harambee Stars tacticians have defended Victor Wanyama’s move to Major League Soccer (MLS) side  Montreal Impact from English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspurs. Wanyama, who had made four appearances for Spurs this season joined the club on a free transfer, bringing to an end his more than a decade long stay in Europe. The coaches, who have handled Wanyama at the national team level, say the long-serving skipper acted in the best interest of his career. Impact, managed by Arsenal great Thierry Henry, beat New England Revolution in their opening game of the MLS season last Saturday. The Canadian club finished ninth in the Eastern Conference in the 2019 campaign, well short of the play-offs Veteran coach Twahir Muhiddin said the transfer will help the former Southampton man to rediscover his form. He tipped him to be ready for selection ahead of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match against Comoros set for March 25. “It is a good move which will help save his career. Competition is high in the MLS and this will help him regain his form. We have experienced players who have opted to finish their careers in MLS thus making it attractive. Working under Henry will help him regain his prowess and I am looking forward to see him ready for the Comoros match,” said the Bandari head coach His sentiments were echoed by Stanley Okumbi who currently serves as the national U-20 Rising Stars coach. Okumbi said the latest development will help him regain his confidence and will justify his inclusion in the national team should Francis Kimanzi summon him. “It was a good decision to leave Spurs for he will get quality playing unit. His long unexplained absence from the time Mourinho took over nearly punctured his career. We believe he will hit his form before we play Comoros. Time was ripe for him to switch clubs and this will not only help him at club level but also at the national level,” said Okumbi While the two gaffers had similar views, their counterpart James Nandwa heavily criticised Wanyama’s agent for failing to secure him another deal in Europe. "The transfer was long overdue although I blame his agent for failing to ensure his client remained in Europe. From the moment he realised that Wanyama was falling in the pecking order, he should have secured him another deal either in the top flight or in championship league. Otherwise, we hope he will get playing time in his new home but it will be hard to monitor him since the league is not exposed,” said Nandwa Wanyama became a key player for Spurs after arriving from Southampton in June 2016, making 47 appearances in all competitions as Mauricio Pochettino's side finished second in the Premier League behind Chelsea that season. But a knee cartilage injury at the start of the following campaign and more knee issues in 2018-19, derailed his Spurs career and limited him to just 24 more starts. Spurs agreed  £13.6m deal with Belgian side Club Brugge for Wanyama in August, but the move collapsed before the transfer deadline.