Nairobi assembly Minority Whip Peter Imwatok has stood firm and said he will proceed with the impeachment motion against Governor Mike Sonko. Imwatok said on Sunday that he will not let political interference lure him into dropping his motion. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta hosted about 115 Nairobi MCAs and urged them to drop the motion. But Imwatok remains defiant, saying they must remain true to the war on corruption. “My mind is very sober and I will not drop the impeachment motion against the governor. As I said, this is a private one and it shall be coming to the floor of the House on Tuesday,” he said. Minority leader David Mberia said he was waiting for ODM-NASA to discuss the resolutions from State House. “On Saturday, I was in Meru for the BBI rally and I’m aware of the State House meeting. I know my party leader Raila Odinga was consulted. But we shall have a meeting with the NASA-ODM members to discuss the way forward,” he said. However, Imwatok’s motion still has the support of some MCAs who said they will ignore the President’s request. Mwangi Njihia of Woodley said his party leader, Uhuru, was not convincing on why they should spare Sonko. “I respect my party leader, but on this, I will support the impeachment motion come Tuesday,” he said. Michael Ogada of Embakasi said he will second the motion and will not change his mind. “If the President is indeed against corruption, why is he supporting Sonko? He just interfered with the voting pattern, but the motion is still on,” he said. At the State House meeting on Saturday, the MCAs were told to stop issues that hinder service delivery. This included dropping the motion to be debated this week. Imwatok did not attend the meeting as he was in Kisumu for a burial ceremony in Kisumu. Also absent was Minority leader Mberia who was attending the BBI Rally in Meru. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere confirmed that the meeting was for all 122 MCAs. “Our party leader, the President, has told us not to proceed with the impeachment motion. It is as good as dead now,” he said. Warutere, who was part of the anti-impeachment team, said if the mover does not withdraw the motion before Tuesday, it will automatically be discussed in the house.