Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa will no cede ground in his quest to get justice for John Avire's controversial switch to Egyptian Premier League side Tanta FC. The forward is alleged to have 'sneaked' to Egypt in August last year despite having a running contract with Sofapaka. The deal saw the 2009 league champions engage Football Kenya Federation, who blocked the transfer by declining to issue the mandatory International Transfer Certificate. Kalekwa said he will not soften his stance and allow the Egyptian club to enjoy the services of his player free of charge. The club had earlier valued the burly striker at Sh10m. The flamboyant Congolese businessman blasted Tanta for 'employing unorthodox' means by delaying the negotiations, hoping that the player will be a free agent once his contract with Sofapaka expires in December. Kalekwa further alleged that Tanta 'had confiscated' Avire’s passport, a move which saw him fail to report to Harambee Stars camp in Alexandria for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match against Egypt in November last year. The former Bandari player is yet to feature for the Egyptian club and Kalekwa has vowed to ensure status quo remains until the transfer procedures are followed. “We are aware that they are buying time for his contract to expire in December but the Fifa statutes are clear. I understand they took his passport thus he cannot travel. We ask them to respect the procedures set for the transfer of players and his contract,” he said Kalekwa, in the meantime, called on Fifa to throw spanner in the works for they are being deprived of his services. He said the dialogue recommended by the global body had not yielded fruits as Tanta were unwilling to negotiate. “The boy is spoiling his CV and he should request Tanta to release him. Fifa have been watching the matter closely and we believe they will help us unlock the stalemate since the player is our property. They have been advocating for us to reach a consensus but Tanta are not cooperating while language is a challenge too,” he added.