Police in Teso South constituency, Busia, are investigating an incident in which a coffin was dumped in the compound of former Law Society of Kenya president Kenneth Akide. The coffin was dumped inside the highly secured compound on Monday morning and by on Tuesday, police said no one had been arrested in connection to the incident. “So far no one has been arrested but officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations have taken up the matter,” Adung’osi police station OCS Lucas Wamocha told the Star on the phone. “We want to know the motive of those who brought the coffin.” The coffin was discovered by one of the workers at Akide’s home, Josiah Okumu, who had woken up early to go to the garden. Okumu told the media that he saw a strange object along the fence, prompting him to move closer, only to discover it was a coffin. It was partially wrapped in a white sheet with a cross on top. Okumu said the wooden coffin had a letter inside which demanded Sh1 million from the owner of the home, failing which he should abandon the home and relocate. He said an electric fence around the compound denied the intruders access to Akide’s house. Ang’orom chief Anthony Mala said local authorities in conjunction with the police were investigating the origin of the coffin to help nab those involved. “So far, no one is in police custody but we are working with the officers,” he said on Tuesday. Part of the letter found inside the coffin said those behind the incident had tried on several occasions to gain access to Akide’s compound but to no avail. The incident left villagers puzzled and seeking for the possible objective of the bizarre incident. Akide was said to be away in Mauritius on official assignment at the time the coffin was discovered. The former LSK boss told a local media house that he had lived peacefully with his neighbours for a long time and wondered why those involved were trying to scare him away from his Ang’orom home. The incident came 10 years after a similar occurrence in Teso North where a coffin was found dumped at a home near Osia market in Ang’urai division. During the Osia incident, a note had been written and placed inside the coffin telling the owner of the home to drop Sh200,000 at a specific point from where those involved would pick it at their own time. A mud-fish weighing one kilogramme with a rope tied around its neck was found inside the coffin. General Service Unit officers from the Akichelesit GSU camp were called to pick the coffin.