The Kenya Footballers Welfare Association (KEFWA) has raised concerns over the impending consequences on the welfare of their members borne out of the heated Football Kenya Federation (FKF) polls. The body, which affiliated to the Federation Internationale des Associations de Footballeurs Professionnels (FIFPro), fears that the impasse generated out of the polls will attract a ban from Fifa courtesy of government interference hence leaving the players livelihoods at stake. Last week, the incumbent FKF administrators were handed a sigh of relief after Fifa threw their weight behind them contrary to a ruling by the Sports Disputes Tribunal which had earlier disbanded the National Executive Committee. Fifa, in a letter signed by Chief Member Associations Officer Veron-Mosengo Omba, said they do not recognise the SDT or its ruling to disband the NEC and form a Normalization Committee to oversee the elections and transition. However, the global body is set to convene a meeting between Fkf, the Ministry of Sports, SDT and other relevant stakeholders next month to try and unlock the stalemate. “We, however, continue to be increasingly concerned by the possible effects the current electoral stalemate could have on our members. A Fifa ban will most definitely kill the careers and livelihoods of a vast majority of Kenyan players, none of whom are privy to any of the parties vying for the top seat. The sad reality is that it is the players, the greatest stakeholders, who stand to suffer the most from the current electoral quagmire,” read part of the letter signed by the body’s Secretary-General, Jerry Santo. In the meantime, Kefwa called upon the dissenting bodies to put behind their differences and solve the elections puzzle as soon as possible. “We call upon all the warring parties to put their political interests and difference aside and spare a minute for the Kenyan player and the country at large. We urge them to work with Fifa and the Ministry of Sports with a view of finding a common solution and create a healthy environment for professional football,” added the letter from the former Kenyan international