No big funerals, no big weddings allowed, no discos and disco matangas, no children playing outdoors, no big meetings and church services must not be overcrowded. That's the situation in Uasin Gishu county as it takes measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus also known as Covid-19. Kenya has only three cases of Covid-19 so far. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital will screen everyone entering and all patients. Governor Jackson Mandago, during a meeting on preventing Covid-19, took the security committee through a long list of safety measures. Schools are closed around the county and Mandago said parents should ensure they keep their children strictly at home and don't let them go out to play or visit areas where they might be exposed. Markets will not be closed and public health officers will be deployed to help in sanitation measures and prevent overcrowding. People should be at least a metre apart. The government is also enforcing a ban on attending big funerals, weddings and other big events and ceremonies in the North Rift. County commissioners have directed chiefs and ward officers to ensure funerals and weddings are strictly private family affairs for the next month until the situation is reviewed. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said at the meeting that all those who returned home from outside the country in the last two weeks should report to the provincial administration for monitoring and possible quarantine. The counties in the North Rift have united to enforce tough prevention measures. Governors have recalled all health officials from leave and intensified public awareness campaigns on hand-washing and prevention of the disease. Mandago, who chairs the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), said they had suspended all public meetings, including those in hotels. Disco halls and nightclubs are also closed. He said health executives in the region had also called for meetings with other stakeholders including churches, schools and other institutions to discuss how best to enforce control measures announced by the government. Church attendance has been down since the three cases were announced. The Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital is screening all patients visiting the hospital for possible infection by the coronavirus to help detect and control the disease. CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said the screening is followed by testing of samples for those who fit the case definition for the Covid-19. He said this week the hospital will train stakeholders including the media to help improve public awareness. “As a referral hospital we are well prepared to handle any eventuality and that is why all our patients go through screening to ensure that we detect and deal with coronavirus cases if we get any," Aruasa said. (Edited by V. Graham)