A Kenyan student is holed up in a campus room in Italy. Marion Jepleting, 34, is a student at the University of Siena in Tuscany. She narrated her predicant following the disastrous spread of Covid-19 in the European country.  They have been barred from getting out of the rooms. Noncompliance attracts a fine of 3,000 Euros. Italy currently has the highest death rate of Covid-19 on the planet. Some 97,689 people are confirmed to have contracted the virus, with 10,781 deaths recorded, according to the WHO. In Kenya, 50 cases have been confirmed, one person has died and another one has recovered. The virus was first reported in Wuhan, China, late in 2019 and has resulted in the deaths of thousands of people across the globe. Jepleting has been in Italy since 2018 when she secured an Italian government scholarship to study Master of  Science in Biodiversity and Environmental Health. Before the virus struck, all had been well. She was due to complete her course later in the year and return to Kenya. But now things have taken a turn for the worse, as the virus has left her plans in limbo. “All of us are in total lockdown in Italy... We don’t meet physically with anyone and for those of us holed up in hostels, were are supplied with food ratios from an opening in our rooms,” Jepleting told the Star on the phone on Sunday. “No more balanced diet, we eat whatever is available as the whole nation is in a crisis due to the high number of infection.” She is not alone. Many other Kenyans, including students, are in a similar situation across the world as nations enforce lockdown to contain the disease. “As I talk to you, we have 41 Kenyans pursuing various programmes and we are all well but please pray for us and tell Kenyans to take care,” Jepleting said. She expressed concern that some Kenyans are not taking the problem seriously. Social media posts tell a lot about how many Kenyans are taking the virus lightly, she said, appealing to every person to take precaution and follow directives issued to contain the infection. “Stay away and keep off every forum until the world is safe... Italy has one of the best health care systems in Europe but is overwhelmed,” she added. The University of Siena is one of the oldest public learning institutions in Italy and Europe. It was founded in 1240. Back at her rural home at Chepkoiyo village in Kibwareng location, Aldai subcounty, Nandi county, Jepleting's family is living in constant fear. Her father Cleophas Misoi, 67, and mother Anna,55, say their daughter could be in danger owing to the gravity of the Covid-19 crisis in Italy. They hope for divine intervention to secure Jepleting. They say their worry has been aggravated by the government’s failure to provide updates on the fate of their child and other citizens in Italy. “My daughter is pursuing her second degree of Master of Science in Italy. She completed her undergraduate programme in biochemistry at the University of Nairobi,” said Misoi, a respected retired vet in the village. Since Jepleting won the scholarship, the family has a source of inspiration for many people in the little-known village. Italy is known to residents because most athletes from the area have Italian agents. The Catholics in the area also connect with Italy because of the Vatican. “When my daughter informed us of her trip to Italy after securing a scholarship, it was a big YES from us,” Misoi said with nostalgia. Misoi now works as a veterinary consultant in the village. His frequent interaction with the residents has been a source of hope and inspiration. “When the virus spread into Europe, people started enquiring after my daughter. They openly express their sympathy as the number of deaths in Italy is released daily,” Misoi said. Jepleting’s mother, a teacher at a local primary school, says news of more infection in Italy is always worrisome. “We’ve decided to pray and fast for our child for a safe return home. We understand the dangers of trying to have her back but we’ve turned to God for protection,” Anna says. Many relatives keep calling them to enquire about her safety. “But we ask them for prayers so that the world community can subdue it (Covid-19 ). I understand the virus we are faced with is in our midst,” Misoi adds.