Rains are expected to increase over most parts of the country from March 24 to 30. Kenya meteorological department said on Tuesday that rains will intensify to more than 40mm in 24hours from Wednesday. According to the weather forecast, rainfall amounts are likely to increase over parts of Lake Victoria's basin, the highlands west of the rift valley, central and south Rift valley. Other areas that will receive rains are; the highlands East of the Rift valley(including Nairobi area) the Northeast, the Coastal strip an the South Eastern lowlands. A few areas within and the Northwest may also receive some rainfall. These counties include; Siaya,Kisumu,Homabay,Migori,Kisii,Nyamira, Transnzoia,baringo Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru Narok, Kericho, Bomet,Kakamega,vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. These places are likely to experience morning rains over few places for much of the forecast period. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are expected over several places throughout the forecast period. Evening showers are expected over several places on Tuesday and Thursday and over few places on  the other nights. Turkana, Westpokot and Samburu are likely to experience morning rains over few places on Tuesday, Wednesday and Sunday. Afternoon and evening showers and thunderstorms are expected over few places on Tuesday and Friday. The rest of the days are likely to be sunny and the nights partly cloudy. Marsabit, Mandera ,Wajir , Garissa and Isiolo ars likely to experience morning rains over few places between Tuesday and Thursday and over several places on the following days. Afternoon showers are expected over few places on all days except on Friday when they may spread to several places. Evening showers are likely to occur over a several places on Thursday and over several places on the following afternoons. Evening showers are expected over a few places from Wednesday. Kajiado, Kitui,Makueni ,Machakos and Taita Taveta are likely to experience morning rains over few places from Friday.