Donning a green and white uniform, displaying a badge of a local church, Margaret Wangari checks coffins at a shop in Nyahururu. She is particular about this order — two white coffins for adults. They are meant for a couple who had died after a short illness. Wangari checks the firmness of the coffins, the sponge lining, the golden inscriptions on the two brown crosses and the arrangement of the wreaths. She then takes a deep breath of satisfaction. The coffins are loaded into a white hearse decorated with blue ribbons outside the shop. After the loaders are done, Wangari jumps into the driver’s seat, ready to execute her mission. Wangari is a hearse driver in Nyahururu, Laikipia county. With her head held high, she explains what pushed her to the job her peers would consider weird and unfit for a woman. Ferrying the dead is seen as a man's job. But she says, "what a man can do, a woman can do better." “Since my mother passed away the job of my dreams became clear on my mind. I admired how those people took care of my mother’s body. My dreams came true when the Anglican Church of Kenya in Nyahururu employed me as their hearse driver,” she says. Wangari, a mother of two, says her family thought the job was unsuitable for her. “My family took time before accepting my job. Others kept asking whether they could find me a better job than driving a hearse. My answer was that it was the job I chose and no one could change that. With time they accepted, and they fully supported me.” Wangari is not only a hearse driver, but she also helps the mortuary attendants in preparing bodies ready for the final rites. She says the jobs that people do not value are quite rewarding. “Since I started this job, I have seen a big difference compared to other jobs I have done. I have given my children a good education. This job feeds and clothes us." To erase doubts, she drives us to the mortuary. Wangari first drives to a petrol station to fuel the vehicle in readiness for the journey to Ndogino, Laikipia county, to collect the two bodies. She urges the youth not to be choosy and to take whatever comes along – as long as it is legal. Edited by A. Ndung'u