Hank Stockbroeks, Vice President of Huawei Enterprise BG said that Huawei will continue to establish more ICT academies and build 600 to 1,000 Huawei ICT Academies aiming to benefit more university teachers and students in the digital world. Speaking during the launch of the ICT Academy program, Stockbroeks said it will aim to develop two million ICT professionals and popularise digital skills over the next five years by collaborating with universities. They will continuously update their school-enterprise cooperation solutions in cutting edge technologies like 5G and Artificial Intelligence (AI). University students around the world will be able to participate in the Huawei certification and develop innovative and application oriented technical talent for society and global ICT industry. Huawei has partnered with more than more than 600 international universities since 2015, to set up Huawei ICT academies helping the universities improve their ICT teaching abilities and train more than 1500 teachers. The Huawei ICT Academy program established in 2013, has provided quality courses and support services to universities and colleges to help them train teachers, establish and optimize ICT majors, improve the curriculum system and build standard labs. To achieve the goal of two million ICT professionals, it will set up the Huawei ICT Academy Development Incentive Fund (ADIF) with a total investment of at least 50 million dollars. The fund will help the academies to operate stably in four areas the first being to provide teaching experiment equipment for cooperative universities to improve student’s practical skills. The fund will also train teachers through ADIF, providing free exam vouchers to encourage students to take Huawei’s certification exams and setting up an education fund to reward excellent teachers and students. There will also be a Huawei ICT Competition to provide a platform for students to communicate with their peers and show their talents as the third and  Cooperating with partners on ICT Talent Job Fairs to help students find job and promote efficient matching between talent supply and demand. Hank said that this will enable more people to enjoy equal and high quality education, enhance digital skills and inject fresh impetus into the industry.