The coronavirus outbreak has shaken the political scenes to unprecedented levels, throwing key activities in total disarray. Restrictions imposed by the Emergency Response Committee, including a ban on public gatherings, has put various activities in limbo. The country has so far reported seven positive Covid-19 cases, creating panic and uncertainty beyond the health and economic spaces. In the prevailing circumstances, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked employers to allow their staff to work from home. With indications of an imminent total lockdown, politicians will definitely have difficulties in finding ready crowds. Worse, it remains unknown how long the pandemic will last hence drifting the country’s politics into uncharted waters. ODM leader Raila Odinga-led public rallies to collect views to be factored in the Building Bridges Initiative report have suffered a setback. A rally planned for Nakuru on Saturday, March 21 has been cancelled. There is no likelihood an all-clear will be declared by March 31, being the last day of BBI submissions. The Rift Valley team led by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos is now mulling sending their memo to the BBI secretariat after consolidating the views. With churches shutting their doors in precautionary measures to prevent the coronavirus spread, the political space has shrunk further. Deputy President William Ruto is fond of utilizing church meetings among other social gatherings to propel his polity. His meetings and political rallies across the country cannot proceed in the wake of the ban. Leader of Majority Aden Duale says politicians have no option but to spend more hours with their families during the pandemic. Kanu leader and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi was also forced to cancel meetings with delegations that had started trooping to his father’s Kabarak home to chart 2022 plans. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is also staring at complications with the Dabaso ward by-election in Kilifi county, which is slated for April 29. Chairman Wafula Chebukati’s team is equally unable to proceed with preparations for ward and constituency boundaries review scheduled to start this month. Since the current boundaries were gazetted in March 2012, IEBC is time-bound to review the same by July 2021, if they are to be used in the 2022 General Election. Activities have also slowed down in Msambweni constituency, which is eliciting interests by the day as politicians gun to replace the late MP Suleiman Dori. BUDGET PROCESS Legislation has also been affected after Parliament adjourned on Tuesday and is now banking on the hope that the break will not stretch beyond April 14. Crucial budgetary processes will be in jeopardy should the break extend beyond the anticipated 30 days. The timeline shift stands to pile pressure on MPs to meet the June 30 deadline for preparing the Finance Bill and approving budget estimates. The House leadership, however, says there is no cause for concern should the sittings resume as slated for mid-April. Having approved the BPS and Division of Revenue Bill, the team says its focus is now on the County Allocation of Revenue Act and budget estimates. MPs hope to be done with the Finance Bill by June 30 as ordered by the court. It used to be dealt with between July and September. “The budget timelines have not been interfered with yet unless the pandemic becomes severe. For now, there is no worry,” Minority leader and Suba South MP John Mbadi said. Strained by restrictions banning public gatherings, the BBI Steering Committee is now meeting in small teams to analyse and draft the implementation instruments. BBI joint secretary Martin Kimani told the Star Siasa yesterday that the secretariat members have resorted to working remotely to ensure continuity. “We are doing less face-to-face meetings. We’ll be accepting petitions, declarations, and responses from public meetings until the end of the month. If one has a paper they want to share, they can still email it to us,” he said. The joint secretaries have planned a meeting with the chairman to chart the way forward on how to deal with the delayed meetings. “We will let the country know whether there will be lengthening of the feedback period or if we stay with the current deadline,” Kimani added. With the growing interest around the BBI process owing to its 2022 link, the unclear signs have certainly slowed down deliverables of the unity bid. But Kimani says Kenyans need to appreciate that the “steering committee understands the gravity of the moment.” “Let us view this process as one that is not just about political seats but delivering other matters such as economy, sound governance, and ethical leadership,” he appealed. Even so, there is looming trouble should the pandemic persist to a point the report would require the electoral commission to collect signatures. IMPACT ON REFERENDUM Given public gatherings are banned, it would be a tall order to proceed past that stage until measures to curb the coronavirus spread are lifted. Mbadi, also ODM chairman, agrees that signature collection is a challenge but says the situation rests on the hope the coronavirus situation will end. “The BBI report and draft bill can be produced and circulated for members of the public to digest,” the Suba South MP said. ODM says this will escalate to affect the possibility of a referendum resulting from the BBI process, but “that would be at the tail end of the process.” On the yet to be presented petitions, Mbadi says Kenyans have largely dialogued and presented sufficient views to the taskforce. “Those who haven’t may just not be keen on it as nothing stops regional groups from handing in their memorandum,” he said. A number of BBI rallies — Nyeri, Isiolo, and Eldoret —were called off amid security and time concerns. Nairobi was scheduled for March 28. For ODM, the proposals put before the Yusuf Haji-led ream so far are sufficient to form the basis of a report for publics’ approval. Mbadi says the focus should be on how to make the IEBC properly functional to deliver a referendum should the BBI process yield one. Eyes are cast on whether the task force report will be ready and a vote staged within the time stipulated in the law.  BLESSING IN DISGUISE A referendum has to be conducted a year to the general election, a situation that will also depend on whether Parliament appropriates monies for the IEBC to conduct the vote. Observers of the unfolding scenes say the coronavirus situation has come as a blessing in disguise. Franklin Mukwanja of the Centre for Multiparty Democracy says the virus has helped diffuse the tension in the political divide. At the height of the declaration of a positive Covid-19 case, political temperatures had soared, the hallmark being the push for Deputy President William Ruto’s impeachment. Mukwanja says that has now dissipated as politics has more to do with human contact and interactions – largely affected by the virus situation. He adds that more brakes come in the face of budgets being dedicated to emergency response. “In the prevailing circumstances, the timelines have to shift. The lesson we learn from this is that reform is more about the people than institutions,” Mukwanja said. Other political pundits say the break-in polity and the all focus on the disease is a critical learning curve for Kenyans. Prof Edward Kisiangani said the crisis is ominous and a warning sign for Kenyans to listen and value one another. “The break is worth it. This situation has created an opportunity for us to reflect and seek compromises. Our arrogance and intolerance will put us in trouble,” the Kenyatta University don said. Edited by E.Kibii