Senators have called on the government to order the suspension of rent, loans and utilities payment to cushion Kenyans against economic effects of the Covid-19. They said the government should come up with immediate and emergency contingency plans and programmes to save the population from the looming crisis. The lawmakers want free water and food rations introduced especially for slum dwellers. “We need a raft of measures to be taken such as the suspension of rent payment, electricity and loans so that Kenyans who will not go to work because of the lockdown do not suffer,” Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said. Cherargei asked the government to consider tax reliefs for manufactures so that the cost of basic commodities can go down. He was contributing to a motion to adjourn the house on Tuesday so as to prevent the spread of the virus. Nominated Senator Alice Milgo called for the formation of a national committee to assess the impact of the pandemic on the economy and advise the government accordingly. “There is a need for a national committee to assess post-coronavirus and look at taxes and how Kenyans should repay loans to bring our economy on course,” she added. The legislators commended government efforts to combat the virus but called for free soaps, water, hand sanitisers and face masks in slums and other vulnerable parts of the country. They said the public will be safe if they follow the precautions given by the government. Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri said there is a need for packaging of short and precise messages for masses on how to prevent the disease. The former Health minister and leader of the national emergency response team when the HIV/Aids broke out in the 1980s, said while the emphasis has been in isolation and testing, there is a need to ask what messages are being sent to rural people. "For example, what is the meaning of self-quarantine? It is applicable in some counties but for us how many have separate rooms for that? None,” Ongeri said. Mombasa’s Mohamed Faki was concerned about the Likoni ferry. He said it would be disastrous if the virus hit the coastal city due to the large crowds using the channel. “Already, we have set up quarantine rooms at the Coast General Hospital. We have two other new hospitals that can be used to quarantine suspected cases but they have not been equipped. "We have a problem with the ferry. More than 300,000 people and 3,000 vehicles use the ferry daily but no plan to ensure the safety of those using the ferry,” he said. Kitui Senator Enock Wambua said, “We need to apply our minds on Likoni. The congestion in the holding bay, if, God forbid, a case happens, we shall have a calamity of significant magnitude.”