Kenya's top tennis players need to play eight tournaments in a year if they are to match their higher-ranked counterparts from other nations. Davis Cup coach Rosemary Owino said the players need exposure to high profile events if they are to match the higher-ranked nations. Team Kenya saw  their hopes of qualification to the Davis Group II proper go up in smoke  after a 5-0 thumping by Indonesia last week in Jakarta Kenya has now been relegated to Africa Group 3  to be played in  June or September and Owino was categorical that more tournaments for the country's leading players was the solution. "It's the only way we can match the big teams. Indonesia had a player in the top 100 while we have none at the moment.  The only way we can counter that is by ensuring our players play the best on a regular basis,” added Owino. Owino challenged Tennis Kenya to seek partnerships with Egypt, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Nigeria to raise the profile of our players. "We have very good relations with the four countries. We need to emulate them, borrow ideas and see how it worked for them to improve our ranking,” added Owino. She was optimistic about Kenya's chances to progress from Group 3 and exuded confidence that the country has enough talent to take them to the next level. “We have the talent to move up but we will need exposure, resources and coaching in order for the dreams to materialise," added Owino Kenya's best performance in the Davis Cup was in 1992 when they reached the Euro/ Africa Group Zone semifinals, one match away from the World Group playoffs. The country's top-ranked player Ishmael Changawa said the atmosphere of the Davis Cup in Jakarta is different from Africa. "We played the match at a stadium and we realised there is a big difference between playing in a members club facility and a  stadium. Changawa was, however, optimistic about the country's chances in the future. “ We have a very young team and we will play in the futures tournament and sharpen ourselves so as to improve ourselves going forward.