As if the uncertainty over a ruling on the petition against the Sports Registrar is not enough, the Football Kenya Federation honchos now have to contend with the possibility of having a parallel football governing body. It emerged over the weekend that plans are in the offing to register a new football federation if the current FKF maintains its stand not to conform to the Sports Act. Over 100 stakeholders from across the country met on Saturday in Nairobi and resolved to push for inclusivity in the forthcoming FKF elections failure to which they will seek alternative options. “We are concerned about the way in which the FKF have conducted themselves in the on-going football elections,” the stakeholders stated. They said because of the discriminatory eligibility criteria, candidates and clubs have been systematically locked out of the current elections without justifiable course. “The exclusionary strategies adopted using the eligibility criteria in the FKF 2020 Electoral Code is the reason why virtually all candidates in the on-going elections are unopposed. Clubs have been systematically locked out of proposing and voting for candidates. Candidates with credible track records in football management have been locked out of the process using an eligibility criterion that doesn't meet the test of constitutionality. These exclusionary tactics are intended to shield the incumbents from competition.” “The football fraternity is being driven into a position where it has no choice but to find an alternative platform that ensures inclusivity. The football fraternity is not without options. May those who have sinned against football take note that those available options will be deployed if the current situation is not dealt with to the satisfaction of all stakeholders,” the delegates attending the meeting resolved. FKF have gone to the Sports Tribunal to have elections held this month without it necessarily conforming to the Sports Act. The stakeholders say this is a move to block clubs at the grassroots level to participate in the process. The attendees among them Mathare United chairman Bob Munro, veteran referees official Wycliffe Ogutu, former FKF President Sam Nyamweya, FKF presidential candidates Twaha Mbarak, Andrea Mukowa and Steve Mburu, said the looming registration has many inherent benefits that would, among other things address some of the challenges facing the identification of eligible clubs in the current elections. But they also noted the challenges in the implementation of the Sports Act 2013. “Of notable concern is the challenge of the compliance burden. Many of the requirements for registration appear to be beyond the reach of the intended sports organisation at the grassroots. Access to the Registrar’s office is also a challenge given that the office has not been decentralised.”