Who is fooling who at the Health ministry? A senior official who had been moved to the Environment docket has reportedly been playing cat-and-mouse games. Sources told Corridors that despite receiving a transfer letter, the official would report to work very early in the morning and leave without being seen by many. He would later return in the evening, his mission unknown. However, after the exit of now Water CS Sicily Kariuki, the official has returned to his station officially.  The man is said to have big connections in government. What insiders are asking is: Do transfer letters have meaning anymore? And is the new Health CS, Mutahi Kagwe, aware of the goings-on? ** Top officials of a big cooperative society have been put on the spot. Why? Sources said the men at the helm have started a trend that will slowly bring down the Sacco to its knees. Some have likened their dealings to recent happenings in some banks that led them to closure. For instance, the chairman of the Sacco has extended to himself a loan of Sh15.8 million without any security or collateral. Another of their associates has been given a Sh1.6 million loan. Surprisingly, the fraud is said to be facilitated by the Sacco CEO and general manager. Some concerned members have reportedly written to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. ** Some MCAs in a Nyanza county are under fire over claims of pushing for an impeachment motion against their governor as a way of blackmailing him to win favours, including multimillion-shilling tenders. The county boss is said to have sent shivers down their spines as he plans to expose each of them by giving details of their companies, some of which have been involved in tender works. According to the governor's handlers, one of the main culprits could be an MCA who chairs a road committee and whose proxy company was denied a tender in the last financial year. The man is said to have panicked and recently reached out to a local senator to help him mend fences with the governor. It is just a matter of time before the MCAs and a first-term MP are exposed over their dirty schemes. ** Times are getting rough for a politician from Central Kenya who lost his parliamentary seat in the last general election. His siblings have accused him of engaging in criminal activities and using black magic during elections and to boost his businesses. A bird whispered to Corridors that his brothers and sisters have instituted legal proceedings over the matter and the former legislator is now set to appear in court. The highly educated and once a high-flying lawmaker is regretting his past activities at his former workplace as he is said to have left a trail of documented evidence.