Fishermen in Lamu are counting losses following diminished revenue due to a prohibition of exports to China for their catch. Most deep-sea fishermen now sell their catch of mostly tuna, prawns, crabs and lobsters for a pittance in the local market. “Whereas we’ve been exporting our catch of mostly lobsters, prawns and crabs for Sh4,500 per kilogramme, we are now forced to sell for as low as Sh700 per kilogramme in the local market," Swaleh Omar, a fisherman interviewed by KNA said, adding the closure of borders due to the Covid-19 global outbreak is the reason for the nosediving of their fortunes. Exports to China have currently been suspended following the national government’s decision to close the country’s borders for international flights. Lamu county, especially Amu Island, Kiunga and Faza, provide a large cache of fish in the Coast region with the bulk meant for export due to the quality of the catch in the county’s territorial waters. However, the global pandemic has affected the fish trade in Lamu, with export suppliers holding off travel or making no orders because of the closed borders and lack of international flights into the country. Omar added that the global pandemic has hurt them, as fishing is their economic mainstay. "We are suffering because we have no option but to depend on a local market that does not take too kindly the effort and pricing that we place upon premium fish and ocean produce,” said Athman Abdalla, who is the main wholesaler of prawns on Amu Island. He said the county is likely to suffer adversely because of the dusk-to-dawn curfew directive that will affect fishing. "Fishing will definitely suffer because most, if not the best, catch is made during the night, and although we will have to comply, it will have an impact on the general households’ income of several homes in Lamu," Abdalla said, adding that the fishing sector employs hundreds of residents directly and indirectly. These sentiments were echoed by Abubakar Mohammed, who said unless the national government formulates a way in which they can operate, the sector is likely to be paralysed by the curfew. However, Lamu county Fishing Department director Simon Komu expressed optimism that although the fears of the fishermen are warranted, the sector is likely to expand after the global pandemic subsides. "Lamu is about to reap big from the investments that the national and the county government are making in terms of rehabilitation of landing sites, modernised equipment for fishing and the Lamu Port City, which will enable the creation of fishing industries for export within the county," Komu said. He added that there were plans by the county government to improve on the provision of the existing storage facilities to enable fishermen store their produce for longer as they wait to export it.