Dennis Gicheru looks back at his active days on the pitch with the contentment of killing two birds with one stone. His football career was prematurely cut short by a nasty knee injury borne last year but it proved a blessing in disguise a month after going under the knife, as Wazito honchos ushered him into football administration. Gicheru, 30, decided to call it a day in August last year, but education offered him a massive lifeline within the circles of the game. Considered as arguably one of the most educated Kenyan footballers in the recent times, the Bachelors of Law holder relinquished the armband at Wazito after the injury to take up the Chief Executive Officer role bestowed upon him by the club's board. Reminiscent on his heydays, Gicheru is a proud man for the double success he achieved while playing football. He points out at earning promotion to the top flight four times, making it to the junior and national teams and at the same time successfully pursuing his dream in the legal profession as substantial milestones bagged while active. "During my active years as a footballer, I helped three teams to be promoted from the second tier to the top flight. I achieved that with Posta Rangers, KCB and twice with Wazito. While playing, I managed to do my Bachelors Degree and as I enjoy my retirement from the game, I have no regrets, just happy for what I accomplished. I was at some point in 2013 included in the U-20 and senior teams," he said in his opening remarks Gicheru, who is warming up for his Masters studies in July opened up on his gritty football journey which began on the rusty pitches in the informal streets of Kangemi. Nairobi County. Born in a family of three and raised by a single parent, Grace Wanjiru in Kangemi, Gicheru's rise was punctuated by financial constraints which saw him think outside the box and shelve his dream to play in the Kenyan Premier League four times. He lifted the lid on the challenges he confronted in his formative days where he juggled between the game and studies at the Kenyatta University between 2012-2016 and later at the Kenya School of Law in 2018. "At some point when I enrolled for my studies at the university, I nearly deferred due to lack of school fees but through playing football and my mum's efforts, I managed it. Every time we got promoted to KPL I had to return to the second tier to create time for my studies for I did not want to lose track. I knew football would not grant me lifelong employment and hence had to give my best in class, " he said. His football star, which shone early in Kangemi, was honed at Naivasha Boys Primary School, where he was elected the games captain in 2005. He served in a similar capacity while at Tetu Boys High School between 2007 to 2010. Gicheru’s quest to immediately join KU was delayed for two years as he grappled with inadequate funds but would enrol in 2012. His prowess on the pitch while featuring for Kangemi All Stars and Leviticus FC, another grassroot club in the locality attracted the attention of Posta Rangers, who acquired his signature in 2013. Rangers gambled by going for the then inexperienced player, who was touted as a replacement to the club’s and Harambee Stars centre half Pascal Ochieng — who was nearing retirement. The move did not only fulfil his dream to launch his professional career but the proceeds made from featuring for the mailmen helped him clear school fees. "I was over the moon after signing for a club which was playing in the second tier. The deal helped me take football seriously and despite the competition for playing time, I rose through the ranks to the starting team. It wasn't easy considering that I was signed to fill in the shoes of Ochieng, who was in his sunset days,” he said Hardly a year after signing for Rangers, fortunes followed him as he was absorbed as a full-time employee at the parastatal until he resigned in 2016, the year he also left campus. Gicheru was part of the Rangers team which was promoted to the KPL in November 2015 alongside Kakamega Homeboyz. He, however, says that the arrival of the battle-hardened centre half Jockins Atudo punctured his bid to play in the elite league. "The management of the club was pleased with my performance and discipline and one year down the line, they gave me a full-time job. This lessened the burden of clearing school fees off my shoulders and those of my mum, who until her demise early this year was supportive," he says. "While at Posta, I got a call to join Stars junior team and made it to the provisional squad of the senior Harambee Stars team. I resigned from Posta in 2016." Deprived of playing time when Rangers scaled to the top league, Gicheru was loaned to Wazito in 2017 and would enjoy a full uninterrupted season there and luckily, they earned promotion after finishing second behind Western Stima. In a shocking move, he sacrificed the opportunity to showcase his talent in KPL with the promoted Wazito, choosing to join KCB, who were languishing in the NSL — in December 2017. He says KCB offered him a hefty package and the move would aid him chase his career in the legal profession after securing an attachment with Ojode and Udoto Advocates law firm. He acknowledges that balancing between court work and playing football was tough. "I really wanted to play in KPL with Wazito but I had also to pursue the other side of my career. KCB expressed interests in my services and understood that I had landed an opportunity to shape my legal career which meant that I would at times be unavailable on match days. I used to train till 9 am and leave for Karen, where I would spend the rest of the day. It was challenging but I was determined to make it," he says. The former national U-20 player once again made a shocking move after guiding KCB to gain promotion in 2018, as he returned to his old club Wazito, who had been relegated from the top flight. He says the move to return to the Super League would help him wrap his internship program which came to a close in June last year as well as attend the Advocates training program at the Kenya School of Law. For the umpteenth time, he captained the club, which had been acquired by Swedish businessman Ricardo Badoer, to reclaim their place in KPL. "When KCB returned to the league, former Wazito Sporting Director Solomon Alubala called me and revealed that the club had a new boss and their plans to find their way back to the top flight. KPL is demanding and I had to bite the bullet and ply my trade in the second tier once again," he adds. Gicheru counsels players to embrace education as a fallback plan once they retire. The youthful CEO also wants players to seek legal advice before penning contracts and parting ways with their clubs. He also warned them against unprofessional conduct and agents out there to ruin their careers by luring them to sign underhand deals. “Players should realise that football is a not a life-time career and hence should think of investing in education and business too. I have seen players pay the price of being ignorant and I challenge them to always seek advice before making any move. Match-fixing is rife but it's unfortunate that we do not have evidence and this is a vice players should shun. They should thoroughly vet their agents to avoid being misled into signing deceitful deals,” he said. Despite rubbing his shoulders with success, Gicheru, a Manchester United fan whose favourite meal is chicken and rice still has Kangemi in his heart. “Kangemi has a special place in my heart and once in a while, I visit the place to remind myself of where the journey began. During my free time, I like hanging around with my siblings,” he observed.