Treasury CS Ukur Yatani’s nominee for NG-CDF chief executive on Thursday had a hard time explaining to a parliamentary vetting committee his suspension and dismissal from Maasai Mara University. Trouble started after Prof Mohamed Abdille told the National Government Constituency Development Fund committee that he is still the substantive DVC at MMU when documents showed he was dismissed last week. Abdile was before his nomination MMU's Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Finance, Administration and Planning. The university council suspended him on November 15, 2019, over allegations ranging from insubordination to taking away university property. He was also accused of presiding over irregular employment of staff and usurping the powers of the university council. On March 5, the council chaired by Samuel Ochola summarily dismissed him. The MPs accused the nominee of being economical with the truth and pushed him to confirm whether he was before them as a state officer. “The nominee is not telling the committee the truth. We have to interrogate him further to know the truth,” Nyandarua Woman Rep Mary Wamaua said. The MPs also questioned his professional competence for the position, saying his undergraduate degree was not related to business administration, finance, accounting, engineering, economics, community development, law or any other related field. “The requirements for this position are very clear. How is your training on medical microbiology related to the requirements as stated in the advertisement?” Emurua Dikir MP Johana Ngeno said. Abdile told the panel that microbiology is engineering-related and he fits the bill. The committee also received two memoranda from the public rejecting his nomination. One by Abigael Mengech argues that Abdille does not meet the minimum 15-year work experience in senior management. She claimed he has only one-year senior management experience. “It is therefore hard to fathom and decipher from the foregoing how Prof Mohamed Hussein Abdile managed to be shortlisted let alone being interviewed,”  Mengech said. The committee will table its recommendation to the House on Tuesday.  – mwaniki fm    