A Nairobi church has been given until the end of this week to vacate a disputed land in Donholm estate. Oyster Village Limited and Savannah Jua Kali Association are embroiled in a protracted ownership dispute of the parcel on block 82/1765. A case between the two parties is pending in court. But Omega Fire Ministries has erected temporary structures for worshippers, most of whom are members of the Savannah Jua Kali Association. Oyster Village now wants the church to vacate, saying it has encroached on its property. Lawyer Patricia Waruhiu said the church has until the end of this week to move out. “Please note that if we do not receive your cooperation and compliance to our demand within seven days of the date of this letter, we will proceed to take appropriate legal action to enforce our client’s rights at your risk as to costs and other incidentals thereto without any further reference to you whatsoever,” the lawyer's letter to the church reads. Anne Khasoa, the chairperson of the Savannah Jua Kali Association, accused Oyster Village of contempt of court, saying the eviction notice was in bad faith since both parties are in court in a dispute dating back to 2002. The association got a reprieve last August when Environment and Land Court ordered Oyster Village Limited to compensate members for loss and damages of property on the adjacent block 82/1765. “Nairobi block 82/1767. Total of three hectares. Oyster Village to compensate members of Savannah Jua Kali at current market rate of the land lost and structures that were illegally demolished including Mother of Mercy Rehabilitation Centre, Jordon Friends Ministry, New Life Temple Redeemed Church, 12 residential houses and an Airtel mast. Subjected to payment of the above compensation, thereafter a tittle to be processed in favour of Oyster Village,” Judge K. Bor ruled. Khasoa said powerful individuals were pushing to have them kicked out of block 82/1765 and appealed to Chief Justice David Maraga to expedite the case. “This matter has dragged in court where different judges have presided over the case giving room to highly connected land speculators who are now eyeing this block,” Khasoa said. The National Land Commission last July asked Nairobi city county government to accelerate the process of re-planning, cancellation of amalgamations, undertaking subdivisions and re-allocation of plots in the area following numerous disputes. “Some of the affected parcels have titles and others approved survey with the Director of Survey. It is for this reason that we call upon you to inform the Chief Land Registrar on parcels whose titles are to be canceled/revoked and inform the Director of Surveys on survey records that require reversion or cancellation,” said Mercy Njamwea, the commission’s director of Land Administration. Elsewhere in Umoja estate, two groups are battling over land which both claim ownership. Members of the Zone 9 Block Owners Association and Kiambu Dandora Farmers Company are contesting the land in Block 107 of Umoja Zone 9 area. Zone 9 Block Owners Association members accused their rivals of effecting unlawful demolitions on their property. “Our businesses have suffered over the years. The premises targeted by the goons include shops, carpenter workshops, hardware, salon and boutiques, schools and homes. We can’t continue this way,” a member said. Kiambu Dandora Farmers Company members, however, denied effecting the alleged demolitions. Embakasi deputy county commissioner Kenneth Murungi said only those who legitimately own parcels in the disputed land should stay. He ordered those who don’t have legal land ownership documents to vacate. edited by p. obuya