Open-air market traders who have endured run-ins with the police on Kisumu streets will be relocated by the county administration. Nyong'o has directed the Planning Department to ensure the traders have space in Kowino, Kosawo, Nyawita and Manyatta Peace markets. The administration has also waived market fees for the traders for one month. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o ordered the closure of open-air markets to contain the coronavirus, but the traders defied it, hence the police enforcement. “The formal markets have proper facilities, hence sanitation within the area can be easily managed. We want to ensure the safety of our traders even as they sell their products,” Nyong'o said. Nyong’o has also directed the CEO of Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company to ensure that there is water in the markets ahead of the relocation. The governor further appealed to the traders and local leaders to work with the county government to find a solution. “We met with the leaders and we agreed on a system to take them to the various markets for their good and the county’s,” he said. Nyong'o said the county is ready to lose revenue for the sake of saving lives and ensuring the safety of residents. The governor said they will continue implementing the national government directives and those that they have put in place to curb the spread of this virus. Following the closure of the market, the traders sold their wares on estates and near Arina area along the Kondele-Nairobi Road. They were dispersed on several occasions by police officers but they returned every time. On Monday morning, police lobbed tear gas canisters at the traders to disperse them from the area that they now call 'Corona market'. “We have to sell our items. We have mouths to feed at home. Even if it means we will be chased from here every day, we will just come back,” Mathews Omanga told the Star. Mary Anyango questioned where the county government expected them to sell their produce. “Other counties have alternative measures to ensure that the traders are kept safe even as they sell their produce. Here we are chased out of the markets without a solution,” Anyango said.  (edited by o. owino)