Retired police officers want the Directorate of Criminal Investigations strengthened and renamed the Kenya Bureau of Investigations. The National Association of Retired Police Officers said that in spite of the enormous and weighty functions, the DCI is not anchored in the Constitution. They said the Constitution only establishes the National Police Service under Article 243 with two services – the Kenya Police Service and the Administration Police Service. “Conversely, the DCI is established under section 28 of the National Police Service Act. Needless to say, the existing legislative and institutional framework gives the DCI an inappropriately low standing,” association chairman Francis Sang said. The ex-cops presented their proposal to the Steering Committee on the Implementation of the Building Bridges to a United Kenya Taskforce in Nairobi on Monday. “This memorandum articulates a case for the establishment of the Kenya Bureau of Investigations as an autonomous constitutional entity," Sang told the taskforce. He said most cases reported to the DCI were petty, hence the need to categorise serious crimes that can be investigated by the proposed new agency. Petty crimes should be handled by officers at the police station level, Sang said. Sang said the history of criminal investigations in Kenya can be traced back to 1926 when CID was established under the command and control of the Commissioner of Police. Sang said that through history, the DCI has been faced with numerous challenges that made it difficult to deliver as expected. These, he said, include poor remuneration due to underfunding and inadequate training. For instance, in 2019-20, the DCI was allocated only Sh7.1 billion out of Sh100 billion allocated to the National Police Service. “Serious and complex crime requires highly specialised knowledge and skill sets to prevent, detect, investigate, and even to prosecute. The use of forensic techniques, special investigation methods require knowledge and hands-on experience in forensic sciences and the use of specialised equipment in forensic laboratories,” Sang said. Edited by A. Ndung'u