Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori succumbed to cancer on Monday morning while receiving treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. His death was announced formally by Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya. According to the director of Coast Development Authority Mshenga Rugha, Dori fell sick on Sunday and he was rushed to the hospital. Dori, born in 1978, died at the age of 42 years. He went to Gazi Primary School in Msambweni where they studied under a tree. He later joined Waa High School but dropped out. While living with his sister in Mombasa, Dori was later admitted to Tudor Secondary School where he sat his KCSE. Dori then proceeded to study Information Technology but dropped out due to lack of fees. In a past interview with The Standard, Dori said he then teamed up with a friend to sell charcoal and firewood to make ends meet as his mother was bedridden. In 2001, he came to Nairobi to do some menial jobs among them selling phones. The money he saved helped him enrol for a Community Development diploma at Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) College. He also managed to take computer packages at the time. In 2013, the late legislator successfully contested the Msambweni parliamentary seat on an ODM ticket. He was also re-elected in the 2017 general election under the same party. He joined the ODM party on February 8, 2013. At the time of his death, Dori was also a member of the Departmental Committee on Lands and Natural Resources and Departmental Committee on Public Works, Roads and Transport. He has left behind a widow and two children. Many have described him as a man who rose from rags to riches, dining with the high and mighty. Dori had 10 siblings, eight sisters and three brothers, of whom he was the last born. His father was a driver and his mother did odd jobs to make ends meet. Last year, Dori was among a list of MPS who were to be expelled from the ODM party. The party's disciplinary committee recommended the expulsion of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and Dori over gross misconduct. Jumwa and Dori were summoned last October to appear before the ODM disciplinary committee after they openly declared their support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. They ignored the summons. Many politicians have mourned Dori's passing including President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM party leader Raila Odinga, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho among others. Odinga said: “My heartfelt condolences go out to the people of Msambweni and family of Ramadhani Suleiman Dori who has passed on this morning. May the Lord grant his family comfort at this difficult moment and may his soul Rest In Eternal Peace". In his message of condolence, Uhuru described the legislator as an astute politician who served his constituents with utmost commitment. Deputy President William Ruto described Dori as an ambitious, ingenious leader who was committed to public service. "Mheshimiwa Dori was indomitable, a moral enthusiast whose leadership advocated for equal justice. We will miss his firmness, wise counsel and vigour to improve the lives of the people the Coastal region," he said.