Did some BBI organisers deliberately let down former Prime Minister Raila Odinga during the Meru event on Saturday? It has emerged that the BBI rallies are no longer about selling the unity agenda but have been hijacked by vicious competition games among politicians. Intra-regional competition among regional bigwigs in the 2022 alignment is said to have played a hand in the rally that critics say was poorly organised. There is word that some sitting governors and MPs are so unpopular that their opponents mobilised their supporters and stage-managed what looked like a walk-out from Kinoru stadium to humiliate the BBI organisers. Why has the recruitment of a substantive Chief Executive Officer of the Electoral commission stalled without any explanation from the Wafula Chebukati-led panel? Well, it has been rumoured that the process, which was initially halted by the court, could be revived in the coming weeks, but with a fixated mind you may say. Corridors of Power understands that two camps have emerged within the secretariat and the commission over whether the position should be re-advertised and the process started afresh. A section of staff want the process to be concluded through the shortlist. Other senior staff, supporting the commission, are said to be keen for a fresh recruitment exercise. The push and pull is blamed for the delayed way forward. A politician who has been doing business with a state agency within the Health sector faces the hammer in the coming days. The former Jubilee parliamentary aspirant in Rift Valley owes creditors Sh20 million with his properties now earmarked for auctioning. One of his properties is a residential apartment within the leafy Karen suburb and a popular entertainment joint along Thika Road. It is also alleged that a former top official of the state agency and who used to give him plum contracts before he was fired, could also be facing the same fate. This is because, the popular and high-end entertainment joint is co-owned. It has emerged that the ex-official had shares in the company owned by the politician, although through proxy, despite obvious conflict of interest. Did a senior official within Nairobi county Assembly hold a party at an exclusive club within upper hill area on Saturday night? It is alleged that moments after an MCAs meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, the official summoned select allies for a party. It would later emerge that the official called for the party because President Uhuru had directed Governor Mike Sonko against arbitrary sackings of staff during the transition period. The official is said to have been on the governor's radar for some time before the President appeared to have halted any action on city employees. Call it a well-deserved party for a person whose fate was hanging by a thread.