Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe had a rough time trying to explain why the government issued to Kenyans toll-free number which is not working. The CS had appeared before a joint Departmental Committee on Health to give a status update on the coronavirus. National Assembly's Health Committee chair Sabina Chege tried calling the number on loudspeaker before the joint Committee. The line which was sent to Kenyans through SMS to report any cases of Coronavirus by Ministry of Health was switched off leaving MPs wondering whether the government is taking Kenyans for a ride. Last week, MOH gave 0800721316 to enable Kenyans share any information on Covid -19. "The Ministry needs to confirm to Kenyans that the toll-free number 0800721316 circulated by the Ministry of Health works. Because so far, there is no response from the number," Sabina Chege asked. The ministry had issued hotline numbers on March 4 to the public to call if they have any inquiries relating to the virus. "Members of the public are advised against forwarding unsubstantiated information on social media platforms. For any inquiries related to COVID-19, please call the Ministry of Health on the following Hotlines: 0800721316, 0732353535, 0729471414," said the Health Ministry in a statement. The CS asked Kenyans to ignore the spreading rumours being spread through the social media that the Ministry is seeking Research Volunteers for the COVID-19 at a fee. The CS added that none of the 239 passengers who arrived boarding China Southern Airlines flight in February was from Wuhan city in China. "I am aware that 13 Chinese Nationals arrived in Kenya on 22nd and 28th February, but none originated from Wuhan city as implied, and upon arrival, they were all screened and allowed in, with a demand that they self-quarantined for 14 days in their destinations," CS Kagwe said. On whether the government has plans to repatriate stranded Kenyan students in China, the CS said the move will be more of xenophobic. "There are more Kenyans in China than Chinese in Kenya, and we must be careful and sensitive to each and every one. The xenophobic approach to this issue must stop, and everyone must take precautions to remain safe," he said. The committee members said that some of the parents are worried about the health of their students who been isolated for 60 days in their dormitories.