Last month Corridors told you of rogue police officers from Ndhiwa subcounty openly soliciting for bribes from bodaboda riders and motorists just outside Ndhiwa town on Ndhiwa-Sori road. Well, Inspector General Police Hillary Mutyambai (pictured) within the same week announced the removal of roadblocks from all roads, a message that was received with celebrations, particular by road users from the subcounty. However, weeks later, the officers are still on the road with roadblocks, collecting bribes in a scale never seen before. Just who is protecting the young officers soiling the good reputation of Kenya Police Service? ** Just to what extent can politicians go on their attention-seeking missions? Well, a first-term MP from Eastern pulled a shocker in a group of professionals after he posted two pornographic videos during a heated conversation. The man, when asked about the lurid postings, dismissed the lot saying it was a way to have them talk about him. He deleted the videos before leaving the group. Some of the participants apprised Corridors that the move left shocked members with questions over the suitability of the attention the MP sought. ** The political elite of a certain region is determined to have one of their own ascend to the top of a government agency. Corridors has learnt that since one of their own was named for the position, the leaders have been having night strategy meetings and have resolved to hold a fundraiser to enable them to influence the decision of the vetting panel, which will sit sometime this month. Each leader has been given a target. They have vowed to use whatever is within their reach to ensure their man gets the influential position. ** Employees of an agency in one of the state departments have ganged up with their former bosses — who were hounded out of office because of corruption-related issues — to frustrate the new management and paralyse services. The staffers who are against the reforms introduced by the new team, which suggests, among other things, downsizing the current workforce, are doing everything to run a negative narrative on the current management who are just months at the station. Corridors has learnt the former bosses have been holding a series of meetings with the senior serving staff — a majority of whose appointments they influenced — to craft how to execute the sabotage and protect their interest. **