As the Football Kenya Federation Elections Board chairperson Kentice Tikolo prepares to unveil the ratified final results of the County Polls held last Saturday,a section of football stakeholders have poured scorn on the polls. "We the Football stakeholders cautioned FKF against holding an election whose matter is before the Sports Disputes Tribunal and set for determination on Tuesday (March 17)," opened a statement signed by former FKF president Sam Nyamweya. "By Football Kenya Federation proceeding with the purported (elections) is in itself an abuse of the Tribunal (Court) process and borders on contempt and perjury." "Further, Football Kenya Federation is in violation of the Government of Kenya order to ban on all public gatherings and by purporting to continue and conduct the said (elections) Football Kenya Federation not only went against the government order but potentially exposed the voters and the general public to danger and should be charged for a violating the Public health order act and as guided by the Cabinet Secretary for Health," added the statement. The stakeholders went on to suggest that the FKF County elections have 'exposed the rot at Football Kenya Federation and its appendage the FKF Electoral Board.' "Just a quick glance on the purported Football Kenya Federation (elections) exercise, how can a whole County like Muranga have only three (3) active clubs, can three clubs make a league? "How can three clubs validly nominate six (6) candidates? While the purported FKF electoral code 2020 provides that a club can only nominate one candidate and that double nominations by a club invalidates the nominations thereof," they wondered. "Simple arithmetic demands to have a minimum of eighteen clubs (18 ) to legitimately satisfy the demands of the FKF Electoral Code 2020. Besides several other gross violations by FKF and its appendage FKF Electoral Board, this requirement alone invalidates all the elections in 25 counties where there were less than eighteen ( 18 ) Clubs," asserted the caucus. The stakeholders concluded that based on the aforementioned, the (elections) in 25 counties are invalid, null and void, including  Muranga (three clubs), Nyeri (seven), Kwale (seven), Turkana (eight), Nyandarua (five), Narok (14 ), Kajiado (13 ), Baringo(16 ), Laikipia (nine), Kirinyaga (six), Machakos (13 ), Kitui (10), Makueni (eight), Taita Taveta (five), Trans Nzoia( seventeen ), Busia (13 ), Kisii (15), Elgeyo Marakwet( eight), Nandi (eight), Meru (16 ), Isiolo (15 ), Marsabit (10 ), Embu (10 ), Tharaka Nithi (13 ) and Wajir (eight). "It is also known to Football Kenya Federation and the general public that the Sports Registrar has pronounced FKF Counties as unregistered entities and therefore illegal as prescribed in the Sports Act 2013 (revised 2019). It, therefore, goes without saying that the remaining 22 Counties, notwithstanding that they may have met the threshold of having adequate clubs to vote, are illegal and therefore the purported elections are invalid, null and void ab initio," the statement reiterated. The stakeholders ended by dismissing the entire process and the results and urged the 47 County Governments of Kenya to join the rest of Kenyans and the Football stakeholders in rejecting in totality the FKF elections results while they await tomorrow's ruling by the Sports Disputes Tribunal on a petition by FKF seeking to hold the polls without complying with requirements from the Sports Registrar.