Doctors in Nyamira have vowed not to relent on their strike, expected to begin today. They want the county administration to implement the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Through union officials, the doctors said they would not further stomach unnecessary delays by Governor John Nyagarama. In the strike notice notice last week, the doctors accused the administration of failing to give them promotions. They also cite the arbitrary withholding of the 2018 salaries during an industrial strike as part of the reasons they will abandon their posts beginning Monday next week and face off the administration in the streets. " So far no official from the administration has come to tell us way forward since we issued the strike notice," said said Kenya Medical, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Nyanza branch Secretary Dr Lameck Omweri. The CBA was signed in 2017 and was to be implemented in phases which the county has not done, he claimed. The medics say the CBA expires in 2021. Omweri accused Governor Nyagarama of failing to improve health services in the devolved unit since he took over governor adding that unlike the neighbouring Kisii, Nyamira is yet to employ a single doctor since devolution took effect. Speaking to Star in Kisii, the union executive said Nyagarama has only been taking them in circles whenever they broach the subject of the CBA. "We are definitely tired of waiting, we are not kids to be being taken in circles. Our patience has now run out," said Omweri. He  also faulted the County Secretary for failing to hold the quarterly meeting with them to discuss issues facing the sector. Yesterday, the regional union chief said the strike will drag on till their demands are met. "We have been pressing our demands for long but since nobody seems to be paying attention , we have thus decided to issue a strike notice to all our members to suspend operations when  days elapse," said Omweri. He  said there would be no going back on the resolve to withhold services. "We are firmly decided to down tools until our demands are duly met. No doctor should report to work at the elapse of from next week," announced Omweri. He  accused the county executives of running the health sector in an haphazard manner void of correct structures. "There is nanogram either that shows  structures of the sector and it is being run, it is very pathetic," he said.