The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has dismissed claims of a fallout between the DCI boss George Kinoti and himself. While addressing a presser on Thursday at the ODPP Office in Nairobi flanked by Kinoti, Haji said that the narrative of a supposed fall out between the two is a fabricated story by the media. Haji said some people are not so happy with their working relationship. He said people should be patient with the investigation. "We are open to public criticism and if either office criticizes the other there should be no big deal," he said. "Hatujakosana, hakuna mzozo wowote kati yangu na DCI wala EACC. Mambo hayo watu tu wanazileta". (There is no rift between me, DCI or the EACC. These are fabricated claims). Speculations of possible bad blood between the two started on Wednesday when they seem to be in conflict over the arrest and prosecution of Kenya Ports Authority Managing Director Daniel Manduku. Manduku was arrested by the DCI on Monday and was to be charged with several counts related to fraud at the Kenya Ports Authority. Manduku was to face charges related to the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. There was however a bizarre twist in court as nobody could find the charge sheet. Manduku and KRA Commissioner Kevin Safari were set free after it was established that there was no charge sheet registered in their names. When asked by senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot, the prosecutor said he was not aware of the case, only saying there were instructions from the DPP to release the duo on police bail. Cheruiyot ordered the prosecution to consult and adjourned the matter for five minutes. “If the DPP and the DCI are not ready we will not interfere but give them time to put their house in order,” he said. "When the court resumed, DCI detective in charge of the case Gituathi Njoroge insisted that he has the charge sheet and said he does not know why it had not been registered." Njoroge said they had taken the file to the prosecution office and expected the case to be filed.