Construction of Koru-Soin dam estimated to cost Sh40 billion will commence soon, the government has said. The dam, to be located five kilometres upstream river Nyando from Muhoroni town, is expected to end water shortages in the neighbouring counties of Kericho, Nandi and Kisumu. The dam is also meant to control flooding in the lower Nyando area, supply water for industrial use as well as generate hydroelectric power. It was initially planned in the 1980s. By acting as a sediment trap, Koru-Soin dam will reduce sediment loading and deposition downstream, which is the main cause of flooding. National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority acting CEO Geoffrey Sang said already a feasibility study had been done and the designs finalised. He told the media that money budgeted for the dam would be compensation for people who will be displaced. During a stakeholders consultative meeting in Kisumu on the project, Sang said  they were waiting for allocation from the national government to start implementation. The proposed dam project on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties has stalled since the contract was awarded in 2016. Sang said the government was fully committed to implementing the project. The Koru-Soin dam is expected to supply up to 70 million litres of water when completed, benefiting residents of Kisumu and Kericho counties. The project will have a treatment plant of 35.5m cubic metres. Water will be supplied to Muhoroni, Koitaburot, Koru, Chemelil, Awasi, Miwani, Ahero, Rabuor, Riat Technical College and Mamboleo. Kisumu city, Ahero, Chemelil, Miwani and Awasi towns will be the other beneficiaries. Last week, the Special Economic Zone chief executive officer Meshack Kimeu said the Soin Koru dam will be relied on to implement the 1,000-acre project in Miwani. The development of the SEZ in the region is touted to spur industrial development in line with the government’s Big Four Agenda. A SEZ requires world-class infrastructure. The government will be required to develop off-site infrastructure such as road connectivity to the SEZ, water supply and reliable power. The development of off-site infrastructure will begin immediately after the gazettement of the land. “It would take around two years to complete off-site infrastructure because it involves a lot of budget processes and different government agencies,” Kimeu said. Edited by Henry Makori