 Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has asked the national government to control movement across counties to avert the spread of the coronavirus. Wa Iria said the majority of Kenyans have adhered to the government’s directives to prevent infections but the free movement will transfer the virus from hotspots. “Totally stopping the movement of people will make it possible for the government to concentrate its efforts on those already infected,” he said. The governor said a county like Nairobi, which has a total of 34 infections, receives numerous travellers from other counties who may take the virus to their areas. He asked the government to only allow for the transportation of essential commodities across counties. Wa Iria stopped the movement of public service vehicles in and out of the county last week. He said he has been battling matatu saccos in efforts to stop the virus from spreading in the county. The county chief said that Kenyans should not be allowed be mix freely when minimal tests have been conducted to establish the extent of the spread. Countries that have been hard hit by the virus such as Italy, he said, failed to take such stern measures early enough and are suffering the consequences. “Let us enforce 47 quarantines in all the counties and handle each county with the infections it has,” he said. The governor also noted that he had closed beauty salons and barber shops which may play a big part in spreading the disease. He said the shops handle hundreds of clients every day who share clothing and other equipment which can spread the virus. It is better not to observe high beauty standards and stay healthy, he said. The governor said that major markets visited by thousands of traders and buyers have been closed. Locals will now buy groceries in the village and estate markets, he said. Last week, wa Iria had said that markets would not be closed as they are a major source of food for locals. Instead, he said, sanitisers, water and soap would be supplied. But the governor said the markets encourage inter-county travel and crowding, which makes social distancing difficult. “Even the small markets will be closed if they do not observe the laid down hygiene standards,” he said. The governor spoke to journalists in Murang’a town. He urged farmers to plant during this rainy season. He said the country will face a huge burden of feeding Kenyans later in the year if farmers do not plant in time. “The government should forcefully ensure farmers go back to their farms and plant both fast and slow maturing crops as they observe the coronavirus prevention measures,” he added. (edited by o. owino)