Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has announced a new date for the Building Bridges Initiative rally in his The much-anticipated rally which was to bring together 14 counties in the region had been scheduled for March 7. The governor announced on Tuesday that the rally will now be held on March 21, and will be a culmination of consultative meetings to build consensus on the document and include local agenda. "As the host county, we urge for tolerance and inclusion for the benefit of residents and sobriety in tackling key issues outlined in the BBI," Kinyanjui said. He said the rally will be about the issues affecting the counties within the region and devoid of sideshows and character assassination. "We shall be guided by the spirit of inclusivity and mutual respect for each others’ rights," Lee said. The county boss also put on notice those he termed as 'attention seekers' and 'spoilers'. "All national and local leaders are welcome and nobody should be made to feel a foreigner in any part of Kenya. Citation of matters outside the document will be considered as acts of unwarranted provocation," he said. The governor has assured maximum security to all those who will attend. The region which is perceived to be a stronghold to the Jubilee Tangatanga group was expected to be attended by the majority of Deputy President's close allies, unlike other BBI rallies. The last BBI rally held in Meru county was attended by Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who walked out after the address. The Mt Kenya region presented a 10-point demand to the Building Bridges Initiative steering committee. The governor criticised a section of leaders who addressed the recent BBI rally in Narok, including area senator Ledama Olekina. Olekina had said that people who are not part of the community should not be allowed to run for the elective positions. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and his Bomet counterpart Hillary Barchok had planned to hold a rally on Thursday at Kapkatet stadium to reach on what they would like to be presented to the steering committee.