The National Treasury is again investigating the contentious Sh6.2 billion pending bills at the Prisons Department. A Pending Bills Multi-Agency Team is combing through the claims to ascertain the genuine ones that can be processed for payment. A source at Treasury intimated to the Star that the team would conduct a final thorough verification. The thinking in government corridors is that there was collusion between the fake suppliers and unscrupulous prison bosses. The fresh probe also seeks to ascertain whether the costs of supplies could have been inflated as revealed in three audits on the bills. The team conducting the final verification has the mandate to ensure genuine claims are paid, the source said. According to the official, those with fake claims will not get a dime, the same being the case for claims in other state departments. Treasury boss Ukur Yatani is reported to have set strict conditions to guide the new process. Multiple sources say the same has been escalated to the Cabinet which is expected to give its final word on the contentious payments. Agriculture, Devolution and Health ministries are among those whose bills are under review by the multi-agency team. The Health Ministry’s Sh41.7 billion bills are under review as well as the Devolution ministry’s Sh209 million. Others are the crops department’s Sh12.5 billion debt for maize and fertiliser suppliers; Youth department (Sh10.6 billion), Livestock (Sh4.12 billion) and Water ministry (Sh12.6 billion). On the Prisons bill, the question over time has been why the claimants have not sought court redress to end the deadlock, some for 2013 contracts. The bills were flagged during a routine audit - normally conducted at the start of a financial year. A team of 48 auditors was the first to verify the claims and concluded that they were not payable. Thereafter, another multiagency team comprising officers from the EACC, DCI, Attorney General and National Treasury reached the same conclusion. The team found that owing to the weak controls that existed then, money was sent to field stations without budgetary provisions and procurement plans. They cited this as the reason behind the escalation of the bills from half a billion in 2013 to Sh6 billion. A third team also checked the bills against a 10-point criterion set by the multi-agency team and concluded none could be paid. The Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly raised questions on why the officers who commissioned the bills had not been prosecuted. PAC chairman Opiyo Wandayi asked for the details of the officers who procured prisons supplies between financial years ending 2013 and 2018. “We wonder why it has taken long for the DCI and EACC to investigate these bills. This reluctance is wanting,” he told the Star. The reviews revealed instances where the same signatures were appended on delivery notes, local purchase orders and local service orders attached to the claims. Edited by R.Wamochie