Tobacco use remains the greatest preventable cause of death globally, killing up to half of all its users. It is known for being the leading risk factor for most noncommunicable diseases, including heart disease and cancer. Nicotine, which is the addictive substance in tobacco, has hooked over 1.1 billion smokers globally among which 80 per cent live in low-and middle-income countries. Given that tobacco kills up to half of its users, it does not come as a surprise when the World Health Organisation estimates (July 2019) that about 8 million people die globally every year due to tobacco consumption. Tobacco control has for the longest time fought the prevalence of tobacco use and exposure to second-hand smoking. These efforts have, however, been frustrated repeatedly by the tobacco industry, which comes up with new and innovative ways to prevail in the market. There are over 7,000 chemicals in tobacco smoke, and among these, about 69 are known to be carcinogenic. These chemicals, and not nicotine, are responsible for the death of tobacco users. The tobacco industry, having taken note of this, is moving to produce new tobacco products as a way of ‘reducing’ the effects of tobacco use on public health and providing smokers with Potentially Reduced Exposure Products. This notion is referred to as tobacco harm reduction (THR). THR is a strategy aimed at reducing the health risks connected with tobacco smoking, but it still involves the intake of nicotine. Basically, it seeks to prevent harm on the health of the user and not to prevent the user from using nicotine. Some of the traditional ways the tobacco industry has adopted this strategy is by introducing cigarette filters and filter perforations to block out chemicals such as tar and nicotine. But this has not made much difference as smokers draw harder from the cigarettes and cover the holes to compensate. The tobacco industry has adopted new and innovative means of THR by: developing vapour products also known as e-cigarettes, tobacco heating products, modern oral products such as Lyft and traditional oral products. The new tobacco products have gained fame around the globe. For instance, in the US, e-cigarettes have become common among teenagers, with over 3.6 million middle and high schoolchildren using them in 2018. Here in Kenya, BAT recently announced intentions to build a Sh2.5 billion plant in Nairobi to produce one of the oral tobacco products, known as Lyft, as an alternative to cigarettes. There have been mixed reactions about THR, with one group of thought supporting it on grounds that smokers hold a right to choose to use ‘less harmful’ forms of nicotine and no ban should be imposed upon these products. On the other hand, those opposing argue that use of the ‘less harmful’ forms of nicotine may deter people willing to stop smoking from quitting, while exposing them to other unintended harm health-wise. Countries around the globe have reacted in different ways to THR, they have moved to formulate regulatory frameworks either discouraging or encouraging the development of alternative tobacco products that are ‘less harmful’ than cigarettes. In Asia, for instance, a large movement in support of ‘safer’ nicotine products has demanded respect from the department of health as well as WHO to the rights of smokers to choose ‘safer’ alternatives. In the US, following the high prevalence of e-cigarettes among the youth, the House of Representatives has moved to approve a bill, Protecting American Lungs and Reversing the Youth Tobacco Epidemic Act of 2020, that will ban flavours in tobacco products and place new excise tax on nicotine. In Colorado, THR is highly disregarded as it is seen as a way of introducing the youth to e-cigarette use. The Colorado Clean Indoor Air Act, 2019 that took effect in July, 2019 prohibits people from using e-cigarettes, cigars and cigarettes in public and stops the sale of fruit- and -dessert- flavoured nicotine products. In Africa, the debate on whether to adopt alternative tobacco products is currently undergoing, again with both proponents and opponents. Given that most of its countries are ranked as either low- or middle-income, smoking prevalence is high and effects on public health dire. The question is whether the children and adults who do not currently smoke will be lured to use tobacco products upon embracing alternative tobacco products. Another question facing the continent is the classification of the alternative tobacco products, whether they should be classified as drugs aimed at aiding smokers to quit [and if so, will tobacco excise tax apply?] or be classified s ‘less harmful’ tobacco products. The tobacco industry may see the development of alternative tobacco products as a way of reducing smoking prevalence in the world. The industry might even mistake this to progressive realisation of sustainable development goal 3— ensuring healthy lives and promoting wellbeing for all at all ages. But this will not frustrate the efforts of tobacco control to protect the present and the future generations from the devastating health social, environmental and economic consequences of tobacco consumption; and in this case, whether consumed in the traditional or modern form.