Bongo superstar Diamond and his Kenyan bae Tanasha Donna have since last weekend been trending over split allegations. This is after Tanasha posted numerous Insta stories, accusing her baby daddy of being disrespectful to her. In one of the screenshots seen by Word Is, Tanasha calls Diamond a narcissist. This is after Diamond released ‘Jeje’ just days after a collabo with Tanasha, 'Gere'. In the song, a video vixen twerks hard on Simba, which seems to be the reason Tanasha was upset. The power couple met less than two years ago, in November 2018, and gave the impression Diamond was going to marry Tanasha. But that was not to be. His relationship with Tanasha Donna came as a surprise to many as Diamond just took a video at the beach and told the world he loves Tanasha. Ever since, their relationship has been making headlines. Diamond announced to the world he was going to have a white wedding with Tanasha, which bigwigs like Rick Ross would attend. This was to happen during last year's Valentine's Day but was postponed. Tanasha said they needed time to know each other better. Tanasha then opened up on how the two met and why she fell in love with him, despite his reputation with women. She wrote, "2 years ago in a club but we never spoke up until end last year." She did not have an issue with dating him, despite the news out there about him having so many exes. She defended him, saying she has had exes as well and so that was not a big deal. One of Diamond's exes Zari warned Tanasha of getting involved with the superstar, but Tanasha was in love and nothing would stop her. Some time last year, Tanasha described Diamond as a kind, supportive and a loving gentleman. "I’m in love with who you are inside and out, you inspire me in so many ways, I’ve learned so much from you and you are a blessing from God," she wrote. Diamond responded, “Love you More my Baby." Two months later, we learnt that Tanasha was pregnant and during that time, mid last year, a popular Tanzanian socialite shared photos in a bed that resembles Diamond’s (in which Tanasha took a pic). This left many comparing notes, claiming it was the same bed. Tanasha defended him with a quote, "Don't believe everything you read or hear." Diamond echoed his lover’s remarks, saying, "Let them try something else." She was forced to defend him again when he skipped the much-hyped launch of her album, Donatella EP, in Kenya, claiming to have some emergency back in Tanzania. Tanasha Donna has had to live with the reality that Diamond could backslide and cheat on her, but has been begging him to stick by her side. She admitted that dating the singer comes with a price but now things might have become worse and she has called it quits. She even admitted she almost fell into depression. “I do feel insecure [dating Diamond] but he told me the social media drama I’m facing is nothing compared to his past relationships," she said. Adding, “At the beginning of the relationship, I used to cry daily." Tanasha left Tanzania with her baby after her rant on Instagram and unfollowed him and his family. Diamond's labelmate Rayvanny trolled her breakup with Diamond in a post thanking East African women for giving the singer a variety of babies. The Wasafi owner himself has not commented on the relationship breakdown. Edited by T Jalio