Wearing face masks is not the best option in the prevention of and management of coronavirus, an expert has warned. Prof Rodney Adan from the Aga Khan University Hospital on Tuesday said wearing masks makes a very small difference as it covers the mouth and just a fraction of the mucus membrane. Adan is the professor of pathology and medicine and the chair of the Infection Control Committee at the AKU Hospital. He said wearing masks can also be complicated when individuals are putting on a face mask without proper fitting and training, a move he said increases the risk. “If the mask is not well-fitting, you will keep fumbling with it and since the virus is transmitted from droplets in the nasal opening, you will end up touching your face thus making the situation worse,” Adan said. The medic has also said there is no risk associated with taking meat or animal products, adding that there are no reasons to believe that Africans are sufficiently protected from the virus. He, however, noted that the majority of people who would require treatment would be elderly patients and those with comorbidities such as diabetes or other diseases that have a reduction in immunity. The infection rate and transmission are, however, rare in children aged below 15 years. “When a patient comes in, it is more cost-effective to put a mask on the patient than to put it on the staff. That way if somebody is coming in, we immediately control how many surfaces they will contaminate,” Dr Majid Twahir, the associate dean for Clinical Affairs and Chief of Staff at the AKUH said. He added, “There is no specific treatment for coronavirus. The treatment is predominantly supportive and most of the time all you need is oxygen so the majority of people can go home. But as you go home remember your children under 15 years are not at risk.” The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that people wear a facemask to protect themselves from respiratory diseases, including the COVID-19. The Drug and Food Authority has, however, expressed concern that N95 masks may not contain germs even when properly fitted despite their ability to block large-particle droplets. As such, DFA says masks may not be able to filter out small particles that are transmitted through coughs or sneezes. Face masks have a specific lifespan and most are disposable and single-use hence good for only a few hours. So far, the AKUH has set aside isolation rooms that can attend to 12 patients at ago. The hospital will also be setting up a hotline through which those already sick can call to ask for the way forward. “Our capacity to manage patients is limited to 12 at any one time so we do expect if we get any patient in Kenya, patients will come one at a time so we should be able to manage most of the time. But should we get an influx of patients, we can manage up to a maximum of 12,” Twahir said. The facility has also set up a coronavirus response team that has three levels.  of governance. The first level consists of senior leadership headed by the CEO. This level is tasked with releasing resources and communicating with the board of trustees and the executive. The second level is the technical committee which sits and discusses the implementation as information comes in and as knowledge changes. The third is the implementation level. Employees have been adequately trained on how to protect themselves and handle patients in case of any eventuality. “We are also vaccinating our staff with influenza vaccine not to treat coronavirus but to reduce confusion should you get a fever so you can tell whether it is COVID-19 or influenza,” Twahir said. Any case that would turn out positive will then be transferred to government facilities for a confirmatory test. "We shall not test people because of costs so I can’t tell whether tests will be paid for by insurance or the government. We have not worked that out but at no time will we withhold testing because of money.”  edited by peter obuya