Nations have been told to implement commitments made 25 years ago to advance the rights of women and girls. The 189 countries agreed to the commitments during the fourth world conference on women in Beijing in 1995. A global report by Equality Now urges states to scrap sexist laws and end sexual violence. The report says the laws prevent women and girls from living to their full potential. Equality Now’s global lead for legal equality and access to justice Antonia Kirkland observed that only eight countries in the world were considered to have legal equality. She added that it was worrying  that new discriminatory laws continued to be introduced thereby reversing gains secured in the advancement of women’s rights. “The vast majority of governments must urgently amend or repeal sexist laws, with no exception for religious or customary laws. Sex discriminatory laws rob women and girls of their right to be free from discrimination and to enjoy all their human rights to the fullest,” she said. The report highlights unjust laws around the world affecting women and girls  and urges readers to take action by calling on states to revoke them as soon as possible. Explicitly sex discriminatory laws are in place in many African countries including Algeria, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Kenya, Libya, Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria, Sudan, Togo, Tanzania, Tunisia and Zambia. In Nigeria, the Penal Code legalises wife battery as long as it does not lead to grievous bodily harm. In Cameroon, a husband is the administrator of the wife's property and can sell, dispose of and mortgage them without her consent. “African countries have made some good progress, with the Tanzanian Court of Appeal declaring child marriage unconstitutional in a landmark ruling. However we still have a long way to go with countries such as Sudan still endorsing the marriage of children as young as 10 years old under their personal status laws that provide for guardianship in the execution of the marriage agreement,” said Equality Now’s regional coordinator, Africa office, Judy Gitau. Esther Waweru, Equality Now’s legal advisor, said many African states had ratified the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (Maputo Protocol) in which they made a commitment promote legal equality. She observed that the vast majority of African states continued to place reservations on some articles of the Maputo Protocol thus inhibiting its full implementation and application to the lives of women and girls in Africa.