Senators have endorsed a proposed law making lifestyle audits mandatory for public and state officers to identify possible corruption. The lawmakers said the Lifestyle Audit Bill, 2019 if passed will ensure public officers account for their wealth. They said the Bill will sieve and unearth public officials who live beyond their stated means by using public resources to enrich themselves. On June 14, 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered lifestyle audits of all senior procurement and finance officials. Later he ordered lifestyle audits of KRA officials living large Little is known about these audits or their outcomes. Sponsored by nominated Senator Farhiya Ali, the Bill seeks to put into place a legal framework for undertaking lifestyle audits. “There is empirical evidence showing officers are living beyond their means, there is no legal framework to put these perpetrators of corruption behind bars. the reason is that corruption does not happen in the open," Farhiya said while moving the Bill for the Second Reading. Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri said the proposed law will consolidate all other efforts that have been put in place through various acts to fight corruption. “People have acquired wealth through an unprocedural and unethical manner that does not conform to set standards of how a public or state officer should behave,” he said. The veteran legislator proposed amendments to the Bill, providing deferred prosecution for those who cannot explain the source of their wealth to enable the government to recover the lost money. Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni, who is a former chairman of Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission Advisory Board, said Parliament defeated a similar bill to save taxpayers from greedy and corrupt public servants. He estimated the new Bill will save Kenyans billions of shillings that end up in the hands of rogue officials. “There are people who are in this House who cannot match the wealth that has been amassed by some people who earn less than Sh40, 000 in this country. Their balances in their accounts do not marry with what they earn,” he said. Bungoma's Moses Wetang'ula supported the Bill, saying it will address the current lacunae in law but proposed several amendments to improve it. He said the Bill should establish an independent agency to carry out lifestyle audits. Currently, the Bill proposes establishment of an authority domiciled at KRA to do the task. "I want you to vary your Bill to make KRA the constant complainant against persons they think are living beyond their means; their tax returns look good but they do not look believable," he said. He added that the Bill should be amended so that when people are not able to explain their wealth, investigators only go to one place for action. "Knowing how this country operates, the state can vindictively embark on harassing and destroying people. "Tell the Kenya Revenue Authority to audit your lifestyle, keep you busy, freeze your accounts and do everything, and when they finish and find nothing, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission comes in on somebody’s instigation," he said. Uasin Senator Margaret Kamar, who supported the Bill, said it will end the perception and prosecution of government officials in barazas, churches and funerals. “If we have a structured way of conducting lifestyle audit as is indicated in this Bill, it will defuse such suspicion ... and know there are people who can make genuine money within a very short time, but they should be in a position to declare,” she said. Migori’s Ochillo Ayacko said it was ironical and shocking that in a country like Kenya, some government officials were getting richer than the government. Senators Moses Kajwang' (Homa Bay), Boniface Baraza (Machakos), Agnes Zani (Nominated), Irungu Kangata (Muranga) and Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) all supported the Bill. Edited by Henry Makori