Schools — blamed for ripping off parents with illegal levies — will now be able to increase fees but only with the approval of Education CS George Magoha. A circular by the ministry, seen by the Star, says institutions will need to write to Magoha and justify in detail their reasons for needing extra levies. Then they may or may not receive approval. The circular follows numerous accusations by arents that principals are ripping them off by demanding illegal levies. The circular also spells doom for institutions operating without full registration. In a decree by the ministry, schools operating on expired registration certificates will be shut down. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang, through a circular to principals, regional and county directors, warned heads against charging extra levies beyond the set fees. “It has been noted that some schools have introduced myriad ways to levy parents illegally. Where a school has a genuine reason to charge anything above the gazetted fee, an authority in writing must be obtained from the Cabinet Secretary,” the circular reads. The circular is issued at a time when principals are complaining of financial constraints and under-funding they say cripples school operations. In December, Magoha announced that schools would be allowed to raise funds — on a voluntary basis — to be used for infrastructure development. School registration The directors will also be required to shut down institutions that override their mandate as stipulated in the registration certificates. “It has come to my attention that some schools are operating on an expired registration. Ensure that schools whose status has changed have been assessed and re-registered,” it reads. The PS also observed that some institutions had changed their operation status, from day to boarding schools, but still failed to meet the bare minimums set by the government. “Some schools are forcing students to board. A learner who is a day scholar must not under any circumstances be forced to board.” He says such decisions must be left to the parents for financial reasons. The PS warns that no school should operate without full registration 18 months after the expiry of the provisional registration. Provisional certificates have a one-year expiry date and are provided to new institutions as they work to meet the bare minimums of full registration. Edited by R.Wamochie