The challenges in Nairobi's transport sector are as old as the city itself. In their article Politics, Policy and Paratransit, Winnie Mitullah of the University of Nairobi and Jacqueline Klopp of Columbia University argue that urban planners designed the transport network to favour personalised transport, while perpetuating physical segregation among Europeans, Asians and Africans. “By 1928, the city had 5,000 cars and was already struggling with traffic issues. Focus was on fulfilling the needs of the wealthy minority, even though the majority Africans were walking,” the two researchers say. According to the World Bank, the situation has been replicated today as urban planners focus on the needs of motorists at the expense of pedestrians. “Out of every 10 trips, eight involve walking as the primary or secondary means of transport,” the World Bank says in its 2017 study. A 2014 analysis of walkability in Nairobi by the Fletcher University found that walking is a common mode of transport in the city, despite lack of enough facilities to encourage the practice. With a score of 88, Mabatini in Kibera leads the way for the ward with the highest number of people who walk. The analysis, which focused on 84 wards countywide, also identified Mathare Valley and Mukuru – all informal settlements – as highly walkable areas. University of Arizona researchers Deborah Salon and Sumila Gulyani also found that walking and matatus comprise 89 per cent of the transport modes in the city compared to private car ownership. “Within a city, commuters with higher income and education and those living further from the city centre are more likely to use matatus rather than walk,” the two researchers say in their 2013 study. The study, Commuting in Urban Kenya: Unpacking Travel Demand in Large and Small Cities, interviewed 14,580 households in 15 towns across the country. Closer home, the 2010 Sessional Paper on Integrated National Transport Policy points out that two-thirds of Nairobians walk or cycle to their destinations. With this plethora of studies validating the popularity of walking in Nairobi, it behoves urban planning authorities to implement strategies to secure the safety of this transport mode that is increasingly prone to accidents. Edited by T Jalio