The research institutes union has called for the standardization of allowances for all the Kenya Medical Research Institute staff in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Union of National Research Institutes Staff of Kenya (Unrisk) secretary general Zachariah Achacha said on Friday it is unfair to expose Kemri staff to the coronavirus but only compensate a few in allowances. There are about 950 staff members in Kemri but only about 200, who are medical doctors, get these allowances. Unrisk wants extraneous, emergency and health risk allowances and any other allowances that may be considered necessary to be given to Kemri staff across all cadres. “When it comes to research, all cadres of staff are involved in one way or another but when it comes to payment of the allowances, only the medical doctors get them,” Achacha said on the phone. Kemri laboratories, alongside the National Influenza Centre, are being used to test samples from persons presenting Covid-19 symptoms. Achacha said Kemri staff are doing a patriotic and commendable job, risking their lives to test samples for coronavirus, and must be motivated and compensated. In a special appeal to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Monday, Achacha said the working environment in Kemri exposes all workers to high health risks in terms of handling and storage of pathogens in its facilities across the country. “This fact necessitated the gazette/categorisation of Kemri under CAP 204 as a protected area for bio-safety and bio-security reasons,” Achacha said in a letter. “All Kemri research centres conduct clinical trials which are multi-disciplinary in nature involving scientific and other support staff, interacting with patients mostly in extraneous field conditions within clinical settings.” Clinical trials, he noted, are a perfect illustration that no single profession can do research alone. Kemri is a parastatal mandated to do human health research. It handles patients, clinical specimen and highly infectious diseases. Hospitals do send to Kemri highly infectious clinical samples such as anthrax, viruses like ebola, chikungunya, yellow fever, polio, bird flu, HIV, MDR, XDR, RB and now Covid-19, for testing. Achacha said in high-risk areas like these, workers must be fully protected, motivated and compensated. Edited by A.N