The World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic on March 12 and since then the public has been on the run stockpiling among items hand sanitisers. This is understandable given that there is no coronavirus vaccine and people are sensitised that sanitising hands is one way of keeping the disease at bay. Supermarkets have run out of hand sanitisers as people rush to protect themselves from Covid-19. But is stockpiling sanitisers a good idea? According to a study by the American Society for Microbiology last year, using running water and soap to wash hands is more effective than using gels and sanitisers. And Aga Khan University Hospital's Dr Majid Twahir on Thursday said hand sanitising is just one of numerous measures that ought to be put in place. He advocated the use of soap and water. “In your home, you will not need hand sanitiser. Just use simple soap and water. This is a cheap way of stopping it. We need to disinfect our surfaces because it is the surfaces that we touch that later contaminate our hands." Twahir said there would be no need for hand wraps if surfaces are decontaminated. Soap has mild antibacterial properties and does not kill viruses. The procedure requires that you wet your hands with water, lather them up properly, on both sides, in between the fingers and under the nails, one hand and then the other. Rinse them thoroughly under running water for 20 seconds to wash away any viruses, dry the hands thoroughly with a disposable towel, then use that towel to turn off the tap before throwing it away. “Wipe surfaces regularly. For instance, if you are in a meeting as you are talking that table might have droplets, wipe that table with diluted bleach,” Twahir said. He discouraging stockpiling sanitisers when your neighbour doesn’t have any. “Most importantly, stop touching your face. The organisms don’t enter your body through the skin but through the eyes, nose and mouth.” The doctor advised against using Dettol as a sanitiser, noting that there was no evidence that it was effective in containing the virus. “Dettol doesn’t work in organic matter, so the best thing to do at the moment is to dilute bleach and use it to wipe your surfaces. Matatus can wipe their seats regularly after every trip too,” Twahir said. The government on Thursday ordered the release of all ethanol held at various ports and customs facilities for use in the manufacture alcohol-based sanitisers for public use. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said the sanitisers will be distributed at no cost. Kinyua said in a statement that oil industry corporations had volunteered to make sanitisers to meet rising demand. “Kenya Pipeline Company will utilise an accountability framework for the manufacture and distribution of the sanitisers,” Kinyua said. On Tuesday, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe called on the public to use soap and water to bring down the skyrocketing prices of the sanitisers. National Nurses Association of Kenya president Alfred Obengo said: “It is naivety and ignorance. When your neighbour doesn’t have you are also at risk. Just buy enough. Don’t buy more than you need.” Edited by R.Wamochie