Children will go without lunch for two months in the feeding programme for the poorest ASAL areas in the second term because of budget cuts. That's the only meal of the day many children get and without lunch for 58 days many hungry children are expected to drop out of school. The term starts on  May 4 and runs for 14 weeks, ending in August. "You don’t realise the impact of reducing the allocation for the feeding programme. That is the only meal these children know of,” Kipsang told Parliament's Education Committee on Thursday. A Sh500 million cut in the Education budget for 2019-20  is the problem. Kipsang pleaded for restoration of funds. “Learners depending on the programme to remain in school now risk dropping out, Belio said. The programme budget has been maintained at Sh2.3 billion, but Kipsang says to efficiently run it will need Sh1.1 billion top-up. “To adequately feed our children this second term we insist that the government restores the Sh500 million deducted in the last financial year,” Kipsang said. Since the exit of the giant donor— the UN World Food Programme  — in 2018 the feeding program has been grappling with occasional break down caused by underfunding. The programme targets 1.5 million schoolchildren each day, with the government setting aside Sh11 per child every day. With the exit of WFP  the government reaffirmed its capacity to sustain the programme. The feeding programme targets primary schools in arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL) that have ow enrolment, high drop-out and low completion rates. Hungry students have difficulty concentrating. The programme also has been expanded to urban slums. It's credited with retaining learners in schools and the expected temporary halt is likely to mean a significant decline in enrolment. “We have to be sensitive about these issues. Those of us who get three meals in a day don’t realise the impact of reducing the allocation for the feeding programme. That is the only meal these children know of," Kipsang said. The PS was appearing before the committee to give his observations on the budget policy statement. (Edited by V. Graham)