Police in most parts of the North Rift region had a much easier time enforcing the curfew on Saturday night as most residents were back home before 7pm. No trouble was reported in major towns including Eldoret, Kitale, Iten and Kapsabet or in rural areas. Hundreds of armed police officers and county enforcement officers were deployed to enforce the curfew even as large and small-scale traders said it had further hurt their businesses. Senior police have been visiting major towns to educate residents on the need to shut down activities well ahead before 7pm and head home. All government officers and village elders were involved in enforcement. “We are forced to shut down all premises as early as 4 pm so workers can start leaving for home and be inside by 7pm. We are losing a lot but these are not normal times and we have to save lives,” hardware store owner Jackson Kimeli said. Small-scale traders said they were losing much of their stock that urned bad as fewer customers turned up at the markets. County commissioners and police chiefs coordinated the exercise in the region where hundreds of people were still caught up on the streets during the first day as they headed home well after the curfew began at 7 pm. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa said security teams would fully enforce the curfew and crack down on crime. Police set up roadblocks on all major highways to stop those defying the curfew. Uasin Gishu police commander Johnstone Ipara said they had arrested a suspect transporting illegal drugs like bhang. “Those who engage in crime should not think they will use the curfew hours to commit their illegal activities. They are wrong to imagine we will be focusing on the curfew as they engage in crime," Ipara said. Human rights activist Kipkorir Ngetich said so far the officers had done well adhering to rights while ensuring Kenyans observe the law. Governors including Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia urged residents to ensure they comply with the curfew and measures to control the spread of the coronavirus. (Editd by V. Graham)