The Director of Public Prosecutions has recommended prosecution of a KDF soldier accused of taking a bribe from a villager four years ago with the promise of helping his son get recruited. The DPP said in his directive dated February 26 that Felix Matasio should be charged with receiving Sh326,000 from Peter Liluma to help in the enlistment of his son Wycliffe Shivonje in the army. "The offence of obtaining money by false pretence is amply disclosed against the suspect. Proceed to charge the suspect accordingly," Western region DPP co-ordinator P. M Gumo said. Matasio is alleged to have received the money between July and November 2016 in cash and through M-Pesa. In his complaint to the Kakamega Central police station on February 3, Liluma said the officer told him that his boss had given him three chances to recruit people of his choice. "He told me that I must part with Sh360,000 for my son to be recruited. He wanted the money in cash and immediately which I did not have," he said. "I requested a few days so I could look for a buyer of land that I had given to my son." He said he gave the soldier Sh100,000 in cash and sent the reminder through M-Pesa on diverse dates. "My son was not recruited and when I asked him why, he told me to wait for the next exercise which came and passed without my son getting enlisted." "Thereafter, he started dodging me whenever I asked him to refund my money. It forced me to report him to the area chief where he admitted collecting the cash and promised to refund," Liluma added. He said he reported the matter to Shisasari police station in Shinyalu subcounty on November 10, 2018, and he was called by police "after which he sent me Sh50,000 and told me to eat and die as I would take him nowhere”. When reached for comment, the soldier said he talked to Liluma on Saturday and agreed on how to repay the money in two weeks. "If you write this story, the old man will not benefit in any way apart from damaging my name. If you write the story, will the old man be getting his money?" he asked the Star on Sunday. But Liluma denied any agreement with the soldier on repayment of the money. Edited by R.Wamochie