 Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has confirmed that two members of staff were screened for Covid-19 on Thursday and discharged. The two were brought to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital in a county government vehicle with a body temperature of 39 degrees Celsius. They were given antibiotics and after the temperature stabilised advised to self-quarantine. “Yes, I am aware of the two cases. The medical personnel checked their temperatures, livers, breathing and asked whether they had travelled or been in close contact with someone who had travelled,” Nyoro said by phone. The two were put in a holding ward and after two hours of observation, their condition improved and they were discharged. Their throat swabs and blood samples were taken for further verification. The governor said that any information on Covid-19 must be communicated by either him or the county commissioner. Information on confirmed cases will only be relayed by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. “We must be careful not to cause alarm over the coronavirus. We must have verified and confirmed information and at the moment we have no confirmed case,” Nyoro said. Commissioner Wilson Wanyanga responded via text message: “I am not in the picture. The final determinants on the medical situation are hospitals. I cannot question what the hospitals decide.” Hospital sources said the two sought to speak with the hospital administrator when they arrived at the facility. They were isolated in the holding ward after their temperatures were found to be higher than normal (36 degrees Celsius), one of the sources said. Panic set in the hospital with medical personnel questioning why the two were released even before the results of their samples were released to ascertain if they had the virus. One of the suspects is said to have told the medical personnel that he decided to come for a check-up after feeling unwell. He further told them he had attended a meeting abroad with someone who was already quarantined over Covid-19. Thereafter, a county executive is said to have written an internal memo telling non-essential duty staff to work from home. – mwaniki fm