Rift Valley MPs want President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga to attend the March 21 BBI meeting together and to be cordial. Joint attendance and good manners are among the conditions the Ruto allies set for their participation in the consultative forums spearheaded by the ODM leader. The lawmakers especially want leaders at the much-awaited meeting to avoid remarks that would destabilise peace in the region, long considered DP Ruto's turf. The lawmaker also apologised for failing to attend a meeting called by the county government on Thursday. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri led the press conference at Parliament Buildings. He was accompanied by Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Joseph Tonui (Kuresoi South), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Senator Susan Kihika and Woman Representative Liza Chelule. However, they sought clarity on the invitations, saying they would only take them seriously if they came from the region’s governors. The MPs cited a letter inviting them to a meeting, which was signed by one Njenga Munga – said to be former Molo MP – on the county letterhead. “We cannot be invited this way. We have planned to meet Governor Lee Kinyanjui on Friday afternoon to discuss issues we want to be factored into the BBI process,” Ngunjiri said. “We are in charge and, therefore, want the BBI meeting to be peaceful. Nakuru is the cradle of peace in this country." The lawmakers expressed reservations about the BBI rallies, saying they are being turned into platforms for2022 campaigns. Kihika said they will not allow anyone to destabilise the country's unity. “All tribes of Kenya live in Nakuru. Let those coming know that we are a cosmopolitan community,” the senator said. The MPs further warned against acts of contempt by those behind the campaigns, especially on how invitations are sent. The Star has learnt that the invites are largely sent out by county commissioners, sparking a tiff with MPs who want to lead the mobilisation. “If the governor is in charge of the county he should mobilise. We see the meetings as campaigns. The BBI committee should be the ones moving around,” Kihara said. She raised concerns about the fresh issues the task force chaired by Yusuf Haji (Garissa Senator) is taking from various parties. “I thought the report that was launched at the Bomas of Kenya last November was final. Now that it has been returned to Kenyans, we will wait for the outcome before declaring sides.” Wangari said they were worried BBI was taking the wrong direction, citing events at the Narok meeting. “We deserve respect as area leaders. It was good that the meeting earlier planned for this weekend was postponed. But we want to see Uhuru, Raila and Ruto together at the meeting,” the Gilgil lawmaker said. The Nakuru meeting was to be held this weekend before Governor Kinyanjui announced its postponement to pave the way for 'proper preparations'. The outcome of meetings in Rift Valley has been described as the test for the unity bid spearheaded by President Kenyatta and Raila. Edited by R.Wamochie