The police have sought to assure Kenyans of their safety during the curfew period. This followed fears of a possible increase in crime in the wake of the government's dusk-dawn curfew directive, which came into force on Friday. It was declared by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday and is meant to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. The 7pm-to-5am curfew notice read, "Under this order, there shall be no public gatherings, processions or movements either alone or as a group for the period of the curfew." The curfew will remain in force until further notice. It is one of the stringent measures put in place by the government. Some Kenyans had raised concerns that criminals might take advantage of the situation. But on Friday, police spokesman Charles Owino warned that people with ill-motives will not have a field day and instead will face the full force of the law. He said thousands of police officers would be deployed to enforce the curfew order and protect people from those hellbent on robbing them or putting their lives at risk. A number of businesses, mostly hotels, restaurants, bars and flower farms, have suspended operations and sent their workers home for fear of the disease. Some counties have also ordered the closure of factories, markets and other small businesses such as salons and barbershops, thus rendering their employees jobless. And with the curfew, more people will be left jobless. They include those who work in night shifts in factories. Jobless and broke, such individuals may be tempted to engage in crime to make ends meet, a situation that would blow into a full-time crisis if not checked. However, security experts George Musamali and Clinton Obonyo opined that while there could be some elements of crime during this period, it is unlikely that the cases would increase as the police will restrict the movement of people, including of those who may be planning to commit crimes. “Normally, we have a few outlaws who will not adhere to the curfew rules but you will find that they will not go out as the police are likely to be everywhere," Musamali said. He said the law enforcement officers will most likely concentrate on the estates and other informal settlements and not town centres as people shall have already retreated home. "You will find that in most cases, in rural areas we don’t have a very big problem with people obeying curfew orders. I think the major problem will be in urban areas, especially estates where you will still find people in bars and other places," he added. "But I don’t think we should be worried about an increase in crime because Kenyans are now conscious about the dangers of this disease." Obonyo shared a similar view, saying the fact that most Kenyans will be locked in their rooms during the curfew hours will in itself reduce crime on the estates. “Thieves or robbers only break into people’s houses when they are not there. But when you are indoor, they won’t come. And again, where will they pass when they go to steal? The police will be everywhere," he said.