Coronavirus has caused a scare among Kenyans leading to the Chinese in the country being ostracized. There have been cases where they were almost evicted by tenants at an estate in Machakos. The most recent case was the one that China Southern Airlines landed at JKIA with Chinese on board. It caused a stir and angry Kenyans lashed at the government for letting in a plane from China as other countries had banned flights from the Asian state. As Kenyans are getting scared and isolating the Chinese, there is an app that has been launched by the Chinese that helps people in finding the risk of contracting the virus. It will help the Kenyans to ease on the tension around the spread of the virus in the country. The close contact detector app is able to check the recent movements of an individual against the confirmed and suspected cases of the Coronavirus infection. If one has been in contact or has come into contact with an infected person, the app will advise both to stay at home. It will then contact the local health authorities. People can also use this app by scanning a QR code through mobile apps. In the case of China, people can scan the QR code via apps such as Alipay and WeChat. This application does not need much information, you are only required to fill in your name, Phone number and Identification number to check if you were in close contact with an infected person. Close contact means being in a close distance, without any effective protection with confirmed, suspected or mild cases when the person was ill or had asymptomatic cases. If Kenyans could have this application included in the Google Play Store, it will help during this time when Coronavirus is the big talk. It will also make the work of the nurses and doctors easy as the app will inform them after it detects that a person has been infected with the virus or if they were in contact with the infected person. It was launched in China in February to help the citizens in the country to find their risk of contracting the virus. It was developed by the National Health Commission (NHC), General office of the State Council and China Electronics Technology Group Corporations with support from other government agencies. As this app is launched, other countries have also put measures in combating this virus. Some countries in Africa have strictly put in place strict screening points of entry especially at Airports. The deaths by coronavirus stands at 3,119 and the cases of those infected are 90, 932. There are also those who have recovered from the virus and they are 48, 174.