About 98 people have been placed under quarantine in Murang’a county. Health chief officer James Gitau said some of the individuals travelled from abroad while the rest came into contact with them. He, however, reiterated that no positive case of Covid-19 has been reported in the county. He also noted that the technical committee set up a team to respond to the coronavirus and is closely monitoring those in isolation. The official spoke on Monday at the county headquarters when the team received free sanitiser from the national government. Further, movement of people in and out of the county has been limited in efforts to tame possible spread of the virus. The chief officer appealed to matatu saccos to continue observing strict hygiene measures to ensure they do not become breeding grounds for the virus. Gitau urged passengers to sanitise their hands before boarding and after alighting public service vehicles. Last week, Governor Mwangi wa Iria prohibited matatu saccos from ferrying passengers in and out of the county. The governor said those requiring urgent services, especially medical care outside Murang'a will be facilitated by the county. Two wards have been established at the county referral hospital and Muriranjas Hospital to handle any emerging cases, Gitau said. He said as directed by the national government, the technical committee is identifying schools that can be used as isolation centres. County commissioner Mohamed Barre said 4,000 litres of sanitiser had been received from Kenya Breweries Limited in partnership with Kenya Pipeline Corporation, which have been tasked with producing sanitiser for distribution to less fortunate Kenyans. Barre said the sanitiser will be distributed to all shopping centres, markets and matatu termini. “We are asking people to use the sanitiser to keep their hands clean and avoid contamination,” he said. Barre also cautioned residents against defying the 7pm to 5am curfew to avoid confrontations with the police. “Anyone found on the streets during that time will not be spared,” he said, noting most people are obeying the curfew "save for a few who wait for security officers to disperse them from shopping centres". Kenya Breweries business manager Alfred Kihara said the sanitiser is free. “It has been certified and has satisfied the required health standards. Murang’a people can use it to shield themselves from the virus,” Kihara said. Edited by R.Wamochie