Deputy President William Ruto has maintained that former Sports CS Rashid Echesa's entry as well as 'crooks and cartels' into his Harambee Annex office was a breach of security. Through a statement on Thursday through his chief of Staff Ken Osinde, Ruto said the DCI should expedite investigations into the matter. Osinde said the footage provided to the DCI indicates that Echesa's entry with his accomplices was aided by some security officers and that amounted to a breach of security. Osinde said though the DCI had told the media Echesa and his team took about 1 hour 22 minutes and 59 seconds at the offices, they only took 23 minutes out of this time at the DP's office. The rest of the time Osinde said the CS and his team were on movement outside the premises. DCI boss George Kinoti had said Echesa and two other white men believed to be investors were at Ruto's offices for one hour 22 minutes and 59 seconds. This was contrary to the initial 23 minutes, that Ruto had earlier claimed. Kinoti said the video given to the detectives was actually only an excerpt of the footage from different cameras in the building. "Contrary to the 23 minutes, we are going to see the cartels entering through the back door carrying the actual exhibit which will be manipulated somewhere, It took one hour 22 minutes and 59 seconds from 8.50 am," Kinoti narrated. Kinoti added that his officers had been denied access to the whole footage. "Security refused to grant the officers access to the footage claiming that it will interfere with the setup," he said. Kinoti though said that forensic officers however successfully managed to extract the whole footage. However, Osinde said that the tapes played out by Kinoti were made available by the security at the DP's office to him on request by the DCI. Kinoti earlier on Thursday said Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's murder was a cold-blooded murder that was well stage-managed. He said from the evidence from the crime scene and days prior to the discovery of Kenei, suicide has been ruled out. He insisted that the scene was tampered with to make it appear like a suicide. He said the Office of the Deputy President sent contradicting letters to the DCI over the incident. Kinoti said the same morning the DCI was expecting Kenei to record statements he never appeared.