A civil society group warned the state on Friday against suppressing information on the coronavirus in the country. One case was confirmed on Friday. A woman was returning to Nairobi from the US via London. She landed on March 5, felt ill and went to a hospital The International Centre for Policy and Conflict (ICPC) has urged the government to be honest about the Covid-19 situation. ICPC also urged that testing for the deadly virus be made absolutely free to reduce public anxiety and panic. The lobby group said the people of kenya deserve transparency and truth on the state of the coronavirus situation without “suppression of information”. “Kenyans need up to date and clear credible information from front-line professionals. Kenyans need to be fully informed on the status of testing and processing for the coronavirus, ICPC executive director Ndung'u Wainaina said. Wainana says the confirmation of the Covid-19 in the country means that this is not the “moment for government incompetence and recklessness.” “It is time for the national and county-based emergency bipartisan authority of experts to support and direct a comprehensive response,” he says in a statement to newsrooms. Wanaina said the country needs national and county hotlines staffed with well-trained people who have the best information available. “The public and private sectors must aggressively cooperate with each other,” he cautioned amid fears of the spread of the virus. ICP said the government must make sure doctors, nurses and medical professionals have the instructions, personal protective equipment and all support that they need. This is critical both for their own safety and facilitating their response, Wainana says. Wainaina urged the National Assembly to allocate funds to mitigate the economic effects of coronavirus. “It is the moment for the National Parliament to debate and agree on emergency economic and financial measures to necessary to cushion Kenyans on all fronts in the wake of the devastating effects of the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)   