Nzoia Sugar have set a bare minimum of five wins in the remaining 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League matches for beleaguered coach Collins Omondi to secure a lengthy stay at the helm. Nzoia suspended Omondi early this month, owing to the club's dismal run in the league. The sugar millers have won a paltry two matches this season and consequently, are staring at the possibility of sinking to the National Super League. Omondi, who took over the reigns at the start of the season,  is set to know his fate today when the club honchos convene a meeting to deliberate of the possibility of axing or retaining him. Through the newly elected chairman Evans Kadenge, the club revealed that the performance of the club will top the agendas of the meeting. He said should Omondi, who is christened as Korea, convince them that he has what it takes to win at least five out of the remaining ten matches, they will spare him. The financially limping outfit sits 15th  with 13 points and Kadenge believes the new target set for Omondi is ideal for their hopes to keep their place in the top flight. "We have a meeting this Friday (today) to discuss Omondi's fate. He has been with the team from when the season began but the results have been wanting. Two wins in more than twenty matches fall way below the expectations of the management. If he will convince us that he is capable of winning five matches then we will lift the ban and let him continue discharging his touchline duties. The target will enable us to escape relegation," said the son to the legendary footballer Joe Kadenge Kadenge, who will be at the helm for a period of three years, in the meantime, disclosed plans of revamping the club to attain their past glory. Kadenge was elected the new chairman replacing Yappets Mokua last month. He singled out the unwanted sale of the club's priced stars and lack of finances as their major undoing and vowed to bring changes. Since regaining promotion to the top flight in 2016, the sugar men have proved to be a conveyor belt for players as clubs boasting of financial muscles have from time to time raided their base. "If we can maintain our players for at least three years, then the image of the club will be fully redeemed. We have in the past been unable to keep our players but I will ensure we retain them by all means. We have to source for more funds for the day to day activities of the club to flow smoothly,"  he added.