You will only be allowed to buy up to three packets of disinfectants at Tuskys Supermarket. The management announced the adoption of a limited purchase policy on Saturday to lock out opportunists who have been buying the commodity in bulk and selling to desperate Kenyans at exploitative prices. Chief executive officer Dan Githua said each customer will only be allowed to purchase a maximum of three packets of hand sanitiser, antiseptic and bleach liquids. There has been panic-buying of disinfectants and other basic commodities since the government confirmed the first coronavirus case in the country on Friday. Frequent washing of hands using the detergents is one of the precautionary measures outlined by the government and health experts to keep the virus at bay. "A few bold and entrepreneurial customers have been taking advantage of the prevailing Covid-19 panic to buy particular items in bulk and resell at inflated prices," Githua said. "In some instances, the exploitative sales of the items at wildly inflated prices (up to 200 per cent) has been unashamedly happening right outside our supermarket doors." The Competition Authority of Kenya has warned businesses against hiking prices. Against this background, Githua said they are committed to protecting the interests of all its customers by ensuring fair and equitable sales of the items. "All our key suppliers have been providing immense support and have dispatched sufficient stocks for the products across our branch network," he said in a statement. On Friday, the supermarket sought to assure customers of adequate stocks after it recorded panic-buying in its outlets. Githua sought to allay fears that commodity prices would be increased or worse still, they would run out of essential items. "As a responsible corporate citizen, we wish to assure the public that the panic is unnecessary. We have engaged with our suppliers and received firm commitments that we shall continue receiving necessary supplies at the standard prices," he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)