The Building Bridges Initiative process will solve gender inequality, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has said. Waiguru urged women to support the BBI and the handshake — between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga — which birthed the task force. “Women will continue pushing for alternative gender leadership both in public and private sectors,” she said. Waiguru spoke in Nairobi on Wednesday during the launch of the Power of Parity a report by the McKinsey Global Institute. Waiguru said she is confident Uhuru and Raila are interested in women's issues. “I am committed to ensuring women space in leadership is well entrenched in the Constitution to solve gender inequality issues in the country,” Waiguru said. The county chief said women have demonstrated the ability to deliberate and execute issues of importance on national agenda. Given more opportunities, women can contribute more to the development of the country, Waiguru said. Among the first three female governors to be elected in last general elections, Waiguru urged more women to go for elective positions. Despite going through a lot of insults and tribulations on their path to leadership, she urged them to remain focused and ignore issues that will distract them from attaining political seats. “Laws that protect women should be properly enforced. Leadership is not about money,” she said. The governor asked women not to limit themselves, but called for more ways to support women in political leadership to achieve gender balance. Supreme Court judge Njoki Ndungu said laws to protect women exist but are poorly enforced. She said the first women elected governors are a good example that more women can make it to political leadership. On Thursday, Ndungu who was speaking at a women's meeting to celebrate the upcoming Women's Day said women should never put themselves in situations where they are begging. She said that when referring to opposite gender appointments, it does not mean women will only be deputies and assistants. "We should be talking about how the deputy governor should be male, not how the deputy should be female. We need to be clear about the language we use," she said. Ndungu said women will not accept to go back on the gains they have made so far. (edited by O. Owino)