Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina says a visit by Mt Kenya leaders to Kabarak, former President Daniel arap Moi's home, was not to endorse Kanu. In a phone interview with the Star on Monday, Maina said the leaders decided to visit Baringo Senator Gideon Moi because of the strong ties they had with the retired president. He said the meeting was meant to foster peace in the country and advocate for the protection of the rights of every Kenyan, irrespective of origin and where they live. "We didn't go to endorse Kanu, but just to reflect on the ties we had with Moi. He was very close to some of us and his lessons will remain with us for many years," Maina said. The more than 2,100 delegates visited Gideon at the family's Kabarak home last Friday. The delegation was drawn from Nyeri, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Embu, Murang'a, Kiambu Nyandarua and Laikipia. Reports later emerged that the delegation endorsed Gideon's 2022 presidential bid. The senator, however, said 2022 was not the focus of the meeting. "We were mainly reflecting on our times with the late Mzee Moi, who was a very generous person despite the many things that have been said about him," Maina said. He said that it was wrong to judge Moi singularly, saying all leaders have a responsibility for what did not work well during his government. "All of us have a collective responsibility, so the late Moi should not be blamed alone, and if there are laws that were harmful, they were passed by Parliament, not Moi as an individual," Maina said. He said Moi left a rich legacy, including establishing institutions of learning that are presently serving communities from every part of the country. During the meeting, Maina said the Mt Kenya region could not be bought. "The people of Mt Kenya do not need money. They cannot be bought to support anyone. All they need is respect, assurance of peace and a conducive environment to run their businesses," Maina said. He said Kanu, just like any other political party, was free to solicit support from any part of the country. During Moi's burial on February 11, elders declared a 40-day mourning period during which delegations from all over the country will visit the former leader's home. It was also during the burial that Raymond Moi gave family leadership rungu (baton) to Gideon. Addressing the Central delegates, Moi revealed that his father asked him to take over the Kabarak home three months before he passed on. "One day I came to visit my father as usual and when I was bidding him goodbye, he wondered why I had to always leave yet that was my house," he said. Edited by Henry Makori