KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno could not hide his frustration after their bid to catch up with Kenyan Premier League leaders Gor Mahia suffered a blow following a 2-1 loss to Bandari at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Zico blasted his defence line for allowing John Mwita to grab a brace in the second half which saw the coastal side become the first team to complete a double over the bankers this season. Bandari won the first leg in a similar fashion three weeks ago. The loss meant that the bankers, who had at the start of the season set a target of claiming the title and who had Dennis Odhiambo to thank for the consolation against Bandari yesterday now trail Gor by 10 points. "We lost the chance to slice the gap and we are disappointed. We did not defend well and I think it was a bad day in the office for us. Bandari are the first team to get six points from us and it's something we should not have allowed," said a gutted Zico. His Bandari counterpart Twahir Muhiddin was full of praises for his players for the win although he expressed displeasure with the first-half display. "We made it tough for ourselves in the first half but I am glad the boys realised their mistakes and had a decent final half," said the former Harambee Stars head coach. Meanwhile, Kakamega Homeboyz staged a late comeback to humble Nzoia Sugar 3-2 at the Bukhungu Stadium. Nzoia was destined for a 2-0 win but it took the hosts the final seven minutes of the game to level matters before scoring the winner in arguably the last second of the match. The win lifted Homeboyz to four points off Gor Mahia in second. A myriad of goalkeeping errors and suspicious goals reigned as Wazito annihilated Zoo FC 4-1 in a match played earlier in Machakos. Coaches from either side heavily criticised their shot-stoppers for a series of howlers which re-ignited the match-fixing topic online and from the stands. Zoo tactician Herman Iswekha faulted Vincent Misikhu for letting in cheap goals and centre referee Dickens Mimisa for a number of calls he felt worked against them. "I admit my goalkeeper made mistakes, especially for the second goal. His mistakes enabled Wazito to gather more steam and we ended up letting in more. He is a young man and we have to motivate him before we play our next match. The referee also made it difficult for us," said Iswekha. Wazito bagged their goals through Dennis Ng'ang'a, Augustine Otu, Paul Kiongera and Joe Waithira while Collins Neto was on target for Zoo. Elsewhere, Mathare United and Posta Rangers settled for a one-all draw at the Narok Stadium. Chrispinus Oduor gave Mathare the lead in the 67th minute but Francis Nambute restored parity for the mailmen 10 minutes later.