Retailers in  Busia are struggling to satisfy the high demand for hand sanitizers after three cases of coronavirus were identified in Kenya, none of them in Busia. Hospitals too are running out of sanitizer. Soap and water are ideal but sanitizers are used when people can't wash their hands as usual. “The stock is finished.I am coordinating with the supplier to see if I can restock,” shop attendant Jesse Karani in Malaba said Monday. He said residents began buying the products on Friday when Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe confirmed that Kenya had registered its first case of the COVID-19 disease. He said, however, there was no panic buying as in major cities and towns. But hoarding and price hikes have abated after President Uhuru Kenyatta warned on Sunday that violators would be punished. Evelyn Elong’i who runs a shop in Amagoro said the sanitizer shelves were emptied on Saturday evening and she has lost business as her suppliers are yet to deliver more products. “The demand is high which is good because it shows people are adhering to high health standards. People are keen on ensuring their safety now that coronavirus has been confirmed,” she said. Busia town Mini-wholesale owner Silas Odongo called on suppliers to has deliveries as Busia is considered one of 14 counties high-risk counties near borders. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri were to meet and decide the best way to prevent the spread of the virus. Earlier Monday, Kocholya Level 4 Hospital head Dr Brian Matsisa told the Star use of sanitizers is restricted to medical staff because of shortage. Patients are advised to wash their hands with soap and clean running water. On Sunday Ojaamong urged the national government to supply more equipment to the county to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Due to proximity to the Uganda border, the county asked the national government to assist in setting up equipment, medical protective gear and medical tents at Busia Referral Hospital, Kocholya Hospital and other medical institutions. (Edited by V. Graham)