Were the handlers of President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) unhappy with a scholar who criticised the government for a dismal performance in the health sector? During the healthcare convention, the scholar said the sector is dogged by myriad challenges, citing corruption. He said the country bought 40-foot containers for Sh10 million in a move that saw the country use about Sh1 billion. He said the containers are still lying idle somewhere, yet no one has been arrested. The scholar said the Health docket is averse to technology. But as he went on, word went round that Uhuru would step into the venue shortly, forcing the organisers to cut him short, to the chagrin of those in attendance. A woman representative from Nyanza, who is eyeing a gubernatorial seat, may be in trouble. A project she launched two years ago to distribute sanitary pads to schoolgirls has run into headwinds. It has emerged that she had been distributing substandard pads to both primary and secondary school learners. Our mole says the office of the Auditor-General has established that the towels that were dished out to innocent girls were also overpriced. One pack was said to have been supplied at a cost rivalling high-end pads at Sh250. Ordinary pads go for as low as Sh50 in the market. The shameful scandal is likely to ruin the woman representative’s chances of winning the county top office. A vocal ODM politician known for his brokerage habit has become the talk of the town. The man is said to have acted as a middleman to save a top government official who was facing the sack. Those in the know say the politician demanded cash running into millions of shillings from the embattled official to ostensibly oil the palm of an influential figure in government to scuttle his removal from the plum job. A mole familiar with the unfolding said the man only used less than half of the amount to scuttle the planned removal of his ‘friend’ and pocketed the rest. A speaker in one of the counties is in panic after a bid to extort money from a senior politician from his county flopped. The speaker approached the whole deal as someone who was out to save the politician at a fee. But the politician set him up with EACC sleuths, giving treated money to his PA, who was the one doing the dirty job for him. The speaker had been passing around as incorruptible but is now lobbying from all quarters to have the case against the PA dropped.