The government has secured almost Sh2 billion from donors to support its renewed fight on locusts as interventions enter the second phase. Agriculture CS Perter Munya on Wednesday told a forum in Nairobi that the World Bank has already released Sh1.4 billion. In addition, the African Development Bank has pledged another Sh500 million towards chemicals, he said. the UN estimates Sh70 million will be required for aerial spraying alone. The pests have invaded at last 26 counties including Samburu, Isiolo, Marsabit, Mandera, Kitui, Tharaka Nithi, Garissa, Laikipia, Wajir, Embu and Turkana. Others are Baringo, Kajiado, Tana River, Machakos, Elgeiyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu, Kirinyaga, Meru, Nakuru, Murang’a, Nyeri, Trans Nzoia and Bungoma. The minister said unless aggressive containment measures are implemented, food security, especially in the northern part of the country, would be virtually inevitable.k. Munya said in the first phase of the interventions, the government alongside donors conducted ground operations to locate, tag and monitor breeding sites for the locusts. They also did intensive aerial and hand spraying. However, due to shortage of chemicals and aircraft, the operation stopped mid-February when the insects are about to lay eggs. These will need to be sprayed and killed before they develop wings to feed their voracious appetites. The hatching wingless hoppers have been sited in Samburu (134 places), Isiolo (28), Tharaka Nithi (16), Kitui (14), Turkana (four), Marsabit (three), Garissa (two) and Embu (one), he said. About 26,995 litres of pesticides have been procured and distributed. However, Munya said the state had secured 30,000 litres of chemicals through FAO about to be shipped into the country. In addition, the government plans to acquire 20 aircraft for spraying. To strengthen ground operations, he said, the ministry and partners like FAO have identified, trained and deployed 500 NYS servicemen as well as 50 youths from Garissa and Mandera. It aims recruit 50 youths in Kitui by Saturday. Further, he announced, the agriculture ministry and FAO will train 30 trainers of trainers from March 16 to 21. they will then train operations teams. The 900 local teams will be trained from March 23 to 25, the CS said, adding they will do "actual ground surveillance and control activities and providedata to the control bases". Munya also said he will set up a central co-ordination base at the ministry's Kilimo House headquarters. The centre will oversee the six operational bases already set up in Wajir, Garissa, Masinga, Turkana and Marsabit. The state also aims to buy more ground control vehicles, protective clothing, GPSs and radio communication for ground control operations. "We are estimating that we will need about another 100,000 litres of assorted chemicals to sustain an effective campaign," he said. The has also mobilised and deployed 240 extension officers from the affected counties . FAO is conducting an impact assessment.  impact assessment whose results will be due in three weeks. Edited by R.Wamochie