The US reprimanded Somalia to de-escalate the ongoing diplomatic row with Kenya. A source privy to the developments told the Star America through the United States Africa Command intervened to call Somalia to order to stop it from fighting its own people, Jubaland president Ahmed Madobe and escalating the diplomatic row with Kenya. Somalia claimed Kenya is interfering with its domestic affairs. Africa Policy Institute’s Prof Peter Kagwanja, an expert on Kenya-Somalia relations, also confirmed there is what he termed as behind the curtain diplomacy. “It is true there is external intervention by western countries and this is what they have told Somalia.” “Do not instigate a conflict between Kenya and Ethiopia over the Gedo region, that it is unacceptable to use its soldiers who are supported by the international community to fight their people and regional governments and to first put its eye on the common enemy that is al Shabaab,” Kagwanja said. On March 2, the Somali National Army engaged in a fierce gun battle with Jubaland forces in Balad-Hawo and Border One forces, forcing civilians to seek refuge in Mandera, Kenya. The fight was over fugitive Jubaland security minister Abdirashid Janan, who Mohadishu claims is hiding in Mandera. Somalia President Mohamed Farmaajo on Thursday phoned his Kenyan counterpart over the dispute, saying they would jointly work to ensure border and regional security. “President Mohamed Farmaajo and Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta spoke over the telephone and discussed the importance of working jointly between the two countries in maintaining border security and overall regional stability,” Villa Somalia, the seat of power in Mogadishu said on Thursday. The two leaders, Somalia said, emphasized that the security of the two countries is interconnected and “needs to be avoided in anything that may cause misunderstandings”. This came a day after President Kenyatta on Wednesday issued a stern warning to Somalia against what he termed as “violations of Kenya’s territorial integrity” soon after chairing the National Security Council. Uhuru said the Somali National Army had violated the country’s sovereignty by launching a heavy attack on the Jubaland regional government from Kenyan soil. He said the move was a provocation to Kenya. The two presidents also agreed to meet " as soon as possible" and formed committees from Somalia and Kenya to strengthen diplomatic and trade relations. The Gedo region is sensitive as it borders Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia, with Kagwanja saying there is a risk of a diplomatic tiff between Kenya and Ethiopia because Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed supports Farmaajo. Ethiopia Ambassador Meles Alem, however, said such a situation would not arise as Kenya and Ethiopia "have enjoyed strong, solid, continuous and undented relations for the last 50 years". "Our diplomatic relations are based on mutual respect and non-interference of internal affairs. We are strategic partners. Such allegations are thus baseless," Alem told the Star on the phone on Friday. Africom commander Gen Stephen Townsend visited Somalia in February accompanied by US Ambassador to Somalia Donald Yamamoto, where he met with Somali leaders, including Jubaland's Madobe and Puntland president Said Abdullahi Deni. According to Africom website, Townsend discussed regional stability, security, and economic prosperity. “I commended Jubaland President Madobe for coordinated operations by the Jubaland Security Force, Danab, and Somali National Army that have struck at al-Shabaab in the Juba River Valley,” Yamamoto said. “These operations are a model of cooperation between the national government and effective state security forces that the United States seeks to support throughout Somalia. We call on the Federal Government and all member states to work constructively together to fight our common enemy al-Shabaab” IGAD has, however, been silent on the recent dispute and it is not clear whether Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo raised the issue with the regional organisation when Executive Secretary Workneh Gebeyehu visited her on March 4. Only saying she “assured him of Kenya's support to the regional organisation and its reforms agenda”.  Foreign Affairs CAS, however, said Kenya is still engaged with Somalia with a commitment to maintain cordial relations between Nairobi and Mogadishu. “ We have invested heavily in the Somalia reconstruction and stabilisation effort, including with the very blood of our young people. Because we believe a peaceful, stable and prosperous Somalia is good for the people of Somalia, good for the Horn of Africa region and good for Kenya,” Ababu said. He added that Kenya will continue to deploy “every element of our pedigree as a peacemaking, peacekeeping and peacebuilding nation” to guarantee bilateral and regional peace, in the Horn of Africa region. 