The windscreen of Governor Martin Wambora’s car was on Thursday smashed by angry traders of Embu town’s market who were protesting after arsonists torched the bazaar. Attackers killed a night guard before setting the market on fire around 1am. The traders who lost properties worth millions of shillings demonstrated in the streets of Embu town to express anger at the murder of the guard and the torching of their stalls. They called for serious investigations to establish who was behind the attack. The traders lit bonfires and blocked roads, bitter that none of the county's three fire engines was available to put out the fire because they were grounded owing to mechanical problems. Meanwhile, Wambora was meeting Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti who had paid him a courtesy call. As he left the office to escort the official, the traders blocked his way and forced him to tour the bunt market to assess the damage. Ndeti was in Embu to tour national government projects. She left the governor to deal with his constituents. Wambora visited the market but was unable to address the traders because there was no public address system and the traders were shouting. They demanded immediate compensation. Area MCA Morris Muchiri, Chamber of Commerce Embu chairman John Mate were also unable to address the chaotic traders. As Wambora left the scene, youths started hurling stones at him and smashed the windscreen on his car. The demonstration persisted with the rioters smashing the windscreens of any vehicles they came across. They also hurled stones at buildings and broke fridges of soft drinks that are often put on verandas. Some took the drinks. They went to Country View Hotel owned by Wambora, destroyed property and stole drinks. Police later lobbed teargas to disperse the rioters after being engaged in running battles. It was not immediately established why the market was burnt but witnesses said unknown people arrived at the market around 1 am and slashed one of the watchmen with crude weapons before torching the centre. The market hosts hotels, boutiques and hardware shops among other investments. The governor promised to have the market reconstructed and to ensure the traders are compensated. He ordered an investigation into why the county fire engines were not working.  edited by peter obuya