Tension is high at the University of Nairobi main campus after students went on a rampage. The students who engaged the police in running battles are protesting the death of one of them allegedly clobbered a security guard. Kyte Ondeng'died on Saturday at the Kenyatta National Hospital. He was allegedly abducted by the security officers at the university last week on Wednesday evening while in the company of two friends. The students said that they were walking from the hostels at Hall Nine heading to Hall Six when they were stopped by a security guard they know. “It was 7 pm when the officer we know greeted us and stopped Ondeng’. We proceeded gradually but stopped after 30 metres to wait for him,” Sylvester Sergon, who was with Ondeng' told the Star. “He then texted us around 8 pm to tell us that he was at Central Police Station and that was the last time we heard from him. We have been calling and texting him since Thursday in vain.” The students learnt of their colleague's death on Sunday morning after the family informed his friends that Ondeng’ had died after being rushed to the ICU. It is said the deceased was planning to vie during the student elections in April. However, a security official at the institution denied the rumour and claims that the student may have been assaulted by thugs. He said the students overreacted by bringing the body of the deceased within the campus premises. Up until 2 pm on Monday, the protests had been largely peaceful. Matters got out of control when the body of the deceased was brought to the campus on a hearse. Students also claim that GSU assaulted students all night and threw teargas into the hostels. UoN communications director John Orindi earlier said they were aware of the case but they were waiting for police investigations. “What we know for now is that Ondeng' was suspended. However, we will let the police do investigations,” Orindi told the Star on phone. Students claimed the university hired 15 security officers who operate in plain clothes. Vice-chancellor Stephen Kiama was forced to apologise last week following a memo that blamed female students for being careless leading to being raped. The apology followed an internal memo from the security department that blamed female students for walking alone and taking routes notorious for crime. The memo dated February 24 noted that from the three rape cases reported female students were to blame. “In all the three incidences reported last year, a clear case of recklessness on the part of female students could be drawn,” the memo stated. The students said that goons should be held responsible for rape and robberies happening in the institution.