The Narok County Coronavirus Response team has placed seven people under supervised isolation after they came in close contact with a man whose father has been confirmed to be infected with Covid-19. The seven are in isolation in Transmara West. The county team said they have identified other people who interacted with the seven people since Saturday and placed them in self-isolation at their homes. The man whose father has been confirmed to be positive has been taken to Mbagathi, Nairobi, for close observation and testing. Initial reports from the response team indicate a low likelihood of the seven people being infected because they had limited close contact with the prime contact, while he had interacted with his father on Friday and half of Saturday. The duration of time means that even if the prime suspect was infected by his father on Friday or Saturday, the infection was unlikely to have matured in him to the level of transmission to other people. The incubation period is two to 14 days. The older man, who tested positive, had arrived from South Africa on Friday and stayed at his son’s house in Nairobi. When he felt unwell on Saturday, his son took him to Aga Khan Hospital assuming it was the usual diabetes complications. The son then proceeded to his workplace in Transmara, only to learn on Monday that his father had been confirmed as Covid-19 positive. The son promptly informed his employer and this is when the County Response Team was called in and later recalled back by the response team in Nairobi where he is now under quarantine. None of the quarantined persons have any symptoms. The affected workplace has also been placed under lockdown, with all employees remaining within and no other person allowed in. Meanwhile, the Narok county government has deployed health personnel to all the entry, exit gates and airstrips of Maasai Mara Game Reserve. Governor Samuel Tunai said they have deployed medical personnel to monitor the health status of arriving and departing tourists at their facilities. Narok county has completed special training for 130 health personnel in handling the coronavirus. In addition, all the county health workers on leave have been recalled back to their work stations in help fighting the infection. The county formed two rapid response teams to provide specialised care to coronavirus virus patients and teams are on standby at the Narok County Referral Hospital and Kilgoris subcounty Hospital where isolation units have been set up. (Edited by V. Graham)