Nairobi could be in for a devastating spread of Covid-19 without strict compliance with the directives issued by the government. On Monday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the city had emerged as the epicentre of the virus in the country, with 37 confirmed cases. On March 12, 2020, the ministry confirmed the first case in the country. This came three months after the outbreak in China in December 2019. The first Kenyan case was a citizen who travelled back to Nairobi from the US through London, March 5. Since then, cases of the virus have been on the rise. “The virus is here with us. To avert the spread, Nairobi residents should avoid travelling upcountry and those in upcountry should avoid coming into the city,” he said on Monday. This came even as the ministry said the disease is projected to hit 10,000 by the end of April. “One thing that could work to our advantage is the fact that our population is more youthful. So, potentially, it is possible that our people will be able to catch the virus, but, probably, it will just pass on as a mild illness,” said Patrick Amoth, the acting director general of Public Health. “On the contrary, what may work against us, of course, is our weak health system and, of course, our disease burden, especially HIV. Especially when we have community transmission as confirmed by Waziri (the CS), then those who are not adherent to the medicines would have lack of viral suppression, therefore could be at risk.” Amoth said their modelling puts the country at about 1,000 cases by the first week of April and 5,000 cases by mid-April and, potentially, 10,000 cases by April 30. “So, those are the figures we are working with in terms of how we pre-position our personal protective equipment, how we pre-position our test kits, how we pre-position our human resource, and how we pre-position our isolation and quarantine facilities,” he said. The official said that despite their modelling, nature sometimes does not obey science but added that chances are high the figures will be as forecast, hence the measures taken will help the country to control the virus. But why has Nairobi emerged as the epicentre of the virus? The capital city, according to recent studies, is emerging as an international transport hub. It has an exploding population of 4,397,073, most of which stay in informal settlements — areas prone to water scarcity and public health problems. Ndakaini Dam, the main water supplier based in Murang’a, can store 70 billion litres at full capacity, but only produces 526.6 million litres a day. This is against the demand of 800 million litres a day, creating a shortfall of 273.4 million litres a day. As a result, the city has water rationing programmes. Water scarcity and the economic and public health situation in slums makes them all the more at risk of disease spread. As emphasised by the World Health Organization, washing hands properly and regularly using soap and water is the main preventive measure against Covid-19. But how many people in the densely populated slums of Kibera, Mathare, Mukuru Kwa Njenga can afford both water and soap? Residents live hand-to-mouth, hence prioritise food. Soap is an afterthought. Across the slums, vendors sell water at between Sh20 and Sh30 per jerrycan. That’s costly for most dwellers. The city has also been grappling with a poor transport system that, in most cases, fails to adhere to the basic standards of hygiene. Transport CS James Macharia had said that at least 90 per cent of Kenya’s population uses public transport. Most PSVs from upcountry begin and terminate their journey in the city. Nairobi’s CBD has always been congested. In most stations, passengers have to queue to board matatus. They do not heed the one-metre social distancing advice, making it easy for Covid-19 to spread if one is infected. Worse still, in other stations, the rule of the jungle applies. Commuters have to scramble to board matatus. It’s chaotic and the situation creates a perfect environment for pickpockets, with many people coming into contact with one another. For this lot, social distancing exists only in theory. Operators have also been urged to carry few passengers to curb the virus. Following the directive, a 14-seater matatu carries eight passengers at the most, while 25-seater PSVs carry a maximum of 15 passengers. A 30-seater matatu and those with a higher number of seats maintain 60 per cent capacity. PSVs owners were directed to wash the vehicles at least twice a day or after several trips. It is not clear whether all have been complying with the directive. What is clear, however, is that if an infected person is on board and the seats are not disinfected, it is possible for the virus to spread. City residents have also been blamed for failing to adhere to some of the directives given by the ministry. In Nairobi’s downtown, for instance, food hawking is going on unabated. Because of the scarcity of space, the hawkers ignore the need for social distancing. At Wakulima Market, one of the busiest trading areas in the capital, it is business as usual, with traders flocking to the market every morning, either to bring their fresh farm produce or to purchase. The traders rub shoulders, touching different goods and money being exchanged without sanitising their hands. In the midst of all this, they risk contracting and spreading the virus.