By Cheti Praxides @ppcheti If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Muslims clerics in Lamu have warned the public against falling prey to fake job advertisements from dubious individuals and organisations that are actually terrorist recruiting cells. Led by elder Noordin Saney, the clerics said the fake job adverts are normally placed on social media platforms and the internet where the recruiters know they can reach a larger audience, faster and in a short span of time. Saney said most of these organisations give colourful and tempting descriptions of the "lucrative" jobs being offered including extravagant salaries and allowances. The main objective is to coerce desperate job seekers into terrorism and other criminal activities, he and others said. Saney said some organisations have booked flights for unsuspecting people who find themselves in Somalia welcomed by al Shabaab recruiters. He urged youth to double-check the source of information before taking any action. He and others said the problem of unemployment afflicts the entire country, including the Coast. "However, we want people to beware that terrorists and other criminal organisations are preying on unemployment problems to get you into trouble. They create non-existent jobs and attract you, so beware," he said. Ustadh Ahmed Omar said youth in the border villages of Lamu and Somalia like Kiunga and Ishakani are the major targets for majority of the fake job deals. He said some of the organisations even extort cash from people with the promise of calling back, but they never hear from them again. The money is used to finance terrorist activities. Or they could be ordinary scammers, scammers, he said. Omar said many people had lost large sums of money to fraudsters and dubious organisations posing as prospective employers. “Most of these individuals and organisations claim to be from UN agencies,"  Omar said. The clerics appealed to the national government to address the problem of unemployment to stop desperate unemployed youth from falling prey to terrorists and scammers. (Edited by V. Graham)