The Clergy Association of Kenya has asked the government to direct landlords across the country to allow tenants a three-month relief from paying rent. The association on Thursday said this will allow many Kenyans who have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic to recover from its shocks. The clergy told journalists that though they are appreciative of the targeted interventions the government has put in place to cushion Kenyans from the shocks, it is worth noting that many have been sent on either forced or unpaid leave. The association further said by the fact that schools have closed and children are at home, many families are struggling to cope up with the situation. “The situation on the ground is tough for many families. Businesses have been affected and there is no cash flow,” the association said in a statement. “We ask the government to advise all landlords in Kenya to allow tenants living on rentals to stay at least for three months without being harassed so that they can deal with the Covid-19 shock”. The clergy called on Kenyans to turn to God in prayer during this period by seeking the grace to assist the less fortunate in the society. It further asked the government to review its directive on closing down places of worship saying that is giving the devil 'a chance to manifest'. The clergy said the government should allow each church to at least have 10 officials who will play a key role in drawing the nation closer to God. “It is not good for a country that has faith in God to shut down places of worship completely. God still remains our strong pillar despite every circumstances. Shutting places of worship is allowing the devil to manifest and instil fear among worshipers,” they said. The clergy said it is not about tithe or offering but keeping the nation closer to God. They said the government should urgently consider putting a plan in place to provide food for those who cannot currently put a meal on the table. According to the clergy, the current temporary lockdown has put many especially small scale traders between a rock and a hard place and getting a meal has become a challenge. “If measures are not put in place we might find ourselves as a country defending people from a disease that has 14-day incubation period while killing millions through hunger,” the association said. The clergy further said county governments should work with the national government to harmonise all directives to avoid confusion and unnecessary harassment of ordinary citizens. It said for instance, it is unfair for Machakos and Murang’a counties to impose their own directives contrary to what the national government has issued. This the clergy said will portray the country with autocratic rules aimed at oppressing its citizens.