Dr Fridah Govedi, a pediatrician, has been removed as the director of the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service. She had a tumultuous seven-month stint at the helm of KNBTS, having walked in, in August last year, shortly after the department lost all its funding from the United States government. Govedi's tenure was marked by consistent blood shortages across the country, largely due to a lack of blood collection bags, testing reagents, and suspected corruption. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe recently wrote to the Director of Criminal Investigations to investigate cartels he claimed are responsible for the shortage of blood in the country. Govedi was ejected early this month and has been deployed to treat patients at the pediatric wards at Kenyatta National Hospital. Charles Rombo, a senior laboratory technologist and head of safety and quality at KNBTS, is expected to take over from April. "This is to inform you it has been decided that you be and are hereby deployed to head the department of national blood transfusion, tissue and human organ transplant," PS Susan Mochache said in a deployment letter to Rombo. This is second time Govedi, a reportedly astute manager, has been unlucky. On Thursday, April 28, 2011, she was sacked as chief executive officer of Pumwani Maternity Hospital and replaced by Dr Lazarus Tumba. The day before, Govedi was ejected from her office by irate nurses who accused her of high-handedness and failure to address their grievances. Her tenure at Pumwani was marked by unending nurses strikes, something that angered then Nairobi Town Clerk Philip Kisia. Two weeks ago, CS Kagwe wrote to the DCI to investigate illegal sale of blood to other countries. "There have been gaps within this sector and we have asked the DCI to intervene in the system. We understand that there are people who are selling blood immorally," Kagwe said. Kagwe noted that Kenya's blood bank has dropped to 164,000 pints against an annual demand of one million units. "There is an investigation going on and we expect arrests to be made." Kagwe said they want to ensure that the donation of blood and how to manage it, is put on the ICT framework. These include a Bill to govern donation, processing, and distribution of blood as well as setting up of an ICT system to trace the movement of blood from the source to the final stage. But he noted they will create a framework that will immediately embark on the changes as they wait for the Bill to be debated upon in Parliament. Officers of the KNBTS were believed to be part of a cartel selling blood to other countries, including Somalia. Edited by A.N