​National basketball champions Buruburu Girls have revamped their ​squad as they embark on Nairobi Region Secondary Schools Sports Association Games title defence​ starting today at Hillcrest School. ​Three first-team players, three-man Chantel Kiobe, point guard Morine Obita and post player Dinah Owiti, left after completing their 'O' Level education and coach Julius Otieno had to recruit replacements. Point guard Jane Kemunto (from Mua Girls in Machakos), three-man Sebby Ayimba and four-man Mitchell Cheloti are the new additions to the Buruburu side that is gunning for back-to-back titles. Ayimba and Cheloti were poached from the school's handball team. Exuding confidence, Otieno said the three have gelled well with the rest of the team and are already taking major roles in the lineup. "Most basketball teams in Nairobi and nationally have tremendously improved and we expect tight opposition," said Otieno. "Three of our major players in last year's title-winning squad completed their 'O' Level education which left the team somewhat shaky. But we have revamped the team and we are looking good and strong again. Right now I can confidently say that we are ripe to defend the title." B​uruburu open their campaign in Pool 'A' against Tumaini Academy, Dandora Secondary, Starehe Girls and Maina Wanjigi. The boys' basketball competitions will see champions Dagoretti High open their title defence against Eastleigh High in Pool 'A.' Patronised and coached by KSSSA chairman Peter Orero, Dagoretti will also face opposition from Muhuri Muchiri Secondary, Highway Secondary and Strathmore School in the preliminary stage. Former champions Upperhill are in Pool 'B' alongside Starehe Boys Centre, Mwiki Secondary, Aquinas Boys and Peter Kibukosya. In handball, 2019 Nairobi champions Hospital Hill encounter Utawala Academy, Highway Secondary and Olympic Secondary in Pool 'A' as former holders Aquinas Boys battle Our Lady of Fatima, Nairobi School and Dandora in Pool 'B. Pool 'C' has Dagoretti High, Lang'ata High and Ruaraka High while Pool 'D' is made up of Muhuri Muchiri, Dr. Ribeiro, Genesis Joy Academy and Swaminarayan.