The Kisii government has formed a 19-member team to coordinate coronavirus emergency response. Governor James Ongwae will head the team. He will be deputised by county commissioner Stephen Kihara and director of public health Richard Ongwae. Others in the team include county assembly speaker David Kombo, several CECs and National Intelligence Service regional boss Enock Ndemo. Speaking Friday night during the inauguration of the committee, Ongwae directed the enforcement of the national directives given by the President, to stem spread of the virus. He said it was important that people comply with the directives. The virus was reported in the country on Friday in a woman who returned to the country from the US on March 5, via London. “There is no negotiation in complying with the orders given by the government, let everybody residing in the county ensure he complies,” Ongwae said. The government has suspended all public gatherings to stop further spread of the virus. The county chief said a full-fledged containment centre has already been set up at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital to deal with any emergencies. More satellite centres have also been set up in all the nine sub-counties and medical staff trained to help in emergency treatment. Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital boss Dr Enock Ondari said the government has provided enough medical equipment to help in the treatment of patients. At the weeken, many Christians in Kisii opted not to attend church services as fears of the virus continued to stalk the country. At Gekomu Seventh Day Adventist, only a half of the membership turned up Saturday for service. At Kisii Central SDA and New Life churches, in downtown Kisii, services were scaled down with a section of the worshippers opting to keep away. Elders said more than 3,000 people often attend Sabbath services in each of the  churches every weekend but on Saturday, less than 1500 came for the liturgy. For Catholics, the consecration of the new and imposing Suneka Parish Church was affected. Among those expected to grace the event was CS Fred Matiang’i. He skipped it. Governors James Ongwae and John Nyagarama (Nyamira) also failed to turn up. Only a few MPs showed up. Regional Bishop John Mairura during took a swipe at the haste with which the government banned public gatherings. He said a single coronavirus case was not enough reason for the government to impose a blanket ban on  meetings. At Kisii Parish and Kisii Cathedral, attendance in the morning services were also suppressed. The clergy, however, dedicated time to advise members to observe hygiene and wash hands. At Kisii University, a fake online video announcing the infection of two students with the virus sparked frantic calls from anxious parents. Vice Chancellor Prof John Akama later issued a statement terming the alarming video as fake.