Willy Paul has apologised to Kenyans after he posted a video on Instagram showing a man hitting a woman as she falls, which he captioned, “Ukiomba dame alafu akunyime.” His fans were agitated, among them Janet Mbugua, who asked the singer to stop publicising violence. "Don't post such videos, it's reckless and makes it seem funny to be violent," she said. Speaking to Word Is, Pozze apologised and said it wasn't his intention. "People didn't understand the fun part of it, someone sent it to me and I posted," he said. "I didn't know it negatively affected people and if that's the case, I ask for forgiveness. That wasn't my motive." Pozze is currently making waves with the song 'Magnetic', in which he introduces his 'wife'. "The song is about how someone attracts you, the power of the attraction of a magnet. It was inspired by my wife," he said. "She is Jamaican, we have known each other for a long time now. Along the way, a lot has happened. I didn't see the need to share dowry photos because no one will help me live with her." He added that the Jamaican beauty will help him raise his son. "We will take our time. I already have a son that I love and he is not even two years old, but I thank God for him. She will help me raise this one child as we plan for more," he said. He said his relationship with God has never changed, despite the heavy criticism from fans. "I believe in God, He is my saviour and our relationship is just me and Him," he said. "At the end of the day, what I'm doing is business and I have to pay bills, I have people looking up to me and I have to be there for them. I am Pozze on TV and the Internet but when you meet me at home, I'm just a cool person." The "I Do" hitmaker took a jibe at Rayvanny in his new song, but he says he has made peace with the WCB singer. "We all saw what happened, we all saw that Rayvanny stole my song but then I decided to forget about it cause he is my brother. I think he loved my vibe and decide to release the song, which is okay, ideas are many. Tuko sawa, if God forgives, who am I not to forgive?" he said. Pozze concluded by urging fans to sanitise, be careful, take caution and pray during this time of coronavirus. Edited by T Jalio