MPs on Tuesday protested aganst Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani’s choice for boss of the National Government Constituency Development Fund after it emerged he came in second Yatani's recommendation of Prof Mohammed Hussein Abdille to the National Assembly was received with hostility as MPs shouted their disapproval. It emerged that the nominee was ranked second in vetting after the current acting CEO in the board’s report submitted to Yatani. According to the report seen by the Star, acting CEO Yusuf Mbuno was ranked first followed by university don Abdille. Jackton Omulo Akelo came in third. The law requires the CEO of the board to be recruited by the board through a competitive process. Three names are forwarded to the Cabinet Secretary for appointment after getting the National Assembly’s approval. Abdille — currently Maasai Mara University deputy vice chancellor in charge of Administration and Finance — is likely to face turbulence before the vetting committee, based on his reception in the House. The NG-CDF board has been operating without a substantive CEO since 2011 and two attempts to fill the position have both failed before the House. House Speaker Justin Muturi on Tuesday directed the Select Committee on NG-CDF to process the nominee and report back to the House within 14 days. The committee chaired by Maoka Maore is expected this week to call for a memorandum from members of the public on the nominee. According to CDF Regulations, should Parliament reject the nominee, then the Treasury CS will be compelled to submit another name to Parliament for consideration from the remaining two. If the National Assembly rejects the nominee, the speaker is required in three days to communicate the decision to the CS and request fresh nomination. "The Cabinet Secretary shall submit to the National Assembly a name from the list initially forwarded by the board within seven days of receipt of the communication from the speaker,” the CDF regulations state. In 2012, the first attempt to have a substantive CEO flopped after the House term ended before the relevant committee processed the nominee as required by law. A second stab was made in 2017 when MPs rejected the nomination of Wilfred Buyema, raising concerns about the recruitment process and the fact that the board was then not fully constituted. The House then advised reconstitution of the board and the process started afresh. Edited by R.Wamochie