The Bungoma government has urged the national government to include it among the coronavirus high-risk devolved units. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said Bungoma’s  proximity to the border with Uganda poses danger. “This way, we ensure that as a county, we have the right focus and are adequately prepared and equipped to handle any cases,” he said. Wangamati said they were on high alert after realising the woman diagnosed with the virus last week had travelled to the neighbouring Trans Nzoia county. “Even though we have not been listed among the 14 high-risk counties in the country, our position as a border town with Lwakhakha entry point and Malaba gives us every reason to take precautions to ensure the health of our people is not compromised,” he said. The county boss said that the department of health and sanitation has laid out measures to manage coronavirus, should it emerge. “We want to assure members of the public that the department of health is prepared to act swiftly and decisively to ensure there is no threat of the spread of the virus in the county,” Wangamati said. He urged the public to look out for any signs and seek immediate medical intervention at the nearest medical facility. Symptoms include coughing, sneezing, high fever, breathing difficulties and general body pains. Wangamati assured residents that an isolation ward has been set up at the Webuye Subcounty Hospital for the management of any case that may be reported within the borders. “A number of staff have been selected and are undergoing training by the national government on how best to manage the pandemic,” he said. “All subcounty health facilities have set up holding rooms to take care of any suspicious cases. The county government has procured personal protective equipment for health practitioners who will be in charge of the isolation and holding centres.” Wangamati said the national government has provided thermo guns that will be used at Lwakhakha border to screen all incoming traffic, and at the Bungoma Referral Hospital and Webuye Subcounty Hospital. “Patients visiting these facilities will undergo screening at the reception before they proceed for other medical services,” he noted. He urged residents to wash hands and observe general hygiene. “It is recommended that members of the public wash their hands for a minimum of 20 seconds at every given moment with soap and running water,” he said. He said several schools have called off their AGMs and it will be prudent for the public to follow the government’s directive. “To date, Bungoma County has not reported any single case of corona virus and therefore we urge members of the public not to panic but instead exercise caution for themselves, their families and society at large,” Wangamati said. He encouraged the public to call the toll free security lines  0755838835 and 0726323112 in case of suspected cases.