Malkia Strikers have been challenged to improve on their speed and accuracy ahead of the Tokyo Olympic Games. The team will be making a return to the international multi-sport event after a 16-year wait. The players are currently with their respective clubs in preparation for the Africa Club Championship next month in Egpyt. Team Manager, Alfred Chedotum, expressed confidence that the girls will make the country proud as long as they abide by the program from the technical bench. Kenyans have been placed in Pool 'A' alongside Serbia, Brazil, Japan, Korea and the Dominican Republic in the six-team group. "The team needs to work hard in training with the view to sharpen their speed in terms of execution. Accuracy will be vital too because all teams in the competition are quality. The ladies will post good results definitely as they have done before. They are equal to the task and we are not worried." Chedotum, who is also the Kenya Defence Forces team manager, guided the soldiers' women's team to a seventh-place finish in the World Military Games in 2018. He said the federation has mapped out a plan that he believes will help Malkia achieve their targets. The team will have a one month of non-residential training in April before moving into residential in May. They hope to engage in friendly matches in Europe during the month of  June. The team will train in Slovenia and Chedotum said the exposure will go a long way in boosting the girls' confidence. "Slovenia is one of the countries with top teams and clubs and will be ideal for the team to acclimatise in readiness for Tokyo. This experience will come in handy and will make the girls believe in themselves" He, however, appealed to the government to allow the team to use the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Indoor Gymnasium. "My wish is for the government to give the team permission to use the Indoor gymnasium at Kasarani even if it is not full time but at least enough training time." Kenya will begin their group matches with a tie against the hosts on July 26.