A human rights lobby group has threatened to move to court to compel the Mombasa county government to give an alternative trading venue for displaced Kongowea traders. Some traders, especially wholesalers, were displaced when the county started renovating a section of the market last Thursday. The displaced, including fruit and vegetable vendors, have been operating from the nearby Makaburini cemetery. They place their goods atop graves. Commission for Human Rights and Justice Rights group executive director Julius Ogogoh said this is unfair to both the traders and the dead, who need to rest peacefully. “It is against African culture and norms to disturb the dead. The county should have provided an alternative area for the traders before displacing them,” Ogogoh said on Sunday. He said if the county does not offer an alternative place of trade for the traders in seven days, they should prepare for a legal battle. “We will take coffins to their offices if that is the picture they want to see." However, the county, through Communication director Mudathir Abdulkarim, said the traders moved to Makaburini after defying a county directive. “There are designated areas where they were to go. But they chose to move to the cemetery,” Abdulkarim said on Monday by phone. He said the county always has the interest of the traders at heart because they are an important source of revenue. He said the Trade chief officer would give more details but by the time of going to press, he had not done so. The traders insisted they were left on their own when they were told to vacate the main market. Alex Mwele said they were informed last Wednesday evening that the wholesale section of the market will be closed to pave the way for the rehabilitation of roads. “However, they did not give us an alternative location. We are now forced to trade from outside the market. Our customers cannot get us and the place is also insecure,” Mwele said. The public cemetery is chaotic as goods are sold from the top of graves. There also drug addicts and thieves, who must be thanking the heavens for bringing ‘business’ closer home. “At Makaburini, you have to be careful. If you have the large denomination notes like Sh1,000 and Sh500, you are likely to be mugged,” a trader said. Kongowea market chairman Peter Nyaga accused the county government of unfairness to traders. “This construction works started in January. As we speak, about 75 per cent of the work has been completed. They have now kicked the traders out and it is only 25 per cent remaining,” he said. He said the construction should have been done in phases. The county government insisted that the traders had been given notice before the works began. “What is happening is for the good of the market. The market is being rehabilitated and the traders had been notified about it,” an official said.  Edited by R.Wamochie