Kiambu government will review the Finance Act to identify levies that can be reduced or waived to cushion residents against coronavirus economic shock. Governor James Nyoro said the county executive committee will meet next week. Nyoro said the step is meant to compliment the national government tax cuts announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday. Uhuru decreased VAT from the current 16 per cent to 14 per cent effective April 1 and 100 per cent tax cuts for workers earning Sh24,000 per month, among other measures. MARKETS CLOSED The governor ordered five markets closed effective on Thursday evening for failing to take the requisite precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus. He said Limuru, Wangige, Kikuyu, Githurai and Dagoretti markets will be closed until the traders self-regulate and their managements put in place proper containment measures. “It’s not that we want to close the markets because we know how difficult it will be for our people to get food, but again we cannot gamble with this disease," Nyoro said. "These markets have failed to observe the necessary precautions like ensuring marketers are well regulated in terms of spacing and ensuring proper hygiene. Until they properly regulate themselves the markets will remain closed.” He said Juja, Gatundu, Ruiru and Jamuhuri (Thika) markets not be closed as the traders had taken proper precautions. “We have moved to these markets and found that their managements have put in place stringent measures. For example in Juja customers are queuing outside the market and only allowed to shop in bits," Nyoro said. "Again traders have observed social distancing well and therefore there’s no crowding at all. Ample water and soap is placed at the market entrance to ensure everybody getting in observes hygiene.” Nyoro said only traders who sell food will be allowed into the markets. “Those selling clothes should leave and allow those selling food to operate because currently what’s important is food,” he said. County commissioner Wilson Wanyanga, who had accompanied the governor, said police will enforce the directives. Edited By Josephine M. Mayuya