Police would act humanely if they knew they would be held individually responsible for excesses, human rights groups in Garissa have said. Police are still receiving condemnation from Kenyans for violence with which the curfew was enforced on Day 1. However, for the last two days after the curfew came into force, police in the Northeast had an easy time enforcing it. The streets of Garissa town were virtually empty even on the first day. It was the same in Mandera and Wajir. “This [police excess] is something we are used to in the Northeast. We have been there before and we were aware of the consequences. That is why we were all at home by 7 pm," Ali Hussein, a Garissa town-based businessman, said. “We started closing shop early, some as early as 5 pm. We had a hard time with the police but we had to choose between obeying the law or being brutalised,” he told the Star. Mukhtar Osman, chairman of the Garissa human right network, said the training of police officers is inadequate. "One wonders what some of these rogue officers aim to gain by brutalising fellow citizens," he said. "We really empathise with Kenyans who were brutalised especially on the first day. I urge my fellow countrymen to keep off the streets because the police are not ready to listen even if you have genuine reasons for being late," Mukhtar said. He cited violence at the Likony ferry crossing in Mombasa and other parts of the country, calling it "inhumane and unacceptable to say the least". Mukhtar said if police were held individually liable for their crimes against civilians they would have to behave. Northern Forum for Democracy Coordinator Khalif Abdi said police brutality has undermined public confidence in them. He said the Independent Oversight Policing Authority (Ipoa) should conclusively investigate what happened in Mombasa. “Officers involved in brutalising the residents should be held personally responsible,” he said. The Law Society of Kenya on Monday was to challenge the government-ordered curfew, which it says will only aid in spreading the coronavirus. LSK President Nelson Havi, in a public statement, termed the 7pm to 5am curfew unconstitutional and accused police of abusing their authority in enforcing it. Havi urged citizens to document all cases of police brutality and forward them to LSK so the responsible officers can be prosecuted. “It is evident that Covid-19 will be spread more by the actions of police than by those claimed to have contravened the curfew,” Havi said. (Edited by V. Graham) 