Plans are underway to build a Special Economic Zone in  Miwani, Kisumu. Out of the 10,000 acres in Miwani, the gazettement of the 1,000 acres where the SEZ will be set up will be done in the next three months. The development of the SEZ in the region will spur industrial development in line with the government’s Big Four agenda. SEZ acting CEO Meshack Kimeu said on Wednesday they are currently looking into the technical issues before they start the development of the SEZ. “We are optimistic that SEZ in Kisumu will be a game changer in terms of economic activities, not only for the county but the larger Lake Region Economic Bloc,” he said. Kimeu spoke during the county SEZ investment workshop aimed at sharing useful information with the business community, members of the public and county government on the setting up of the county SEZ. He said they are undertaking pre-feasibility studies with the support of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). A SEZ requires world-class infrastructure – on-site and off-site. The government will be required to develop off-site infrastructure such as road connectivity to the SEZ, water supply and reliable power supply. The development of off-site infrastructure will begin immediately after the gazettement of the land. “It would normally take around two years to complete off-site infrastructure because it involves a lot of budget processes and different government agencies,”  Kimeu said. The SEZ is expected to link farmers, fishermen and the business community with business enterprises which will be located in the area. It will also create jobs and improve the economy. Kimeu said a lot of fish is processed outside the county, thus taking jobs to other parts of the country. “Once this SEZ is set up, we are going to attract investors, to add value, process and package fish products for local and export markets. Investors will set up companies to process agricultural produce from our farms and at the same time bring in new technologies and skills that will be transferred to residents through training,” he added. Manufacturing enterprises consume huge volumes of raw materials and farmers will be required to work round the clock to produce enough raw materials to feed the SEZ. “Such raw materials cannot just be produced in Kisumu alone, all the neighbouring counties will be given that opportunity for their farmers to grow and supply these manufacturing enterprises," Kimeu said. Kisumu Industrialisation executive Nerry Achar said political and public goodwill is important because the project would not only benefit them but the entire region. "Kisumu is lagging behind, Naivasha started the other day and they are moving very fast," he said. "Facilities like that will open doors. The Lake Region Economic Bloc is working on an industrialisation framework for the region to bring together the 14 counties." The SEZs were to be established in Naivasha, Mombasa (including Dongo Kundu Free Port), Lamu and Kisumu. Tatu City, which is currently underscoring impressive development, was in 2019 declared a SEZ.  