Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has called on residents and traders, in particular, to cooperate with health officials fumigating estates in efforts to combat Covid-19. The governor emphasized the importance of the ongoing countywide fumigation of public places, noting that it will help reduce the spread of the virus. He recited a Bible verse, Isaiah 26:9-20, urging people to stay indoors during the exercise. “Go, my people. Enter your rooms and shut the doors behind you. Hide yourselves for a little while until His wrath has passed by,” the Bible verse reads. On Saturday evening, Sonko, together with some MCAs and senior county public health officers led by Michael Mukoya, encouraged citizens to stay at home and adhere to presidential directives. Sonko said the county is using the best chemical solution recommended by World Health Organization (WHO) for the fumigation exercise. "This is a global pandemic. What we are doing is minimising the infections by sanitising people,” he noted. Mukoya led county health officials and health officers from the Sonko Rescue Team in fumigating key public and trading areas in Nairobi’s Eastland’s area. Sonko urged residents and traders who have kiosks in market areas to allow the fumigation teams spray everywhere. “This is an important exercise by our health team and it is important that we all support the officers when they come the on ground,” Sonko said. While in Buruburu, Sonko said the ongoing curfew will give the fumigation team ample time and speed up the spraying of all estates in the 17 sub-counties. “We have to ensure that all the stages, markets and places of businesses in the open air markets are fumigated," he said. The governor said the county is mulling over aerial spraying. Nairobi County Executive Member for Health Hitan Majevda, who also accompanied the governor, said fumigating the entire City within a short period will be the best solution apart from the social distancing regulations. “If we take two or three days to cover the whole city, it will be a major plus now that many people have opted to stay at home," he said. He called on President Uhuru Kenyatta and senior officials at the County to invest more in the exercise. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere, who is the chairman of the assembly’s health committee, said the fumigation should focus more on slum areas. "If possible, houses where we have suspected cases have to be fumigated as well," Warutere said. He toured parts of Korogocho slum, accompanied by Komb Green Solutions leader Fredrick Okinda. He urged residents to avoid unnecessary movements. “We laud the governor for his work. From my visit in Korogocho, l think we should also install more hand washing and sanitation centres,” he said. The Covid-19 pandemic in Kenya is fast spreading, with already 38 cases confirmed and one having succumbed to the strange virus.