@robertomollo3 Homa Bay Town East MCA Juma Awuor has distributed handwash, sanitisers, soap and tapped jerrycans to residents to help contain the spread of coronavirus. Awuor encouraged residents to embrace personal hygiene to prevent a possible spread of the virus. The MCA is on a mission to promote hand washing in his ward which has more than 110,000 people. Health experts have established that frequent hand washing prevents the spread of the coronavirus. Awuor told journalists at Imbo trading centre that he wants to bring sanitation facilities closer to his people. He distributed more than 30 jerrycans to residents on Saturday. “I donate these hygiene materials to widows and poor people because they cannot easily access them. They should frequently wash their hands and avoid contracting the virus,” Awuor said. The MCA said he targets market centres where there are traders and boda boda riders. He said they are also encouraging young children to wash their hands to prevent possible infections. “Children normally play together.  We advise their parents to ensure they frequently wash their hands,” he said. Awuor was joined by ward administrator Moses Odero to distribute the items in Imbo, Marindi, Ogande, Kopiyo, Got Kokech and Nyangu markets. He told boda boda riders to maintain personal hygiene. “Boda boda riders should set a good example to residents by always being clean. They should ensure people wash their hands and avoid handshakes,” Awuor said. The MCA promised to give additional jerrycans to roadside traders of household items within the villages in the ward. “We’re working closely with the county government to ensure there is water to refill the jerrycans and provide soap,” he said. Some traders in Imbo said the initiative will help locals prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Mary Omongo, a vegetable vendor, said traders in the villages are at risk of contracting and transmitting the infection because the government has only concentrated in fumigating major towns. “We are only seeing people in major towns being taken care of. We welcome the initiative by our MCA who saw it wise to help us overcome the disease,” she said.  (edited by o. owino)