The government will carry out a door-to-door search for 2,000 school-age children who are not attending school in Kerio Valley so their parents can be punished. Parents are still keeping their children home though the region has been free from banditry for many years. “All schools in this region are operating and it's illegal for parents to deny children the right to education. We will move in and arrest the parents who neglect their children," Turkana South deputy county commissioner Phillip Kisang said on Tuesday. Kisang spoke during the launch of a peace project for women at Kainuk. He said the government was working with all communities and their leaders to ensure peace is sustained. He said education had stalled for many years due to banditry but with the return of peace the government and other stakeholders were reviving all stalled community projects. “Thousands of our children were not attending schools due to insecurity and some parents have ignored calls to take the children back to schools. We will not allow them to continue defying orders to have all children enrolled in classes," Kisang said. The administrator said many residents had however heeded the call to surrender illegal arms to the state. He said the voluntary surrender of illegal arms was still underway in most areas. “We still have very many people with the illegal guns and we urge them to surrender because the state has tightened security in most areas, Kisang said. The women's peace initiative involving was launched by CAS for Agriculture Linah Kilimo who said it will involve women in Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo, Samburu and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. Kilimo addressed several peace ralliesi in the region where she said women were well placed within their communities to promote peaceful co-existence and ensure all children attend school. “As mothers and women, we have to ensure that all our children attend schools because education is the key to civilisation considering that this region has for many years lagged behind in all areas because of insecurity," Kilimo said. The Kerio Valley region has not witnessed bandit attacks for the last one year after communities signed a peace deal. However, governors have asked the government to focus on the Baringo and Suguta valleys which are still being used by bandits as hideouts. “Once we flush out the bandits from Baringo and Suguta valleys, then we will have dealt a major blow to banditry that has retarded development in the North Rift, Turkana Governor  Josphat Nanok said. (Edited by V. Graham)