Msambweni residents should brace themselves for a major political fight as political heavyweights flex their muscles following the death of MP Suleiman Dori on Monday. At least 10 candidates have shown interest in the seat and even before the soil on Dori’s grave dries, political meetings have started. ODM Kwale chairman and former Matuga MP Hassan Mwanyoha confirmed to the Star that sittings have begun. By Thursday, a clear framework on what has been discussed will be presented. “First, we are having meetings with constituents and then as a party. I can assure you that we have several names that have been fronted,” Mwanyoha said without going into details. During the MP’s burial at his Gasi home in Msambweni on Monday, Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said many people were salivating for political positions. “There are people who wish us dead, so they can take our positions,” Mwashetani said. Mwashetani said Dori had set the bar high and the person to take over from him must be strong enough to fill his shoes. A political observer said ODM should be careful if they want to retain the seat. The observer, who did not want to be named because they hold a significant and sensitive post, said the stakes were high and that was why there was a heavy presence of politicians from across the political divide. “This is BBI brought forward. The presence of National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi at the burial speaks volumes,” the observer said. “Hii by-election haitaki mtu samli samli (This by-election does not want a weak person).” The presence of Duale and Sudi, Siaya Senator James Orengo and ODM chair John Mbadi means the battle is not only about Msambweni but also about Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. Governors Amason Kingi of Kilifi and Salim Mvurya of Kwale also attended the burial. The observer warned that fronting a candidate based on emotions, possibly someone related to Dori so as to win sympathy votes as was the case in Kibra constituency and in the Kwale senatorial by-election recently, would be a wrong move. Feisal Abdallah Bader, who is the late MP’s relative and former PA, had been with Dori in many functions and is said to have an interest in the seat. Others who have shown interest include Kwale finance CEC Bakari Sebe, Msambweni Knut secretary Bashiri Kilalo, former Gombato MCA Omar Boga and Coast Development Authority director Mshenga Ruga. However, Boga’s chances of making it at the ballot should he throw his hat in the ring will be complicated because of his brother’s speculated interest in the governor's position. His brother is Agriculture PS Prof Hamadi Boga. Ruto had won the heart of Dori, who became one of his staunchest allies at the Coast before the threat to expel him from ODM made him backtrack. Speculation was rife that he was still working with Ruto secretly, which might explain the presence of Duale, Sudi and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa at the burial on Monday. Jumwa was threatened with expulsion from ODM for working with Ruto alongside Dori. But while Dori apologised and got back in the party’s good books, Jumwa stayed defiant. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna recalled how Dori sought forgiveness from his office. “It is on that strength that we still consider him one of our own,” he said. Mbadi got a feel of how the ground was in Msambweni when he was booed for talking ill of DP Ruto. This made Orengo careful with his words when he addressed the gathering. He told residents that in as much as a party can determine who goes to the ballot, it was up to voters to make the final decision. But Mbadi said they shall discuss succession politics when the time comes. “There are people who have approached me, but we can’t discuss this until the right time,” he said. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi said anyone coming to power should demonstrate how they will ensure residents benefit from education and health. Edited by Henry Makori