The continued spread of coronavirus has caused global turmoil. Countries are fighting a war of nerves to manage the pandemic. Scientists are constantly trying to get jumbled thoughts together on what can be a reliable remedy. One by one, every possibility is analysed and given the weight it deserves in reputable medical laboratories. Through these unrelenting efforts in research, it is hoped that there will be a breakthrough in finding a cure or vaccine that the world badly needs. Winning the war is not a responsibility of medical pundits alone for the pandemic has proven to be collective tragedy. Collective responsibility is, therefore, handy in fostering efforts to front a cure or vaccine for the deadly virus. Citizens’ collective responsibility comes into play when they apply and observe protocols health experts have provided, which are touted to be working preventive mechanisms and pending curative breakthroughs in days and weeks ahead. As the world waits in hope and optimism, it is highly recommended that all must observe personal hygiene, maintain social distancing and avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth. Other highly recommended interventions include self-quarantine if one has fever, cough and difficulty breathing – then contacting professionals through toll-free lines provided by the Health ministry. More important is the need to stay informed and follow advice from one’s healthcare provider through authentic channel and platforms. There is no doubt the Covid-19 crisis presents leaders with tumultuous moments when their ability to make decisions that have power to save the nation is keenly monitored by all. Like a pilot who purposes with diligence and diction, determination and devotion to navigate an aircraft through murky weather, so must a leader. They should prioritise the needs and inject more resources where they are needed. In bolstering leaders’ interventions, citizens should work in harmony with authorities by reporting suspected cases to enable mitigation and heeding the call to stay safe and indoors.  Economist