Heavy rain is expected in the southern parts of Kenya neighbouring Tanzania and at the Coast beginning today. The latest forecast shows rain will pound areas around Lake Victoria, Rift Valley highlands, central and south Rift Valley and parts of Central Kenya including Nairobi. "Rainfall amounts are likely to reduce over most parts of the country during the second half of the forecast period," head of the Meteorological Department Stella Aura said in a forecast that ends on Saturday. The long rain season begins next week in most parts of Kenya. Northeastern Kenya is likely to be mainly sunny and dry throughout the week. The IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, which has offices at Dagoretti Corner in Nairobi, said neighbouring countries will also receive heavy rains. "Heavy rainfall above 100mm is expected in Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and parts of southwestern Kenya," ICPAC said in a statement. The general outlook for March 2020 indicates that enhanced rainfall is expected over Western, Northeastern, Central, and Coastal regions as well as over parts of Southeast Kenya. Northwestern Kenya is, however, likely to have near average rainfall. The onset of March-May 2020 long rain is expected to begin this week over most parts of the country. In Kisii, residents have been told to brace for heavy rains from this week. Kisii county director of meteorology Henry Sese said the downpour will most likely cause havoc because it will be accompanied by strong winds and thunderstorms. “Strong winds are likely to be experienced along with showers and thunderstorms in the entire county. Residents are advised to carry out their activities with caution during the period,” Sese said. "People should not shelter under trees when it starts raining to avoid being struck by lightning.” Sese said some residents endangered their lives by ignoring warnings of floods and lightning and carrying on with their daily business. He further urged farmers to consult agricultural officers for advice on the kind of farming they should undertake. “Residents should also be told to plant indigenous trees to reduce soil erosion and increase forest cover,” Sese said. The director further urged the county government to open up drainage systems to minimise surface water runoffs and flash floods in many parts. “Surface water runoffs and flash floods will be experienced in many parts of the county that is why I'm advising the devolved unit to open up drainage systems to avert danger," he said. Edited by A. Ndung'u