She had just returned from escorting her daughter when she heard her scream and beg not to be killed. HWM ran back quickly calling out her 14-year-old girl’s name, but it was too late, she had been defiled by a man well-known to her. The man is currently serving his 15-year jail term. He had been sentenced to 20 years in jail but that has been reduced following an appeal. HWM must have woken up at around 3 am that day, but because her phone was off, she could not confirm the time. It was March 27, 2017, normal school day for her daughter ENK, who usually left for school a few minutes to 6 am. It was still dark outside, but she thought it was because of the heavy clouds. It looked like it was going to rain. DISTRESS CALL ENK asked her mother to escort her a bit given the area was bushy and the school was about a kilometre away from her home in Kakuyuni location of Kangundo, Machakos county. “As I returned home after leaving ENK to proceeded to school, I heard someone scream. It sounded like my daughter, so I ran back,” she said. She searched around, loudly calling out ENK’s name, and saw one Kilonzo who had also responded to the distress call. He had a torch. “He told me he heard the scream, with someone saying ‘don’t kill me’ in Kiswahili,” she said. Along the road, they came across ENK’s books scattered on the ground. When they called her in a loud voice, they saw a man run and jump onto a motorbike a distance ahead and turned off its lights. ENK had heard the mother calling and responded. She asked her not to move. She was inside an incomplete house next to a bar. “She told us that our neighbour Thomas Kivoi Nzau, alias Tom, had raped her. She was a total mess with dust covering her skirt and socks,” the mother said. GIRL REJECTED LIFT ENK also testified in court that after her mother left, a motorbike passed her and made a U-turn. The rider then stopped and asked her whose daughter she was and offered her a lift, which she declined. “He then went ahead and parked the motorbike. On seeing him packing, I started running back screaming, but he caught up with me, entangled me then threatened to harm me if I did not keep quiet,” she narrated. She said the assailant then carried her to an incomplete building that was adjacent to a bar, forcibly removed her biker and unzipped his trouser before defiling her while she struggled to free herself. “When he saw a torchlight being shone in our direction, he got up and fled to his motorbike,” she said. ENK then heard her mother’s voice asking where she was and told her not to move from where she was. In the company of village headman Paul Muia, HWM went where she was and asked her whether she knew the assailant and she told them that she knew him by appearance, name and voice as she used to see him riding a motorcycle. Muia then phoned their assistant chief and they went to Kivoi’s home. They found his house locked but his radio was on. When they pushed the door and opened it, Kivoi came out armed with a club. Smears of sperm were visible on his pants. Muia said they saw tyre marks of a motorcycle from the scene that were trailed to Nzau’s house given that it had drizzled. Kivoi was arrested and taken to the police. ENK was taken to a clinic at Kangundo and later to the District Hospital. A clinical officer said ENK had no pant, had muddy clothes, her face had bruises and her feet was full of mud when she was brought to the hospital. Upon examining her, they found her hymen was freshly torn and bloodstained, her private parts reddish and inflamed with a foul smell. He, therefore, concluded that she had been defiled. The accused was charged with defilement but pleaded not guilty, saying he had not left home that day and there is no way he could have committed the offence. In October 2017, he was found guilty and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Aggrieved by the decision, Kivoi made an appeal claiming he was not positively identified since it was still dark. However, Justice George Odunga of the High Court in Machakos last week maintained that he was guilty according to the evidence. Odunga, however, commuted the sentence to 15 years from the date of conviction.