 Cases of teen pregnancies have risen despite campaigns to hold them back, new figures show. About 9,000 cases of teenage pregnancies have been reported over the last one year according to a new report released by the county health department and Fanikisha Foundation. County First lady Christine Mvurya said the situation was very challenging. “The vice is real and a serious one because young girls below 19 years are actually getting pregnant and something must be done about it,” Christine said. She spoke on Saturday while leading a good menstrual hygiene exercise and distributing sanitary towels at Mwanguda Primary School in Lunga Lunga constituency. She said the last research conducted in 2016 showed 8,129 girls were impregnated. In November last year, the county nursing officer Edward Mumbo said more than 5,000 cases of teen pregnancies had been reported. Christine who is also the Fanikisha Foundation director said parents must fully take the initiative of fighting the menace because the government and sponsors had done their best. She told parents to abandon old traditions and break the silence to children on matters of adolescents and sexual reproduction. “It has come at a time where some of these issues must be known to young generations if we really care about their future,” she said. She said girls experience many challenges as they grow during puberty and it was the role of their parents to take 100 per cent responsibility. Christine said many girls often fall prey to men because they lack the necessary facilitation and support during the adolescent period. “There are sanitary pads, psychological guidance among other basic needs, so if parents won’t be doing that somebody else will do it for you at a price we all don’t like,” Christine said. Christine said frequent guidance and counseling sessions must be made to both girls and boys to advise them accordingly. She said the county had recorded a slight decrease in the number of girls dropping out of schools due to teen pregnancies. Edited by peter obuya