Many churches ignored a government directive not to congregate in strict measures to stop the spread of coronavirus. It was a normal Sunday at St Peter’s Kapsabet Catholic Church in Nandi as worshipers attended mass. The church was locked and all worshipers were directed to an altar outside the parish where a visiting priest, Fr Major Emmanuel of KDF, presided. Fr Emmanuel stepped in for Fr Geofrey Mwanda who was away. It was the same case in many other denominations where normal Sunday services proceeded uninterrupted. However, many African Inland churches remained closed and their members were advised to stay away and pray at home. Bishop Patrice Chumba of Kapsabet AIC region said they were implementing the Ministry of Health advice not to congregate. “This is a calamity no one should take any chance because it has the potential of wiping out mankind. It’s better to suspend now and meet tomorrow,” Chumba said. Speaking to the Star on phone, Chumba said what had befallen Kenya was biblical and that the national prayers held on Saturday was in line with God's directive to pray and repent. Nandi has had 26 residents in self-quarantine on arrival from various foreign countries, among them coronavirus hotspots. Two others residents who refused to isolate themselves on arrival from Europe and Qatar were being sought by health workers to be quarantined. One of them jetted into the country from Spain and went to hide with her relatives, refusing to isolate herself. Nandi county health executive Ruth Koech said anyone who refused to self-quarantine would be placed in special units in Kapsabet county referral or NandiHills for monitoring. “The county has now 18 beds for corona quarantine up from 10. But we are happy that some residents arriving home have voluntary isolated themselves for 14 days,” Koech said. Koech said she had instructed scouts to monitor those in self-isolation while others were charged to respond to emergency evacuation. Most of the returnees are international athletes while others are employees of firms in the Gulf states. An athlete who returned from Hungary was intercepted in  a matatu in Kapsabet town and put in an ambulance and taken to his home for isolation. “Families have firm instructions not to meet with their kin until after 14 days and a public health officer is left to keep watch,” the CEC said. Edited by Henry Makori