A science teacher from Mombasa will be among 50 contestants shortlisted for this year's World's Best Teacher contest. Linah Anyango, a biology and chemistry teacher at Changamwe Secondary School, will be looking to succeed Peter Tabichi who was crowned as 2019 winner. Now in its sixth year, the Sh100 million award is the largest prize of its kind and is organised by Varkey Foundation and UNESCO. Anyango, was selected from over 12,000 nominations and applications from over 140 countries around the world. The Global Teacher Prize was set up to recognise an exceptional teacher who has made an outstanding contribution to the profession as well as to shine a spotlight on the important role teachers play in society. By unearthing thousands of stories of heroes that have transformed young people’s lives, the prize hopes to bring to life the exceptional work of millions of teachers all over the world. With 10 years to go to meet UN Sustainable Development Goal 4 - providing a quality education for every child - the Global Teacher Prize has partnered with UNESCO to ensure teachers are right at the top of governments’ agendas. Global Teacher Prize 2019 winner Peter Tabichi, is a maths and physics teacher at Keriko Secondary School in Nakuru. “I am so proud that a Kenyan teacher has been shortlisted for the Global Teacher Prize 2020. Winning the prize last year was such an honour, but more than that it was a tremendous platform to help me promote STEM learning among young people in Africa. Linah Anyango is doing just that in the incredible work she does every day and I wish her all the best this year," Tabichi said. Anyango determined to do all she could to turn around the sense of hopelessness and low self-esteem felt by so many of the students at her school when she arrived 10 years ago. She started a cultural music club which enabled the students to open up, share and appreciate each other’s culture and the beauty in their diversity, thus promoting peace among them and reducing radicalisation.