The Seventh Day Adventist church in Ranen Conference administrative area has cancelled all planned and ongoing crusades over fear of coronavirus. The conference’s director, pastor Bering Ngore said all churches in the conference that covers Migori and part of Homa Bay counties have been instructed to cancel the crusades and inter-church gatherings. Speaking to the Star over the phone on Saturday morning, Ngore said church pastors and elders have been instructed on the move until when government gives an ok of gatherings. “All open crusades especially in markets and public places have been stopped indefinitely and those which were on cancelled completely,” Ngore said. He said the church has not stopped normal church services and door-to-door evangelism, but “pastors and elders have been instructed to help pass information on safety of members and improve hand washing.” “We have also advised church members against shaking hands, hugging and use of hand washing in the compound,” he said. His sentiments came after the Migori County coronavirus steering committee led by commissioner Joseph Rotich and county secretary Christopher Rusana, among other leaders met in Migori town. “We have suspended all mass gatherings in the county for the next month including funerals, where advance travelling should be controlled,” Rotich said. Rusana said already there is a two hour holding ward at Isebania border crossing with Tanzania with an 52 bed isolation ward placed at Macalder Sub-County hospital as Sh40million has been released to mitigate against the virus. “We have alerted all health and administration officers in each ward and have helped hotels to be on alert guests especially with symptoms,” Rusana said. But a spot check at Migori County referral hospital on Saturday painted a grim picture as face masks for nurses who are first point of call and hand sanitisers were over. “We expect to re-stock on these on Monday, but our biggest worry is that the hospital has no running water which is a huge risk as the disease needs high hygiene,” a medic told the press. But Rusana said among raft of measures, is ensuring medics are safe. He said out of the Sh40million, Sh26.7 million will be for payment of medical personnel tasked with handling suspected cases and Sh13.6 million to infrastructure and medical equipment. “We have quite a number of mitigation measures in place  following the case reported in the country on Friday. Currently we have   set aside utility vehicles to ferry suspected cases to the 39 isolation centres across the county,” he said.