Three Kenyans charged with aiding terrorist attack have been denied bail by a Garissa court. Adan Saman, Haret Dubow and Keynan Maulid were charged on Tuesday with providing al Shabaab militants with information and aiding them during the January 12 Kamuthe trading centre attack that left three non-local teachers dead. They also faced another count of being members of the Somalia-based terror group. They pleaded not guilty before senior magistrate Ole Tanchu. The suspects are alleged to have helped the militants carry explosives used in the destruction of Safaricom masts, firearms and ammunition in a vehicle during the attack. Senior prosecutor Peter Wanaina requested the magistrate to deny them bail saying "they are dangerous to the public and have travelled to Somalia to meet their associates, hence being flight risks." Citing an intelligence report, Wainana said the suspects' accomplices are still at large and could interfere with the ongoing investigations. He said the offence the three committed "is in the public domain and has caused fear and terror among Kenyans, especially people in the region". "If released, there is the likelihood of escalation of terror activities; therefore, they should be denied bond,” Wainana told the packed court. However, the defence team, led by Garissa-based lawyer Cyprian Onono, tore into the prosecution's request, saying bail is a constitutional guarantee. Onono said the police had the suspects in their custody for the last 34 days — from February 5 when they were arrested. "Police had all the time to conclude their investigations. Asking for time to continue detaining my clients is against the Constitution," he said. He said the prosecution quoting intelligence reports without tangible evidence on the date the accused purportedly travelled to Somalia "is empty and should not be used as a basis to deny the accused bail". "If they travelled to Somalia, then on which date did they travel? Who saw them? The prosecution should have solid grounds to have my client denied bail,” Onono said. Onono claimed that the police have the tendency of pinning ‘al Shabaab tag’ to suspects and having them in custody without apparent justification. He successfully requested to have a replying affidavit to respond to a sworn document by the investigating officer. Ole Tanchu, however, ruled that the three be remanded until March 23 when the bail application will be determined. (Edited by F'Orieny)