Thirdway Alliance Party leader Ekuru Aukot has challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy and governors to take pay cuts in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Aukot also wants cabinet secretaries, cabinet administrative secretaries, parastatal boards, top civil servants, deputy governors and county executives to do the same. “The pay cut will reduce the wage bill and redirect this money to cushion low-income earners who are now working from home,” Aukot said. In an open letter to the President, Aukot said the leaders ought to lead from the front and sacrifice for the welfare of the poor majority. He opposed plans by the government for a complete lockdown because, he said, that the country’s economy will collapse. “The coronavirus pandemic is slowing down our economy and is going to negatively affect the cost of living, reduce our production as well as slow down growth of tax revenues. At all times, the focus should be on the people,” he said. Aukot said the national government should temporarily suspend the funding of mega infrastructure projects to cushion Kenyans from tough economic conditions. The party leader also wants the government to use the outbreak to renegotiate repayment terms of all foreign loans. He also wants the government to minimize or stop borrowing from local financial markets. The move will force banks to lend to small and medium enterprises at affordable rates hence cushioning the economy, he said. “Use part of savings to immediately create a pool fund where ordinary citizens can take mobile-based loans at peppercorn loan interests during this crisis,” he said. Those funds should be released immediately to credible commercial banks and availed through mobile money platforms. Aukot has also called on the government to have National Insurance Fund pay for coronavirus-related treatment bills. He asked the state to move the income tax return submission deadline from the end of June to end of August. The government should also ensure that there are adequate staple food reserves, water, soap and set aside funds to subsidise food prices if this crisis deepens. Other things Aukot want the government to do is provide money to the National Oil Corporation and order that they buy substantial oil. (edited by o. owino)