Nyamira County boys’ basketball champions St Kizito Nyansiongo have warned that they will not be pushovers during the Nyanza region Term One games. Nyansiongo coach Edward Abuga said: “We are going there as underdogs but we want to fight for a semifinal slot. The boys are up to the task.” Abuga spoke after his team saw off Nyambaria Boys 64-40 to reclaim the Nyamira County title. Nyansiongo enjoyed the support of a partisan home crowd, who cheered them throughout the game. “We deserved to win the title. Nyansiongo is now a force to reckon with in the County. The sky is the limit,” said Abuga. School principal Ibrahim Nakhanya congratulated the boys and challenged them to represent the County well at the regionals. Nyansiongo are in the same group with former regional champions Ambira, Homa Bay School and Migori Boys from Migori County in Pool 'B'. Pool 'A', which has been dubbed ‘group of death’ has defending champions Agoro Sare, former champions Maseno School, Nyanchwa Boys and Kanyawanga. In the girls' category, Mokomoni Secondary caused a major upset, beating fancied Sironga Girls 29-26 in a closely contested match. Mokomoni coach Janet Abineri said: “Our target was to reach the final but when we got there, I told the girls to fight for a ticket to the regionals.” In rugby 7’s minnows Enkinda and St Paul’s Gekano High School will represent Nyamira at the regionals. Enkinda beat Gekano 12-5 to lift the title. In the semis, Gekano beat arch-rivals Nyambaria Boys 15-7 while Enkinda narrowly beat Nyanzabakwa 5-0. Gesiaga will make their bow in 15’s rugby at the regionals after beating Omonayo 9-3 in the final. En route to the final, Gesiaga beat Nyambaria 12-9 as Omonayo saw off St Paul’s Gekano 6-0. Rugby Commissar Joseph Onyoni observed that the game is growing in the County, where 12 teams featured. Masosa Mixed enjoying the support of their principal James Ong’era retained the girls' handball title after beating Ikonge Girls 14-7 in the finals. In the semis, Masosa beat Geta 15-7 while Ikonge narrowly defeated Nyachichi 6-4. Marindi reclaimed the boy’s title after beating Matutu 16-14 in a closely contested final. At half time, Matutu was leading 8-4. In the semis, Marindi beat Masosa 19-16 while Matutu overcame Riyabe 15-9. Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Nyamira branch secretary Nyauma Okerio was impressed by the standards of competition. “The levels of competition are high and we hope our teams will do well at the regionals,” he said. However, the County will not field teams in hockey. The regionals were scheduled for this week at St Joseph’s Rapogi in Migori but was deferred following government’s ban on all gatherings after a case of coronavirus was reported in Kenya last week.