A man who was allegedly shot by a police officer at Majengo Mapya in Kanamai died from internal bleeding, an autopsy has revealed. Emmanuel Lugo, 24, was shot on Friday when blocking a developer from erecting a perimeter wall on a disputed quarter-acre parcel. The autopsy conducted on Monday at the Kilifi County Hospital mortuary found that Lugo was shot in the chest and the bullet exited from the back, damaging the spinal code. Kilifi Social Justice Centre rapid response officer Eric Mgoja, who witnessed the autopsy, said the bullet caused internal bleeding leading to Lugo’s death. “The bullet tore through the spinal code. A lot of blood oozed inside which led to the dysfunctioning of other organs,” Mgoja said. Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta called on the Independent Policing and Oversight Authority to make sure the culpable officer is prosecuted. “The police should stop extrajudicial killings. These people were trying to stop the grabbing of a public utility land by a private developer. The police should stop abusing their powers,” Shipeta said. Shipeta said Lugo could have been targeted by security officers as he was a key witness in a forced disappearance case. “Lugo was very vocal in calling for justice after two of his kinsmen disappeared after attending the hearing of a case at Shanzu Law Courts. “I think this was a way of silencing him. How on earth does a person protecting a public property get shot at yet he is not armed?” Shipeta asked. Kilifi Social Justice Centre executive director Simon Kazungu wondered how the police sided with the private developer yet the land has no title deed. “This land was earmarked for a market and the residents were protecting it from being grabbed by a senior officer at the Mombasa county government. What document was the police given so that they decided to shoot the boy,” Kazungu said. Mgoja said his organisation condemns the incident in the strongest terms possible. “We affirm that the right to life is the first and the most fundamental human right, without which no other right can be upheld,” Mgoja.  (edited by o. owino)