The government wants blood tracked online from the minute of donation to the point of transfusion to fight cross-border sales in Somalia. Kenya is suffering a blood shortage crisis, possibly an artificial shortage. Currently, the blood function is handled by the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service, which is being investigated by DCI over claims of illegal trade in blood. The ministry is consulting stakeholders to ensure blood and its products are managed through an ICT system. This will track blood online. The ministry on Thursday held a stakeholders' forum to discuss the problem following reports that individuals at the ministry were colluding with cartels to sell blood across borders. CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed that detectives from DCI have opened an investigation into claims that blood donated by Kenyans was being sold in Somalia. “We have asked the DCI to intervene in the system because we understand there are immoral people selling blood sometimes even outside the borders of this country and that is just making the situation even worse,” Kagwe said. A source from the ministry who requested anonymity noted that all the senior officials at the transfusion service have vacated office to allow room for investigation. “I can’t comment on the investigations. The DCI has already stepped in and obviously when there is an investigation going on, you don’t want to disclose everything but we expect arrests.” The case, which was opened last week, seeks to unravel roles played out by the officers in creating an artificial blood shortage in the country by illegally selling what is meant to be supplied to Kenyan hospitals. Mutahi said managing blood as a stand-alone authority is important as the area has received less attention despite being so critical. “Blood donors are patriots who want to support other Kenyans. Blood is very personal and they give it so that they can support somebody else. But blood donors want to know that blood is for the purpose for which they are giving and they want transparency in its management,” the minister said. In a statement last week, Kagwe said cartels were engaging in blood trade inside and outside the country. The CS added, “What we need is to ensure there is no shortage, the blood is where it is required at the right time, in the right quantity and is clean.” Council of Governors Health committee chairman Mohammed Kuti said counties must collaborate with the national government since health is a devolved function yet blood is managed by state. “We know a number of donors are pulling out because Kenya is now a middle-income country and therefore, the question is, how do we as a country also to take part in financing not only blood but other blood products?” Kuti asked. Edited by R.Wamochie