A standoff over the chairmanship and membership of the powerful Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee has grounded the formation of the oversight panel. Six weeks into the third session of the 12th Parliament, the committee mandated to oversee the expenditure by the county governments is yet to be in place. The panel puts governors to task over the expenditure of billions of shillings advanced to them by the National Treasury. It reviews reports by the Controller of Budget and Auditor General on county government expenditure, among other functions. The Star has established that senators are pushing for inclusion in the lucrative committee, with an epic battle said to be pitting Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko and his Nyamira counterpart Okong’o Omogeni. The two are said to be jostling to succeed Homa Bay's Moses Kajwang as chair of the committee, leading to a standoff. “Each of them wants to chair the committee. A resolution has not been reached but we feel the time is really running out for us,” a senator said off the record. They did not respond to messages and phone calls by the Star. Although the Senate standing orders do not specify which wing of the House should chair the oversight committee, by convention in the last Parliament, senators agreed the position should be chaired by a member from the minority side. Kajwang succeeded former Nyamira Senator Okong’o Mongare who took over from ex-Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale. However, it was during Kajwang’s tenure that the committee tabled its first-ever report on the financial operation of the counties. Late last year, the House approved at least 50 reports for 2013-14 and 2014-15 making far-reaching recommendations including investigation and surcharge of several government officials for mismanagement of taxpayers’ money. The committee, however, has in the past been blamed for bribery and arm-twisting governors to clear them of any financial malpractice. Minority leader James Orengo denied any battle for the chairmanship but said it was normal for members to jostle for a committee that will "elevate them to the national level". “It is natural for legislators to want to be in a committee that will elevate them to the national level. This is why some committees are in demand than others,” Orengo said. The Siaya Senator, who spoke in his Parliament Buildings office on Tuesday, said consultations on who should sit in the committee were ongoing to ensure all members agree with the final list lest it is defeated on the floor. It is understood that the majority Jubilee wing is having a hard time agreeing on the membership of the watchdog panel. Orengo pointed out that they agreed that senators would decide on the membership and not the party leadership. “As Nasa, we agreed instead of Cleophas Malala (Minority Deputy Chief Whip), Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Minority Chief) and me (ODM) deciding on the membership, we let the senators choose who would be in the panel,” he explained. He said the Jubilee side had also agreed to use the same approach to pick members for the committee. He explained that during the impeachment of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, senators rejected a proposed committee to handle the process largely because its membership was picked by the party leadership. Senators instead opted for a whole House plenary. Majority Chief Whip Susan Kihika said the Jubilee side was ready with their list of members and that they were only waiting for their counterparts to settle on their membership. Kihika confirmed that the members they will propose will be competent enough to choose their leader, explaining as House leadership, they will not dictate on who should chair the panel. “As the Majority, we are ready and only waiting for the Minority to submit the names so that we introduce the motion on the floor of the House. We will not meddle with the choice of the chair. We believe the members are competent enough to elect their chair." Edited by R.Wamochie