 BY ALICE WAITHERA The Kirinyaga government has trained a team of 19 medics on treating coronavirus as part of the county's preparedness to tackle the pandemic. The team comprises four medical doctors, four clinical officers, seven nurses, two laboratory technologists and two pharmaceutical doctors. The medics will train other health workers on what they will be required to do in response to the coronavirus outbreak. Two laboratory technicians will undertake coronavirus screening and testing training at the Kenya Medical Research Institute in the course of the week. Governor Anne Waiguru said the county government will continuously conduct on the job training for health workers to enable them to handle potential coronavirus cases. She said the county government has set up and equipped an isolation ward at The Kerugoya Hospital. The isolation ward has 14 beds. “We have also procured protective gear for our medical workers as we wait for additional equipment from the national government,” Waiguru said. She was addressing the press on the county's preparations for the Covid-19 pandemic at the county headquarters. An advocacy and health promotion committee has been formed and was going around villages sensitising the community about the virus. Screening desks have also been set up in all our hospitals and outpatient facilities to identify and handle suspected coronavirus patients. Waiguru said a task force comprised of all county executive members had been formed to oversee the implementation of the Cabinet resolutions made to contain the spread of Covid-19. She assured residents that her administration had put in place robust measures and was fully prepared to address potential cases. “We have also developed a risk communication strategy that will further facilitate raising of awareness amongst stakeholders to reduce undue fear and despondency among residents,” the governor said. She said some county government workers whose physical presence in the office is not critical would be facilitated to work from home. This, she said, is in line with the Presidential directive to prevent infection in high populated offices. “A detailed guideline of what is expected of the staff will be circulated by the County Secretary. This will be coordinated in a manner that does not affect ongoing programmes and service delivery,” Waiguru said. The county government is also working with the National Government and other health providers in the implementation of coronavirus management activities. She encouraged the public to sanitise their hands saying her administration was in the process of installing handwashing points in key public areas such as offices, markets and bus stations. “While no case has been reported in the county, we are asking people to avoid crowds and take extra care when using public service vehicles and converging in public places," Waiguru said. Waiguru urged market committees to abolish market days that bring together numerous traders and buyers on specific days and encourage them to sell their wares on a daily basis to avoid congestion. She asked residents with coronavirus-like symptoms to call the referral centre at Kerugoya hospital on 0798595559.  edited by peter obuya