  KenGen has partnered with Better Global Forestry to grow commercial trees in Kitui, Embu and Machakos counties for the company's use. The Kenya Electricity Generating Company urgently needs 300,000 trees hence the deal with Better Global to grow the quickly maturing Makau trees. The firm will establish an in vitro laboratory at Kamburu Hydro Power Generating station in Embu for the propagation of the trees. Kengen chairman Joshua Choge said the facility will enable propagation of thousands of seedlings of the hardwood, which grows fast in semi-arid areas. He said the project will enable communities around the seven forks hydropower station to engage in commercial tree growing. Choge said KenGen was committed to environmental conservation and has put substantial resources to safeguard the environment. He said it was the reason the company continues to invest in long-term programmes such as the Green Initiative Challenge which is dedicated to environmental conservation. Choge made the remarks in a speech read on his behalf by KenGen board member Reginalda Wanyonyi at Ielanthi Primary School in Machakos on Saturday. Wanyonyi represented Choge at an event to award best schools among the 500 chosen to participate in the GIC competition. The competition is sponsored by KenGen, Better Global Forestry and Bamburi Cement. Ielanthi Primary School was the best overall after all its 100 tree seedlings survived. The seedlings were donated to the schools two years ago to create 'artificial forests' for commercial use. Choge said the Kengen Foundation that runs the GIC campaign has been investing more than 10 million annually since the programme started in 2013. He said 81 schools in Embu and Machakos counties were participating. Another 100 schools will join the GIC competition this year. KenGen hopes to plant trees in more than 460 acres of land in Machakos, Kitui and Embu counties. Choge said the partnership will see more than 300,000 commercial and wood fuel trees and another 100,000 fruit trees planted in 919 schools over a 10-year period.  Edited by peter obuya