Good evening, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday said that Government is working on consolidating Kenya's position as a regional healthcare hub. Uhuru said Kenya already attracts patients from several countries in the region including Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, D. R. Congo, Tanzania, Ethiopia, South Sudan, and Nigeria. These are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori was on Monday afternoon laid to rest next to his father at his Gazi home in Kwale county. Dori passed away earlier on Monday while receiving treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. He was battling blood cancer, leukaemia.  It is exactly two years since President Uhuru Kenyatta and his former rival Raila Odinga shook hands at the steps of Harambee House ushering an end to hostilities and heralding an era of peace and calm in the country. The momentous event put a lid on the two leaders' long-lasting vicious feud. On March 9, 2018, Uhuru and Raila met with the intention to end the impasse that had followed the 2017 disputed presidential elections and the tension that came with it. Dori, born in 1978, died at the age of 42 years. He went to Gazi Primary School in Msambweni where they studied under a tree. He later joined Waa High School but dropped out. While living with his sister in Mombasa, Dori was later admitted to Tudor Secondary School where he sat his KCSE. Sudan’s Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok has survived an assassination attempt targeting his convoy in the capital Khartoum, state television and a cabinet source said on Monday. Hamdok, who was appointed to head a transitional government after the overthrow of longtime President Omar al-Bashir last year, has been moved to a safe location, state TV said. Images broadcast on regional TV channels and social media showed a convoy including several damaged white SUVs and a badly damaged car. Taita Taveta County Governor Granton Samboja on Monday sent the Public Works and Infrastructure Chief Officer Sydney Mwakitele on compulsory leave. In a letter signed by County Communication Director Denis Onsarigo and seen by the Star, Governor Samboja also made changes to his Cabinet. Gasper Kabaka, formerly the Water, Sanitation and Environment executive has been moved to take up the Public Works, Transport and Infrastructure docket.