As players who ply their trade in the local leagues remain uncertain of when the coronavirus dust will settle, Wazito skipper Bernard Ochieng is looking to trade the ball for chalk before normalcy returns. Ochieng, who is set to graduate with a Bachelors in Education at the Kenyatta University in December, is keen to introduce virtual learning as a way of keeping himself occupied during this period. Players have proved to be the most hit by the government's directive to suspend all the sporting activities for a month and closure of stadia and training camps has apparently confined them to their houses However, Ochieng is gunning to tap the fruits of education and double up his income. He said he had approached a handful of parents among them his fellow players with a view of tutoring their children who have also been affected by the pandemic. The Harambee Stars' defender who was part of the team which represented the country in last year's Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, said he may consider teaching until September this year. He is expected to resume training in the same month after recovering from a torn Anterior Cruciate Ligament which saw him go under the knife last month. "I am pursuing to introduce virtual classes during this period the schools are closed. Students are suffering out there and since I do not have much to do in the house as I am injured, I think I am in a position to help them. I have talked to a number of clients who have given my proposal a clean bill of health and hopefully, I will hit the ground running soon, " he said The hard-tackling centre half, in the meantime, lauded KU's head coach Tobias Ocholla and former Vihiga United tactician Francis Manoah for shaping his football career in the past years. Ochieng, a former Vihiga United captain, guided the club to seal a spot in the top flight in 2017 while at the same time he was pursuing his education at KU. He said Ocholla, a former Kenyan international, played a massive role in ensuring that he remained in good shape despite not training with the rest of the team in Vihiga. "I would only feature for Vihiga on match days but Ocholla who tutored the KU team ensured that I was in good form. I used to join Vihiga 48hours to match days and despite not training with them, we would reap positive results. It was not easy juggling between football and studies but I was determined to kill two birds with one stone. I am looking forward to graduating in December and fully focus on serving Wazito. I may as well go for my masters next year," he said.