Contracting coronavirus is not a death sentence and people should not panic about it, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said. People recover, some never show symptoms others get a cold or mild flu but they are still contagious. Joho said on Monday the pandemic, like previous pandemics, will be overcome if people unite against it and follow prescribed guidelines. Speaking at the 19-bed Coast General Hospital coronavirus isolation centre, Joho said the county had intensified efforts to ensure the virus did not spread. He was on a tour to assess the level of preparedness if a case is confirmed in Mombasa. “May God protect us from this virus. We thank Him we have no case in Mombasa,”  Joho said, attempting to calm fears. This followed earlier reports that an Indian patient with coronavirus symptoms had been isolated at the Coast General Hospital. According to the reports, the Indian woman, who jetted into the country from India on Sunday, checked herself into the hospital after presenting symptoms. “Coronavirus is not death. Don’t panic thinking once you contract it you will die, no. In fact, there are a lot more cases where people have recovered t,” Joho said. He said the county has been working closely with the national government. “Your behaviour determines the safety of your brother, sister and neighbour. Don’t take things for granted,” the governor said. He said washing hands and using sanitisers are simple actions that can save lives. “I have had instances where people say, ‘Governor, I don’t have coronavirus. Let me greet you!’ No! This thing, you can get it from the least expected areas,” the governor said. The county is working on converting two Level 4 hospitals, Mvita Clinic and Tudor Subcounty Hospital, into coronavirus isolation centres. Earlier, the county had wanted to convert the Marimani and Mtongwe Hospitals, both Level 4 hospitals, but bandonrf the idea after experts said it will take longer than anticipated to fully convert them. He said private hospitals and other players in the private sector have shown willingness to complement the county's efforts. The private hospitals, he said, should buy some of the equipment needed like ventilators and give them to the isolation centres. “We don’t expect them to be able to have the capacity to look after a Covid-19 patient. We will all bring them to once centre. We have talked to them and they are cooperating,” Joho said. A total of 24 personnel have been trained to deal with patients. Doctors are on standby waiting for emergency calls on the hotlines: 0777777242, 0734 881 233 and 0793 390 984. “If you feel there is a suspected case at home. Use our hotline. Our doctors are ready to come to where you are so they can take samples,” Joho said. Do not go the hospital and infect others. “We can defeat this virus. I’m sure we can due to our habits. There have been other pandemics before and people were successful. Even this one we will defeat,” he said. Joho said the county is considering a supplementary budget to resond to demands. “Where we have to send water boozers, we will. Where we have to build emergency water storage and tanks, we shall do that,” he said. The Kenya Ferry Services is already installing pipes to provide running water at the waiting bays on both sides of the channel. “It is being constructed as we speak,” Joho said. This is after commuters at the ferry complained about the lack of sanitizers at the waiting bays despite the committee in charge of the emergency response to the virus directing that they be provided. (Edited by V. Graham)