Sauti Sol lead vocalist Bien Aime Baraza wedded the love of his life, Chiki Onwukwe, on Friday in a civil union at the AG's office. The couple was given three hard copies of the marriage certificate for them and their witnesses to sign. A celebration was held at Pallet Cafe in Lavington thereafter. A close source to Word Is said it was an invite-only garden wedding of around 150-200 people. "Only close friends and family were there. Bien's mum and dad attended the wedding. Chiki's parents and other family members were also present," the source said. Those who attended the wedding were asked to dress in African attire. "Anything African. Chiki was dressed in an Egyptian-feel attire and a white dress inside, while Bien was in a fitting blue-striped suit and no overdone makeup." The MC of the day was media personality Talia Oyando. "It was easy and looked more like a celebration. Nobody was allowed to have phones in the venue as they wanted everyone to be part of the wedding and not to divert their minds by snapping videos on their gadgets,” the source said. The source also said food was good and in plenty. "Alcohol was free as well. You were buying nothing. Those who wore high heels were forced to remove them. Bien dedicated to Chiki many songs. Nothing was formal," the source added. “Nyashinski performed 'Mungu Pekee', Nazizi performed, Nameless, Sauti Sol also performed and the celebration looked beautiful." Bien and Chiki met soon after she came into the country from the UK, where her family is based, and they hit it off almost immediately. "We dated for a whole year before we decided to go public about our love affair," Chiki said in a past interview. "The only reason we decided to go public was for people to see that what we have is real. We did not want to go into stories of cheating, neither did we want to let people start suggesting either of us had gotten a 'sponsor'." She was introduced to Bien at a club by fashion designer Emmanuel Jambo, and at first, she had no clue how popular Bien was in Kenya. Bien proposed to Chiki last year at Westgate Mall in Nairobi, a private event as well. He hired an entire cinema hall at the mall and made sure only a few friends witnessed the proposal.