Ruaraka brought a five-match losing streak to an end by registering double victories at the Nairobi Invitational Twenty20 tournament over the weekend. After having gone down in all their five opening matches,  Ruaraka needed to win their weekend matches to at least grab a remote chance of making it to the knockout stages. They did exactly that by beating Cutchi Leva by three runs on Saturday before adding a second victory with seven wickets advantage over Ngara. Ruaraka's Purshotam Vekaria said breaking the drought will inspire a turn-around for the team. “We knew we needed to put in some good performances to keep our hopes alive. We were good in all the departments this weekend,” Vekaria said. “The last five matches have been tough for us but we didn’t give up. I knew that we needed one win and the confidence will get back and that is exactly what has happened.” On Saturday, it took five late wickets for the visitors to carry the day.  Chasing 135, Ruaraka were on the driving seat at 116 for 5 with three overs top play. But hell broke loose when they lost three wickets for only two runs in the 18th over thus needing 19 off the last two overs with two wickets in hand. Cutchi Leva began the penultimate over well, scoring 11 off the first four balls. The batsmen ran a wide off the fifth ball but only managed to score one before the second run caught the batsmen short off the crease. The last ball of the over also saw a run-out being effected while searching for a third run off a wide delivery. Ramesh Gajpari was the star with the ball for Ruaraka with 4 for 7. On Sunday, Vekaria led from the front with 42 balls as Ruaraka chased down Ngara’s 109 for 9 in 18.2 overs. The skipper and Pushkar Sharma (42 not out) put on an opening stand of 88 runs in 13.2 overs to give the home a good platform for a second successive win. Vekaria’s half-century included four boundaries and three sixes.  Sharma had earlier shone with the ball by claiming 3 for 8 in his four overs. At the same time, Kenya Kongonis also ended their losing streak with a six wickets win over Sikh Union. Chasing 114 for 5, Kongonis top-order batsmen shared responsibility to lead their side to their maiden victory of the campaign with two balls to spare. With Ruaraka’s and Kongonis’ wins, Cutchi Leva is the only winless team in the event.