Kenyan athletes have welcomed the government and Athletics Kenya's measures against the coronavirus epidemic by suspending travel for sportsmen and women despite its ramifications. The government suspended travel for Kenyan sportsmen and women for the next one month and AK followed suit, directing managers not to clear athletes who were set to run abroad in the duration of the 'lockdown'. A letter signed by the Chief Administrative Officer Susan Kamau to managers, AK said: "Athletics Kenya informs you that all clearance and travel to international events for athletes and athletes support personnel has been suspended until further notice.” "In a bid to safeguard the athletes and consequently the country from the virus we urge you to cancel all travel arrangements for athletes and athlete support personnel in your management for the next one month pending further communication,” it concluded.  Among those affected are Barcelona Half Marathon champion Victor Chumo and reigning Boston Marathon champion Lawrence Cherono. Chumo, who last month ran away with the Barcelona Half marathon title in a personal best time of 59:58, was part of the World Half Marathon team, an event which was cancelled by the Polish authorities. “I was shocked to learn that the World Half Marathon slated for Gdynia, Poland had been postponed. As an athlete, I was well prepared for the event and to run for my country for the second time, to prove to the world that Victor is here. But the virus has cost me as well as my colleagues,” said Chumo, who was part of pacesetters for Eliud Kipchoge during the Ineos 1:59 Challenge. “We have to comply with the rules And regulations. Our health means a lot to us. It better to understand the situation and run latter,” added the Iten-based runner. Cherono, who was drafted to defend his Boston Marathon title said many race organisers are cancelling the races due to the virus and athletes continue to suffer since they don’t have any other source income apart from running. “We have suffered as athletes because we have no other sources of income. Race organisers are cancelling races though in my case, they have not communicated. It is tough for me to train alone since majority of athletes have left our training camp,” said the two-time Amsterdam marathon champion. Upcoming marathoner Bedan Karoki termed the suspension as the best thing for the athletes despite the financial implications. "Our health and welfare is important and so the government has to protect its citizens and us from the virus," said Karoki, took part in the Tokyo Marathon a fortnight ago where the elite runners were running in masks and with no fans on the route. Newly-crowned national Police Service cross country champion Sheila Chelangat was heartbroken after her trip to Spain, where she was to run in a 10km race in Cantabria was cut short at the 11th hour. "I am feeling very frustrated," said the Kericho-based road racer. "But I have nothing else to do. I was to travel tonight (yesterday) but it seems I just have to go home."