The NSSF has welcomed the recall of prosecutors previously attached to the entity, saying it allows it to concentrate on its core mandate. Chief executive Antony Omerikwa said the decision by the Directorate of Public Prosecutions now gives room to restructure the relationship. DPP Noordin Haji recalled about 35 prosecutors attached to NSSF, being part of the 300 from other public entities. About 23 were from National Hospital Insurance Fund and another 20 from the Anti-Counterfeit Agency and the Kenya Bureau of Standards. Omerikwa said they are engaging on the issue and will come come up with guidelines to structure the relationship. “The arrangement will be more beneficial. That was delegated power, which the DPP took back. Whichever way, the DPP is feared and would, therefore, assist with prosecutions,” the CEO said. “An ideal situation is that the fund needs to stick to its core mandate of registration, collection and paying.” Omerikwa said the prosecution role “was an extra service they were given to undertake”. “It will help us as our approach was friendly, having been guided by relationships. This will bring compliance and will enable us recover what employers owe us,” he said. At the moment, NSSF is owed Sh2.5 billion — largely by quasi government institutions, parastatals, universities and defunct local authorities. This is even as the management seeks to resolve its issue with the Kenya Revenue Authority in the push by the latter to collect pension contributions. The taxman was brought on board during the government’s clamour for a single registry — a one-stop shop for KRA, NHIF and NSSF. In the partnership, KRA was to collect monthly contributions at one per cent charge to the fund in agency fees. This was the point of divergence after NSSF opposed the charge, saying they were already collecting contributions — some voluntary. “We are engaging at very high levels on this matter to ensure it brings customer delight and efficiency is upheld,” Omerikwa said. He further assured members the management has worked to drastically reduce administrative costs, which were becoming of concern to stakeholders. The cost, calculated as a fraction of net income on investments, currently stands at 3.5 per cent. The Act stipulates that the operations should not exceed 1.5 per cent, something Omerikwa says they are working towards achieving. The CEO told the Star they have drastically reduced the admin costs and are only stuck with staff costs, which are a big component of the cost. “We are within the benchmark. We are not far from the required 1.5 per cent. If the amount of money contributed goes up, the amount in investments go up,” he said. “Once the issue of the Act is taken care of, there is no other pension fund that will rival us in terms of administrative costs.”