Nairobi'Environment and Finance departments are blaming each other as garbage contractors at the Central Business District are on a go-slow, or strike. Will the central government ride to the rescue and sort out the mess now that it has taken over key city functions? On Monday morning, city dwellers woke up to uncollected garbage in the CBD, an indication that the workers were on strike or at least going very slow. Environment executive Larry Wambua confirmed the go-slow and said it was as a result of non-payment. "I'm aware of the strike and it is because non-payment for almost three months," he said. Not revealing the amount owed to the contractors, Wambua blamed the confusion on the Finance department. "We don't make payments, that's the mandate of the Finance department. There has been a tussle in the department on who is the substantive CEC for Finance," Wambua said. However, officials of the Finance department rubbished the claims and stated the Environment department should not blame their incompetence on other people. Economic Planning Chief Officer Washington Makodingo said there is a workflow in the department, adding that the Environment Department was asleep on the job. "It's the responsibility of the Environment Department to forward the list of contractors to be paid to Finance. They are supposed to give us their priority for payment. They should not blame their incompetency on us," he said. Makodingo also rubbished claims of confusion in the Finance department and maintained that the office is intact. "If there is any, why are payments still done? In fact, today we are paying salaries. Nothing in the finance department has stalled," he said. Last month, City Hall announced plans to sign one-year contract with the National Youth Service to help in garbage collection across Nairobi. The contract is renewable. The youth agency will first move into five zones that had no garbage collector — Roysambu, Kamkunji, Makadara, Embakasi East and Ruaraka. However, Environment Chief Officer Mohamed Abdi has said that the contract has not been implemented. Edited by R.Wamochie