The Nairobi Metropolitan Services should clean up the garbage heaps across the city to contain the coronavirus outbreak, an environmental agency official has said. The National Environmental Complaints Committee secretary John Chumo said NMS director-general Mohamed Badi must meet key stakeholders and begin work. “Nairobi county is on autopilot mode. There are many undesignated dumpsites and burst sewers that need fixing urgently,” Chumo said. Chumo said the National Environment Management Authority, the Ministry of Environment, the Kenya Association of Manufacturers should be consulted on the matter. NECC investigates complaints or allegations regarding the condition of the environment and suspected cases of degradation. It also undertakes public interest litigation on behalf of the citizens in environmental matters. Chumo said his committee has received hundreds of complaints from the public over the poor environmental state of the city. He said the discharge of waste into Nairobi River had worsened matters. This, he said, is despite the fact that Article 42 of the Constitution guarantees the public right to a clean and healthy environment. Chumo said the state of cleanliness in the city is poor even as the government puts in place measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. Nairobi generates about 4,000 tonnes of waste daily. Uncollected solid waste accounts for 774 tonnes per day while private recycling companies handle 654 tonnes per day. Already, the government has confirmed 16 patients suffering from Covid-19. “The discharge of waste into Nairobi River and lack of solid waste management strategies continue to expose Nairobi residents. Sewerage facilities also lack as only 30 per cent of Nairobi is served by sewer line,” Chumo said. He urged the new team to speed up and collect waste in estates and within CBD. Chumo said Nairobi hosts international organisations such as the United Nations office and as such, it should have its house in order. On Friday last week, Mohamed Badi took over the running of the county with a promise to turn around its fortunes. This was after Governor Mike Sonko handed over four key functions to the national government. They include health, transport, public works, utilities and auxiliary services and planning and development. Badi said a foundation had already laid by Tourism CS Najib Balala who chaired the defunct Nairobi regeneration team. “There is a strategy and timelines. During the first 100 days, some projects will take off. We will start with few projects,” Badi said. Badi said he has 25 items to deliver in the first three months. The ex-military man knows that the work won’t be easy as the city is choking on garbage while water is ever scarce. Insecurity is rampant. Traffic management is disastrous and housing is nothing to write home about. Balala said his team delivered some projects but some did not take up. The CS said they did 38 roads in Eastlands worth Sh2.7 billion with Sh1.8 billion coming from the national government while Sh800 million was from the county. Balala said the reshuffling of county CECs, lack of a framework and the absence of a deputy governor hampered their work. He also said their work was interfered with by politicians as well as cartels.  (edited by o. owino)