The national government is building an empowerment and rescue centre for abused women and girls in Lamu in honour of the late Public Works PS Mariam El Maawy. Maawy died in September 2017 in a South African hospital while undergoing treatment for injuries sustained in an al Shabaab attack in Milihoi on the Lamu-Mpeketoni road on July 13 that year. Maawy died alongside her niece and four bodyguards who were all felled by the terrorist’s bullet. She was the only Lamu native to hold such a high position in government. Milihoi is a notorious terror hotspot on the Lamu-Garsen road, where many security officers and civilians have lost their lives. The Mariam El Maawy Empowerment and Rescue Centre is being built at Mokowe town in Lamu West. The foundation stone for the centre was laid by the PS in the Ministry of Gender Safina Kwekwe in an elaborate ceremony on Monday. The centre will consist a rescue section for abused women, a boarding school for sexually abused girls, an ICT centre and a general section for improving educational and economic standards in the region. Kwekwe said through the cooperation of various PSs and CSs from different ministries, the government managed to pool Sh5 million for the project. The PS said more money would soon be released for the project, expected to be ready by the end of the year. “Today, we launch this rescue centre with the key intention of remembering our fallen colleague Mariam. She would have done this and more if she were here," Kwekwe said. "We chose to honour her memory by ensuring abused women and girls have somewhere to go to when the worst happens. The centre will be completed before the end of the year.” Sports and Culture PS Josephta Mukobe urged the Lamu community to end practices that demean women. She urged the community to educate girls. Mukobe said as female PSs they would do their best to ensure the success of the Mariam El Maawy centre. “We hope the community will make good use of the facility. El Maawy was a woman of vision. She wanted her people, especially girls, to get a good education. She wanted the women empowered. She would have gone the extra mile to do anything for her people and that's why we gather here today,” Mukobe said. Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo urged the government to appoint a woman from Lamu to a PS position in honour of the late Maawy. Edited by Henry Makori