The Senate Standing Committee of Devolution and Intergovernmental Affairs has promised to expedite Nakuru County's transition into a city because it was well prepared for the elevation. Committee chairperson, Laikipia Senator John Kinyua said the county had met all the legal requirements needed for the elevation which included, disaster preparedness, health, waste management, revenue collection, population and infrastructure among many others. Speaking at the construction site of a new fire station at the heart of Nakuru Central Business District during a tour of the region, Kinyua said it was fair to hasten the process once they went back to Senate. "Justice delayed is justice denied and I feel the Senate should do what is necessary to let it be a city," he said. The team visited the Nakuru Dumping Site, Nakuru County Referral Hospital, Nyayo Gardens which is under rehabilitation, new fire station and the airport at Lanet Barracks. Kinyua said he was greatly impressed by the Sh160 million ultra-modern new fire station which is at 40 per cent completion stage and the expansion of county hospital. "This shows that the would-be city was well set in terms of disaster preparedness," he said. He, however, noted that the county referral hospital has overstretched because it was handling patients from six neighbouring counties and beyond. He urged the county to recruit more doctors and nurses to cater for the bloated numbers. About the airport, Kinyua said the military is ready to share with civilians by using different hangers. "The military has agreed to surrender one hangar for civilian use while it uses the other. This has worked elsewhere in the world and I am sure it will work here too," he said. Kinyua urged the county to increase its revenue collection and digitise the process to seal corruption loopholes. He said Nakuru should be a city of difference and not just the acquisition of a city charter. "Nakuru is lucky because it has Mombasa and Kisumu to refer to and learn so as not to make mistakes," he said. The Laikipia Senator said the committee also talked to the County Assembly and realised that the members were all agreeable to the new status. A member of the committee, Machakos Senator, Boniface Kabaka said he was impressed by the construction works at the County Referral Hospital. He wondered how the County Government was managing to build a new mega outpatient wing at a cost of Sh250 million. Kabaka said such a project would have cost billions in some counties. He urged all the other counties to go for benchmarking in Nakuru. Nominated Senator Ruth Nyamunge said the county disaster preparedness was exemplary. On security, the county said it was in the process of installing CCTV cameras within it main towns of Naivasha, Gilgil, Nakuru and Molo.