•The planned 32-berth facility is located on the mainland of Lamu's Magogoni area •The tender for the first three berths was awarded to China Communication Construction Company (CCCC) at a cost of Sh71.2 billion  Construction of the multi-billion Lamu Port project will continue uninterrupted, authorities have said, as they move to put in place measures to reduce risks of Covid-19 spread. Limited movement to and from the port site has been adopted to reduce risks of spreading the virus which has almost paralyzed key institutions and sectors, as companies adopt a work from home module with others sending their staff on leave. The decision to limit movement came after a Lamu County high-level meeting attended by the County Commissioner, health officials, and officials from Kenya Ports Authority and the Lamu Port-Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Development Authority. “It was agreed that all port workers will be required to work and live within the Lamu Port area from March 25(yesterday),” Lapsset Development Authority said, “The construction work is ongoing as usual.” Authorities have dismissed claims that the project has been disrupted as a result of a lock-down on the site following the spread of coronavirus. “There is no disruption,” KPA Senior Superintendent in charge of Lamu jetty Abdishukri Osman told the Star yesterday. “Limiting movement was adopted as a preventive measure against the spread of coronavirus within the county,” he said The planned 32-berth facility is located on the mainland of Lamu's Magogoni area, accessible by road through a 5-kilometer road off the Lamu-Garsen main road, which branches off between Hindi and Mokowe. By speed boat, it can be accessed within a 30-minuted ride from Lamu Island. There are slightly more than 900 workers on-site, both locals and the contractors' team. The government is constructing the first three berths in a contract awarded to China Communication Construction Company (CCCC) for Sh71.2 billion. Work on the sight came to a temporary halt in on January 7, over security concerns. This was after the infamous attack on a military instalment at Manda by Somalia's Islamist group al Shabaab. Construction however resumed a week later as the government remains keen in having the three berths operational by December this year. The first berth was announced complete on August 6 last year. Construction of the remaining two berths is above 60 per cent, with the entire project now at above 76 per cent complete, Lapsset Development Authority has confirmed. “The government is on schedule for the delivery of the remaining two berths by December 2020,” Lapsset director general and CEO Silvester Kasuku told the Star in an interview. Lamu Port is part of the Sh2.5 trillion Lapsset project, a vision 2030 flagship project launched in 2012 by former President Mwai Kibaki. It is aimed at opening a new trade corridor between Kenya, Ethiopia, South Sudan and beyond. The government is seeking investors to partners with in completing the remaining 29 berths at the port facility. Treasury has allocated Sh11 billion for Lapsset in this financial year. “Impressive progress has been achieved,” Kasuku said.