KDF’s Mike Mokamba will be targeting to run 200m in under 20.2 during the second leg of the Athletics Kenya (AK) track and field set for Thursday and Friday at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The event, which doubles up as Tokyo Olympics Games qualifier, will also see Mokamba seek to meet the qualifying time for the Africa Senior Athletics Championships scheduled for June 24-28 in Algiers, Algeria “Last year, I struggled with the injury but now  I’m feeling better and focusing on lowering my personal best time of 20.2 seconds," he said. Mokamba also said that he hopes to qualify for African championships which is slated immediately after the national championships. "At the Africa championships, I will be targeting to get Olympics Games qualifications standards,” said Mokamba. Kenya Prisons Service, Kenya Police Service, and Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) who rested their top guns for the first leg meet in Eldoret after the gruelling National Cross Country Championships in Nairobi will lock horns at the two-day meet. Athletics Kenya (AK) Senior Vice-President, Paul Mutwii urged athletes to come in large numbers to gauge their preparedness for the season. “We expect a huge number of athletes to come and compete at Kasarani on Thursday and Friday. The meet was originally scheduled for Nyayo Stadium but unfortunately, the facility is unavailable because of the early preparations to host First Lady Marathon,” said Mutwii. Prisons' sprint coach Stephen Mwaniki revealed that all their top sprinters will be available for the meeting. “All our sprinters will be available for the contest. Dan Kiviasi, Damaris Akoth, Maureen Jelagat, Hezbon Ochinge and Stephen Baraza who is making a comeback after long term injury will be competing.” Police are also expected to field a strong team, especially in sprints. Millicent Ndoro, Hellen Symbua, Veronica Mutua are some of the big names set to compete Dominic Ndigiti who won the 10,000m race walk in Eldoret will be the star attraction in the men’s walk. Ndigiti won the men’s race in a time of 45:27.4 ahead of Erick Shikuku (47:23.6) and Nehemiah Kiprono (47:36.6). African Games' 5000m bronze medallist Richard Yator Kimunyan who stormed into 10,000m victory is expected to continue with his form. World junior cross country winner Beatrice Chebet, who dominated 5,000m contest two weeks ago, beating her training mate Sandra Chebet will once again face off in Nairobi. After Nairobi this weekend,  the Embu will host the third meeting on  March 22-23 with final meet will be held in Kisumu on April 4-5. 