Plans to fence off the only rainforest in the country are in their final stages. A two-day meeting was held on March 7 at the Kenya Forest Service headquarters to finalise the agreements where a draft umbrella partnership agreement for the conservation of Kakamega Forest was prepared. The draft implementation agreement was also finalised at the meeting. The move to fence off Kakamega Forest is meant to ward off encroachments. It is estimated to cost over Sh378 million. The collaborative exercise will involve the Kenya Forest Service, the counties of Kakamega and Vihiga, the Rhino Ark Charitable Trust and Kenya Wildlife Service. Rhino Ark CEO Christian Lambrechts said they have already applied for a licence from the National Environment Management Authority. “We are hoping to get the license before the end of March. As soon as we get the license, we will mobilise resources." There are two major irregular excisions with settlements covering approximately 573 hectares. The larger part covers 443 hectares for Shikuza Prison comprising small built-up areas surrounded by extensive cultivation of crops. The other area, located in the southern part of the forest, covers an estimated 130 hectares which could be associated with the proposed Ishiru excision (Boundary Plan 180/215) that has never been formalised. Kenya Forest Service chief conservator Julius Kamau said the forest is a remnant of the rainforest that stretched across Central Africa. “It had been a long process as communities and other stakeholders had to be engaged. The area is highly populated and there is a bit of encroachment,” Kamau told the star on the phone. Kamau said KFS was working closely with Community Forest Associations to protect the rain forest. The fence will allow the forest to regenerate hence increase its cover, he said. Kenya’s forest cover is at 7.2 per cent against the global recommendation of 10 per cent. “The fence is not a barrier. It is supposed to monitor movements," Kamau said. Kakamega Forest was initially gazetted as a Trust Land Forest in 1933. It was then gazetted as a forest reserve in 1941 under the management of Forest Department – now KFS. In 1985, the northern part was gazetted as Kakamega National Reserve under the management of the Kenya Wildlife Service. Currently, it encloses approximately 24,819 hectares. The forest comprises of Kakamega Forest Reserve (19,675 ha) that includes Kakamega Forest Station (15,984 ha) and Kibiri Forest Station (3,691 ha); and the Kakamega National Reserve (4,468 ha). It also comprises Isecheno Nature Reserve (138 ha); and Yala Nature Reserve (538 ha). The entire perimeter of the Kakamega Forest is approximately 117 kilometres. Kamau said species are set to be re-introduced to enhance biodiversity in the forest. Communities too will benefit from ecotourism ventures, he said. Following the meeting at KFS, a visit to Karura Forest was organised to learn from the successful partnership established between Friends of Karura Forest and KFS. The partnership has enabled the transformation of Karura Forest to one of the most visited protected forests in the country. The forest has about 385 species of plants which are not found elsewhere in the country. Edited by R.Wamochie