Promotion-chasing National Super League side Nairobi City Stars are among a host of clubs who have come out to support the recent communication by FIFA that the status quo remains at the Football Kenya Federation contrary to a ruling by the Sports Disputes Tribunal which had disbanded the FKF National Executive Committee. FIFA Chief Member Associations Officer Veron-Mosengo Omba reiterated that the NEC and FKF President Nick Mwendwa remained validly in office pending a possible meeting between the world football body, FKF, the Ministry of Sports, SDT and relevant stakeholders. City Stars Chief Executive Officer Patrick Korir said whatever decision taken by the government on this matter should strictly favour the game and not individual interests. “For football to thrive, there has to be a conducive environment. Anyone following Kenyan football over the years should know that going to court to delay the electoral process has been a culture," he said He added “However, our football is not in a crisis as some are claiming. This will pass but, in the meantime, we must be careful that whatever decisions we make at this time are not detrimental to the real stakeholder and that is the player.”  claimed the veteran sports journalist NSL chair Johnston Sakwa who serves in a similar capacity at NSL side Nairobi Stima said sponsors will not stay if there is instability and asked the government to be tread carefully before taking any decision that might jeopardize the current stability. Sakwa also pointed out that players are the biggest stakeholders in football and any decision that is made should ensure that their welfare is of supreme importance. “The biggest stakeholder is the player. Unfortunately, if this standoff is not resolved amicably, they will suffer in terms of loss of income and annulment of contracts.Football requires stability to attract sponsors and anything that disrupts such stability we must resist,” he said. He added: “We urge that Fifa’s position on the stalemate be respected to enable us move forward and not lose out on the little that we have received. No sponsor will be willing to come and invest their money where there is chaos," he observed Kibera All Stars secretary Daniel Magara has also called for adherence to Fifa’s directive insisting it will help instil confidence among the sponsors. “We have 10 matches to go and this could be disrupted if the stalemate continues. We have had a good league, very competitive and the presence of a title sponsor has made it even more exciting. For continuity purposes, we need to abide by Fifa’s directive and when all is stable ensure the electoral process is concluded and we move forward.” Their statement was supported by other NSL clubs including Administration Police, Coast Stima, Fortune Sacco, Kenya Police, Muranga Seal, Mount Kenya United, Shabana, Ushuru, Vihiga United and Vihiga Bullets.