More than 50 pupils of Kitibei Primary School in Baringo North might miss school on Monday after their access road was barricaded on Friday owing to unresolved land dispute. On Friday, over 30 angry youth from Kapnyekwel clan armed with pangas and arrows, erected a barbed wire fence across the road. They also used logs and stones to seal off the newly opened three-kilometre Bartolimo-Korokorwonin-Kitibei all-weather road. The feeder road was commissioned last week by Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA John Aengwo. Resident Vincent Cherogony said the charged youth from Kapnyekwel village decided to block the road claiming their ancestral land has been destroyed. "They insisted on having audience from the authorities’ first before allowing the opening up and usage of the new road," he said. Cherogony said Kitibei residents watched helplessly as the road was fenced off. The road connects, among other public facilities, Kitibei Primary school, water sources, dispensaries, cattle dips, markets and churches. "Over the weekend, our families encountered difficulties accessing water sources and dispensaries. Our children may not get to school on Monday because all the routes have been sealed off," parent Simon Kemei said on Sunday. On Friday, Kitibei Primary School teacher Margaret Cheptirim said her pupils were forced to use a longer route home. "I fear they might not turn up on Monday," Cheptirim said. She urged the government to urgently address the situation before it gets out of hand. By Sunday, tension was still high in the area as the road remained closed. Baringo North subcounty commissioner Bobwocha Obwocha said he has scheduled a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the matter on the disputed land. "We expect all the affected communities to turn up to have the matter addressed, have the road opened and restore sanity," Obwocha said. Last week a man from Tiloi in Ossen-Kabartonjo ward in the same subcounty was shot with two arrows following a land boundary dispute which led to retaliatory attack. Four houses of the suspect were razed down. Ends 