As if the uncertainty over a ruling on the petition against the Sports Registrar is not enough, the Football Kenya Federation honchos now have to contend with the possibility of having a parallel football governing body. Over the weekend, it emerged that plans are underway to register a new federation if the current office-bearers maintain their stand not to conform to the Sports Act. Over 100 stakeholders from across the country met on Saturday in Nairobi and resolved to push for inclusivity in the forthcoming FKF elections, failure to which they will seek alternative options. “We are concerned about the way in which the Football Kenya Federation has conducted itself in the on-going football elections,” the stakeholders stated. They said that, because of the discriminatory eligibility criteria, candidates and clubs have been systematically locked out of the current elections without justifiable course. “The exclusionary strategies adopted using the eligibility criteria in the FKF 2020 Electoral Code is the reason why virtually all candidates in the on-going elections are unopposed. Clubs have been systematically locked out of proposing and voting for candidates,” added the statement. “Candidates with credible track records in football management have been locked out of the process using an eligibility criteria that does not meet the test of constitutionality. These exclusionary tactics are intended to shield the incumbents from competition.” “The football fraternity is being driven into a position where it has no choice but to find an alternative platform that ensures inclusivity. The football fraternity is not without options. May those who have sinned against football take note that those available options will be deployed if the current situation is not dealt with to the satisfaction of all stakeholders,” the delegates attending the meeting resolved. FKF have gone to the Sports Disputes Tribunal to have elections held this month without the federation necessarily conforming to the Sports Act. The stakeholders say this is a move to block clubs at the grassroots level. The attendees among them Mathare United chairman Bob Munro, veteran referees official Wycliffe Ogutu, former FKF president Sam Nyamweya, FKF presidential candidates Twaha Mbarak, Andrew Amukowa and Steve Mburu said that the looming registration has many inherent benefits that would, among other things, address some of the challenges facing the identification of eligible clubs in the current elections. But they also noted the challenges in the implementation of the Sports Act 2013. “Of notable concern is the challenge of the compliance burden. Many of the requirements for registration appear to be beyond the reach of the intended sports organisations at the grassroots. Access to the Registrar’s office is also a challenge given that the office has not been decentralised.” “We accordingly propose that the Registrar takes urgent steps to initiate a participatory review of the Sports Act with a view to aligning the same with the views and expectations of the sports fraternity in Kenya.” Meanwhile, the stakeholders have petitioned the government to come to the rescue of the cash strapped Kenyan Premier League. They want the government, through the Sports Fund, to donate Sh30m to each of the KPL clubs. “It is not lost on the delegates that since the withdrawal of the title sponsor and the broadcast sponsor, KPL is facing serious financial constraints that are threatening its hard earned status as one of the most competitive, professionally-run and corruption-free leagues in Africa,” they said. “The Sports Fund has built a massive financial war chest substantially funded from football related activities such as taxation of betting firms. It is our considered belief that if football is the primary source of funding for the Sports Arts and Social Development Fund, then the Fund must reciprocate by supporting football,” they stated. “The Premier League is the backbone of the national team and it is impossible for the national team to thrive unless the Premier League is doing well. We are informed that with a financial support of about Sh30,000,000 per Premier League team, the teams will be able to not only clear some pressing backlog of financial obligations but also manage to complete the remaining fixtures in the league. We therefore plead with the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Amina Mohamed, to immediately make available some Sh540,000,000 to the Kenyan Premier League to save the league from imminent collapse.”