The Special Economic Zones Authority wants Miwani Sugar Company excluded from the list of state-owned firms being privatised. This is to allow the cash-strapped sugar miller, which is under receivership, to be revived under the Special Economic Zones, SEZ acting CEO Meshack Kimeu said on Wednesday. Miwani Sugar factory was placed under receivership in 2000. “We have proposed to have Miwani excluded from the ongoing privatisation by the Privatization Commission so that we can have it revived under the SEZ programme," he said. Already the authority has secured 10,000 acres in the area to set up a Special Economic Zone in Miwani. If this proposal is successful, Kimeu said, the SEZ programme would give the necessary incentive to support and make the business more viable, profitable and sustainable. “The SEZ scheme will provide advantages in the operationalisation and management of Miwani as compared to the way it was operating as a non SEZ,”he said. Kimeu spoke during the county SEZ investment workshop aimed at sharing information with business community, members of the public and county government on the setting up of the county SEZ. Miwani is among state-owned firms listed for privatisation. The others are Nzoia,  Muhoroni, Chemelil and Sony sugar companies. The collapse of Miwani led to the collapse of the local social networks. More than 700 workers were left jobless and many children dropped out of school due to lack of fees. Late last year, cane farmers and residents who depended on the sugar miller narrated how lives were turned upside down after the firm collapsed. Miwani that was full of life has become a ghost town. The firm was the main driver of Miwani town’s economy. The situation has forced a number of farmers to abandon cane farming for other crops. Miwani resident John Otieno, 53, said they can hardly put food on the table. “Cane farming was profitable. Things changed when Miwani collapsed,” he said. Julia Apondo, 59, said there is no money in circulation like it used to be when the machines of the factory were roaring. 