Africa universities cross country silver medalist Benson Moshon will lead a strong team of 12 athletes to the World Universities Cross Country Championships scheduled for March 7 in Marrakech, Morocco. Moshon, of Kibabii University, will lead the men's team which also has Maseno University's Festus Kipkurui, Desmond Kiokoech of Laikipia, Jeremiah Ewoi of Kabianga University as well as Emmanuel Ngeno and Dennis Kibet of Kenyatta University. The women's team has Diana Wanza (Kenyatta), Viola Yator (Laikipia), Elizabeth Macharia (Kenyatta) Mavesin Simiyu, Gladys Kibii and Sharon Kemboi (all from the University of Eldoret). Moshon won silver during the Africa Universities Cross Country Championships held at Marrakesh last year. The same venue for the World Universities Cross Country. Athletics Kenya Universities secretary general Edward Muema is confident that Kenya will replicate their 2014 form which saw them emerge top of the World. “We will continue to show our prowess in athletics during the event. We are upbeat that again, we shall emerge victorious. The Marrakech-bound athletes participated at the national cross country championships in Nairobi two weeks ago as part of their preparations for the event,” said Muema. At the same time, the International University Sports Federation (FISU) says China will not participate in the World University Cross Country Championships following the outbreak of coronavirus. China will also not take part in Speed Skating in Amsterdam from March 10 to 13 and the Ski Orienteering in Rovaniemi, Finland from March 23-27. “FISU continues to monitor the situation closely ahead of the World University Wishu Championship and World University Squash Championship to be held in China in July,” said a FISU statement. He said the athletes will also participate in the 10th All Africa University Games to be held at Kenyatta University in Nairobi as from August 17 to 21. About 4,000 participants are expected to represent their respective universities across the African continent in the five day competition program consisting of 15 games that include athletics, chess, swimming, taekwondo, 3x3 basketball, badminton, table tennis, tennis, woodball, billiard and snooker, karate, basketball, football, volleyball, handball, rugby 7’s and netball. This will be the 3rd time for Kenya to host the events, commonly known as the FASU games, having hosted the 2nd FASU Games in 1978 and the 7th FASU Games in 2014 both at the University of Nairobi. The Federation of Africa University Sports (FASU) is a continental affiliate of the International University Sports (FISU) and a member of the Association of African Sports Confederation, with the mandate to oversee and organise continental university sports activities in Africa.