The idea is: fake it till you make it. At some point, this myth became society’s ‘truth’ – and yes, the concept sounds good. However, there is a downside. Faking it is time-consuming; plus, the time that you spend faking it could be invested in learning how to make it. Sadly, in modern culture, some people put much energy into looking rich but lack the skills to truly be rich. Are you truly rich or do you just look rich? What is your credit score? Do you have good credit? Is your success built on a solid foundation? Is your wealth solid? Or, have you built a smokescreen to confuse people? When the chips are down, are you truly rich? Or, are you drowning in debt while showing the public an expensive lifestyle? Do your systems, structure, and mode of your business operation display true wealth mentality? Can the numbers confirm your wealth claim? Social media has deceived many to think that looking rich is more important than being rich. So, daily, people post pictures and videos of themselves ‘living their best life’ and these posts put much pressure on them and others. Much of reality is hidden and people believe their fake existence. Meanwhile, for many, the reality is nothing like the posts of their lives on social media. On Instagram, they are millionaires, but offline, they’re broke. My big question to you is: do you want to look rich or truly be rich? Don’t get me wrong, some truly rich people enjoy displaying their wealth on social media and that’s fine. But if you know you’re not yet there, what do you want? The question is important because the thinking or mindset for truly being rich is different from the mindset for looking rich. If you invest your time in only looking rich, you may not have the time to truly be rich. So that if you’re not yet rich and wish to build wealth, what is it going to be? The mindset that you choose determines where you end up. The fake show of wealth when you have nothing ends in frustration. But, when you put in the hard work to truly become rich, the rewards are awesome. Be solid. That is what I recommend. Invest the time, energy and resources to build true wealth. Do the hard work, do the deep work. Strategically build the kind of wealth that grows generationally. Be solidly rich. Don’t fake it. Make it. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com