By now almost all of us, we think, have been flooded with all kinds of messages. Many predict doom, some assailing the authorities for not doing enough, doing the wrong thing; a few encourage the government. Quite a few have seen the messages of despair from abroad especially Italy, Spain, USA. China is yesterday’s news. The communication among ourselves reveals quite a bit about our character as Kenyans. It is as if they have been watching a movie about Kenya for many years, have dozed, then suddenly realised, “Oh my! Must have fallen asleep on the couch watching…" Then gone one to rub sleep off their eyes, and remembered: "Do not touch your face!" So, we slowly blink, as things unfold, unsure whether to continue watching and what exactly we should be watching. Are we like Italy and Spain? The 12th and 13th largest economies in the world with GDPs of $1.9 trillion and $1.3 trillion respectively? Italy and Spain’s economies are about 15 times larger than Kenya's. So they may not be the best countries to compare with. Among the people who are now waking up are politicians. Over the last few weeks, many have been silent. One's guess would be that many of them are active travellers, have children and relatives abroad and have been getting their families back home. The initial 14 days from March 13 when the first case was announced is now up. So there is an expectation of what next? The clamour for lockdown tells you that many do not believe we are heading in the right direction. So what should we fear? Our biggest concern should be not that people get Covid-19, but that the vulnerable do not get it and if they do, that our health services are able to manage. We are experiencing the first wave of the disease and it is likely that we will get another wave in the near future. The measures being taken now are meant to slow down the spread of the disease so that the health service can then sort it out. Everyone outside the health service is meant to be buying time. Pause for a second to think about that. An African buying time – not an expensive watch, but time. We are famous among ourselves for not keeping time. All our leaders love meetings. We start the day with meetings, then have other meetings about the meeting we just had, then meet to plan tomorrow’s meeting and the day is over. Tea was banned in the public sector a few months ago as part of austerity measures. In a move which now seems like preparing for Covid-19, it made public sector meetings just that little bit shorter, but also less productive, with more grumbling; but it did not reduce the number of meetings. The typical meeting scheduled on the hour would start 30-45 minutes late when the leader walked in, then drag on. Very few of our leaders respect the time of others in society – think about how government Toyota Prados weave through traffic, disrespecting those in traffic jams; their time is important, yours is not. So now we have a situation where our leaders are being asked to organise society to ensure that we buy time for the health teams to manage the pandemic. Is this possible? Can we gather and keep time? It requires a seismic shift in the way we think about the members of society. We have very limited health resources. From the basic preventive services to the curative services. Previously there has been an outlet for the well off. You could go to India, South Africa, Europe and America. This is currently not possible. There is now the possibility that a member of a county assembly will find herself in a bed next to a person from the village or informal sector. That a senior member of the government might have to use a health centre. Why? Because if we are buying time for the health services, then when we do get the time for them we will have to protect that time. The solution as we know is in our hands. Time to wash our hands with soap and water, build a clean society.