Pressure is mounting on the Prisons Department and the National Treasury to settle the contentious Sh6.2 billion pending bills claimed by suppliers. There are indications that the suppliers have planned demonstrations to push for the payment. Treasury sources told the Star they have information the demonstrations will be intense and likely to be disruptive. According to the plan, there will be sit-ins at the Prisons' offices in Nairobi and at the National Treasury Building starting today. This comes even as National Treasury conducts fresh investigations into the bills which four special audit teams have concluded as non-payable. Those with pending claims are required to provide documentation supporting their invoices to facilitate the second review. The bills took long amid suspicion that there was collusion between questionable suppliers and unscrupulous prison bosses to inflate them. A team of 48 auditors from EACC, DCI and Attorney General's office and another from the National Treasury reached the same conclusion. They found that there was an unlawful use of letters of credit in contracting for supplies and that some vouchers were missing. Prison stations were also found to have relied on authority to incur expenditure to pay. Some of the stations disowned some of the vouchers presented as part of the claims. Officers in other stations disowned signatures appended on claims for foodstuff which were not delivered. Duplicate payment vouchers were noted in some stations in the probe which revealed that none of the payment vouchers met the minimum requirements. The department’s position is that the claims can only be paid with the approval of the Pending Bills Multi-Agency Team currently reviewing the bills. Among the issues the new team will look at in studying the bills is whether the suppliers have met a 10-point criterion for payment. One, the claimants must be on the list of the prequalified suppliers for the year the items were supplied. Credit letter attached to the payment vouchers must have been signed by the officer in charge and copy provided to the district treasury. The signatures on credit letters and supporting documents will be counterchecked against the specimen signatures held at the Prisons headquarters. Unit prices quoted in the letter of credit must tally with the prequalified price for that particular year as well as dates on quantities for the detailed order. Delivery notes must be duly dated with the inspection as well as acceptance certificates must be attached to the payment claims. Payment vouchers must be declared as a pending bill. Suppliers facing investigations will not be paid until they are cleared by the respective agencies.