Good evening, The Senate Standing Committee of Devolution and Intergovernmental Affairs has promised to expedite Nakuru County's transition into a city because it was well prepared for the elevation. Committee chairperson, Laikipia Senator John Kinyua said the county had met all the legal requirements needed for the elevation which included, disaster preparedness, health, waste management, revenue collection, population and infrastructure among many others. These are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday met a section of governors from the Rift Valley ahead of the Nakuru BBI rally. The consultative meeting which took place at State House Nairobi saw the governors brief the president on the planning of the rally scheduled for March 21. According to Statehouse, the governors assured the President of their full backing of the BBI process and undertook to ensure unity and inclusion of all stakeholders in the run-up to the Nakuru rally. Kenya’s only white female giraffe and her calf have been killed by poachers. The deaths were confirmed today by community members and rangers of Ishaqbini Hirola Community Conservancy. Following the incident, only a lone bull remains. According to images sent in by the community, the giraffe was in a skeletal state after being killed by armed poachers. Dr. Allan Pamba has been appointed the new CEO of Nairobi Hospital. He takes over from Christopher Abeid who was CEO in an acting capacity since April last year when the then CEO Gordon Odundo was fired. Prior to his appointment, Pamba has been the Vice President of Global Health at GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)- a British multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Brentford, London. Senators want to be given more powers apart from just being the custodians of the county governments. These were part of their submissions on Tuesday they presented to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee. They were represented by Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, Minority Leader James Orengo, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior and Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has called for the disbandment of political parties that fail to secure any seat in the National Assembly During the general elections. Speaking on Monday when he submitted his recommendations to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee, Muturi said the move will be critical in enhancing the performance of political parties. "A political party that fails to win any seat at a proceeding general election should be struck off from the Register of Political Parties," Muturi said.