Gatundu South Kikuyu elders allied to Kiama Kia Ma elders council have proclaimed their support for the Building Bridges Initiative and the President. They have said MP Moses Kuria's opinion is his own, not theirs. Speaking on Saturday at Kirangi village in Ndarugo ward where they were taken through the contents of BBI, the elders said they will not follow anyone who is not supporting BBI. They said they stand and are behind President Uhuru Kenyatta his bid to unite Kenyans. "Those BBI should stop lying to Kenyans that BBI is meant to create seats for some people as BBI is promoting the unity of Kenyans and it is all-inclusive. We support the handshake which has brought peace," Isaack Kamau said. John Mukui Zack said, "We elected Kuria when he was following the President. We want to tell Kenyans that everyone has their opinion and the MP's does not represent Gatundu South." They said through civic education, they have understood the report is not aimed at fighting any community or anyone 'as earlier understood'. The elders said differences between leaders they put in power confuse Kenyans adding that those who oppose Uhuru will be in trouble. Kuria in his response said the elders should go to the people on the ground and know their true feeling about BBI. “The so-called Kiama Kia Ma, like many national and social institutions in this country, has been converted into a private enterprise which does not warrant comment anymore.” Lawyer and politician Kiarie Kamere who had conducted civic education on BBI said it will ensure every community is factored even during elections. "Those opposed to BBI are just looking for relevance by lying to Kenyans that BBI is meant to create seats for some individuals. BBI is meant to unite us all,"  Kamere said. Kiambi Kiama Kia Ma leader Njoroge wa Minai urged residents to read and understand BBI. Governor James Nyoro said BBI will bring development to the country "and ensure county allocations are done in the best way through one-man-one-vote-one-shilling". Earlier, Nyoro had said: "The President must be given his due respect. Anyone who will not accord him his honour, we will ensure we hunt and deal with them even if it is in their houses." Edited by R.Wamochie