Preparations for the coronavirus isolation centre at Mbagathi Hospital are in top gear to beat the Friday deadline set by President Uhuru Kenyatta. But the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority says it doesn't have the money. The President’s directive follows a public uproar over concerns the government is not ready to deal with the virus. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the120-bed facility would be completed within seven days as ordered by the President. The preparations team comprises officials from Kenyatta National Hospital and Mbagathi Hospital. The Kenya Medical supplies Authority has received a list of supplies needed for the centre. On Monday Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari confirmed the list but said the budget had not been provided. “A list has been done, quantification done and assessment of what we have in stock as per now has also been done,” Manjari said. He said Kemsa must procure  120 beds, masks, protective gear, hand sanitisers and medicine for the treatment of symptoms such as fever and pneumonia as well as oxygen in case of respiratory issues. Manjari said no masks will be exported. This is after it emerged that some middlemen were exporting masks to China despite a shortage. More than 86,000 people have been infected globally, with Thailand and the United States reporting their first deaths from the virus. Kenya has had 17 suspected cases, which were tested but turned negative. However, the resumption of flights between Kenya and China last week caused anxiety. The ministry had earlier confirmed that 615 health workers had been trained how to tackle the disease. Kemsa chairman Kembi Gitura said, "The coronavirus epidemic is a new dynamic that as the national supplier we have to deal with. So we can’t just bury our heads in the sand but will instead play our role so that we ease the burden." Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman had said they had identified an open ward with 120 beds at Mbagathi but will need a month to prepare it. Uhuru further directed that the identification and preparation of isolation and treatment facilities in level-5 and referral hospitals across the country be concluded by March 15. On Saturday, the government was under pressure to stop China Southern Airlines flying into Kenya and not to allow Kenya Airways back to Guangzhou. The Chinese airline flies four times a week between Nairobi and Guangzhou and last year added another route: Nairobi-Changsha, the capital city of China’s Hunan province. CS Kagwe said the government would work with the World Health Organization to find the best approach to minimise the risks. “We have resolved many issues of readiness on matters of surveillance on our points of entry, and not just Nairobi port. We have decided to extend our surveillance to other parts of the country where we have entry points such as Mombasa, Busia, Kisumu and others,” Kagwe said. “There is no guarantee that the virus can only find itself through Nairobi. Therefore, together with the Council of Governors, we are in cooperation to ensure emergency response centres have been established in the counties." Edited by R.Wamochie