Nairobi MCAs want to continue oversighting the key functions of the county Government despite them being transferred to the national government. The legislators have  also stamped authority that the representation, legislative, oversight and budget making on the transferred functions will remain with the county assembly. This comes as the deed of transfer between the County Government and National Government becomes effective tomorrow. The deal was signed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, on February 25, 2020, in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure efficient service delivery to Nairobi residents. The deed, in pursuant to Article 187 of the Constitution, will officially see county health services, transport services, planning and development, public works, utilities and ancillary services transferred to the national government for a renewable period of 24 months. In a report by the ad hoc committee of the county assembly, the legislators want powers to summon national government officials who will be part of the joint committee that will be in charge of the county. The report for the consideration of the deed of transfer of functions was tabled by Majority Leader Charles Thuo and was adopted on Thursday. The Ad hoc committee was formed on February 27, 2020, comprised 18 members with Speaker Beatrice Elachi as the chairperson. The committee mandate was to study the deed of transfer of functions and unpack its contents and implications and report back to the assembly. Majority Whip June Ndegwa urged the national government to not take advantage of the transfer of functions and misappropriate funds but support the county and revamp services. "All the 85 elected MCAs are now free to oversight without fear and contradiction. They now have a proper chance for the next two years to make sure that service is delivered to the Wanjikus," she said. Deputy Minority Whip Moses Ogeto said that the reality has now hit Nairobi that the governor, with his executive, failed. "The handover of the county has seen Sh16.7 billion transferred to the national government. We know they have an appetite for money but they will now see what and through oversight is. The governor has proved to us he has failed but we are here to help him wake up," he said. Highlighted in the report are submissions from the executive that state the transferred functions should not render the county government redundant. "Section 187 (2)(b) of the Constitution stated the execution of power shall remain with the government to which it is assigned. Meaning despite the transfer of functions the county government continues to exist," reads the report. The affected CECs include Charles Kerich (Lands, Urban Planning and Housing), Mohammed Dagane (Transport, Roads and Public Works) and Hitan Majevdia (Health). The reports also suggest that CECs affected should also continue to lead policy in their sectors and Chief Officers should continue as the accounting officers. It has been recommended that joint committees and joint authorities between the Nairobi County Executive and the National Government be formed. In terms of amendments, the executive proposed that the financing of Nairobi County to be administered as per the provisions of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012 with the Chief Officers as accounting officers. Also, the executive suggests national government staff to be seconded to the county to supervise and offer technical support towards execution of the transferred functions under their current employment terms. Other proposals include that the sector cabinet secretary and the CEC to be in charge of policy formulation. Also that the Principal Secretary and the County Chief Officers of the transferred functions to implement policy and oversee the execution of the functions.