Traders in Nairobi have been applauded for complying with the government directives as health officials intensify the war against coronavirus through the ongoing fumigation exercise across the capital. Over the weekend, Nairobi Public Health Department and the Ministry of Health officials fumigated the busy Eastleigh streets. Eastleigh is famously known for its trading malls and businesses. The team started the exercise at General Waruinge Street at 11 am on Saturday. Business shops in malls located at 1st, 2nd Avenue and the Chief area were fumigated. Nairobi County Health Deputy Director Wilson Langat applauded traders for supporting the exercise. “The traders have shown cooperation and closed their shops to let us carry out the fumigation exercise. This shows they are concerned and also ready to fight the spread of coronavirus,” he said on Sunday. On Monday, as fumigation exercise enters week three, the team will head to Westlands and Embakasi East subcounties. “We will try to cover almost all the 17 subcounties but our main target are the places where people gather in masses. In Westlands, we shall focus in its ‘centre’ area around the mall and its environs,” Langat explained. Currently, Nairobi County is leading with the cases of Covid-19 victims totalling to 28, which automatically makes it a hotspot area. Fumigation has already taken place in open-air markets; Gikomba, Muthurwa, Burma, Wakulima markets and City market as well. To avoid minimal interruption in businesses, fumigation will be taking place mostly in the morning hours. In the CBD, Aga Khan Walk, General Post Office (GPO), public resting areas around Hilton Hotel and National Archives, Kencom Bus Stage, Jeevanjee Gardens, Hakati Road, Tom Mboya Stage, Muthurwa Market, Ronald Ngala Street, Mfangano Lane have been fumigated. As measures put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus in Nairobi, more than 7,800 city residents have been voluntarily screened with the CBD between for the past two weeks. Data from the office of the County Executive for Health indicate that at least 675 health workers from 200 health centres have been trained on preventive measures against Covid-19 in Nairobi County. Also, 3,000 community volunteers had been trained on the same. The health workers and community volunteers are also sensitizing city residents in the wards on preventive measures against Covid-19.