Migori county health stakeholders have called on county government to investigate Tuesday dawn incident where a pregnant woman gave birth at the floor of a dispensary. Linet Otieno from Ragana village was rushed when in labour to Ragana dispensary at 3am where she was forced to give birth at the floor of the ward. “Labour started at night and I was rushed here, we only found a watchman who gave us the nurses phone number but they could not pick,” Otieno said. Two women who brought her, Millicent Ouma and Emily Atieno were forced to attend on her at the ward floor. “We have never seen such a scene since this dispensary was established here in 2007, it was only through God’s grace that there were no complications and both mother and child were alive,” Ouma said. Atieno said nurses at the facility have been skipping work putting their lives at risk. ”The first lady Margret Kenyatta has been running marathons to ensure mothers give birth in hospitals even going ahead to donate a mobile clinic in Migori only for such issues to set us back,” Atieno said. According to the ministry of health data, Migori is one of 15 Counties that account for over 60% of maternal deaths in Kenya. The latest estimate shows 673 deaths per 100,000 live births. African Institute for Development Policy (Afidep) in a statement on their website state that “birth-related complications are reduced when women give birth in a health facility.” The organisation said in Migori County, “just over half (53 per cent) of births are delivered in a health facility compared to the national rate of 61 per cent.” “Assistance by a skilled provider during delivery Obstetric care from a health professional during delivery is critical in reducing maternal and neonatal mortality,” Afidep said. Gershon Okello, the community representative at Ragana Dispensary said the case will scare off women from giving birth in hospitals which will increase child mortality. “We need more nurses at Ragana dispensary, we need county government to address the matter,” he said. Migori Health executive lsca Oluoch said the woman “should have delivered elsewhere,” but said they will investigate.