The chilly Sunday morning weather in Nairobi did not deter thousands of Kenyans from thronging Nyayo Stadium for the fifth edition of the Beyond Zero Half Marathon. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, the brains behind the initiative that creates awareness and supports maternal health care and the reduction of the child mortality rate, was at the venue early to flag off the races, starting with Paralympics 21km race at 6.30 am. Over 21,000 individuals took part in the five categories on show including the 21km half marathon, 10km and 5km. Coincidentally, yesterday’s race fell on the International Women’s Day, an occasion when the achievements of women worldwide are celebrated and challenges facing them recognised and plans of action formulated. With the overall goal of Beyond Zero Initiative being eliminating all preventable maternal and child deaths in Kenya by 2023, it was apt that the current health predicament facing the world was given a fair share of publicity. The coronavirus threat that looms large across the world was not far from the minds of the dignitaries present at the race like Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed as well as former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka. Instead of the usual handshake, Kalonzo opted to fist pump with those he greeted. Afterwards, like others before him at Nyayo Stadium, he cleaned his hands with sanitizer, a clear show of how critical hygiene is particularly at this disconcerting period. Tens of corporates came out in full force to support the Beyond Zero initiative given its primary objectives of raising awareness for the need for good maternal and child health and its relationship to a nation’s strength and prosperity, mobilisation of funds to support newborn and child health initiatives. The Central Bank of Kenya, Kenya Revenue Authority, Philips and KCB were just a few of the sponsors of yesterdays race. It was noteworthy the number of male participants in the race given that the target group of the Beyond Zero is women and children. The show of support went a long way to show men are finally recognising the need to empower women if the family unit is to be strong. Yesterday’s race also gave Kenyans a front-row view of the improvements done at the Nyayo Stadium facilities since renovations began three years ago and accelerated at the start of the year. Foldable seats have since been placed around the terraces in place of the concrete slabs many were used to. Vincent Kipchumba and Lydia Njeri were the winners of the 21-km men and women race respectively with Japan-based student Vincent Yegon carrying the 20km men ditto Evelyn Chirchir for the women.