The Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology will remain without a substantive vice chancellor for another six months. Education CS George Magoha has appointed Prof Solomon Shibairo to act for six months. Shibairo is currently the deputy vice chancellor (DVC) in charge of Academic and Student Affairs at Kibabii University in the neighbouring Bungoma county. This is the third acting VC to be appointed in the last 18 months. In December 2018, then-Education CS Amina Mohamed appointed Prof Joseph Bosire, then DVC Academic Affairs of Jaromogi Oginga Odinga University as acting VC for six months. In July 2019, Magoha appointed Prof Asenath Sigot as acting VC for six months. He later extended her tenure for a further three months, which elapse on Monday, March 30, 2020. Attempts to appoint a substantive VC for the Kakamega-based learning institution has been curtailed by court cases since the expiry of the term of the late Prof Frederick Otieno. Two cases are pending at the Labour and Relations Court challenging the process of appointing substantive office holders by the Public Service  Commission (PSC). One is by activist Okiya Omtatah who challenged the process after three members of the former university council took part in the interview process conducted by the PSC. The court gave an order that the status quo be maintained until a ruling is made. The new appointment by the CS Education is, therefore, in contempt of the court order. The other case was filed by the late Prof Otieno after he was left out in the interview process conducted by the Public Service Commission. Ten days ago, Magoha appointed Dr Jane Mutua as the university council chairperson for three years. He also appointed Stephen Muturo, Gathu Kiragu, Connie Mogaka and Peter Ogango as council members for three years with effect from March 10, 2020. The Kenya University Staff Union welcomed the appointments. "As long as the new appointments are good for the institution, we are ready to support him. I have talked to the majority of members and [they] are of the opinion that Prof Shibairo is a level-headed man," chapter chairman Onzere Mulingo told the Star on the phone. He said that though the acting VC appointment was irregular, the staff supports it. "If we have supported past VCs appointed irregularly and from other communities, why not Prof Shibairo?" he said.