Bungoma government has ordered the dead to be buried within 24 hours to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati also directed that running water and soap should be provided for handwashing. “We understand that our people like congregating when one of them has passed on but I want to tell my people that they should restrict such to a few relatives only,” Wangamati said. “Those attending burials should be provided with soap, water and sanitisers so that they are kept safe,” Wangamati added. With county commissioner Abdi Hassan, they also ordered the subcounty administrators, assistant County commissioners and other officers to enforce the directives. Wangamati also suspended county operations from the headquarters— other than essential services — by sending workers home. Only the departments of Health, Finance and the Office of the Governor shall remain open from Friday, March 20. “Henceforth, unless otherwise called upon, all county employees in departments other than the three shall work from home,” Wangamati directed. The governor also banned all market days in the county for the next 30 days. Wangamati said only markets serving small communities and neighbourhoods will be allowed to operate. However, Wangamatli's directive contradicts national government communication through Health CS Mutahi Kagwe who directed markets including those that deal with second-hand clothes (mitumba) to ensure their premises are disinfected on a regular basis. Vegetable markets are also required to ensure goods are displayed on disinfected areas and waste is collected daily. The governor also suspended all church functions, including weddings, night prayers and crusades. He called on the residents to remain vigilant and be on the lookout for coronavirus symptoms. Should they have the symptoms — fever, loss of appetite and headache and cough  — to seek immediate medical help from the nearest medical facility. He reported that he had talks with Kagwe and noted Bungoma county will be included among the 14 high-risk counties because it borders Uganda. “So far, Bungoma county government has set up 16-bed capacity at Webuye Level 4 Hospital as an isolation centre to help stop spreading of the coronavirus,” he said