BY ALICE WAITHERA  A delegation from the Swedish municipality of Upplands Bro is visiting Murang'a town as a partnership to improve the Central Kenya town begins. The Murang’a municipality signed a deal with Upplands Bro for a twinning partnership in July last year. Murang’a Municipal Board vice-chairperson Judy Makira said the partnership was established to strengthen projects in both municipalities. Makira said the board sent representatives to the Swedish town in October last year and the officials benchmarked on governance system and visited cultural centres. And last week, Upplands Bro sent a delegation led by deputy mayor Martin Normark and the town’s deputy manager Karl Ohlander to Murang’a town. The team visited local institutions including Vidhu Ramji Primary School, Murang’a University of Technology, Gaitega Polytechnic and Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine that is believed to be the cradle of the Agikuyu community. Makira said the partnership is funded by ICLD, a Swedish organisation that seeks to reduce global poverty by enhancing local democracies. “The twinning partnership is mutual and is expected to benefit both municipalities. We are now at the inception stage where the two municipalities visit each other,” Makira said. Makira is the coordinator of the programme in Murang’a municipality. She said she will sit down with Upplands Bro’s coordinator to map out projects that will be undertaken in the two towns. The projects will be mainly based on culture, leisure, sports and youth. The two coordinators will then submit the projects to ICLD and apply for funding. Makira lauded the county government for supporting the programme and facilitating the Swedes’ stay in the county. “We paid a courtesy call to Governor Mwangi wa Iria early in the week and he assured us of his support,” she said. Municipal Partnership Programmes facilitated by ICLD are developmental associations between Swedish municipalities, regions and county councils, and their equivalents in countries where the average income is between low and medium. The board’s chairperson Benson Githinji who had accompanied the Upplands Bro delegation to Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine on Friday said the municipality intends to extend its boundaries to cover the shrine. The new boundaries will also extend to Maragua and will increase the population covered to about 110,000, ensuring more people benefit from the municipality. “We are now waiting for the gazzettement of the new boundaries by the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC),” he said. Githinji said the partnership will foster a symbiotic relationship with the Swedish municipality and will provide numerous beneficial opportunities for locals. Normark said the visit to Murang’a had exposed them to interesting cultural practice. He said Murang’a town has the capacity to grow even faster than Upplands town in the eastern central region of Sweden. Ohlander said the two towns are currently finding common goals that will create sustainable linkages between them.  edited by peter obuya