Now that schooling has been halted due to the Coronavirus outbreak, this should not be the end of learning for millions of Kenyan students. Despite the schools' closure, parents can ensure that their children keep learning through the country's main education channel. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development - KICD has put measures in place to keep the school going children busy amid the closure of schools. Through its radio programmes, learners in primary and secondary school will be able to tune in and listen to various subjects. The move comes after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the closure of all learning institutions amid precautions of spreading the Coronavirus. The radio programmes target learners in Grades 3 and 4 as well as classes 5, 7 and 8 through KICD's media extension services broadcast to schools. Form threes and fours will also benefit from the program to broadcast in Nairobi, Limuru, Nakuru, Western Kenya, Mombasa, Malindi and Nyeri. The learners will be taken through English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, Science, Hygiene and nutrition, CRE, Social studies, Life skills and Civic education. Other lessons will include Drug and substance abuse, life skills and peace education, business studies, Geography, Biology, Agriculture and Kiswahili fasihi. President Uhuru in his address on Sunday said all-day schools should remain closed effective Monday. Subsequently, boarding schools have until Wednesday to roll up and close as a precaution to the COVID-19 outbreak. Universities, colleges, and technical institutions have until Friday to close down. Earlier on, the Ministry of Education directed all schools to ferry their students home using their school buses. In a circular on Monday morning, Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said the directive affects buses belonging to boarding and day schools. “Schools should make arrangements to use school buses to ferry learners to their homes or nearest designated drop-off points which must be within proximate distance to be picked by their parents,” Magoha said. Schools were also required to liaise with public service vehicles to ensure matatus boarded by their students are sanitized in accordance with the Ministry of Health recommendations. “Schools should organize with NTSA licensed public transport providers to pick learners from schools. The vehicles must not carry any other passenger(s) en route,” the circular read. Uhuru's directive to close all learning institutions came amid fears of congestion in majority of schools in the country. It is perceived that schools in the country suffer the burden of congestion occasioned by 100 per cent transition, and poor hygiene that could catalyse the spread of the virus.