The government has urged those opposed to the construction of the Malewa dam in Kinangop, Nyandarua county, to rethink their decision. The state says the multi-billion dam is critical to the sustainability of the Industrial park in Mai Mahiu Naivasha and thousands of water consumers in Naivasha and Gilgil. During a public participation process two months ago, stakeholders said the dam could kill Lake Naivasha, which is the source of livelihood for flower farm workers and fishermen. Deputy President William Ruto said the dam was critical to the economy of the country and the health of residents of Naivasha and Gilgil. Speaking in Kasarani Gilgil constituency, Ruto said that the water sourced from the dam would be used in the multi-billion Industrial park in Mai Mahiu Naivasha. “The government respects the rule of the law and we cannot force this project on the masses and all that we are asking for is reasoning as the dam will be of major benefit,” he said. “We have directed the Ministry of Water to start fresh negotiations with stakeholders so that we can embark on the construction of the critical dam,” Ruto said. Ruto said that the government has already received a Sh35 billion grant from World Bank for the dam whose water will be used by residents of Naivasha and Gilgil. “For years residents of Naivasha and Gilgil have suffered due to the high levels of fluoride in the water they consume and this dam will address this problem,” he said. Gilgil MP Martha Wangari deplored the increasing number of hippo attacks involving fishermen in Lake Naivasha. “There is urgent need to have a rescue boat around the lake so that we can help address the issue of hippo attacks and drowning,” he said. The chairman Lake Naivasha Landscape Association Paul Ruoya was quick to note that they were not opposed to capital projects by the state. He  called for consultations and proper environmental research before the dam project is built to save and protect the lives of hundreds around the lake. “If all the project is implemented there will be lots of negative implications around the lake and this will lead to job losses in all sectors,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)