The family of the Covid-19 patient who died at the Aga Khan Hospital has asked the government to let them have a say in his burial. The family raised concerns over the government's plan to cremate the body of the 66-year old without involving them. A family member who spoke to the Star said so far since the patient died, the government has kept them in the dark on the way forward. According to the relative, some officials from the Health ministry visited the family’s Buruburu residence but did not utter a word. "They just came but did not utter a word, not even to his widow who recently underwent a head surgery and is under chemotherapy," the relative said in confidence. He said the family is ready to abide by what the government will give in terms of how the remains of the deceased will be disposed of. “Morris Namiinda was an elder who believed in traditions, as a family we are saying we have no room for cremation, his body must be physically laid to rest at his Trans Nzioa farm,” he said. “We acknowledge that coronavirus is here, and Namiinda’s death is the first in the country but that should not be used to stigmatise us, we are already bereaved and in mourning." He said they want physical burial so that when the pandemic is over, they will get an opportunity to perform their customs. The government must give us regular correct information to avoid fears that they planning to dispose of the body. The virus will not last forever and we can only mourn on the grave when that time comes,” he said. But the government dismissed these claims terming them rumours. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna said the government was mindful of the family and would not make any decision without involving them. "The government cannot do such a thing, we are mindful of people’s beliefs and customs," Oguna said. “We are currently having consultative meetings bearing in mind this is the first death we have experienced and we need to agree on the best way possible. Once everything has been laid out, the next of kin will have to be informed”. Oguna reiterated that despite the outcome of the meeting, the family will be given the right to decide the burial date and other things. His sentiments were echoed by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe who said the government would make an announcement later in the day. “Right now I have nothing to comment because we are still consulting but the matter shall be conclusively addressed in today’s briefing,” he said. The CS did not give any updates on the same during the briefing. The Nairobi businessman was the first Kenyan to die of the virus on Thursday afternoon. Kagwe said he died at the hospital's intensive care unit. “The man who was suffering from diabetes had arrived in the country on March 13 from South Africa via Swaziland (Eswatini)," Kagwe said. The man's relatives also announced his death on social media and detailed his last travels. "It is likely he contracted the virus in South Africa," an official aware of the case told the Star. Following his death, there are now 38 reported coronavirus cases in Kenya, with one of them having recovered. CS Kagwe said of these, two are critical - a French national and Kenyan - at the ICU of Aga Khan University Hospital. The CS said the seven more cases had tested positive in 24 hours. Nairobi is leading with 28 cases, followed by Kilifi with six. Mombasa has two cases while Kajiado and Kwale each have one case. Edited by R.Wamochie