The National Gender and Equality Commission has dismissed plans for its dissolution by the National Assembly saying such a move requires a referendum. A bill before the House seeks to merge NGEC with the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. A Kenya Human Rights and Equality Commission will be formed if the bill by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni is passed. The legislation seeks to repeal the Act that established NGEC and assign it the vice-chair post in the new entity. The Ombudsman will not be affected. But NGEC says the commission was established within the confines of Chapter Four of the Constitution on the Bill of Rights. “The dissolution of NGEC can only be done through a referendum pursuant to Article 255 (1),” commission boss Joyce Mutinda said. The body argues that Article 59 – on which Kioni is basing his proposal – only gives Parliament power to restructure KHREC into two or more commissions. “Parliament has no power to amalgamate or merge as suggested by Section 55 of the KNCHR and Commission on Administrative Justice Acts,” she said. Her basis is that the commission is only subject to the Constitution and the law, therefore, independent and not subject to direction or control by any person or authority. Anxious of reversed gains in gender rights, Mutinda further avers that the NGEC Act has no provision for review of its mandate by Parliament as is the case of the Commission for Administrative Justice and KNCHR. “Of the three commissions, NGEC has the widest and broadest mandate with 16 functions against 13 for CAJ and 10 for KNCHR,” she said. The commission further argues that it runs the risk of losing strategic clarity and focus citing imminent danger in losing out on mainstreaming issues of special interest groups. “We, therefore, submit that NGEC should be allowed to remain as it is to continue with its oversight mandate on matters of gender equality and freedom from discrimination,” Mutinda said. Kioni, in his bill awaiting second reading, argues that functions of KNCHR and NGEC can be performed by one agency. “The effectiveness of both the institutions will be streamlined and this will be cheaper to the taxpayer,” the bill reads. Public Service and Gender CS Margaret Kobia said the issue is best dealt with in the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative process. She told the Star that as much as they could be overlapping functions, “it doesn’t have to do away with NGEC which is more visible". “This is a wakeup call for this matter to be looked into in the review of commissions by the BBI team,” the CS said. She argued that if the issue of the wage bill is what's persuading the intended merger, “there is a need to consider that the expenditure of the commissions is way below compared to other state agencies". Senators made an attempt to merge the two agencies in 2018 when KNCHR put a strong case in favour of the merger. The rights body cited a glaring legislative anomaly and functional overlap at national and international levels following the Act that limit their functions with regards to the rights of special interest groups. The agency has over time indicated it is “supportive of an approach that is aimed at solving the challenges tied to the mandates". “The terms and logistics should be discussed, negotiated and process mediated to ensure a successful merger,” outgoing chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori recently told the Star. Should the Bill be passed, President Uhuru Kenyatta will be expected to create a selection panel under the KNCHR Act. Edited by R.Wamochie