 Small scale businesses have run out of stock as the shutdown occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic hits enterprises. The Small Scale Traders Association chairman Samuel Karanja on Thursday said lockdown in countries such as China and Italy has left them with nothing more to sell after they ran out of stock. “We do not have any imports coming in. Literally, we have finished some of our stocks,” Karanja said. He said Kenya was a big consumer of cosmetic products with the industry among the worst hit by the Covid-19 shutdown. Karanja said businesses had ran out of stock. He said the traders last received supplies in February when President Uhuru Kenyatta directed government agencies involved in clearance of goods at the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi to expedite the release of hundreds of containers held at the facility. The goods were mainly owned by smallscale traders who cannot afford to import full consignments. They pooled together their merchandise into a container. In a statement, Karanja said traders had finished the suppliers that had been cleared and were planning to return to China to buy more. “As we speak, motor vehicle and motorcycle spare parts are not coming into the country at all. Some traders along Kirinyaga Road in Nairobi have closed their shops and are at home,” Karanja said. Uhuru had warned traders against hiking prices of commodities due to the shortage caused bu the shutdown across many countries. Industrialisation and Trade Cabinet Secretary Betty Maina last week said Kenya was taking the coronavirus pandemic very seriously as the outbreak had disrupted supplies for traders. Kenya’s economy tops African countries with the highest risk exposure to the virus ahead of other destinations where the disease has been diagnosed. A report by South Africa’s Rand Merchant Bank said Kenya’s economy has the highest overall Covid-19 risk score of 27 points, followed by Ghana at 24 and Egypt at 23. Kenya has a strategic location as a regional transport hub for landlocked Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan. Experts have consequently warned that the effects of the recent cancellation of ships scheduled to dock at the port of Mombasa is bound to reverberate across the Eastern Africa region. The Treasury is preparing a tax relief for traders and homes hit by coronavirus. Banks have also been asked to allow personal borrowers who get into difficulties to extend their loans for up to a year. Uhuru said fiscal measures will be unveiled in the coming days to cushion workers and businesses from the economic slowdown triggered by the pandemic.  edited by peter obuya