Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju returned to Karen Hospital in Nairobi to thank doctors and medical staff for saving his life following his February 12 road accident. Speaking to the media at the facility, Tuju said he would forever remain grateful to the staff at Karen Hospital and Kijabe Mission Hospital. “You did a great work of saving my life. Coming out of it was a miracle,” the Jubilee Party secretary general said. He was involved in an accident at Kijabe on his way to Kabarak for former President Moi's burial. Tuju said it was a regret that he will not participate in the hospital’s annual marathon to raise funds for children with heart diseases. "I have been participating in the Heart-to-Heart Marathon for 27 years now and I feel bad that I will not be part of this year's event on Saturday," he said. Funds from the marathon have enabled more than 600 children with heart ailments to undergo surgery over the 27 years. This year’s event hopes to raise funds to cater for the surgeries of 20 children on the waiting list. The run attracted 20,000 participants last year and expects more than 30,000 people this year. “I have been looking at the hospital as one which only took care of children, but now the facility is also taking good care of me,” Tuju said. The CS was rushed to Kijabe Mission Hospital where he underwent emergency surgery and was later flown to Karen Hospital, where he stayed for eight days before being flown to London for further treatment. Doctors at Karen Hospital said they expected Tuju, who suffered 12 broken ribs, among other injuries, to make a full recovery in two months. “He is a real fighter and has a positive attitude. In two months, he will even be driving,” said Premanand Ponoth, chief of cardiothoracic and vascular surgery. He explained that Tuju's lungs collapsed after the broken ribs punctured them. Also at the briefing were Daniel Gikonyo (founder and trustee), Betty Gikonyo (founder, trustee and CEO) and James Mageria (founder and trustee). Tuju said he is now able to walk without any assistance and his muscles are becoming stronger. He jetted back to the country on Saturday after two weeks in a UK hospital. The doctors said they were amazed at his rate of his recovery over the last few days. Tuju said he will be briefed tomorrow or on Monday on the current political situation. “Right now I'm not thinking about politics. My concern at the moment is my health," he responded when asked about a scheme to impeach Deputy President William Ruto. Gikonyo appealed to politicians and friends to give Tuju time to rest. “Let us not go to his home all the time until he is unable to rest. Please give him a few weeks to have a good rest,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori