Mombasa has banned all night clubs from operating for the next 30 days in the wake of the coronavirus case in the country. The move has been opposed by nightclub owners who say they have been unfairly targeted. The Mombasa County Emergency Response on Covid-19 Committee, co-chaired by Governor Hassan Joho and County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, placed the ban on Saturday as part of measures against the spread of the coronavirus. However, the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya (Perak) Coast chapter on Sunday said they were not consulted on such an important decision. “Of course, that is very negative on our businesses. How come stakeholders were not involved?” posed Perak Coast chair Patricia Njeri. Speaking to the Star on phone, Njeri said this compounds their woes considering their liquor licences were recently doubled from Sh100,000 to Sh200,000. “We have salaries, rent and suppliers to pay. How are we going to pay them if we do not do business for a whole month? “At the moment, we are still grappling with the increased exorbitant licenses. Now this? Come on,” said Njeri. The Coast chair said the decision to single out nightclubs is suspect. She noted such a decision has not been taken in Rongai, the epicentre of the virus in Kenya. “If it is about the coronavirus, there are so many other places that have many people at a go like the ferry. Why single out on nightclubs,” said Njeri. The county also restricted ordinary bars and restaurants to operate up to 11pm. But Njeri said the virus does not chose when to infect people. She said allowing operation for bars and restaurants to operate till 11pm also exposes those who go there during those operational hours. “We need to have a meeting with the committee and discuss this. Many people will be negatively affected,” said Njeri. Mombasa has more than 20 nightclubs with each employing an average of about 30 people. That means at least 600 families in Mombasa will be affected by this decision as they will have no salary and income for the next 30 days. On Saturday, Sheba Lounge Mombasa announced its closure following the directive by the county. “To our esteemed customers, Sheba Lounge Mombasa will be closed until further notice due to the decision taken by the National and County Government. See you soon,” said the lounge on its Facebook page. According to a nightclub owner in Bamburi who sought anonymity, the club is likely to lose about Sh3 million in profits. “On a good day, we make up to Sh300,000 in profits. This is a huge blow. Even before the ban, patrons had already reduced in number,” said the owner. A bar owner in Bamburi, which is fast becoming the entertainment hub of Mombasa, said the county may be getting back at them because of their court action. While other stakeholders chose to negotiate with the county over the increased license fees, bar owners refused and went to court instead. “You remember how Best Lady cosmetic shop was treated after they went to court over painting their shop? I believe this is also happening to us,” said the bar owner who did not want to be identified. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers executive officer Sam Ikwaye said the move to ban nightclubs is likely to kill the Mombasa economy further. “This is a delicate moment. We understand public health is important but this will force some nightclubs to fire people, who may not come back even when the ban is lifted,” said Ikwaye. All passengers on the SGR terminal will also be  provided with hand sanitizers. The committee, co-chaired by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, also suspended prison visits for the next 30 days. Visits to the sick in hospitals have also been restricted to two immediate family members per patient. Among the suspended activities are all interschool functions, all public gatherings and meeting events, all interagency, inter institution and inter-religious meetings and gatherings. Joho and Kitiyo announced that a door-to-door sensitisation campaign on good hygiene will be conducted. All religious institutions, hotels and government agencies are to provide worshipers with soap, water and sanitisers. Joho said hotlines will also be set up and will be published in the dailies. The hotlines include 0777777242, 0734881233 and  0793390984. "These are hotlines ready to respond to any query and assistance needed," said the governor. Kitiyo said when one suffers symptoms they should self-quarantine, call the hotlines and public health officers and experts will respond. He said the officers will come to the specific area where the caller is, do some test before taking other necessary steps. "Let us walk together. Don't look for criticism," Joho said when asked about measures on ECD centres that are run by the county government. He said the Rahamtula Unit at the Coast General Hospital is ready for conversion into a coronavirus isolation Unit. It has a 19-bed capacity. The governor also said the county will also use two more level four hospitals that have been built but are yet to be opened, as isolation units. These are Marimani and Mtongwe level four hospitals in Kisauni and Likoni constituencies respectively. The two have more than 30 beds. "We are ready," Joho said. He said currently, the county is looking to create ventilations in those new facilities. Joho however said the preventive measures that must take place must begin at home. "That is why we are having this sensitisation programme that we will run a campaign on. "The rest is for us as individuals to do. That is why we ask for maximum cooperation in this," said Joho.