Senators want to be given more powers apart from just being the custodians of the county governments. These were part of their submissions on Tuesday they presented to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee. They were represented by Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, Minority Leader James Orengo, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior and Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika. The senators said they want to be allowed to vet and approve the nominees to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Chairs and Members of Constitutional Commissions, Chief Justice, Deputy Chief Justice, Auditor General, Inspector General Police and the Controller of Budget. As a result, the MPs will only vet and approve the Cabinet Secretaries, Attorney General, Secretary to the Cabinet, Principal Secretaries, High Commissioners, Ambassadors and Diplomatic and Consular Representatives. Senators have said that MPs will not be able to vet their colleagues for ministerial posts fairly if they are appointed for ministerial posts as suggested in the BBI report. According to the BBI report, Cabinet Ministers and Ministers of State are to be drawn either fully or partially from within the membership of the National Assembly. If implemented, the senators said the approval processes required under the Constitution would consequently shift in entirety to the senate for purposes of providing checks and balances. The senate also suggests that all approvals of nominees for appointment to State Offices relating to the formation of Government or which have a direct bearing on the performance of the Government of the day be approved by the National Assembly. It said that all approvals of nominees for appointments to State Offices not directly related to the formation of Government and which enjoy the security of tenure be approved by the Senate. The senate said that in order to ensure equity in the appointment of persons nominated to serve in State offices, the second chambers of such jurisdictions had a critical role to play in the approval of officers nominated to serve in State offices. They have however said that ministers should be appointed from the membership of the two Houses.