Lewa Wildlife Conservancy has suspended all public gatherings, in-person meetings and events until further notice to protect people against coronavirus. CEO Mike Watson said in a statement, "All Lewa public gatherings, in-person meetings and events are suspended until further notice. Guests are asked to sanitise their hands upon arrival at the Lewa airstrip." The Lewa Safari Marathon is, however, still scheduled to take place on June 27, 2020. Watson said they will be in touch with Lewa Safari Marathon participants with more information as the situation evolves. Watson said they have also put in place adequate measures to safeguard visitors, employees and residents against coronavirus. "As countries around the world implement measures to safeguard communities, we at Lewa Wildlife Conservancy are also doing our part," the CEO said. He said the management of the conservancy is following the guidelines of the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Health in response to the elevated risks of the COVID-19 virus. All employees with a fever, cough, and/or difficult breathing should not come to the office and should visit a hospital for assessment, he said. Watson urged staff members to wash their hands before entering Lewa offices. He said alcohol-based sanitisers had been provided at office entrances, guest houses, the airstrip, the workshop and at the clinic. "Lewa’s four supported health clinics are in close communication with local health authorities and will refer all suspected COVID-19 cases to the Meru County Hospital for observation. In addition, a health facility in the area has been designated for quarantine should any suspected cases arise," Watson said. Watson said the conservancy will continue to work closely with lodge managers and travel partners to ensure visitors are safe. "If you have upcoming plans to visit, your lodge and/or travel agent will contact you directly to provide more information and answer any questions that you may have." On March 15, the government suspended entry for travellers from countries that have reported COVID-19 cases. This measure will be in place for 30 days. During this time, Kenyan citizens may enter but are required to self-quarantine for 14 days. The national government has confirmed four cases of COVID-19. The first case was confirmed on Friday last week. Two more cases were announced on Sunday and the fourth case was confirmed on Tuesday. The patients are clinically stable and undergoing treatment at Kenyatta National Hospital. Edited by A. Ndung'u