No national team coach will be appointed on close contracts if a proposal by Football Kenya Federation is adopted. The decision comes in the wake of a communique from Fifa’s Disciplinary Committee directing that former Harambee Stars head coach Adel Amrouche be paid Sh109million in compensation for wrongful dismissal. The communication, according to a statement from FKF, was signed by Fifa Disciplinary Committee chairperson Yeboah Anin. Additionally, It directed that the payment to Amrouche be made within the next 30 days, failure to which Fifa will sanction Kenya. “Essentially, the federation, in an effort aimed at preventing a re-occurrence of the aforementioned case that was occasioned by former FKF president Sam Nyamweya, has henceforth adopted a policy that prohibits the hiring of national team coaches, at all levels on closed contracts,” read the FKF statement. The federation has also been fined an additional Sh4 million as costs sustained in connection with the arbitration and Fifa Disciplinary Committee proceeding. “In view of the foregoing, the federation, whilst remaining optimistic, continues to actively engage both the government and Fifa, with a view of finding possible solutions to enable Kenya to deal with the matter conclusively and without the possibility of having to be sanctioned,” read the statement from FKF. FKF, under Sam Nyamweya, appointed Amrouche as Harambee Stars coach on a one-year contract. The Belgian was given an improved 5-year-deal effective January 2014 after Harambee Stars won the 2013 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup Amrouche’s contract was terminated after he was suspended by Caf forcing him to file a case at the Fifa Player Status Committee,  demanding compensation for wrongful dismissal. Fifa confirmed the decision of the Players Status Committee to award Amrouche Sh65 million plus interest that had accrued since July 2014. However, Amrouche appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) as he was not satisfied with the amount that was awarded to him by Fifa’s Players Status Committee. FKF also filed a petition at CAS contesting the amount awarded to Amrouche. In September last year, CAS made a ruling on the matter, awarding Amrouche Sh108,194,863 in compensation for wrongful dismissal. CAS further directed FKF to pay Amrouche a further Sh1,181,511, bringing the whole amount to a total of Sh109,376,374.