The father of the late slain Seargent Kipyegon Kenei now says the blood of his son will haunt and torment his killers. John Chesang while eulogising his son said it is difficult for him to come to terms with the gruesome murder at such a time when the late was gaining stability in his life. Chesang said while vowing that the blood of his son will not go to waste said, “My son's blood will haunt those who killed him and I am pleading with the government through the Directorate of Criminal Investigation to bring the culprits to book”. Chesang appealed to DCI boss to investigate the matter without political meddling. He described Kenei not only as a son but a friend with whom he shared a lot as equals. While demanding for speedy investigations,  Kenei’s young widow Judy Chepsoi said justice for her husband will be justice for their one month baby. Kenei was found dead in his house at Villa Franca in Imara Daima the same day he was expected to record a statement with the DCI over the Sh39.5 fake military arms deal. She eulogised him as a loving husband and a dedicated father to his two sons. Amid sobs, Chepsoi who was married to Kenei for a year and few days before he met his death said her husband was everything a woman would want. "Nonetheless, the one year and few days of being parents are the most gratifying, fun-filled, fulfilling and the happiest I could ever imagine," she said. Chemasis village in Solai where Kenei was interred was shocked by the turn out at the burial. More than 1,000 people including his former classmates attended the service. Deputy President William Ruto, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, Bahati MP, Kimani Ngunjiri, Langata legislator, Nixon Korir and their Njoro counterpart, Charity Gathambi were among politicians who graced the send-off. His former classmates at Baringo High School class of 2004 done in white T-shirts written 'Chairman Kentos' as they fondly called him. Most of his former classmates described him as a likable person who socialised with everyone. Cyprian Nyamweno said Kentos was the gel that bound the former classmates.