The management of KCA University has suspended the planned shut-down of the institution’s Amagoro campus in Busia. University council member Prof Olubayi Olubayi told the Star the decision was arrived at after KCA University Vice Chancellor Noah Midamba met Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and other county leaders. The leaders requested that the campus remain open, Olubayi said on the phone. “The entire county government requested the university council to allow KCA Amagoro campus to remain open. They will give it full support.” One challenge the campus has been grappling with is low student numbers, which led the university council in late 2019 to question its sustainability. During the Friday meeting in Busia, Ojaamong pledged to sponsor 130 students through the county bursary scheme to the institution to boost students’ numbers. “My government will sponsor students to undertake various courses at the college. More will be sponsored in the next financial year,” he said. Ojaamong said KCA University’s presence in Busia had improved education standards in the county. Midamba said the intervention of Busia leaders to stop the university from closing the campus will improve education standards in Busia. “Students should brace for a blend of courses offered at KCA which has the highest employability at 80 per cent and rated the best private university in Kenya,” he said. On December 26 last year, a source at the institution told the Star the university council had resolved to shut down Amagoro campus following a sharp drop in student numbers. But Prof Olubayi, then, maintained that no such decision had been taken. “The only problem we have is that the enrolment at Amagoro campus has declined. But overall, KCA University is doing well,” he said. The leadership of Teso played a key role in ensuring high student enrollment at KCA Amagoro when the branch was opened. The county government and offices of Teso North and South MPs then aided hundreds of students who enrolled at the institution through the National Government Constituency Development Fund bursary and county bursary scheme allocations. KCA Amagoro has been recording a drastic drop in the number of students. Sources at the university attribute the development to bad politics involving some local leaders and managers. KCA University was founded in 1989. It started as the Kenya College of Accountancy run by the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya to improve the quality of accountancy and financial management training in the country.