The Nakuru county government has been urged to partner with KWS in patrolling Lake Naivasha to reduce the number of deaths involving foot fishermen. This comes as a former flower farm worker drowned in an underground canal near Tarambeta beach in Kasarani centre while on an illegal fishing mission on Sunday evening. Last week, two foot-fishermen - poachers - were attacked and killed by hippos in separate incidents near Karuturi farm. Witness James Kamau said the latest victim fell into the canal and drowned as other fishermen tried to save him. He noted that poverty and lack of jobs in Naivasha had pushed the youths into illegal fishing for daily bread. “Many of these foot-fishermen are jobless youths who hail from informal settlements around the lake and they have no other source of livelihood but the lake,” he said. Friends of Lake Naivasha chairman Francis Muthui said the situation was getting worse by the day. He said illegal fishermen in the lake outnumbered the licensed ones. “The only way we can reduce these deaths is by the county government partnering with KWS to patrol the lake and keep away the illegal fishermen,” he said. Last month, a fisherman was attacked and killed by a hippo while setting nets near the landing beach with a colleague. Last year in November, a man died after slipping into a trough dug by flower farms years ago to collect water from the lake. A week before, two men drowned while illegally fishing. Meanwhile, one person died and others injured following an accident involving three vehicles along the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway. During the accident near Kinungi, residents carted away cooking oil worth thousands of shillings that was being transported by one of the vehicles. Witness Paul Kiarie said the driver of the canter ferrying the oil lost control and rammed two oncoming vehicles before rolling. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed the incident, noting that the body had been taken to the town’s mortuary and the wrecks towed to Naivasha police station. Edited by R.Wamochie