Coronavirus disease has been described as one that knows not social class, race or age. The effects of Covid-19 have been felt across the globe. In Kenya, small businesses and large corporations alike have been crippled, with some having no choice but to close shop and wait out the pandemic. Several government offices and private companies have been forced to cut down or reduce services and ask employees to work from home in various sectors. This is in a bid to contain spread of the virus. The National Assembly and the Senate were not spared as well. They called off their sittings in solidarity with Kenyans whose jobs have been negatively affected. Before COVID-19 was first reported in Kenyan on March 13, the legislators used to attend sittings to discuss, debate, amend and pass bills. During the weekends, most of them were at their constituencies launching various projects, attending fundraisers and burials as well as consulting with their constituents. Also, attending the Building Bridges Initiative rallies was an event to expect every weekend, before the ‘reggae’ was stopped by the worldwide pandemic. The outspoken legislators would also frequent TV and radio stations to give their opinion on politics of the day. But the tune suddenly changed after Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe stood on March 13 before journalists to announce that COVID-19 was no longer a far away disease but a reality. Since then, MPs, senators, woman representatives, governors and Members of the County Assemblies have been unable to continue with the bulk of their duties. Here are some of the ways Kenyan politicians are spending their newfound free time. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja realised has decided to perfect his rap skills.This is after a public awareness campaign done alongside his two sons. In the video, the senator asks Kenyans to use sanitisers to wash their hands and stay home during the curfew hours. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and his Soy counterpart Caleb Kositany decided to enjoy the ride with Deputy President William Ruto. Nyoro also used the opportunity to have meetings with various stakeholders. Kieni MP Kanini Kega decided to show how good he can be in knitting if only he had the time. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot has been under self quarantine in his house. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo is now a barber. He posted a photo of him shaving his son. He said, "Ni kubaya (things are thick)."