Several possible scenarios are being considered by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) National Executive Council as they continue to monitor the coronavirus pandemic that has wreaked havoc in the sports industry worldwide. FKF CEO Barry Otieno admitted that they were in constant communication with football world governing body, Fifa and Caf as the assessment on the threat continued. Otieno, while hoping that a remedy to the pandemic that has caused the sporting world to remain in limbo will be found, the federation was alive to the fact that a decision will have to be made at some point on the status of the 2019-2020 campaign. “There are a lot of grey areas in this matter given that we have never experienced a similar situation before. The federation has an idea on how to handle our local problems but it is not entirely our decision. We also have to seek the input of Fifa and Caf because this matter affects matches involving our clubs beyond our jurisdiction,” said Otieno. Among the proposal being looked at in the short term is for the winner of the KPL to be determined by the latest standings before the season was suspended. For promotion in the National Super League and other lower leagues, the federation hopes to use the last standings as long as the season is past its halfway stage. Kenyan Premier League (KPL) CEO Jack Oguda, however, suggested that the top-flight league may have to be extended for the final standings table to determine the winners and relegation candidates to emerge. “We are looking to extend the season as we await the situation to improve. We will engage all stakeholders because this pandemic has affected the entire world. Caf will be affected in the continental tournament where we hope they will give us an extension to avail the teams for their tournaments while the national teams' engagements will also be affected. The final decision will need to be all-inclusive,” remarked Oguda. Otieno disagreed saying that there was the possibility that the current situation might extend way longer than many people anticipate and thus they have to be ready for whichever situation. “What if the coronavirus pandemic stops everything for the next six months or even one year. Are we still going to resume play in the 2020 season?” he posed. “This is a tricky situation that needs evaluation and that is why it is upon the federation to engage stakeholders depending on guidelines from Fifa and Caf,” said Otieno. The FKF CEO, however, said the FKF Betway Super Cup will be played to conclusion to enable the winner play in the Caf Confederations.