Forced by circumstances to take care of themselves, three elderly women from Thika in Kiambu county, have turned to stone crushing to earn an income. Armed only with mallets, they go to the BAT Quarry in Umoja village every day to make ballast for sale. For most of them, poverty, lack of decent jobs and the high cost of living have pushed them to this back-breaking work. Esther Ngugi, 89, has worked at the BAT Quarry for the last forty years. She was introduced to the job by her late husband when they lived in poverty in Gachagi slums. It was their only option to eke a living. But things got worse following the death of her husband. “Crushing ballast is and has been my only source of income. I have brought up my children with the work,” Ngugi said. Ngugi manages to crush up to five buckets and makes Sh200 daily. But on a good day she pockets Sh300. That's the return for crushing the stones under the scorching sun and at the risk of falling boulders from the blasts. The money she gets is never enough to cater for her family’s needs given that the cost of living is skyrocketing. “I, however, thank God because even at my old age, I can fend for my grandchildren. The little money I get helps me put food on the table,” she told the Star on Tuesday. Ngugi introduced her younger sister Mary Njoki to the job.  Njoki, 68, was struggling without an income at the neighbouring Matharao slums. Njoki has now worked at the quarry for five years. She does not regret her decision to join her sister at the quarry. She also earns Sh300 daily after crushing eight buckets of ballast. Njoki is separated from her husband and says that she believes in her strength to make ends meet. She has never relied on help from men or well-wishers. “Nowadays you’ll find young and energetic women waiting for financial help from men and that’s why they are exploited and abused. I believe that we shouldn’t beg if we have the strength and ability to work for a decent income,” Njoki said. Rose Nyambura, a mother of two, joined quarry work after a watermelon business she had ventured into collapsed five months ago. “My financier auctioned a vehicle I had bought. I had nowhere to turn to but realised that I had the strength to work in a quarry. I will make savings until I resume to my previous business,” Nyambura said. Nyambura said that she earns over Sh1,000 daily from crushing ballast. Lucy Wanjiku who has also worked at the quarry for over 20 years urged women to go for every job no matter the challenges. “What’s required is believing in yourself and your strength. Working in a quarry is better than going to the streets to beg or become a twilight girl because you’ll make decent earnings,” she said. Quarry manager Timothy Njoroge praised the women for their resilience and commitment to beating odds and making a living. “They are hardworking and even earn more than most men in these quarries,” he said. The grannies however called on the government to increase the monthly stipends issued to the elderly and also ensure that all eligible elders are included in the programme. (edited by O. Owino)