Man’s attempt to seduce a female magistrate with hard smiling face thwarted instantly. A Nairobi magistrate on Wednesday successfully managed to ward off seduction advances by a suspect in court. This was the second attempt on the magistrate from a different suspect after she told off another suspect last year. “You are pretty, clean and black beauty,” the man facing theft charges told the magistrate. She told him to relax and thanked him for the "observation" But on Wednesday, the second man didn't get such a warm response and was instead left embarrassed in court. He suggestively smiled at her and said, “ Madam, I am sorry I failed to come before you in the previous session because of personal emergencies,” In a serious rejoinder, the magistrate ordered the police to take him away. “Where is the police, please take this man to the cells so that he stays with his personal emergencies there,” said amid laugher in court. There was a coronavirus "scare" at a Nairobi court after a lawyer said his client had just landed from China. “Your honour, it will be unfair for the hearing to be adjourned because as you can see, my client who is a witness in this case has just landed from China and we are ready to proceed. I pray that you allow the case to proceed,” the lawyer said. These statements made court attendants uneasy, with some running out of the courtroom. Some suspects, lawyers and court attendants were at some point seen using their clothes as facemasks but the Star reporter could not tell whether they were serious or joking around. “Let me go out briefly and I will come back later as the matter is serious,” one man was overheard whispering to his colleague. The magistrate, however, ignored what happened in court and ordered the witness to testify as the court seats remained almost empty. Woman shocks magistrate after revealing that Lang’ata farmers use raw sewage to plant vegetables. A woman charged with creating disturbance shocked a magistrate and court attendants after she said that all greens and vegetables planted in Lang’ata area are grown with raw sewage. “What?! Does it mean I have been eating sewage in Lang’ata for all these 15 years?” a female counsel was heard whispering to her colleague. After the court session, the prosecutor and the clerk cornered the woman who was in the company of her husband and asked her why they were feeding people with sewage. “Wewe, sio sisi tunapandanga na sewage!( It is not us who plant using sewage)” the woman said.