The writing is on the wall for Tottenham following their defeat in the Champions League by German Bundesliga team Leipzig. Jose Mourinho has said he will win trophies whilst at the club and he believes in himself, the players and his club, however, the current injury crisis is affecting his plans. Chief Executive Daniel Levy has now waded into the Spurs' 'work in progress' by saying that unless the club qualifies for the Champions League next season their ability to spend in the summer transfer market will be seriously affected. At present, they are eighth on the table, seven points behind fourth-placed Chelsea and four behind Manchester United at fifth. In a meeting with Tottenham Hotspur Supporters’ Trust, Levy explained that the club is determined to make their own stars like homegrown Harry Winks rather than splash out big sums of money. The worry around the club is that Jose Mourhino will become unsettled if money is not available because he blames their recent losses on injuries to Harry Kane, Heung Min-Son as well as players who have left such as Danny Rose and Kieran Trippier. Mourhino says he needs to spend and if that does not happen, then expect fireworks! Holgate is the future of Everton Everton tell me that centre-back Mason Holgate has signed a new five-year contract which shows the faith manager Carlo Ancelotti has in his ability. Mason was loaned out to West Bromwich Albion last season and most fans and pundits thought his return to the club this season would be to provide back up for Yerry Mina and Michael Keane. However, as it turns out, the 23-year-old is now seen as the future mainstay of the defence. He plays very calmly, is composed when on the ball and always eyeing the best pass whilst never panicking. He currently has a pass success rate of 87% this season and if necessary, plays confidently from defence into midfield and has the tenth highest progressive run average from the 65 centre-backs who have played 1,000+ Premier League minutes this season. Interestingly, Holgate boasts the 13th best defensive one-on-one duels this season and that betters Liverpool’s Virgil Van Dijk. Willian, Chelsea yet to agree Considering that Chelsea midfielder Willian has been a great success for the Blues over the past two seasons, it is surprising that his contract dispute has not been sorted out. Talks between the Brazilian’s representatives and the club have stalled because 31-year-old Willian wants a three-year extension to his contract, due to expire in June, and the club wants to give him only two years. Both Juventus and Barcelona might be interested in signing him on a free in June but Chelsea told me this week that no firm approaches have been made. Mikel Arteta’s Arsenal has also expressed possible interest. Beckham hijacking Silva deal As I have already written for you, Manchester City midfield maestro David Silva will be leaving the club in June. He has discussed a move to the American MLS team New York City. However, I have learned that David Beckham, President and part-owner of new club Inter Miami is hoping to hijack Silva’s proposed move and instead sign for his Florida-based team. Beckham has promised to make Silva one of the highest-paid players in the MLS. Silva has also been linked with several Chinese clubs but he favours America. Old guard boost Chelsea Whereas Chelsea manager Frank Lampard has based his Chelsea revival on youngsters, this week he has been singing the praises of his older professionals. I wrote at the beginning of the season that Pedro, in my opinion, was the player capable of taking over from Eden Hazard when he moved to Spain. However, Lampard thought otherwise and Pedro has been used sparingly to make way for upcoming youngsters. The 4-0 thrashing of Everton last weekend and against Carlo Ancelotti, a manager who has achieved everything in football, was the result of a brilliant 32-year-old Pedro who ran for two-thirds of the pitch for his goal. He was ably backed up by Olivier Giroud (33) and Willian (31). Lampard recognised that perhaps the old guards are sometimes better suited to getting results and is spending time doing more to blend the ages together in training so the younger players can learn from their elders. Luke Shaw fits in perfectly Football is a strange game! Under Jose Mourhino, Luke Shaw had a torrid time, lost his England place and spent a lot of time in the reserves. Under Ole Gunner Solskjaer he has thrived and made the left side of centre-back his own. It is a position that Solskjaer uses a lot and especially with the more demanding fixtures. He adopts a 3-5-2 formation and Shaw fits in perfectly when the team is soaking up pressure from first-rate forwards like those of Manchester City and Liverpool. At only 24 years-of-age Shaw has become a senior figure for the youngsters to model themselves on. Since Solskjaer's arrival, Shaw has seen his career get back on track. He is also enjoying becoming a father recently and there is a smile on his face during training. He said: “We are working hard in training but everyone is enjoying it. I’m really enjoying it, playing left of the back three but I’ll play anywhere for the manager.” Shaw’s performances have been exceptional in the four matches I have watched this season. Klopp all smiles over Milner and Henderson Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is a happy man this week. His veteran 'Mr Dependable' James Milner is back in the team after another injury layoff. His goal-line clearance last weekend against Bournemouth gained a big cheer from the Anfield supporters as were goals of Mo Salah and Sadio Mane. Milner has signed a two-year extension to his contract which at 34, shows how much Klopp values him. He was man-of-the-match last weekend. To enhance Klopp’s smile, Jordan Henderson returned to full training this week following a hamstring injury and was in the Liverpool team which lost 3-2 to Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. Hodgson, Cahill make a 'perfect couple' There is mutual admiration between Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson and left-back Gary Cahill. Hodgson bought Cahill from Chelsea as a backup player but his excellence on the field has made him an automatic first choice on Hodgson’s team sheet. The manager said: “Buying Gary was a no brainer with his experience and ability. He has trained harder than anyone and keeps his fitness levels above most players.” Cahill also heaped praise on his manager saying: “He has an incredible appetite which is amazing for his age (72). It is great that he has signed a year’s extension to his contract and it means a lot to the players and the stability of the club.” Ayew finally starts scoring Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson said he last season recognised the quality of Ghanaian Jordan Ayew even though he wasn’t scoring the goals he was bought to deliver. It has taken years for Ayew to adjust to the Premier League and gain the confidence needed but he is now showing it in abundance. Ayew scored his eighth goal this season and his second in consecutive matches which is more than his previous two seasons combined. Hodgson says it is his athleticism and persistence to chase down a ball that has made his such a threat in front of goal. Developing his strength has also helped him improve. Shaqiri could be leaving Liverpool It must be admitted that the talents of Xherdan Shaqiri have not been missed by Liverpool this season during his injury periods. His transfer from Stoke City for a mere £13m was an easy decision for the Reds and the player himself. However, he has been a bit-part player with only 10 appearances in all competitions and his last match was on January 11, when he came on as a late substitute in the 1-0 win against Tottenham. His last start was against Watford in mid-December. There is no doubting Shaqiri’s ability but he is not really required at Anfield and those injuries have played a part in limiting his transition from Stoke to Anfield. Under manager Jurgen Klopp, players like Virgil van Dijk, Trent Alexander-Arnold and Jordan Henderson have thrived but Shaqiiri has been pushed into the background. Liverpool are left in only two big competitions and it is unlikely that his involvement will improve and I have picked up whispers that any bids for Shaqiri will be seriously considered. Both Roma and Sevilla would have taken him to Italy or Spain during January but their interest was rejected by Liverpool management. However, I understand things would be different in the summer transfer window and the talented Swiss could be on the move.