Cabinet Secretaries will be entitled to an adviser and consultant to be appointed competitively for a three-year term renewable term once, according to new regulations by the Public Service Commission. The employees will not serve beyond the tenure – or death, of the state officers under their charge. The PSC will also determine credentials of persons appointed as advisers to the president and deputy president as well as personnel for retired presidents. The agency will also have more say on who it recruits as health fitness instructors, support staff, cooks, housekeepers, and gardeners. The PSC will also take charge of the appointment of principal secretaries during a transition from one administration to another. The new rules are contained in the Public Service Commission Regulations 2020 recently approved by the National Assembly Committee on Delegated Legislation. PSs’ recruitment will equally be competitive, hence less political. The call for such applications will be advertised in two newspapers of national circulation. The legislation signed by PSC chair Stephen Kirogo further seeks to streamline the appointment of expatriates, acting appointments, as well as ways of instilling discipline in the public service. The PSC has acquired powers to determine the number of advisory staff to be appointed for the president and deputy president. Even so, other state officers will be required to request for the personnel in writing - stating such individual’s technical competencies, skills and experience. The skills and experience such employees posses must be lacking in the public service for them to be considered for the post. “An adviser shall be responsible for and support the requesting State officer and shall not be assigned any role that is performed by other officers in the public body,” the rules state. Cabinet and Principal Secretaries, as well as chief executive officers of parastatals and state agencies, will also have to request the PSC to appoint their personal assistants (PAs). “A personal assistant assigned to a Principal Secretary shall only be assigned from among public officers serving in the public service,” the regulations read. They will also be bound by the Public Service Code of Conduct and sign the oath of secrecy under the Official Secrets Act. PSC says such appointees would not have any supervisory role over public officers – even as the commission seeks to redraw the career progression guidelines for all cadres of staff. A new staff grading structure will be drawn hence the possibility of a civil service shake-up in the near future. Expatriates will be contracted on a three-year term renewable once, and only on the condition that the skills they bring on board are lacking in the country. State officers will have to apply to the PSC in writing to hire such persons, a request required to be accompanied by written confirmation that the skill is lacking locally. Entities partnering with the government under a PPP arrangement will be restricted to ensure 30 per cent of their staffs are Kenyans. To deal with officers seeking to stay beyond retirement age, state officers with a supervisory role will inform PSC within six months of such persons’ contract expiry. Civil servants – permanent and pensionable, will also have to request the PSC for secondment to other state agencies or international agencies. Those who cannot be seconded will be granted a leave of absence of three years, renewable once – but will have to pay their pension. The government will also not hire volunteers as revenue collectors, procurement officers, cashier, caretaker of public premises, and security officers. The changes are a culmination of efforts by the Public Service ministry led by Margaret Kobia to streamline service delivery in public offices. (edited by O. Owino)