SO GOVERNMENT AGENCIES have a leeway to use unspecified considerations to hire candidates other than merit? Well, this is the case at a County Assembly Service Board in Nyanza. After interviews for the position of assembly clerk, the board decided to pick the fifth candidate for the job. In their report, which has triggered disquiet over favouritism, the board makes what insiders have termed a lame excuse for its choice. It claims that the pass mark was 50 per cent and therefore all the top five candidates qualified. So why didn’t they settle on the top candidate or they don’t like the best? It would appear for the county, meritocracy doesn’t matter. Last week, Corridors told you of the massive lobbying for the job. Trouble is however in the offing as the report of the board has reportedly been sent to anti-graft detectives. IT SEEMS THE economy is stretching the pockets of a number of legislators to an extent they run their vehicle tyres to the last tread. A walk around the parking bays in Parliament reveals a number of vehicles with front tyres almost the texture of a snake's skin. A lawmaker was overheard taunting his colleagues that next time they get mileage allowance, they need to consider buying new tyres, a complete set of five for that matter. The colleagues were not amused; their critic, they said,  lives on handouts for unspecified jobs. RECENTLY, WE TOLD you about the spouse of a governor from Western who had disappeared with money belonging to a women's chama. Corridors understands that after sustained pressure and social media attacks, the governor has finally agreed to meet the ladies. According to those in the know, the county boss bowed to pressure after local human rights activists threatened to join the women in demonstrating outside his office until he produces his wife or they get their cash. The boss has reportedly agreed to pay the money on behalf of the wife to spare his reputation. THAT CARTELS HAVE taken Nairobi City County hostage is no news. What is disturbing is the manner in which the faceless cartels are operating. Corridors has been informed of a well-connected and dreaded cartel operating at Njiru sewer discharge point. So rooted it is that it has forced the closure of the only school in the area. Children have been forced to travel long distances to get an education. Corridors just learnt that area residents are now planning demos to force City Hall to act and stop the discharge of raw sewer in inhabited areas to allow the kids to use their only school again.  (edited by o. owino)