Fighting for women's rights has become synonymous with man -hating, says Emma Watson in her speech about gender equality. Gender equality concerns women and men and has a strong impact on their daily lives. Historically, research shows societal pressure is one of the many factors influencing gender inequality, especially on the side of men as they are stereotyped as big, strong, tough and people who don't cry. With this mentality, it is not a surprise that some men have anger issues or violence-oriented problems. When names such as criminals are mentioned, society is quick to point fingers at men forgetting women are also involved in such crime. It is always men who have to prove themselves, indirectly making them violent. Media also acts as the hand that molds gender roles through content such as movies, shows and videos. Consequently, the way they portray a certain gender is how people will conclude and such conclusions lead men to depression, suicide and their general self-esteem. In most parts of the world, men's health status continues to substantially worsen than women, yet no one seems to pay attention. Don't the male gender deserve to be healthy too? Global burden of diseases study led by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation in 2010 (GBD 2010) showed that from 1970 to 2010, women had  a longer life expectancy than men. Why is this so?  This is because men tend to be in worse health conditions than women. Lack of advocacy for men is one key reason why inasmuch as men hold most positions, their equality rights cannot be fully exercised since there are no many movements or groups advocating the male gender. Men's Rights Movement (MRM), which consists of a variety of groups and individuals who focus on general social issues, aims at promoting gender equality in a different way. This is by encouraging men and boys to stand against gender violence, prevent HIV-Aids prevalence and positive fatherhood. Inasmuch as infertility issues affect both genders, the male gender is the most affected, especially psychologically. It's time we all perceive gender on a spectrum, not as opposing sets of ideas. To do this, society needs to advocate for boys' education among communities /parents and other stakeholders. There is also need to create awareness against negative social and cultural practices. Guidance and counselling  can also help make men open and ready for conversations and ensuring gender balance in the health sector