Embattled Baringo assembly Deputy Speaker Ameja Zelemoi says his impeachment was tribal mob justice and political punishment. The Churo-Amaya MCA  was on Tuesday voted out by 36 MCAs in a heated motion accusing him of gross misconduct and abuse of office. “I was slapped with this simply because I am of Pokot origin and the fact that I don’t support the Deputy President William Ruto,” he said. Zelemoi said earlier that he had received calls from some of his Jubilee colleagues asking why he didn’t attend the pro-Ruto protests held in Kabarnet town on March 11. He said as a way to make sure he does not get any justice, the motion tabled by the Leader of Majority Lawi Kipchumba (Lembus-Kwen) was submitted and passed the same day. “A normal procedure of a motion to remove speaker, deputy speaker or a governor would last at least seven days to allow the House committee to summon and grill the offender over the allegation, but I was blatantly denied this,” Zelemoi said. He was backed by his Kanu colleagues Daniel Tuwit (Ripko), Maria Losile (Loyamorok), Solomon Makal (Kolowa), Shedrack Mailuk (Tangulbei) and Caroline Kessei (nominated). Losile said, "We have always been used as Kanu by the Jubilee team in the house to satisfy their own selfish gains but today it has manifested itself clearly. She termed it a tribal and political lynch. Zelemoi said since he has been relieved of his responsibility he will deputise Tiaty MP William Kamket in ganging up against DP Ruto ahead of 2022. "We will make sure our party leader Gideon Moi (Baringo Senator) wins the presidency." Among the accusations levelled against him is misusing the assembly vehicle he was assigned to ferry cabbages for sale in Nakuru. He was also linked to planning and recommending the punishment of the vehicle's driver. Further, he was criticised for allegedly colluding with his from Pokot community colleagues to fight Silale MCA Nelson Lotela in his office last year. “All these are indiscipline cases which are not expected from any respected leader, we voted him and now we are using the same criteria to remove him,” Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop said. He was backed by Reuben Chepsongol (Bartabwa), Nixon Lemlem (Marigat), Silas Tochim (Tenges), Nelson Lotela (Silale), Jennifer Kabon (Kapropita), Charles Kosgei (Mogotio) and Diana Siriti (nominated). “We did this to send a message to Kanu supporters like Kamket that as much as they are planning to move a motion in Parliament to impeach Ruto, we shall equally deal with them on the ground,” Tochim said. Zelemoi, however, puts the assembly on notice for "midwifing" mediocrity and breaking the law, threatening to move to court to challenge his removal. He termed the allegations far-fetched lies, saying he hasn’t been convicted by any court or even incriminated for abuse of powers, further accusing the mover of the motion of failing to submit evidence. He said he doesn’t have any powers to assign himself public vehicles or engineer the sacking or any form of punishment on county staff. Edited by R.Wamochie