President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday whipped governors from Deputy President William Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard to support the Building Bridges Initiative. The President met the county chiefs from the expansive region at State House where they assured him of full support. The governors also undertook to ensure unity and inclusion of all stakeholders in the run-up to the Nakuru BBI rally scheduled for March 21. The BBI process has been facing opposition from Ruto’s turf that led to the cancellation of an earlier rally that was set for Eldoret – the DP’s political bedrock. The bone of contention between the leaders from Rift Valley and the organisers of the rallies was the central role played by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga before and during the rallies. Last week on Thursday, some MPs from the region said they will only attend a rally that is attended by Uhuru and Ruto or the least, a meeting with the blessings of the two Jubilee leaders. The governors who attended the Monday State House meeting included Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Hillary Barchok (Bomet), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia) and Stanley Kiptis (Baringo). Nandi's Stephen Sang missed the meeting. In a brief dispatch on Tuesday, State House said the governors briefed Uhuru on the preparation for the rally to be held at the historic Afraha Stadium. Chepkwony told the Star that while it is still open for both Uhuru and Ruto to attend the rally, they will, however, hand their views to either the chairman of BBI task force or a member. “Each of the counties in Rift Valley will have their own consultative forums where they will come up with their own memoranda then we shall consolidate them and present it to the task force. We made it clear that our document will only be received by a member of a task force and not some individuals,” he told the Star on the phone. The governor also said it was agreed that considering how sensitive the region is, political rhetoric targeted at leaders or communities will not be entertained. “Rift Valley is not a region where you speak as you wish and that is why the speakers of the day will be carefully picked. We have learnt from previous rallies how some of them are after soiling the name of the Deputy President which we will not allow,” he said. However, when asked if they had the blessings of Ruto who has expressed some reservations on the BBI, Chepkwony said, “We attended the meeting because it was called by our party leader.” He said in the meeting, they were assured that the BBI rally had nothing sinister against the DP. “If it was somebody else not within the leadership of Jubilee who was calling the meeting, be assured we would not have attended. Those trying to say we should bypass our deputy party leader have their own wishful thinking. We support the President and the Deputy President,” he said. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said the Nakuru rally will be "different from all others". "All leaders and electorates from all the 11 counties will participate fully without party factions or mini-factions". Murkomen added on Tuesday evening, "Each county will hold their consultations and we shall converge in Eldoret on March 19 to have a harmonised document for the larger Rift Valley Region." He also announced that his county will have its consultative forum on Friday in Iten town. A day after the State House meeting, on Tuesday, Barchok conducted a BBI consultative forum and Chepkwony is on Wednesday expected to lead a similar meeting in Kericho. In the Bomet meeting, political differences between Barchok and former Governor Isaac Rutto played out. Rutto skipped the meeting and instead staged a parallel meeting at Bomet Green stadium some meters away from Barchok's venue. He later went around Bomet town announcing the planned meeting. Edited by R.Wamochie