Influential individuals with illegally acquired land at the Coast are a worried lot after the High Court last month revoked the title deed of former Land Commission boss Sammy Silas Komen Mwaita. There are 16 stalled land cases in which powerful businessmen, politicians and Mwaita are involved. Most of the cases (and there could be more) were filed in 2009 by the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission, which became Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Justice Silas Munyao directed the lands registrar to cancel the title deed issued to Mwaita's Lekyo Tours Company and revert the Sh56 million property in Nyali/Bamburi to the government. The land was alienated in 1975 for the construction of staff houses for the defunct Directorate of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Department. The construction was to start in 1978-79. The EACC stated in the case it had filed in 2014 that Mwaita had on March 20, 1998, issued his company with an allotment letter that was used to prepare a deed on July 5, 2000. His lawyer, Francis Kadima, has applied to withdraw from all the suits against the former Commissioner of Lands because he has not been furnished with any further instructions. He told the Star: “I filed defence on behalf of my clients majorly raising preliminary objections on the points of law on July 10, 2009, but there has been a delay in disposal of the cases.” Kadima said that in a civil case, the law is clear that if a matter is not heard for more than 12 months, the court has powers suo moto (without formal prompting from another party), to dismiss the case(s). In the suits, the general prayers were that a declaration is made that the allocations were fraudulent,  hence the certificates of lease and transfers issued to third parties were irregular, illegal, null and void. KACC lawyer Oscar Angote – now a judge – had sought an order for cancellation of the certificates of leases and entries made in favour of third parties. He had also sought a permanent injunction restraining them from dealing with the suit properties and general damages for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty by Mwaita. Mwaita is a former long-serving civil servant. He won the Baringo Central parliamentary seat in 2007. He had asked the court to put the anti-graft body to strict proof, saying he executed his duties within his statutory powers and as such, the suits were incompetent and fatally defective. EACC Coast manager Mutembei Nyaga told the Star that in 2010, the civil procedure rules were changed and in place and that new threshold for matters filed in court was introduced. “The threshold was higher. It meant with the change of law, most matters had to be investigated and filed afresh to meet the threshold. And once filed, there was the general court backlog,” Mutembei said. He said the cases had to be redone and this caused delay.  The EACC has since been working to ensure that all documents are as per the law. “Because the files you have presented are many, I will get back to you after we check on the status of individual files,” he said. On whether there were other proceedings pertaining to the same matters apart from the 16 cases, Kadima said: “I am yet to be served any orders of stay or otherwise from the court. "I can’t move court –  it was up to the plaintiff to move to court and set a hearing date for disposal of the matters. The 11 years delay is inexcusable.” ABOUT THE CASES: The 16 cases were filed in court on June 9, 2009. They are: Abdalla Farid Fadhil Fahim Yasin Twaha Twaha Mburak Ali Shamim Mburak Ali Sammy Komen Mwaita 2. KACC vs    Zakayo Kipkeio Cheruiyot Omar Tahir Sheikh Said Sammy Komen Mwaita 3. KACC vs   Luka Kimutai Chepto Sally Jepkoech Cheptoo Toror Estates Limited Sammy Komen Mwaita 4. KACC vs  Kipeno Investment Limited DO IT Quality Management Limited Sammy Komen Mwaita 5. KACC vs  Dalice Investment Limited Daniel Kipagat Kirui Allan Kiprono Kirui Alice Jepkemboi Peter Kiprop Kirui Sammy Komen Mwaita 6. KACC vs  Aerial Developers Limited Enock Tuitoek Sammy Komen Mwaita 7. KACC vs  Paul Lobo Bernard Atati Sammy Komen Mwaita 8. KACC vs  Cleophus Walubengo Misiko Sammy Komen Mwaita 9. KACC vs  Romli Agencies Limited Michael Chewikaw Chepkeres Chebon Sammy Komen Mwaita 10. KACC vs  Ezekiel Komen Sammy Komen Mwaita 11. KACC vs  Simon Peter Odhiambo Ondie Sammy Komen Mwaita 12. KACC vs  Lydia Bosibori Ayega Sammy Komen Mwaita 13. KACC vs  Wince Investment Limited Sammy Komen Mwaita 14. KACC vs  Ismail Kipkemboi Laile Investments Limited Stephen Kipkenda Kiplagat Sammy Komen Mwaita 15. KACC vs  David Gikonyo Ndungu Sammy Komen Mwaita 16. KACC vs  Bernsoft Limited Equitronics Limited Sammy Komen Mwaita