Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) has partnered with Amref Health Africa and Kenya RedCross Society (KRCS) for emergency distribution of 135,000 litres packed sanitisers. The initiate targets frontline health workers and those at high risk of contracting COVID-19. It follows an appeal by the government, to well wishers and corporate organisations, to support the fight against Coronavirus. “KBL is aware of the potential impact of COVID-19 to frontline health workers and vulnerable communities across Kenya.  We have decided to forge ahead with sanitisers, a critical deterrent against the spread of the coronavirus,” KBL managing director Jane Karuku said. KBL is spending over Sh50 million in the programme by engaging certified sanitiser producers to produce 1,000,000 pieces of 100ml sanitisers, 500 pieces of five-litre and 2,500 pieces of 500ml bottle sanitisers. Access to sanitation is a basic human right under the Constitution, but most informal settlements still lack proper sanitation. The beer maker is partnering  with  Amref and KRCS for distribution in Nairobi's informal settlements of Kibera, Mukuru, Mathare, Kawangware and Kondele and Obunga in Kisumu. “An adequate response to the COVID19 pandemic must be a whole of society approach.To win the war and flatten the curve, we must observe public health measures as advised, Amref CEO Githinji Gitahi said. While hand-washing has been prescribed as a basic precautionary step against the coronavirus spread, millions of people in informal settlements are at heightened risk of contracting the coronavirus due to the lack of proper sanitation and running water. A joint monitoring programme between the World Health Organization (WHO)andUNICEF estimates only 31 per cent of urban residents have access to improved sanitary facilities. “We are all aware of the challenges faced by people in informal settlements with regard to access to sanitation facilities and this makes them highly vulnerable to contract COVID-19. This donation is therefore timely.” KRCS secretary general, Asha Mohammed,said. The firm aims to provide these sanitisers free of charge and ensure they get to the most vulnerable members in the communities.