Kakamega lawyers have accused the police of laxity responsible for the surge in insecurity in the county. The layers addressed the media on Tuesday after a peaceful procession through the streets of Kakamega town to protest the death of their colleague Hillary Obilo who was attacked by thugs on February 29 in the town. The advocates accused police of working in cahoots with criminals and carjackers. “We must protect advocates in the course of duty. Hillary did not deserve to die because of his professional calling. We have demonstrated in this town not just as advocates but on behalf of all Kenyans who joined us,” Law Society of Kenya upcountry representative Esther Ang’awa said. That was a gruesome murder and it was clear the attackers were not interested in stealing from him, she said. Ang’awa asked Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to rid the service of criminal elements to assure Kenyans of safety. Obilo, 31, was attacked by thugs along the Kakamega-Webuye highway on February 29 and suffered serious head injuries. He died on March 6 at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital leaving a widow and one child. Ang’awa said advocates will not be intimidated in discharging their duties. The lawyers accused police of conducting cosmetic investigations into the death of their colleague and called for more arrests. But county police commander Bernard Muli said police arrested one of the suspects and recovered the dead lawyer's vehicle which his attackers had stolen. The suspect was arrested in Kakamega town as he tried to negotiate the sale of the car. “We are not beginning investigations because you have asked but we have been doing so since the crime was committed. The attack was not targeted at the deceased as an advocate, but was a crime like any other,” Muli said. The police boss assured the advocates that more arrests would be made in relation to the murder. Tuesday's protests affected court operations as most lawyers deferred their cases on Monday to create room for the procession. Edited by R.Wamochie