No international flights will enter or leave Kenya from Wednesday as part of new preventive measures against Covid-19. It means Kenyans in foreign countries will not be able to travel home once the deadline passes. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said they should stay wherever they are and observe the preventive measures in those countries. Kagwe announced eight new cases of coronavirus infection, bringing the total to 15. The development was the reason for several other stringent measures the government announced yesterday. “We are dismayed that many Kenyans continually ignore preventive measures that have been issued by the government. It would be irresponsible of this government to allow this behavior to continue,” Kagwe said. Passengers entering the country between now and Wednesday must undergo a mandatory self-quarantine. For failure to adhere to the order, they will be forcefully quarantined at their own cost. “Violators of self-quarantine will be forcefully quarantined for 14 days at a government facility at their own cost. After 14 days of quarantine, they will then be charged in court in accordance with the Public Health Act,” Kagwe warned. Religious gatherings, including church and mosque meetings, weddings and funerals have been banned. “Funerals should be restricted to immediate family members. Disco matangas and merry-go-rounds have also been suspended indefinitely,” Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho said. Despite a government directive last week advising against large gatherings, many congregants gathered in different churches across the country for worship services. Furthermore, the government had ordered that passenger service vehicles should reduce the number of passengers in a bid to increase the distance between each other. However, the directive was largely ignored by most PSVs who complained that the directive was financially unrealistic. Consequently, the National Police Service will be expected to clamp down on PSVs contravening the directive. “All PSVs must obey the directive that was issued on Friday regarding the number of passengers. Those that do not follow this directive will have their sacco licenses revoked,” Kagwe said. During Friday's press briefing, Kagwe ordered that 14-seater matatus should carry a maximum of seven passengers whereas 25-seaters were restricted to 15. In addition, the CS yesterday ordered the immediate closure of all bars – in contrast to an earlier directive that all bars be closed by 7.30pm. Restaurants will, however, remain open although they will only be allowed to provide takeaway services. Kagwe apologised for the inconvenience caused by the new measures but noted that they were necessary to forestall a catastrophe. “We are aware that these measures may be inconvenient but they are necessary for our objective to keep Kenya safe. Even after coronavirus, we can still have weddings and church gatherings,” Kagwe said. He added that government officials will enforce the new measures in the coming week, including clamping down on unnecessary gatherings in the streets.  (edited by o. owino)