Religious leaders now want the regional Building Bridges Initiative rallies stopped to avert sliding the country into anarchy. The clergy from seven faith groups called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to direct the immediate stoppage of the BBI rallies, saying they are polarising the country. The faith groups include the Evangelical Alliance of Kenya, the Hindu Council of Kenya, the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Organization of African Instituted Churches, Seventh Day Adventist Church, Shia Asna Ashri Jamaat and the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims. “To stop the country from sliding into anarchy, we strongly recommend that His Excellency the President directs that the political rallies on the BBI be stopped henceforth since they are polarising the nation,” the leaders said in a joint statement dated Friday. “The current situation where the formal validation of the Report has been subsumed by the diversionary rallies organized by political actors is contrary to the structured dialogue that the Task Force was meant to shepherd.” The leaders call comes at a time the country is gearing to a host the eighth BBI rally in Nakuru next week on Saturday. Similar rallies have been held in Kisii, Kakamega, Mombasa, Kitui, Narok, Garissa and Meru. ODM leader Raila Odinga, who has been the face of the regional rallies. is also expected to lead other rallies in Wote in Makueni, Nyeri and finally Nairobi. According to the clerics, the rallies should be replaced with a comprehensive civic education programme to educate Kenyans on the report of the BBI taskforce led by Garissa MP Yusuf Haji. “We largely attribute the confusion and discord being witnessed in the country to the pervasive ignorance of the majority of Kenyans on the contents and recommendations in the BBI Report.” The plea also comes at a time Haji’s team has announced bringing to an end the stakeholders consultative forums they have been holding since January. In a communication to newsrooms, the Haji led team said it will hold last stakeholder consultative forum on Tuesday next week but will remain available to receive written submissions until the end of this month. “The committee advises all Kenyans sending in their views to present the precise constitutional, statutory, policy and administrative changes that they seek to be implemented,” the committee said in a statement. The team also said they will soon retreat to compile the report - which according terms of reference issued by President Uhuru - should be submitted by end of June.  