City Hall employees have threatened to stop the planned transfer of county functions to the national government. The workers, numbering more than 10,000, say they were sidelined in decision-making. Through the Kenya County Government Workers Union, they have given the Ministry of Devolution and the county government two days to convene a meeting with them or incur their wrath. In a letter to Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli and county secretary Justus Gathenge, they have demanded a meeting on Monday so they are apprised on the planned takeover and the effect it will have on them. Failing that, they will go on strike and parade outside City Hall from Tuesday until their grievances are resolved. "Take notice that if you fail to convene the said meeting, this union shall proceed to parade members at City Hall starting Tuesday, March 17, 2020, and to continue doing so until this matter is fully addressed," said the letter signed by joint branch secretaries Boniface Waweru and Benson Olianga. Late last month, Governor Mike Sonko signed a deal with Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa transferring four critical county functions to the national government. It was witnessed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka. The functions are health, transport services, public works, utilities and ancillary services and planning and development. But the workers say they have not been involved by the two parties or informed of how the planned transfer of functions will affect their terms of service, despite having sought an audience with the two offices. "You have ignored to keep this union and her members fully involved and informed of how the transfer of the functions will be implemented or actualised without adversely affecting the terms and conditions of service," read the letter dated March 13. "Your failure to convene a meeting as requested is an affront to the good labour relations that the union had developed with the Government of Kenya and the county government over the years." Waweru and Olianga said the plan continues to cause grievous anxiety and untold confusion among workers. "As workers representatives, we have a right to participate in making decisions that affect our members and to be informed of anything that is likely you influence their terms and conditions of service. "It is unfortunate that your offices do not seem to be keen on upholding the rule of law in regard to the transfer of the said functions," the letter adds. (Edited by F'Orieny)