Kenya might soon be hit by a shortage of essential medicines and other healthcare products as coronavirus continues to spread across the globe. Reports indicate that India – the world’s largest producer and exporter of drugs – is mulling restricting the export of drugs as factories continue to be affected by the COVID-19 epidemic. They include paracetamol, antibiotics and various essential medicines. According to reports, even though many factories in India had stockpiled ingredients due to the Lunar New Year, the supplies are running low and most factories are covered only until the end of this month. Kenya is one of the countries likely to be affected as almost two-thirds of medicines are imported either from India or China. India’s pharmaceutical companies source about 70 per cent of their ingredients from Chinese factories, many of which have been shut for weeks due to the coronavirus outbreak. The closure of airports in China has also acted as a blow to efforts to have supplies reach India. But the Kenya Association of Pharmaceuticals Industry on Thursday expressed confidence in the availability of drugs and vaccines in the country amid the COVID-19. In a statement, the association through the chairperson Anastasia Nyalita said that multinational companies represented by KAPI are already engaging with existing networks such as Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and Europe’s Innovative Medicines Initiative. “Currently, KAPI member companies are not aware of any near-term impacts on the availability of medicines and vaccines,” Nyalita said. “KAPI member companies are working proactively to prevent and mitigate potential shortages through close coordination with national regulatory authorities and other local and global stakeholders, including the World Health Organization.” The association noted that with the spread of the virus, the companies are continuously monitoring and proactively handling the situation as it develops. She said many R&D-Based Biopharmaceutical Companies with a presence in China are donating funds, medicines, diagnostics and medical protective products. “Any long-term impact on the availability of medicines and vaccines is not expected unless disruption due to the novel coronavirus outbreak is sustained over the next several months,” she said. On the issue of quality of imports and pricing, KAPI said since the situation is likely to hike prices, the plan is to ensure multinationals such as GSK, Pfizer and Bayer continue to bring in their products. Pfizer and Bayer are based in the US and Germany respectively. “We want to ensure that at any one point there is never going to be a deficit in the market that unscrupulous traders are likely to exploit.” Despite supplying 50 per cent of the Comesa market and 75 per cent of the East African Community market, foreign firms – mostly Asian – supply 70 per cent of drugs worth more than Sh100 billion in the local market. This is because public health facilities shun local drug makers over quality and price concerns. For instance in 2015, Kenya exported pharmaceutical products worth Sh7.1 billion to Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi, Zimbabwe and Mozambique, and imported drugs worth Sh5.8 billion for domestic use from countries in Asia. Edited by R.Wamochie