IS NAIROBI GOVERNOR Mike Sonko aware of the City Inspectorate officers who are conducting themselves unlawfully and with impunity? As they 'maintain law and order' in the CBD, the officers lately are smashing bus and car windows as they try to arrest drivers violating the city traffic and parking laws. The destructive operation is rampant on Accra, Tom Mboya and River roads and Kenyatta Avenue, to the fury of bus owners who have to replace the shattered windows. Maybe it is time the governor swings into action to stop the habit. STAFFERS OF A cleaning agency working for a government parastatal have protested against the uncouth behaviour of one of their bosses. The cleaners tell Corridors the senior manager has been abusing the staff attached to the agency but no action has been taken. They have formally complained but believe those who run the cleaning company fear losing the client. They said the manager is rude to and has even groped one of the women as she went about her work. The cleaners said that they have on several occasions found used condoms in the dustbin in his office. WORD HAS IT that some MCAs from Kiambu county are on an extortion spree. They are demanding not less than Sh2 million from the county executive nominees ahead of their vetting. There are reports there was a massive investment by the powers that be in the removal of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu. Now efforts are being made by some elements to have the 'investment' recouped. One veteran nominee, a career civil servant, is said to have walked out of one meeting in protest after some MCAs asked for Sh2.5 million from him. Apparently, the name of one of the nominees could have been left out after failing to raise the required Sh2 million to guarantee approval. Could this portent sad times for Kiambu residents? A TRIO OPERATING a nascent evangelical ‘church’ in Nairobi patronised mainly by star-gazing, mesmerised hoi polloi is the latest pollutant allowed to suck blood from poor Kenyans. Allegedly, greedy elements in relevant licensing agencies have been compromised to turn a blind eye. The hapless congregants who have signed up, including a huge number of clueless youngsters who are picked by bus and forced to pay a modest fare to get to the sanctuary. The flashy 'pastors' — who troop in the compound where the tented sanctuary is erected — drive elegant limousines to a welcome of maddening cheers from their bamboozled subjects. Presently, a steel structure is coming up to make the holy debacle permanent. Why Kenya continues to license snake oil merchants to confuse poor people is hard to comprehend.