Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru has said she will not concede to illegal requests of tenders and money at whatever price. Waiguru was hitting back at some Kirinyaga MCAs who have called for her impeachment. The governor in a statement to newsrooms said it is common knowledge to every Kenyan the kind of 'frivolous' impeachment motions by some county assemblies are about. She said time will soon uncover those pulling the strings from outside the assembly due to 2022 politics. The governor said it was interesting that an impeachment motion against her has been presented a time when all her staff are working from home and unable to prepare her defense due to the government's directive on social distancing. "This is the ultimate travesty. Fortunately, truth ultimately wins," she said. A section of Kirinyaga MCAs is said to be planning to impeach Waiguru after she failed to address the Assembly. So far all the MCAs apart from one have signed the motion. Waiguru is also accused of allocating herself imprests for trips abroad that she did travel to. She is also accused of the irregular award of tenders and buying a county vehicle without any tender. But Waiguru said it is unfortunate when the country and the whole world is focused on dealing with the current Covid-19 pandemic, some MCAs have opted to dwell on pettiness and political brinkmanship by filing the motion to impeach her without any foundation. She said the issues raised in the motion are so basic and an embarrassment to the Constitution that they seek to protect. "I am alleged to have grossly violated the constitution by not making a State of the County address. A casual reading of the law shows there is no requirement for such an address to be at the county assembly," she said. Waiguru said such an address was given in the first year in November 2018 and a similar one at Kerugoya Hospital after the health crisis. With regards to imprests, Waiguru said a casual check at the county would indicate that where such exist. She said they were surrendered in the normal manner as required by the Public Service regulations. The governor said though she has been mentioned in several tenders, the nexus between her office and the tenders is not shown. "There is not a single allegation of a personal benefit to me, my relatives or friends. They are just thrown there for publicity and propaganda," she said.