The build-up of foreign militias near Mandera town is causing anxiety and President Uhuru Kenyatta has been urged to urgently restore calm in the region. “We request the government to diffuse this tension and reassure the public of safety and security. The situation in Mandera county is that of eroded public trust in their government," Governor Ali Roba said on Friday. Roba complained of neglect, misplaced priority and putting the interest of external region over and above that of Kenyans. The governor, who talked to the media at Radisson Blu Hotel in Nairobi accompanied by local leaders, said they and the residents are caught between a rock and a hard place (faced with two equally unwelcome options). “In the absence of any meaningful engagement by national security managers with the leaders, we are left in a situation where the public has no guidance from their leaders and the national government. It is a very awkward position for any leader to be in while the population looks up to the leadership for answers,” he said. The most affected residents are those near the Somalia border. Uncertainty has created panic and led to the displacement of people from centres near Mandera town – Bulla Customs, Bulla Garay, Bulla Mpya, Bulla Arabia, Bulla Busle and Border Point 1. Tension has been building up between the Somalia government and Jubaland administration, boiling over on Monday when their troops clashed at Bulla Hawa near Mandera. The fighting spilt over onto the Kenyan side. Jubaland accuses Mogadishu of seeking to oust President Ahmed Mohamed (popularly known as Sheikh Madobe). Somalia accuses Kenya of harbouring Jubaland foreign minister Abdirashid Janan, a wanted man in Mogadishu for human rights violations. Kn Tuesday, Kenya in a terse statement, accused Somalia of scapegoating for its internal problems. “This is a part of a growing and persistent pattern of ill intent to use Kenya as a scapegoat and tool to justify challenges in Somalia for political reasons,” State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said. Later, President Kenyatta and his counterpart Mohamed Farmajo agreed to form a team to resolve the issues straining relations between the two countries. Yesterday, Mandera leaders supported efforts to de-escalate the tension between Nairobi and Mogadishu.