Uasin Gishu Senator  Margaret Kamar has promised to intervene in the planned auction of the Moi University Savings and Credit Cooperative Society (MUSCO) Towers building in Eldoret town. The High Court in Eldoret has already issued orders for the building to be auctioned to recover Sh700 million owed to Co-operative Bank and a contractor who put up the 14-storey building. “I received the petition from the members of MUSCO and it’s a serious matter that affects thousands of people. I have already tabled the matter in the Senate for discussion tomorrow (Tuesday) because it’s an issue of urgency,” Senator Kamar said. She said they had summoned all involved parties to explain what transpired and possibly find other ways to sort out the debt without exposing MUSCO members to further suffering. “Members have invested their life savings in MUSCO and their lives will be destroyed should this investment be sold,” Kamar told journalists in Eldoret. More than 3,600 employees of Moi University, Masinde Muliro University, University of Eldoret, Kabianga University and the Moi Referral Hospital who are members and shareholders of MUSCO risk losing the investment should the auction proceed. Desperate members carried out protests in Eldoret in a bid to stop the auction but Justice Hellen Omondi ruled that MUSCO had been unable to repay the debt yet it used the building as security. After the judge made the final ruling, the desperate members said they had approached Senator Kamar to help and have the government stop the auction. “We are happy that our senator has taken the matter seriously so that our leaders at the Senate can help us save the investment,” University Academic Staff Union, Moi University chapter secretary, Jack Willis said. Antique Auctions has already pinned several notices in Eldoret town for sale of the Musco Tower after it received instructions to dispose of the building following the court ruling. According to the auction notice, the Moi University Savings and Credit Society Tower which sits on a 0.114-acre plot has two basement floors, seven fully-let shops on its ground, including an ATM lobby and 14 offices in its mezzanine floor occupied by rent-paying tenants. The notice further states that the first to sixth floors are fully let to house University of Eldoret campus, with the seventh hosting nine privately rented out offices and a restaurant. Justice Omondi observed in her ruling that documents produced in court had proved Musco obtained a loan facility between 2008 and 2016 which the Sacco failed to service as agreed with the bank. “What I have gathered since the beginning of the case is that the bank issued several demands and statutory notices which were ignored. Furthermore, on five separate occasions, the bank allowed to renegotiate the loan but nothing was done,” said Justice Omondi. MUSCO has been facing financial problems because of what members term as graft perpetrated by some officials whom they also accuse of colluding to secretly buy off the building through the auction. A female university don who was a member of MUSCO died out of stress-related problems soon after retiring last year after she went to MUSCO to claim Sh2.8 million savings but was informed that the sacco did not have the money to pay her. The husband also stands to lose Sh 2.2 million through the Sacco if the building is auctioned.