Parents and teachers' unions on Monday urged the Ministry of Education to adjust fees since parents paid in full but the term was shortened by closure for coronavirus safety. "Prepare a clear directive on harmonisation of fees payment," Kenya’s Ministry of Education was told at a press conference by teachers' unions. They want fees paid applied to next term. On Sunday, President Uhuru Kenyatta suspended studies in all public and private learning intuitions, including nursery school, ECDE, primary school, secondary school, colleges and universities. “We appreciate the government initiative to close institutions. This means it really considers the lives of our teachers and children,” said Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) Baringo branch executive secretary Christopher Kimosop. Addressing the media in Kabarnet town on Monday, Kimosop appealed to the Education ministry to apply the fees already paid for the shortened term to learning in the next term, or later. “We all understand the challenges parents always undergo in raising school fees yet term one has been cut short. We hope another directive will come out soon to address the matter," Kimosop said. "This is not a light matter to be neglected,” he said. He was backed by his Kenya National Union of Teachers branch executive secretary Joshua Cheptarus. Cheptarus said apart from tuition programmes, the suspension also cancelled co-curricular activities like games, stage plays and other events. “We are hoping that the ministry through our able CS George Magoha is now planning for an inclusive fees directive to cut across the entire education sector,” he said. “We understand the pandemic has caught everybody unawares but all concerned parties must be consulted to give logical views on tackling it,” Cheptarus said. He urged the government to quickly involve foreign experts to train local medics on handling the deadly virus. Cheptarus also appealed to the county Health department to allocate isolation centres in all the subcounty hospitals. “The residents and our children in villages should not find any difficulty accessing rural health facilities,” he said, adding that outreach awareness programmes should be held. (Edited by V. Graham)