A ward representative has demanded investigations on why Sh2.4 million was spent on a trip to New York for two members of Nairobi's first family in 2018. Kitusuru MCA Alvin Palapala on Tuesday asked the county assembly's Budget and Appropriation Committee to shed light on the financing of the trip undertaken by Primrose Mbuvi and daughter Saumu Agnes for the 62nd Commission on Status of Women March 12-23 conference. “Article 201 of the Constitution on principles of public finance provides that public money shall be used in a prudent and responsible way. The expenditure included payment of tickets, hotel accommodation and Sh800,000 per diem,” Palapala said. Primrose and Saumu travelled first class to New York on Emirates Airlines on March 10 via Dubai. Saumu returned on March 17 on the same airline. Governor Mike Sonko, however, said he personally paid for his daughter's expenses. "I paid for Saumu although she was part of the government delegation, courtesy of the presidency. All first ladies were allowed to travel with at least two people sponsored by their counties, but I paid for this," Sonko said in a text message. The Council of Governors had in November 2017 written to governors interested in participating in the conference to either get back to it for coordination purposes or write directly to the State Department of Gender. Head Public Service Joseph Kinyua had in a letter dated March 7, 2018, cleared both Sonko's wife and daughter. The letter addressed to Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said there was no objection for the two being included in the Kenyan delegation to New York. The CS had sought direction on the issue and it was her view that the delegates' expenses should be met by their respective counties. “However, resultant expenditure will be met by their respective institutions. Inform them accordingly," reads the letter. Primrose was also accompanied by Janet Muthoni Gichuki. Head of CEC secretariat Joyce Kinyanjui had on March 9, 2018, sought authority from the county secretary to pay for the travellers' visas, tickets to and from New York, per diem for 15 days and also ground transport. The county secretary only authorised Muthoni's per diem. Speaker Beatrice Elachi directed the Budget and Public Accounts committees to look into the matter and report to the House next Wednesday. Mwaniki F.M.