The family of Brian Kimani, 13, is agonising about his burial, given Gertrude's Children Hospital has refused to release the body over a Sh17.9 million bill. His father Stephen Kimani on Wednesday said the family had bought a 60-inch coffin and Brian's favourite Indian suit for his burial. "We would have loved to give our son a proper send-off; dressed him in his favourite Jodhpuri suit that we bought for him while he was undergoing treatment in India," Kimani said. He said it was Brian's wish that his coffin is draped with white satin on the inside, and coffee brown outside. But the family was unable to honour that wish because the body is being held by the hospital. The management of Gertrude's Children's Hospital wants the Sh17.9 million bill cleared before the body is released. On Wednesday, Brian’s memorial service became the first-ever funeral ceremony to be held at St Stephen's ACK in Gatuikira. Residents of the quiet Gatuikira village turned up in their numbers for the sacred function that was sullied with uncertainty. The family's sombre mood was heightened by the pity the helpless villagers felt, having given all they could afford in numerous fundraisers that had been held for the boy. Brian died on February 29 after a long illness that drained all the family's fortunes and savings. In April 2018, the boy was diagnosed with leukaemia, cancer of the blood. His treatment journey brought misery and pain to the family. He was taken to India for a bone-marrow transplant after extensive treatment proved ineffective. However, Brian's body rejected the new organ—because of the many chemicals he had in his body from the previous treatment, doctors explained. A second transplant was done and Brian’s frail body eventually accepted his father’s organ and he got back to his feet. But the money the family had raised ran out. They had not anticipated two surgeries. “My passport was detained and we stayed in the country for nine months before the Kenyan ambassador to India talked to the hospital management who agreed to release me to go home and find more cash to clear the Sh12 million bill,” Kimani said. Four months after the surgery, Brian's body started rejecting the organ once again. “He had a terrible reaction and he was admitted back at Gertrude's Hospital's ICU last September until his death after he got a liver infection,” the father said. While transport cost to and from India, hotel room bill, meals and hospital bill, including two bone marrow transplants for the nine months was Sh12 million, Brian’s medical bill at Gertrude’s for treating the infection cost more than Sh18 million in less than six months. Brian developed graft versus host disease (GvHD), a condition that occurs when donor bone marrow or stem cells attack the recipient. The family was slapped with a Sh3.4 million bill for laboratory tests. The hospital demanded a further Sh4 million as room rent and Sh2 million for external doctor’s fee. “A layman like me cannot understand what is stated in the bill. I questioned some of the charges like Sh35,000 per night at ICU,” Kimani said. Initially, Kimani said, the hospital had agreed to release Brian’s remains if they paid whatever amount they raised from a fundraiser that had been planned before he died. “When we went there on Monday, we had already planned to have his burial on Wednesday having been assured that they would give us the body,” he said. “After the fundraiser, we took all the money there. It was Sh2.2 million. We had not even counted it until we got to the hospital accountant, but the hospital insisted on security. We have nothing left to give.” Having made all burial plans, including a memorial service at St Stephen's ACK, Gatuikira in Ndenderu where the family lives, Kimani decided to proceed with the ceremony. “Life has to move on. It has been a painful two years since Brian became sick until his death. We have spent over Sh15 million. Gertrude's has a surety of Sh300,000 we had previously given them,” Stephen said. While awaiting the hospital's board decision on whether they will release the body, Brian's family has appealed to the government and well-wishers to help clear the bill so they can give their son a decent burial. Edited by Peter Obuya