The feud over the control of Nairobi's Finance department has intensified after a public notice published by one of the dailies on Tuesday. The notice stated that the Chief Officer for Economic Planning Washington Makodingo and County Executive for Finance Pauline Kahiga are no longer employees of the county. The public notice said the two finance officials and for CEC for Agriculture Winfred Kathagu have ceased to be employees of the Nairobi County Government effective from February 1, 2020 "This is to notify the general public and all institutions that the said persons are NOT AUTHORIZED to transact any business on behalf of the County Government and any transactions carried out by them or their proxies are null and void," reads the notice However, the two have been operating and have been making payments with the latest one being Sh166 million paid to KEMSA. On Monday, Sh1 billion worth salaries were paid to the Executive and county assembly staff. Reaching for a comment, Kahiga told The Star that she is still the County Executive for Finance and Chief Officer for Economic Planning Washingon Makodingo also confirmed that he is still in office. "What is happening is that the Governor wants to be in control of the treasury so that payments can be done as he wishes but that will not happen. The law has to be followed," Makodingo explained. He added that he has a valid contract until November 2022. "To sack a chief officer is entirely the mandate of the County Service Public Board and there are also procedures to be followed. Work is flowing at the Finance department and nothing has stalled," Makodingo said. Confusion over who is substantively in charge emerged after Sonko claimed in December 2019 to have degazetted Pauline Kahiga and replaced her with Allan Igambi who heads the Trade department. Government Printer CEO Mwenda Njoka dismissed the changes saying the degazettement was not done as per the law. On January 30, 2020, Sonko made changes in his cabinet, sacking Kahiga. For almost a month, neither Kahiga nor Igambi has been at the Finance office, leaving staff frustrated and confused about who they should be reporting to. The county assembly has maintained that Kahiga is the substantive holder of the office, despite Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto ruling on February 21, 2020, that Sonko did not break any law by reshuffling his cabinet. "In the circumstances, it is our considered opinion that as the law currently stands, there is no legal basis for the Government Printer’s decision not to effect the above-mentioned gazettement as requested by the county government," Ogeto said. The Government Printer declined to gazette Igambi as the new executive and sought the Attorney General's advisory opinion. Pronouncing herself on the issue, assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi on last week said Kahiga remains the substantive executive until Sonko tables documents confirming the changes. "We are not going to allow you to interdict and you have not given us the nature of what is going on. Until this House resolves otherwise, the CEC Finance of Nairobi county remains Pauline Kahiga," she said. "Until you unveil the new CEC by following the laid-down procedure, gazette and table all the documents before the assembly, and assure us things will continue working properly, Kahiga is still in office." Elachi said the assembly must be satisfied through evidence that the governor followed the law. Otherwise, no writing will be done to the Controller of Budget, the Central Bank and the National Treasury.