A cold war brewed over a popularity contest is shaping up in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet. A source aware of developments has told corridors that a gang of vocal and populist  Cabinet Secretaries known to be abrasive and militant are worried the entrants of a new CS will dim their shine and eclipse their space in the arena. The CSs are frightened by the fact that the fresh and energetic CS is hitting the right notes and turning out to be the darling of not just the “system” but also public. One who is known to be a sucker for media headlines is said to have chided fellow CSs at a recent presidential function that “he will do everything possible to remain the darling of the President”. The days to come will only tell who will have the last laugh. A deputy governor from one of the counties from Western Kenya has made failed attempts to go to the United States of America where he claims his family stays. The deputy county boss was allegedly deported from America over a domestic violence-related case and ordered never to set foot there. With the deportation, the politician was declared a persona non-grata in the USA. Sometimes back and unknowingly, his boss decided to send him to America for some assignment but only to learn that the man did not have a passport. Behind the scenes, the politician's frantic efforts to acquire another passport after his initial one was confiscated by American Authorities have always flopped It seems a first-tier state corporation is working overtime to ensure the employees are contracting the deadly virus. Disgruntled employees say the superiors are forcing them to work all day without protective gear despite the government directives serving non-essential services to clients from questionable places. The managers at the agency within the Central Business District are said to have told the shaken employees that they will only be allowed to go work from home if one of the patients already tested positive succumbs. A certain Cabinet Secretary is worried stiff after his persistence for clearance to travel to London seems to raise eyebrows with his seniors. The CS’s woes are compounded by the government restricting international travel, as his docket is one of the hardest hit by the apparent lockdown. The CS who is said to travel to the European capital every often to transact some quirky business has been cornered and was overheard whining that the dreadful scourge ravaging the globe will gravely affect his fishy hustles in Europe.