Residents of Busia have been cautioned against kissing if they are to avoid contracting and spreading coronavirus. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said on Monday kissing is among human-to-human contact activities that could easily aid the spread of the virus. “Reduce kissing,” Mulomi, an entomologist, told reporters in Busia. “Avoid greetings, do self-isolation, report any suspicious cases, minimise body contact with people showing signs of coronavirus and avoid informal points.” He spoke to journalists after attending a county high level meeting convened to devise ways of containing the spread of the disease in case it is reported in Busia. Mulomi said Busia being a border county stands the risk of recording cases of COVID-19 because of its proximity to landlocked East African countries. Rwanda has reported cases of the virus. Kenya has reported three cases of coronavirus. Busia has a porous border between Kenya and Uganda and the unregulated human traffic at the Busia, Malaba and Lwakhakha border posts can pose a health risk to the country. Mulomi, who read Governor Sospeter Ojaamong's speech, said there is enhanced screening at port health entry points at Busia and Malaba One Stop Border Post (OSBP) and other entry points along Kenya’s international boundary. “Busia county is the gateway to East and Central Africa. It has been classified as one of the 14 high-risk counties due to informal crossing points,” the county chief said. “Residents should be wary of COVID-19 which is spread through direct contact, droplets in contaminated items including linen, utensils and hands.” Tanzania, Rwanda and Ethiopia have already reported cases of the disease, a development that has put Kenya at higher risk. Busia Director of Medical Services Dr Janerose Ambuchi told the Star on Monday that the meeting resolved to roll out measures to secure residents from COVID-19. She said a technical emergency preparedness committee led by a team of specialists at the Department of Health and Sanitation had been formed to provide guidance on how best to secure the county. Other measures include the setting up of two isolation centres. One will be stationed at the Busia Trailer Park Clinic while a second will be at the Malaba Port Health Services. There will also be a standby ambulance to transport suspected coronavirus carriers to health facilities. On Friday the county announced that two isolation centres had been established at the Port Health Services at the Malaba and Busia OSBP to handle any suspected cases. Each of the centres has six beds. Mulomi said there are plans to expand the two centres to accommodate more beds. Matayos deputy county commissioner Joseph Onyango urged residents to be wary of unsolicited donations from people in the form of masks, saying they could be contaminated. Edited by A. Ndung'u