@robertomollo3  Homa Bay County Assembly Deputy Speaker Evans Marieba has resigned in a protest of what he said are irregularities in the county legislative house. The Gwassi North MCA wrote to assembly clerk Daniel Kaudo and acting Speaker Geoffrey Anyango notifying them of his resignation. Marieba said his resignation was a result of his removal from the position of acting speaker last week. Marieba has been the acting speaker since September 2018 following the impeachment of embattled speaker Elizabeth Ayoo. In last week's ouster, Marieba was replaced by Anyango. He said the move alongside other leadership changes effected in the assembly were irregularities that he could not be part of. Marieba told journalists he could no longer serve as the deputy speaker since the roles were similar to those of the acting speaker. “I cannot continue serving because I am no longer the acting speaker. I have tendered my resignation,” Marieba said. He accused the assembly leadership of perpetrating irregularities by nominating an MCA from a majority party to become the Minority leader. The ODM has 58 out of 60 MCAs in the Homa Bay county assembly. The assembly leadership nominated George Okello (North Kabuoch, ODM) as the minority leader. Okello replaced John Njira (West Karachuonyo) of the Wiper Party. Peter Asoyo of West Kaksingri (ODM) replaced Lambwe MCA Paul Adika (Independent) as the deputy minority leader in the latest changes. The reforms have caused a row in the assembly. Former Minority leader Walter Muok said the changes were ill-advised. “How can you nominate an MCA from the Majority party to be a Minority leader in the county assembly? I cannot be part of such irregularities,” Marieba said. Marieba’s resignation was confirmed by Anyango who said his office had received the resignation letter. Anyango said the assembly had not violated the Constitution in making the changes. “The Constitution states that MCAs from minority parties should constitute five per cent of the total MCAs in the assembly in order to have a minority leader from a minority party. But this is not applicable here because we have only one MCA from a minority party which is Wiper,” Anyango said.  edited by peter obuya