The Ministry of Health has said none of the 239 passengers from China Southern Airline flight have tested positive for the coronavirus. They arrived into the country on February 26. In a report tabled in court on Thursday, acting director general for health Dr Patrick Amoth said the ministry continues to maintain a heightened surveillance system at all entry points, health facilities and communities across the country. He said there is mandatory screening going on at all points of entry to minimise the risk of importation of the virus from any of the affected countries. “A total of 320,123 travellers have been screened in various points of entry since January 20. Each air, sea and land point of entry has a designated isolation facility to separate suspected cases for further monitoring,” Amoth said. High Court judge James Makau had directed the ministry to file a contingency plan on prevention, surveillance, control and response systems to the coronavirus outbreak. This was after the Law Society of Kenya and others filed a suit against the government for allowing the Chinese flight to land at JKIA amidst the virus outbreak. The government had also been directed to trace, account, re-examine, confine and quarantine in a KDF facility all the 239 passengers let into the country aboard the Chinese flight. But when the report was tabled in court on Thursday, parties in the case were not satisfied with it. Following this, the judge directed the ministry to file a contingency plan as he had initially ordered. The matter will be mentioned on April 2. He further faulted the Office of the Attorney General for failing to appear in court when the case was proceeding. The report by Amoth has outlined measures put in place by the government to deal with the coronavirus threat in Kenya. Amoth said medical personnel have been deployed across all international and local airports, with most based at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The medical team is supported by a contingent of NYS and National Police Service officers to control crowding. The report indicates that the Department of Immigration also continues to record all incoming passengers, especially those originating from China while retaining contact and physical address information. “The ministry surveillance teams continually monitors these passengers to review the health status as part of additional measures to manage the risk,” This requirement according to Amoth is being escalated to passengers coming in from all other countries with reported cases of the coronavirus in view of the sudden spike in numbers. “It is important to note that not all Chinese workers are incoming from mainland China, but are nevertheless subjected to the strategic action but self quarantine is an acceptable WHO recommended practice as a precautionary measure to minimise risk of spread.” Edited by A.N