  Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o on Monday inaugurated a council that will advise the county government on long-term economic strategies and resource mobilisation. The Kisumu Economic and Social Council will lead the transformation and development of the lakeside city. The eight-member council to be chaired by Nyong'o include James Odede, Peter Odoyo, Joy Mboya, Achola Pala, Joyce Nyamweya, Njoroge Kagwe, Kee Chong li Kwong Wing and Bhire Chatthe. Njoroge Kagwe is a consultant at First Africa Consulting while Pala works with the Independent International Consultants. Odede is the founder and CEO of Lake and Nyamweya the co-founder at Results for Africa Institute. Chatthe is the proprietor at Kibos Sugar Company and Chong the group chair, State Bank of Mauritius. Odoyo is a former MP for Nyakach and the Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Defence. Mboya is the founder of The GoDown Arts Centre. The team will advise the county on strategic policies to support and promote economic growth, social equity and create employment. Nyong'o said the move will reduce poverty and inequality. The council is also expected to guide the private sector and the civil society and offer professional opinions on development issues. Nyong'o has been struggling to implement his ten-point agenda manifesto which is his blueprint. Nyong'o said they have recorded success stories and continue to experience unfolding opportunities despite challenges. He said the country realised a depressed economic growth which has had a negative impact on revenue generation. “These fiscal constraints have been passed on to the counties which are forced to receive less funding in sharable revenue from the exchequer despite growing demand for financing such as health resources,” Nyong'o said. Nyong'o said the county government had not hit its potential in revenue generation to cushion itself from such revenue reductions. He said such shortfalls affect the county's budget planning. “However, the light at the end of the tunnel shines brighter. We continue to pull our resources individually and together as a regional bloc to leverage on our strengths.” He said the wealth of experience the council will bring on board will greatly propel the vision of the county. “I cannot appreciate you enough for accepting to be part of this journey whose mark will be seen many years to come,” Nyong'o said. Kisumu county is already focusing on the abstraction of the Blue Economy and is in the process of commencing the development of Kisumu Special Economic Zone. This SEZ being set up on a 10,000- acre land in Miwani area of Muhoroni subcounty will be the catalyst to industrial growth, the governor said. Nyong'o said Kisumu is one of the few fortunate cities around the world that sit on the shores of a water mass. Unfortunately, this resource has not been sustainably mined for the good of the county, the region and the nation, he said. “That narrative is fast changing. We are at the tail end of a geophysical planning exercise that will not only change the city to face the lake but also create linkages to other economic nodes within the city.”  edited by p. obuya