Police will not detain those arrested for traffic and petty offences in a move to decongest police cells and halt possible spread of coronavirus. Police spokesman Charles Owino on Tuesday said those arrested will be required to pay instant bonds and fines through cashless means. Avoiding the arrests and detention at the station was part of the initiatives to avoid congestion at the police stations, Owino said. "We have been deliberate in ensuring decongestion in the police cells. The decision to avoid detaining petty offenders arrested during this coronavirus scare adds to this objective," he said. He said police will not adopt the working from home system due to the nature of their service. But the officers have been adequately sensitised on the coronavirus and the preventive measures they need to adopt to prevent any infection and spread. "Of what help is it for a police officer to arrest a boda boda rider or a motorist for not having a license and expose him or herself to the highly contagious virus?" Owino told the Star. He added, "That does not mean that we are not on the watch. Offenders that commit serious crimes like robbery with violence and murder among others will be arrested and detained." "We will be detaining those who commit serious crimes because we do not have the powers to give them bail or bond other than the courts," Owino said. The spokesman said they had directed stations to avoid detaining petty offenders and instructed that they be released on free bonds or bail. Civil society groups including ICJ and Amnesty International have been pushing for the decriminalisation of petty offences as a way of decongesting detention facilities. Petty offences are misdemeanours such as loitering, being drunk and disorderly, causing a disturbance or nuisance, vagrancy, prostitution and being in possession of bhang. On Monday, Nairobi police boss Philip Ndolo said they were on high alert, allaying fears that idle youth at home could engage in criminal activities. There was concern that the coronavirus lockdown was likely to tempt many into crime. "There is no need to panic as police will be on standby to avert any attempts to engage in crime. We are on the same posture we took since Christmas festivities and we are not relenting," Ndolo said. Owino said, "everybody should be mindful of their health first before even thinking of committing a crime. But we are on a firm lookout." edited by peter obuya