Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok on Tuesday banned spitting in public, faith-based gatherings, wedding parties and hospital visits. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday confirmed a seventh person had tested positive for coronavirus. Governor Nanok has banned all public gatherings of more than 20 people including harambees, funerals (only immediate family members only) and social congregations as a measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “All official travel out of the county and country by staff are suspended immediately unless it’s of an emergency nature. Private travels outside the county are discouraged unless they are essential,” he said. “All public offices, hospitals, malls, banks, restaurants, night clubs, market stalls and hotels are directed to provide hand-washing facilities with running water with soap or alcohol-based hand sanitizers. All discos and night clubs are banned till further notice,” Nanok said. Hospital visits are banned until further notice. The governor said one patient will be allowed only one caretaker. Nanok has urged all offices to space staff at least two metres apart. Non-essential visitors to offices are discouraged. Nanok said public transport — including boda bodas, taxis, matatus and buses —must provide alcohol-based sanitizers and frequently fumigate their vehicles. Spitting in public places or gatherings was banned. “Due to extreme climatic conditions experienced in Turkana where the days are very hot and the nights very cold, I advise all residents to go to bed with warm clothes to protect themselves," Nanok said. The governor said that his administration has formed an Emergency Response Team, chaired by himself and the county commissioner, to coordinate outbreak response efforts. “A technical rapid response team is to train health workers, sensitise the public, draw up a preparation plan, help in early identification of cases and manage the outbreak on a day-to-day basis," he said. The high-risk areas are Lodwar, Kakuma, Kapese airstrip and Lokichoggio Airport, Kainuk, Lokichar, Turkana University and  Kalokol. Others are Kapedo village, GK Prison and Nadapal, Lokiriama and Todonyang. Medium-priority areas are Nawountos and Nakitongo informal border points. Screening and holding points have been set up at Lodwar airstrip and Lokichoggio Airport. (Edited by V. Graham)