The Kisumu administration has prepared three isolation wards in different health facilities as it intensifies coronavirus disease preparedness. The wards, with 25 beds in total, are at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kisumu County Hospital and Airport Health Centre. The county has trained 200 staff who are on standby at the isolation facilities. Governor Anyang Nyong'o said that they have acquired sufficient personal protective equipment for the health staff and any suspected case. “We have a professionally trained a rapid response team stationed at the county Health headquarters on a 24-7 basis,” he said. Nyong'o said they are following the monitoring and management procedures laid out by the National Coronavirus Response Committee. He said that a quarantine centre has been set up at the Old Airport for any suspected case among inbound travellers. A screening facility has also been set up at Kisumu International Airport for all inbound travellers. “We have up-scaled health promotion activities with robust public communication awareness across the media spectrum and at the same time stocked sufficient contingency supplies of medicines and non-pharmaceutical products to manage any suspected cases,” Nyong'o said. The governor appealed to residents to be cautious especially with personal hygiene. “Avoid any handshaking. Wave instead. Observe personal hygiene whilst coughing, sneezing and laughing in crowded areas. “Use handkerchiefs as much as possible. Frequently wash your hands with soap and water or with alcohol-based hand rub,” he said. The governor also urged the public to disinfect surfaces in their households, offices and on public transport. “Maintain distance between you and anyone coughing (at least one metre) and avoid unnecessary gatherings,” he said. When the Star visited Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Kisumu County Hospital, guards at the gates were providing sanitizers to those entering and leaving. In offices within the town, employees were also provided with hand sanitizers on entry and exit. (Edited by O. Owino)