The government will merge functions of the NCPB and the Strategic Food Reserves. At the same time, the government set fertiliser prices not to exceed Sh2,300 per 50kg bag of DAP for planting. Munya says the government and other stakeholders had surveyed and agreed the price be reduced from the current Sh2,800 per bag. He said the government had withdrawn from the importation of fertiliser and will instead allow manufacturing companies to import and sell it directly to the farmers. On the merger, Agriculture CS Peter Munya says the SFR board, headed by former minister Noah Wekesa, will now be a department of the NCPB. The SFR department will be in charge of market surveys and other research activities, among its current functions, for farmers' benefit. “The SFR will ... inform decisions on some interventions such as on prices when necessary," Munya said. SFR has also been controlling the purchase of cereals, especially maize, from farmers. Wekesa’s board also sets prices when necessary to protect farmers from loses when prices drop, mainly due to importation. Last year, Wekesa blocked the importation of maize, resulting in the current stable prices. “Once the government protects our farmers from untaxed imports, then the markets will be stable and the farmers will benefit from their work on their farms by selling at profitable prices," Moiben MP Sila Tiren said. Last year, the SFR did not buy any maize from farmers through the NCPB, as usual, because, Wekesa said, the good prices on the open market did not warrant government intervention. NCPB, on the other hand, has over the years been used to import and sell subsidised fertiliser to farmers. But interference by cartels led to massive corruption that denied farmers benefits from the subsidies. Now the board will no longer be involved in the importation of fertiliser and unnecessary maize purchase. Its role has largely diminished over three years but restructuring proposals have not been implemented by the government. “We have proposed that the NCPB operations and also facilities like stores be devolved so that they are managed by the counties,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. Dr Wekesa’s board will, however, continue to use the NCPB to store foods, including maize bought for strategic reserves, which are usually used during a famine. The board will continue to offer storage and drying facilities to farmers at cheaper costs. (Edited by V. Graham)