Food, access to water and security topped the agenda during a meeting involving Nairobi Members of Parliament and the head of the newly created Nairobi Metropolitan Services Major General Mohamed Badi on Thursday. Also present at the meeting was Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and woman representative Esther Passaris. The meeting held on Thursday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre saw the leaders discuss how to secure and protect the livelihood of Nairobians as the country fights to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Sakaja told the Star that the leaders resolved to have at least three water bowsers in each of the city's 17 subcounties. “Water is an essential service and during this time it is needed to observe hygiene. The water bowsers will be helping the constituents to access water where there is rationing,” he said. It was also resolved that in the next 24 hours an assessment of boreholes in the capital will be done. The Senator said the boreholes will play a big role in easy access of water to city residents. Food security The leaders said they will explore ways of subsidizing food prices in the city. “Most people in Nairobi especially in informal settlements access food from posh mills. The prices should be reasonable to ensure that the residents don’t hurt their pockets much further,” Sakaja said. A meeting with the supply chain especially market leaders will also be held to ensure food safety in order to eliminate panic buying that has been witnessed in parts of the city. Electricity and security The leaders also agreed to consult Kenya Power to ensure that street lights in the estates are functional to provide security. “Many proposals announced yesterday are to safeguard our health but are not bringing any benefits to the livelihood of wananchi because losses will be met. But some of the resolutions we have made, will attempt to protect their livelihood,” Sakaja said. It was the first time that Major General Badi was meeting a section of elected Nairobi MPs. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris said the meeting was overdue but timely because of both the coronavirus and a ‘change’ in county leadership. Some of the MPs had raised concerns that since the last General Elections in 2017, Governor Mike Sonko has never attempted to meet them as leaders in the capital. Containing Covid-19 Emphasizing on accessibility to water, Pasarris said they had resolved to request the National Treasury provide funds to purchase disinfectants, sanitizers and water equipment. The funds will also be allocated to the community health workers who are sensitizing people in the estates on the preventative measures against Covid-19. “Next week, my office will set up water points and provide sanitizers, soap and water in order for people to practice hygiene and avoid contracting the Covid-19,” she said. Passaris said the woman rep office is allocated Sh600,000 for a disaster fund which will be utilized to address the pandemic. “The gesture we have received today from the Major General is positive and we have welcomed him as elected leaders of Nairobi," the woman rep said. In the meeting, Badi briefed the leaders on his mandate as the head of the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and what he has to deliver within 100 days. Makadara MP George Aladwa said they agreed to work together with Badi to return Nairobi to its lost glory. He said that progress in Nairobi has been hindered over the years due to interference by cartels. “We pledged to support the Major General in his new role so that we can give essential services to the Nairobians. The President gave him a time limit and in solidarity, we shall help him deliver,” Aladwa said. The Nairobi leaders suggested having weekly meetings with Badi. The Major General was appointed to his new role last week by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He is deputised by Physical Planning Permanent Secretary Enosh Onyango Momanyi. The NMS team has been tasked with streamlining urban renewal housing projects in Pangani and Jevanjee whose contracts were awarded in 2018 but are yet to kick off. The new team was also tasked with actualizing the Nairobi City Railway Master Plan that seeks to create and redevelop 425 acres around the Nairobi Central Railway Station with the aim of creating a world-class multi-model in the Central Business District. The Badi-lead team was also charged with ensuring that garbage was collected effectively and efficiently to restore Nairobi's Green City Under the Sun status. NMS was also directed to crack down on illegal dumpsites and ensure that industries and restaurants did not discharge effluent into rivers. In 100 days, the team is expected to gazette the legal solid waste dumpsites for both public and private solid waste collectors. In the same timeline, the NMS will be expected to come up with strategies of equitable water distribution under the rationing programme.