A renowned political strategist could have spilt too many beans to the extent of exposing schemes in the kitchen cabinet. Corridors understands the shadowy invisible government known as the deep state could have facilitated his interviews as he rarely makes media appearances. However, it appears the analyst could have acted on his emotions and let the bigger cat out of the bag by detailing that his sponsors are planning to lock out DP William Ruto from the 2022 race. Media consumers are now figuring if the strategist is the brains behind choreographed hate messages and sophisticated smear campaigns, considering the man on several occasions been standing shoulder to shoulder with the powers that be. The man played a key role during the 2019 Mashujaa Day celebrations at Mama Ngina Drive, Mombasa County. The tendency of some overbearing and belligerent board members of a parastatal under the Ministry of Tourism has threatened to paralyse operations. The board members and their chair who are non-executives have held the management at ransom by usurping the roles of the secretariat. Corridors understands that the members have been cajoling the officials at the parastatal to pay for financially inflated irregular trips, some demanding to be paid for studies at local government institutions. Boxed-in staff are exasperated and wonder if there are limits to self-aggrandisement. Could this case interest anti-graft agencies? A Parliamentary committee was baffled when a member insisted his colleagues visit his constituency for benchmarking, forgetting that the legislators were there recently. Committee members had to remind him when they visited, but the MP said he could not recall any fanfare that should characterise such tours. He said his colleagues should not have just stopped by on their way to another constituency. “There were no women who danced for you and youths to sing for you. You also did not tell my people who you are. Waving at people along the road as you proceeded to another place was not enough,” he told the committee chair, who reminded him that such tours were not for the entertainment of members. Just what made a governor aspirant from Mt Kenya think twice about the much-touted bid? Well, it seems the senior government official who openly boasts that he is an influential power-wielder has seen that he may not get the seat after all. And thanks to his row with the incumbent, the man is now quietly telling residents to vote for another fresh bidder. Corridors is apprised that the fellow fears contradicting his boss who strongly backs the incumbent.