Agoro Sare High School dominated the Homa Bay County secondary schools Term One games held at Asumbi Teachers Training College. Agoro Sare retained the boys' basketball, boys handball and rugby 7's titles as the curtain came down on the three-day championships. In basketball, Agoro Sare, coached by Benson Ochieng and Paul Odock, overcame a stubborn Homa Bay High 72-52 in a tough final. "Since both teams had already qualified to the regionals, the final did not live up to expectations. We committed many fouls but we are going to rectify the mistakes before the regionals," said Ochieng. In the girls' category, Ototo Mixed, coached by their principal Clement Obare, lifted the title after beating Asumbi Girls 52-49 in a closely contested game. "This was our second time at the regionals and I'm happy we have lifted the title. Beating the hosts was not easy but the girls withstood the pressure," said Obare. In handball, the presence of the principal James Momanyi inspired Agoro Sare to beat Oriwo 26-25. At half time, Oriwo were leading 14-10. In the girl's category, Msare inspired by sisters, Susan and Valarie Mungusa outclassed Nyamanga Mixed 27-9 to win the title for the third straight year. "We have lost in two consecutive finals against Sega but I feel this year, is our time," said Msare coach Kennedy Ongayo. Agoro Sare won the rugby 7's title after thrashing Mbita School 50-10. Scram half Julian Lenge, centre Clinton Maina and winger Patrick  Odongo were outstanding. Coach Kistus Onditi said his target is to retain the regional title. "We worked hard to retain this title. Rugby is growing in the county," said Onditi. In 15's Oriwo Boys lifted the title after beating Agoro Sare 13-0 in the finals. Oriwo beat Obera 24-0 in the semis while Agoro Sare narrowly edged Homa Bay School 6-3. Little known Anding'o Girls coached by the principal Evelyn Oginga beat Asumbi 1-0 to lift the girls' hockey title. Faith Amondi scored the lone goal. "It was a very competitive and challenging championship but I'm happy my girls have won. I introduced the game in the school in the year 2018 and I'm happy that the effort we have put in this team is paying off," she said. En route to the finals, Anding'o beat Goyo 3-0 while Asumbi beat last year's regional finalists Ambassador Pamela Mboya Girls 2-0. Mbita High School upset regional champions Homa Bay School 3-2 to win the boy's hockey title.  Thomas Kimugur scored twice with Kennedy Otieno scoring the third for Mbita. Brighton Okello and Arnold Oluoch scored Homa Bay." The boys played well and as per my instructions. Beating the regional Champions is not easy," said Mbita coach Bernard Onyango. His Homa Bay counterpart Phillip Odhiambo said: "I didn't expect to lose this game even though I gave several second teams a chance to play."