At least 20 motorists plying the Kajiado -Namanga Road were yesterday forced by police to spend a night on the roadside on the first day of curfew in Kajiado county. County commissioner Joshua Nkanatha, who led the operation aimed at realising a 100 per cent curfew imposed by President Uhuru Kenyatta, ordered the vehicles caught up after 7pm to park on the roadside. "We have nabbed several vehicles including public service vehicles, sand trucks as well as private ones that we found on the road past 7pm,” Nkanatha said on Friday night. However, the county security chief cautioned Kenyans to obey and follow the presidential directive to curb the spread of Covid-19. "Our people should be wary of the danger this virus poses to their families and themselves, therefore, we should honour the pleas made by the government to ensure we minimise our movement to only essential services." The administrator said he will not hesitate to impound any vehicle or anybody who shall be deemed to have defied the directive of staying at home. All impounded vehicles were, however, released on Saturday at 5am. The business community in Kajiado town lauded the curfew saying that was the only option that could be understood by Kenyans. "This initiative to lock us in our houses for the sake of our safety is more important than these businesses,” shopkeeper Peter Mungai told the Star. Kajiado Central boda boda chairman Fredrick Riisa advised riders to heed the call that requires them to retire at 7pm. In Kitengela town, most businesses closed as early as 6.30pm to allow their workers to be home by 7pm. No cases of arrest or beating were reported in the town. Kimana, Loitokitok and Illasit towns in Kajiado South were vacated by 6pm as deputy county commissioner Lawrence Kinyua led the operation to impose the curfew. “By 6pm, no one was in the streets. We had a calm evening, and I am happy that our people have understood the need to stay indoors,” Kinyua said on the telephone. The ever-busy Kiserian town in Kajiado West was calm by 6.30pm as police in the area patrolled the streets. Deputy county commissioner William Kakimoni thanked residents for heeding the presidential order to remain indoors in efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus. Edited by R.Wamochie