Lack of hand sanitisers at the ferry crossing channel, learners staying indoors and dwindling business marked the first day of the emergency response against Covid-19 in Mombasa. It was business (busy) as usual on major thoroughfares like Nkrumah, Digo, Moi, Kenyatta and Haile Selassie. However, most small-scale traders complained of declined business. The management the Kenya Ferry Services was holed up in a meeting and was yet to implement any of the directives issued by the Mombasa County Emergency Response on Covid-19. Hundreds of commuters were yet to be provided with water and soap to wash hands as directed by Governor Hasan Joho. A TV screen mounted at the waiting bays was tuned to a local channel instead of the channel streaming content sensitising ferry users on preventive measures against the coronavirus. KFS communication officer Aaron Mutiso declined to comment on the matter. “I am not going to comment for now. We are attending a meeting. We shall issue out a statement once done,” Mutiso said. KFS was still collecting cash from the motorists despite President Uhuru Kenyatta encouraging Kenyans to use cashless transactions. “Why is KFS finding it difficult to implement some of the preventive measures? Let the management not risk our lives,” ferry user Evans Momanyi said. More than 300,000 people use the channel daily. The script was different at courts. The use of sanitisers was evident as per government orders. There are water taps next to the entrance and at hand are security personnel hand with soap. However, the courts were mostly deserted following the suspension of business by Chief Justice David Maraga. Court officials sent away everybody with cases until further notice. Plea taking was transferred from the courts to the Central Police Station. Chief magistrate Edna Nyaloti, who is the station manager, said the administration opted for soap and water because sanitisers were unavailable in the supermarkets. The magistrate further noted they will be reviewing bond terms for remandees to reduce the number in prisons. Nyaloti also said they will be holding meetings will police bosses to plan on how to access serious cases which will need the court's attention. Security guards have been instructed on how to handle the situation if a person exhibits coronavirus symptoms – fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. (In more severe cases, the infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.) Most primary schools in Kisauni remained closed. At Kadzandani Primary, a few teachers reported for duty only to be tasked with the duty of sending away a few learners who probably were unaware of the president's closure directive. "Our colleagues were at school today. Some pupils turned up but were told to return home. It seems like they did not get the message," teacher Christine Otiato said. Kadzandani Primary has a population of 1,300 pupils. Destiny and Teman academies were empty. Teman headteacher Mercy Maganga said a few pupils had also turned up for school but had to be sent back home. "We have a population of 600 pupils. A few who showed up were sent back home,” Maganga said. Shops in residential areas opened as usual.  Bamburi Fisheries shopkeeper Lucia Mbugua said, "We get our daily bread from here. If we close for even half a day, we may not eat for that day." Kwale education director Jane Njogu said most county schools had complied with the president’s directive. “Boarders will be released later because at least they are safer than the daily commuters,” she said. Schools that have already closed are Golini Secondary, Kwale Primary and Kwale Methodist among others. Matuga shopowner Chris Dena said he will visit the nearest health centre to test for the virus. Dena said he feels fatigued because he couldn’t sleep all night thinking about the pandemic. Baraka Mangale said he will observe all the rules listed by the health department about the virus. Mangale said he won’t take things lightly because the disease is real. “Whatever they tell me on staying safe, I will adhere. This thing is not propaganda." Kwale police headquarters put sanitisers and disinfectants at the doorsteps.  Everybody had to disinfect themselves before getting services. Small-traders at the Jomo Kenyatta Public Beach complained of dwindling business following Governor Joho's directive that public beaches should be closed as a preventive measure against the spread of the virus. Some of the traders said theirs was a hand-to-mouth business. They have to sell on a daily basis to feed their families. On Sunday, police on beach patrol told traders that they were not supposed to be there. “Ours is a hand-to-mouth existence, meaning that you have to work to eat, so when you come to the beach as your place of work and you are told to vacate because of the coronavirus, then life becomes hard for us,” Justina Kieni said. Silvester Tunje said their business is gone since residents are staying away. Paul Mbuza said little sensitisation has been done by the county government to make people understand the issues. Edited by R.Wamochie