The Trans Nzoia county government has put up two isolation centres in its preparations to deal with possible cases of coronavirus. Governor Patrick Khaemba has directed the health department to sidestep procurement procedures and buy sanitisers and other necessary equipment at a cost of Sh1o million. “Although the department should not follow the procurement procedures, the purchase of the supplies must be transparent and the suppliers must be delivered by Friday,” Khaemba said when he unveiled the county's coronavirus response team on Tuesday. He said any person who shows symptoms of the virus will be isolated either at the Kitale District Hospital or at the Kaisagat isolation centre. The governor directed that all weddings be suspended and that only family members should attend funerals. “I know it will be difficult since we are used to attending funerals but I urge friends and relatives of the bereaved families to do written messages to the families instead of physically availing themselves,” Khaemba said. Members of the public have been also advised to call the two hotline numbers 0759454347 or 0734396344 to notify authorities of any suspected cases. A free ambulance will pick them up and take them to the isolation centre. Khaemba also directed the closure of all early childhood education centres. He asked matatus and buses offering transport services to issue sanitizers to all travellers. The rapid response team comprises all executive members, representatives from the office of the county commissioner and the Trans Nzoia security team. The governor warned bloggers against spreading misinformation on social media. He said those spreading fake news over the virus will be firmly dealt with. “You just continue insulting Khaemba, but if you go on misleading members of the public over coronavirus, then I will come for you,” Khaemba said. The governor was reacting to claims on social media that the first coronavirus patient who was reported in Kenya had travelled to Kitale before being diagnosed with the virus. “I want to clearly say that we have no coronavirus case in Trans Nzoia,” Khaemba said. edited by peter obuya