President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday met a section of governors from the Rift Valley ahead of the Nakuru BBI rally. The consultative meeting which took place at State House Nairobi saw the governors brief the president on the planning of the rally scheduled for March 21. According to Statehouse, the governors assured the President of their full backing of the BBI process and undertook to ensure unity and inclusion of all stakeholders in the run-up to the Nakuru rally. Last month Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the rally which had initially been scheduled for March 7 had been postponed. The governor announced the rally will be a culmination of consultative meetings to build consensus on the document and include local agenda. "As the host county, we urge for tolerance and inclusion for the benefit of residents and sobriety in tackling key issues outlined in the BBI," Kinyanjui said. He said the rally will be about the issues affecting the counties within the region and devoid of sideshows and character assassination. "We shall be guided by the spirit of inclusivity and mutual respect for each others’ rights," Lee said. The county boss also put on notice those he termed as 'attention seekers' and 'spoilers'. "All national and local leaders are welcome and nobody should be made to feel a foreigner in any part of Kenya. Citation of matters outside the document will be considered as acts of unwarranted provocation," he said. The governor assured maximum security to all those who will attend. The region which is perceived to be a stronghold to the Jubilee Tangatanga group was expected to be attended by the majority of Deputy President's close allies, unlike other BBI rallies. This comes amid calls from Rift Valley MPs demanding that the rally must be attended by President Uhuru, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga. 'Joint attendance' and 'good manners' are among the conditions the Ruto allies set for their participation in the consultative forums spearheaded by the ODM leader. The lawmakers especially want leaders at the much-awaited meeting to avoid remarks that would destabilise peace in the region, long considered DP Ruto's turf. The last BBI rally held in Meru county was attended by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who walked out after their speeches. The Mt Kenya region presented a 10-point demand to the Building Bridges Initiative steering committee. The Nakuru Governor criticised a section of leaders who addressed the recent BBI rally in Narok, including area senator Ledama Olekina. Olekina had said that people who are not part of the community should not be allowed to run for the elective positions. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and his Bomet counterpart Hillary Barchok had planned to hold a rally on Thursday at Kapkatet stadium to reach on what they would like to be presented to the steering committee.