A Kitui family has abandoned their home for fear of their lives after Kenya Power failed to fix an electric pole that fell on their house in January. Relatives and neighbours say the wife and children of James Kalitu from Nzawa area of Nguutani, Mwingi West, travelled to Nairobi where he lives and works as a security officer. Kalitu's sister Joyce Kavuo said they heard a distress call from the house in the morning of January 27 and on checking found an electric pole had fallen on the house. No one was injured. "We heard a scream from my brother’s house early that day and rushed to her rescue only to find out that the electric post outside their house had fallen on the roof,” she said. Joyce said they called Kenya Power office for assistance but it kept promising to fix the problem and with time their calls went unanswered. All that while, Mrs Kalitu and her children sojourned at her in-laws. When it was evident no help was forthcoming, she moved with her children to Nairobi. The children had been schooling at Nzawa Primary School. Reached for comment, Kitui Kenya Power manager Antony Mwangi, however, said he had not been notified. He promised to follow it up for quick repairs. Joyce lamented that life is hard for his brother, who is not financially stable, and now has the burden of living with his family in the city, a situation she blamed on KPLC's negligence. "My brother works at a security company in Nairobi, while his wife, who was a farmer, has been forced to do odd jobs like washing people’s clothes to earn a living,” she said. Joyce added that her brother’s shamba was left unattended and could turn into a hideout for dangerous animals such as snakes. "My brother’s deserted home has seen weeds grow everywhere and there might be snakes here making it more dangerous." Neighbour Jemima Kanini said they fear their children, who usually play near the home, might get electrocuted at the scene. She pleaded with the KPLC to move with speed and save them from the looming disaster. "Ever since the live electric post fell on this house, we have been living in fear of our children being electrocuted," she said. Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna stated that Energy ministry is dead, urging CS Charles Keter to ensure his docket works for the people. He said the problem of fallen electric poles and regular blackouts has been rampant. "We need a proper explanation as to why Rural Electrification Authority projects have not been implemented since 2018," he said.