Hundreds of employees at the Export Processing Zone in Athi River face job losses as a result of the global coronavirus outbreak. Some workers on Tuesday told the Star that a number of firms had issued staff reduction notices, citing the unavailability of raw materials to make garments. “We are worried since some of our colleagues are already at home. They were told by our management not to report to work until they are told to do so,” one of the employees said. EPZ has more than 100 companies that directly employ over 27,000 Kenyans. Most of the firms deal in textiles for export. Multiple sources said a number of workers had been sent on compulsory leave until the situation normalises. Shona EPZ Ltd human resources manager Joseph Kyalo said the coronavirus outbreak had adversely affected the textile industry. He said most of the companies cannot operate normally since sources of some of their raw materials had been cut off. They import some of the materials from China, the epicentre of the outbreak. They also buy most of their fabrics from India. “Almost all companies in the zone have been affected. We can no longer receive containers of raw materials from China due to the coronavirus scare,” Kyalo said. “We, as a company, are trying to make good use of the garments we have and the fabrics we already secured from China since we cannot receive more at this time. This has adversely affected our operations just like other firms in the textile industry". Other partner countries that have been affected by the virus include the US, Japan, Spain, as well as Europe and Middle East states. Kyalo said the situation has affected their production rate, leading to losses. He, however, said they are yet to send some workers home since the situation is still manageable. They will have no option if the situation persists, Kyalo added. Other sources said most companies had reduced their operation hours. “We no longer report to work on Saturdays as we used to. Overtime operations have also reduced due to raw materials scarcity since the coronavirus outbreak was reported,” a machine operator at Hela Intimates EPZ said. Edited by E. Kibii