Around 30 of the ICC witness statements against President Uhuru Kenyatta were fabricated, according to a recent book by a British forensic linguist. Dr John Olsson teaches law at Bangor University in Wales and has given evidence in courts around the world. He specialises in examining hoax documents and ransom letters. Chapter 10 in his book WordCrime, published by Bloomsbury Publishing, is headed The Prosecutor of the ICC v The President of Kenya. It “concerns an attempt by political opponents of Kenya’s most powerful family to frame the President of Kenya for the post-2008 election violence”, Olsson writes. The Kenyatta defence team asked him to look at over 50 witness statements. “After over a year working on the case, in complete secrecy and under the strictest security, I found signs of evidence-tampering, collusion between witnesses and mass plagiarism”, Olsson states. “There were strong indications that there was one, and only one, author behind the contamination of the witness statements,” he asserts. Even though it was not mentioned, Olsson believes that his work exposing the evidence-tampering contributed to the decision by ICC Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda to withdraw her case against President Kenyatta on December 5, 2014. Olsson recognises the difficulty faced by investigators in collecting evidence of communal violence in local languages. Nevertheless he concludes that the statements “were not the independent eye-witness accounts they purported to be”. His argument hinges on the fact that it is incredibly rare for the same sequence of words to be repeated. He gives the example of “I asked if I could carry her bags”. An Internet search for “I asked if I could” generated 7,700 results. “I asked if I could carry” generated only seven results. And “I asked her if I could carry her bags” generated no results. That is why it is so easy for universities to spot plagiarism among students today. Olsson gives three examples of plagiarism in the witness statements, although they are heavily redacted for identity purposes. The first example is about several people going to see a prominent person asking him to take part in an activity. One witness said they “told us they had been sent and were representing X,Y,Z and A”. Another witness said they “told us they had been sent and were representing X,Y,Z and A”. Olsson declares that the probability of the two 12-word strings being by different authors “is extremely low”. The second example concerns two allegedly unconnected statements about a certain individual’s involvement in ethnic murders. One witness states “I believed all the time that the revenge attacks had the blessings of X,Y,Z, and A”. Another witness states “All the time … on the understanding that the revenge attacks had been authorised and had the blessings of X,Y,Z, and A”. He said it could not be a coincidence that both witnesses referred to “revenge attacks” and “blessings” and also that they stated the names X,Y,Z and A in the same order. The third example refers to an assertion that an individual must have known about the atrocities. They both state that he “reads newspapers, watches television, listens to radio”. He said a search for this seven-word string on the Internet generated no results. Olsson said that these kinds of similarities were found throughout 30 of the ICC witness statements. “As a result of the above analysis, the author concluded that a concerted effort had been made to implicate the defendant,” Olsson writes. “The evidence against the defendant, in this case, was manufactured.” Olsson concludes that forensic linguistics provides a reliable way of testing for plagiarism and fabrication. He recommends that the ICC should recruit experts in forensic linguistics to avoid such problems again in future.