The High Court has quashed as too lenient a three-year non-custodial sentence for a boda boda rider who defiled his primary school sweetheart and got her pregnant. The rider charged with defiling a 16-year-old in Moyale on December 23, 2015, will now serve nine months' imprisonment. The prosecution appealed the earlier sentences as too light. “The trial magistrate erred in law in sentencing the appellant to a non-custodial sentence of three years, whereas the law on which the conviction was founded provides for a minimum sentence of 15 years,” the prosecution said. Through his lawyer, the rider opposed the state's appeal and submitted that all factors in the case and the pre-sentencing report had favoured him. The woman had turned 18 years by the time she testified. She said that on the day of the attack, she had left her home and went to Sololo to sleep at her friend’s place. The boda boda rider entered the house at9pm as her friend left. He lifted her long dress and wrestled her to the floor of the living room, defiled her and left. After one month, she missed her monthly period but kept quiet until May 2016 when other pupils began to notice her pregnancy. Her boda boda boyfriend was summoned by the village elders but denied responsibility. He was arrested and charged. A DNA test confirmed that the rider was the child’s father. A pre-sentencing report said although the two were in a relationship from 2010 when both were minors, they first had sex on December 23, 2015 - the night of the defilement. In 2010, she was in Standard 6 while he was in Standard 7. The court handed him a nine-month custodial sentence to reflect on his crime. “I am satisfied that 15 years of imprisonment is not the ideal sentence for the respondent. The two were in a love relationship at their tender age and the respondent was already over 18 years [when she testified], " the Marsabit High Court ruled on March 24. The court said the rider had decided not to be responsible for his own child. "He seems not to have learnt any lesson from his mistake," the court said, handing him nine months behind bars. (Edited by V. Graham)