The government has said it is projecting the confirmed cases of the COVID-19 might hit the 10,000 mark by the end of next month. The Director of Public Health Dr Patrick Amoth on Monday said according to the propositioning module, Kenya will likely record a total of 1,000 cases by the first week of April. "Our modelling puts us at having about 1,000 cases by the first week of April and we postulate that we'll have 5,000 cases by mid-April and, potentially, 10,000 cases by April 30," Amoth said during a press conference at Afya House. "So, those are the figures that we are working with in terms of how we pre-position our personal protective equipment; how we pre-position our test kits; how we pre-position our human resource; and how we pre-position our isolation and quarantine facilities. According to Amoth, due to technicalities, they can only test samples of those in quarantine after the 8th day. "So, we have done a bit of modelling; nature sometimes does not obey science, but we believe that if it works along that way, then the actions that we take, we will be able to pretty be sure that we can be able to be in control," he said, He said half of the tests that were done on Sunday were from those in quarantine. "Our lab capacity can only take 300 samples within 24 hours but we are working round the clock to bring the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital on Board within the week to increase our capacity," he said. He said though the current youthful generation is an advantage in fighting the spread of the disease, the weak health system and disease burden of the communicable diseases like HIV/Aids might hamper the efforts. Amoth said those who are not adherent to medicine might undergo a viral suppression putting them at more risk of contracting the virus. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said if only Kenyans would adhere to the social distancing and washing of hands, the country would stand in a better position to defeat the disease. "It is not about the government forcing Kenyans to do what they do not want but doing what it must take to overcome the challenge at hand," he said. He said so far the country has over 20,000 testing kits and more donations are flocking in. Kenya recorded eight more coronavirus cases on Monday putting the country's total number at 50. Kagwe said Nairobi now leads with 37 confirmed Covid-19 cases followed by Kilifi (6), Mombasa (4) while Kajiado, Kwale and Kitui counties have one each. Tracing of contacts for this 50 is ongoing. Out of the 50 cases, 26 are male and 24 female. "From the 2,050 people in mandatory quarantine, we have in the last 24 hours tested 172 samples, 84 samples have so far been analyzed and have received confirmation of 1 person who has tested positive for coronavirus," Kagwe said.