Chaos have rocked DP William Ruto's function in Murang’a county. This was after Governor Mwangi Wa Iria's supporters exchanged blows with those of MP Alice Wahome. A fight erupted between Wa Iria's supporters and other youths who had attended the meeting held at Kenyoho secondary school soon after the governor arrived. The meeting was brought to a standstill for about 10 minutes as several of Wa Iria's aides were beaten and eventually arrested. Some of the supporters were dragged outside the podium as Ruto was seated in the VIP tent. MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Wahome and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) said the governor was forcing the law onto farmers. They said farmers have the liberty to sell their fruits to their desired buyers without limitations and that they should not be compelled to sell to specific buyers. The county government wants to control the avocado sector through the bill that seeks to regulate the production and marketing of the fruit. The county government intends to consolidate farmers into co-operatives which will then enter into contractual agreement with buying companies. But the leaders accused Wa Iria of compelling farmers to sell their fruits to a specific buyer. Wahome said even though the county government issued free seedlings, it should not dictate what farmers do with their trees. "If we have to walk together in one journey, we should allow the avocado market to be free. Farmers should sell to whoever pays better," she said. Kuria on his part wondered why the governor wants to dictate how farmers should handle their farms. "Tomorrow, I will send a lorry to Murang'a to buy avocados. The governor seems to have gotten confused since he joined the BBI brigade. Let him know that even after BBI, he will come back to Murang'a," he said. Rigathi said Murang'a people own their farms and should have the freedom to do with them as they please. The MPs spoke during the commissioning of Kandara Technical Training Centre before the procession proceeded to Kenyoho secondary school to hand over a school bus bought by Ruto in partnership with Kandara CDF. Earlier, Ruto said even as the country deliberates on the BBI report, politicians should not use it to divide the country. “The biggest problem in Kenya is not political position but the needs of the people. That should be our driving force,” he said.