Monthly NSSF contributions will rise to Sh1,080 at the start of the next financial year, should the agency end the deadlock over an Act allowing it to charge the amount. The Central Organisation Trade Union (Cotu) and Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE), which opposed the move, are now in talks with Treasury on the same. This would herald an era where both the employee and employer will pay Sh2,160 every month. The worker representatives had opposed the changes introduced in the Act, saying it would be expensive for workers. But Antony Omerikwa, CEO of the National Social Security Fund, told the Star in an exclusive interview that the move would be of benefit to contributors in the long run. He says they are keen on fully implementing the law as it is “an Act for the people and one that operationalises the Constitution’s provision for social security as a right”. Omerikwa says workers should not view the contributions as costly since ‘the power of spending post-retirement depends on what one saves today’. He added that with the contributory amounts being pushed up, there will be ‘a pool of money for the country to achieve President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four plan’. “One of the key mandates in the Act is investment. Even for the basic investment, the higher the amount you deposit, the greater the interest,” he said. “We will be enjoying the economics of scale in terms of investments like fixed deposits and short-term investments. There will be a pool of cash to develop the country.” CALL FOR PUBLIC SUPPORT Omerikwa urged Kenyans to support the Act’s implementation, as one its deliverables is that it would bring the informal sector under the ambit of the NSSF. The fund largely caters for the employed. The Act allows trustees to come up with products in reaction to customer needs. In this regard, NSSF has rolled out a new product called habahaba (see sidebar), which will cater for the about 13 million players in the informal sector. “Since Independence, the products have been in the formal sector, which we are now shifting from,” Tony said. “As the Act allows us, we will be feeling the temperature on the ground and reacting to customer needs and may come up with more new products.” NSSF’s reservation is that the courts set aside some clauses in the law that would have enabled the entity to increase the contributable amount. The Fund is currently collecting Sh400 as opposed to it being a percentage of the salary, which the Act posits. If the Act is implemented, a contributor would give 6 per cent of their pensionable income and the employer would give 6 per cent. Currently, NSSF only provides the first pillar of social security, while contributors have an option of opting out or in for Tier II. “This is a defined contributions scheme. At the end of it, what you contribute is what you get,” the CEO said. Institutions that don’t have a vibrant pension scheme contribute both but individuals have an option of contributing more funds voluntarily. The reasoning at the agency is premised on today’s social demographics, where many parents cannot rely on their children for support. The other benefit of Act, as per Section 19, would be to move NSSF from a provident fund to a pension fund. Provident fund only gives a contributor a lump sum when one retires — contribution and interest. For a Pension Fund, contributors access a third of their funds and the balance is used to buy an annuity. TURNAROUND MISSION Omerikwa took over the reins at the social security provider at the height of turbulence occasioned by claims of corruption involving top managers. The incoming administration’s priority mission would then be to implement a turnaround strategy. NSSF was at risk of losing assets, had more busy days at the courts and an image of an entity that cared less about its clients. Omerikwa says it takes him a 24-hour effort to run the fund, hence the new face it has developed. “My day never ends so it never starts. Working for the fund is a full-time job. You never know when that call will come in,” he said. “Remember when Kenya goes to sleep, America wakes up,” he said as we settled for this interview at his corner office, Upper Hill, Nairobi. “It is a full-time job and all the members are my bosses, including the actual bosses that help me run this institution.” Treasury CS Ukur Yatani appointed the new managing trustee last November to lead the transformation for the next three years. He assures the nearly three million members that all is working in their favour amid a fizzle in the board wrangles that threatened NSSF’s stability. Omerikwa says the environment has enabled them reclaim the entity’s image and improve customer care, as evidenced in a favourable review report by the Ombudsman. “NSSF has grown in net worth from Sh150 billion in 2015 to Sh235 billion. We have recovered some assets. The growth trajectory is something to be proud about,” he said. An actuarial evaluation now informs interest rates, which is a shift from what the entity used to do previously. “We allocate our interest rates scientifically on the basis of the strength of the fund as a going concern,” the CEO said. He prides himself in having steered a technological revolution at the agency, introducing the e-service, a paybill number, and now contribution via USSD prompts. The fund is also looking forward to a dividend payout from Kenya Commercial Bank after the successful swap of 48.05 per cent shareholding in National Bank. “We have never enjoyed dividends from NBK,” Omerikwa said, adding they have equally recovered the paper value NSSF lost when polls disturbed the stock market. PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATION In the works is a plan to diversify the fund’s portfolio through energy, private equity and hedged offshore investments. To succeed in the business restructuring, NSSF is banking on its fund managers — Britam, Old Mutual, GenAfrica and African Alliance. The CEO assured stakeholders that the fund managers would help streamline investment issues that have exposed the fund, with minimal or no loss. “We are on the right course. Our performance in terms of return on investments was Sh11.5 billion, which was way better than other schemes,” he said. NSSF has had historical challenges dating back to 1994; a route the new management says it is keen not to take. “The promise we can give our customers is that their money is safe and the turnaround time for their benefits has been shortened, unlike our competition where people take years to be paid,” the CEO said. He said the Act's implementation needs to be championed as well as create a national pension scheme as social security. This way, the NSSF chief executive adds that monies spent on cash transfers for the elderly would now be released to other development projects. Their thinking is that cash transfer is money sourced from taxes and, therefore, bleeds the economy to cater for people who never contributed to a pension scheme. “The civil service is suffering because people don’t want to pay their pension. If you are not contributing, what you get only depends on what the government has,” Omerikwa said. The other challenge NSSF has grappled with is managers holding positions in acting capacity. But Omerikwa says following his confirmation, the other posts would follow in the wake of the board being fully constituted. “Contrary to the assertions that keep flying around, we have a very solid and formidable governance prescription in our Act,” he said. “The board comprises individuals with experience, academic accolades and exposure. We have a former Chief of Defence Forces, two professors, four doctors, and hence the qualification is unparalleled.”