A Nakuru-based lawyer accused of being part of a group that killed a Belgian national was on Wednesday charged with murder. John Gakinya, however, denied the charge of killing Dysseller Mireille Lesoipa before Justice Daniel Ogembo. Key suspect in the murder Lucy Waithera was arraigned but did not take a plea because her mental assessment report was not ready. Waithera was a friend of Mireille and is alleged to have masterminded her murder. The offence is said to have been committed between December 11, 2018, and last year July jointly with others, not before the court. Gakinya was charged even though police are yet to find Mireille’s body. Police believe the Belgian was killed. Through his lawyer Kiraithe Wandugi, Gakinya asked the court to release him on bail but the prosecution opposed the request. Prosecutors said Gakinya's request should be made in a formal application so they can respond to it. Ogembo directed Wandugi to file a formal application and serve the prosecution. The case will be mentioned on Monday when the application for bail will be made. The judge directed that Waithera is arraigned on Thursday when the mental assessment report will be presented. Mireille went missing early last year and police believe a group of people plotted to kill her and take over her properties. It is alleged that Waithera forged a will and Mireille's death certificate claiming she died at MP Shah Hospital. But the hospital said no one by that name was ever admitted at the facility. Police said Waithera befriended Mireille when the Belgian moved to Nakuru in 2018 and a few months later, she disappeared. Waithera produced a death certificate that said Mireille died of HIV/Aids. She told police her friend was cremated but detectives have since established the cremation never happened. Waithera has already sold her friend's house and a Toyota Prado to a pastor in Nakuru. Waithera has been in custody since February 3 when she was arrested in connection with the disappearance of Mirielle AKA Leila wa Samburu. The woman lived in Blankets Estate in Mwariki, Nakuru East constituency. Detective Oliver Nabowe who is investigating the matter said in an affidavit presented to Kiambu chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi one week ago that immediately after Mireille's disappearance, Waithera and her accomplices leased the missing person's residence to Avipro East Africa and started earning rent. The other suspects are still at large. Waithera is said to have furnished the missing person's advocates, Gakinya and Company Advocates, with death certificate No 1600281 showing Mireille died last year on  July 15 in Nairobi.  edited by p. obuya