The Okoa Mombasa Movement said President Uhuru Kenyatta should personally apologise to Likoni residents for the brutality they suffered under police last Friday evening. The movement’s founding member Khelef Khalif said the 7 pm-5 am curfew imposed on the country by Uhuru will not work should chaotic scenes continue to be witnessed at the crossing channel. “We are all saddened by what happened in Likoni the other day. Why is the president quiet? Why hasn’t he said anything about it? Is he part of this problem?” posed Khalifa. He spoke at the Muslims for Human Rights Legal Aid Clinic in Mombasa on Sunday. Khalifa, who is also the Muhuri chair, said Uhuru has the capability of ensuring no police officer ever assaults a Kenyan today if he so wishes. He questioned his commitment to the protection of human rights in Mombasa. Muhuri executive director Abubakar Zain questioned the effectiveness of the curfew. “Does this virus only spread at night and does not affect people during the day?” Zain said. The executive director said the measures taken to curb the possible spread of the novel coronavirus at the Likoni channel need to be revised. “Before the curfew, there was always a crisis at the ferry. We were promised changes which we have not seen to date. So either extend the curfew start period in Mombasa or completely lift for Mombasa people,” Zain said. On Saturday, Interior CAS Hussein Dadio said the curfew is there to stay and that it will be implemented to the latter. Dado, who toured the ferry crossing alongside Coast regional coordinator John Elungata, Coast Guard director general Brigadier Vincent Naisho Loonena and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, said the government has the interests of Kenyans and Mombasa residents at heart. On Saturday evening, the scenes at the ferry crossing were peaceful as ferry users strictly adhered to instructions issued to them. The GSU personnel who were manning the channel were withdrawn and replaced by Administration Police, alongside the Kenya Coast Guard and the Mombasa Inspectorate officers. However, there were over 50 Likoni residents, including a Kenya Navy officer and his female partner, who were caught outside the curfew. Dado, who was incensed by their lateness, rebuked them. “Do not test the waters, my friends. Do not play games with the government. When the government issues directives they must be followed,” said an angry Dado. Brig Loonena said the navy officer, who appeared drunk and was not on duty, will be court-martialled. On Sunday, Khalifa said the new schedule at the ferry is not practical. Joho and Elungata announced on Saturday that the ferries will be exclusively used by pedestrians from 5am to 11 am, and again from 2 pm to 6 pm. Between 11 am and 2 pm, the pedestrians will share the ferries with vehicles, bicycles and motorbikes. This means motorists and bikers will only use the ferries for three hours. Khalifa said the new schedule is not fair to motorists. “It simply cannot work because at the end of the day the numbers are too many at the channel,” said Khalifa. He said so long as there will be restricted numbers at the ferry, there will be chaos. Mesh Abdul, a member of Okoa Mombasa, said county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo should take responsibility and resign over the Likoni ferry incident. “If you are overwhelmed and cannot do your work properly, do the honourable thing and resign,” said Abdul. He said the whole police hierarchy in Mombasa should pack and go. “That was a criminal act. How on earth do you beat innocent people and throw teargas canisters to at least 10,000 people? Why is this happening today, over 50 years after independence?” posed Abdul.