The first 2020 Continental Tour Series slated for May 2 in Nairobi will be used as a Test Event for the World Under-20 Athletics Championships set for July. The Continental Tour is a 10- leg series with Nairobi being the first stop on May 2. Others are as follows—Tokyo (May 10), Nanjing (May 13), Ostrava (May 22), Hengelo ( June 1), Turku (June 9), Kingston (June 13), Szekesfehervar Hungary (June 7) with the final two legs in Silesia Poland on September 6 and Zagreb, Croatia on September 15. Speaking during a media briefing yesterday, Athletics Kenya president Lt Gen Rtd Jackson Tuwei said the event will be used as Test run for the global show and that refurbishment works at the Kasarani Stadium will start by the end of the week. "Sports Kenya have advertised contractual works to start the renovations and I am confident the stadium will be ready for the May event," he said. Athletics Kenya (AK) have seconded Brussels Diamond League director, Cedric Van Brantghem of Belgium to aid in preparation for the inaugural event which will see Kenya host the event for the next three years. Van Brantghem, who has been meeting director of Brussels for the last five years, said Kenya is a global powerhouse in athletics and the event will be significant to the nation. "We have a unique opportunity to set up the biggest one-day meeting in the world,” he added. He said Moi International Sports Centre (MISC),  Kasarani is ideal for the showcase event, going by the attendance during the 2018 World Under17 Athletics Championships. "This stadium is built for athletics and we know that Kenyans love the sport. That is why we want to fill this stadium and bring the best athletes of the world to your city,” added Van Branteghem. Technical director, Owen Malone, said they will spice up the Continental Tour leg in Nairobi with entertainment as well as deliver an Athletics meeting with an African touch. “We want to give fans something to remember on the day and we will incorporate an African theme for the event,” added Malone Some of the events to be hosted will include the 3,000m steeplechases for both men and women; 200m men and women, hammer throw,  triple jump and discus. The Continental Tour will be divided into three levels – Gold, Silver and Bronze and with the status being determined by the quality of competition and prize money. A total prize money purse of at least Sh21 million ($200,000) will be offered for each Gold meeting as well as significant World Ranking points.