The Director of Public Prosecutions suffered a blow after a court rejected an application to withdraw a case against a woman facing a Sh150 million land fraud charge. The DPP had gone to court seeking to have charges against Farah Mohamed dropped. Mohammed was jointly charged with Ahmed Jibril with conspiring to defraud businessman Francis Njeru of his Nairobi parcel on October 19, 2015. Njeru had protested the bid by the DPP to drop the case, saying he was not consulted about the plan yet he was the complainant. Resident magistrate R Aganyo ruled that the case must proceed to full trial and directed that Mohammed takes a plea on 27 May, 2020. “I see no reason why the charges the second accused is facing should be withdrawn,” she stated. Aganyo further said the case before her was weighty and touchedon a matter that was very emotive in the country. Jibril, who is the chairman of a local airline, appeared before resident magistrate Aganyo on January 21 at the Milimani magistrate’s court and pleaded not guilty. He was released on Sh2 million bond. Mohamed was to take a plea but failed to show up in court twice — on January 21 and February 24, 2019. On the first date, the court heard that she was in Canada and could not travel back because she was unwell. She requested another date. Again, on February 24, she failed to attend court, citing health reasons. This prompted the prosecution to apply for an arrest warrant against her last week. Njeru had sued China Road and Bridges Corporation for allegedly occupying his land illegally. ARJ Capital Limited, which is jointly owned by Jibril and Mohamed, then moved to court to be joined in the suit as an interested party. ARJ Capital Limited had leased the land to China Road and Bridges Corporation. Mohamed and Jibril allegedly entered into a tenancy lease agreement with China Road and Bridges Corporation purporting to be the registered landowners. The land is located at the Inland Container Depot along Mombasa Road and measures about four acres. The two were also accused of holding possession of the land in a manner likely to breach the peace, making a false document and obtaining registration of land by false pretences by making a title deed in the name of ARJ Capital Limited purporting it to be a valid document issued and signed by land registrar Peter Mburu.