Meru and Tharaka Nithi journalists will say prayers for their two colleagues who died within a span of two weeks. The death of Darlington Manyara of the Standard Media Group and Kathomi Kaburu of Mwago FM, a KBC vernacular radio station, left their colleagues, readers, listeners, friends and families in shock. Manyara, 29, died on February 18 at his home in Kithoka, Meru town, after a short illness. He was buried last month. Journalists from different media houses attended the ceremony to give him a befitting send-off. He was an executive committee member of the Meru Press club Association. Manyara was eulogised as impartial, friendly, committed and outstanding in his job. Wainaina Ndung’u, his immediate boss in Meru, said his death was an immeasurable loss as he was a reliable journalist who made friends, new sources, was talented and a potential writer with great future. Jesse Muriungi, family member and Kenya Red Cross Eastern region manager Gitonga Mugambi, urged people to pray for the family and desist from speculation. Kaburu passed away on Tuesday morning at St Ann's Hospital, Igoji, in Meru county. Journalists visited her home in Magutuni, Maara constituency, to condole with her family. She served as deputy chair of the Tharaka Nithi Press Association. With regard to the two deaths, members of the fourth estate have called for prayers. Ben Kingwete and Mwongera Mwanontii set some time during their morning breakfast show on Muuga FM to pray for the departed and the media industry. Antony Miriti urged journalists to pray so God can protect them from premature death. Nkunja Murungi denounced the spirit of death as others called for a special prayer day. One Kalung'e wrote, "We need to organise serious prayers for the scribes." Kaburu was eulogised as a passionate journalist who was very dedicated in her assignment. Mwago FM Radio station head Kimathi Bauni said she was a professional full of new ideas and always suggested ways of improving programming and the content aired. Her father, Henry Kaburu, said the death was a big blow to his family. "She was my firstborn and always played a key role in the family,” he said when journalists visited to console the family.