Ibiza market hawkers who were relocated to Ukunda showground have threatened to go back because of a decline in profits. The hawkers said they have been incurring massive losses since they were moved. They want the county government to resettle them in an area where they can observe proper hygiene and maintain the flow of income. Led by Amina Hassan, the traders said they have lost customers and the distance to travelled to the market has become unbearable. "Our daily clients cannot reach us because of the long walk they have to endure, " she said. The Ibiza market is the biggest in Kwale followed by Carlispo at Kona Ya Musa in Ukunda. Hassan spoke to the Star on Sunday in Msambweni subcounty. She said the Ukunda showground is unfavourable for business activities. Hassan termed the place as a store because it is rarely visited by consumers. "We have been taken to a dungeon. This is no place for us. We stare at the hard walls from dawn to dust without selling anything, " she said. Hassan, a fish seller, said she used to sell 15kg per day earning her over Sh10,000 but now she takes home Sh300 on a good day. The Ibiza open market was closed to combat the spread of Covid-19. Kwale was designated a hotspot after the first case was confirmed at Msambweni Referral Hospital. Fatuma Mwacharo said they are making huge losses. "I can buy fish for Sh5,000 and end up selling Sh500," she said. Mwacharo said since she engages herself in fast-moving commodities, failure to clear stock is a major blow. Saidi Nuri said they don't oppose the government directives against coronavirus. But the strategies applied should be more business-friendly so they don't end up suffering from hunger. Nuri wants the government to allow them back at Ibiza, saying they will comply with all the rules and regulations of safety measures. "It is better if we return to where we were. This is all we have to feed our families and we will do what they want to put sanitisers, water and social distance," he said. Diani Municipality manager Hamisi Mwandaro said the relocation is temporary and they will soon be taken to a safer and conducive place. He said processes are underway to open the Kombani market where some of the wholesalers would be urged to work from. (edited by o. owino)