Bungoma county expects improved harvests through subsidised inputs provided to vulnerable farmers. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati flagged off the distribution of fertiliser and maize seeds to vulnerable households ahead of the planting season. The subsidy programme is aimed at improving yields, food security and nutrition. By the end of this week, the 17,636 farmers from 43 rural wards and another 275 from two urban wards shall have got 10kg maize seed, 50kg planting fertiliser and 50kg top-dressing fertiliser each. In 2018, Bungoma produced 3.8 million bags of maize. Last year, courtesy of subsidised farm inputs, harvest per acre rose from 10 bags to 17, pushing the overall production of maize to 4.1 million bags on 95,00 acres. According to Governor Wangamati, the increase makes for a serious business case to continue investing in subsidised inputs. “We hope that this year’s subsidy programme will help farmers on the fringes of the economy to plant on time like all other farmers,” he said. The inputs are distributed at once, unlike last year where top-dressing fertiliser came a month after planting fertiliser and maize seeds were distributed. "The subsidised fertiliser and seeds to farmers are also our way of stepping in to help farmers failed by the national government after it reneged on its promise to give poor farmers subsidised fertiliser," Agriculture executive Mathews Makanda said. Besides the programme, Bungoma is also tilling land for poor farmers at a subsidised cost of Sh2,500, instead of Sh5,000 per acre. Vulnerable farmers have access to county tractors. Already, the county has done about 1,483 acres and hopes to have completed 261,932 acres by April in time for the planting season. Beneficiaries include widows, people living with disability and vulnerable households in remote areas — all identified during public participation forums in each ward. Neighbours define each other in terms of need. The county has also slashed fees charged for soil testing from Sh800 to Sh500 per acre to ensure many farmers access the service so they choose the right crops and their varieties.