Rights activists have decried failure by the Bungoma and Kimilili municipal boards to commence work several months after their gazettement. Speaking to the press, the Citizens for Good Governance, led by officials Philip Wanyonyi and Lumumba Wekesa, accused the county government of sabotaging the boards. “The law says that once the boards are in place the relevant ministry should devolve both the functions and the resources. That has not happened for almost a year now,” Wanyonyi said. They said the ill-motive by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s administration deprives residents of essential services. The World Bank has released Sh300 million to the boards for development, with a further Sh42 million for sensitisation. Lumumba said it was unfortunate that the boards were drawing allowances from taxpayers, yet their functions have been hijacked by the Lands and Urban Planning department. “We suspect that someone somewhere doesn’t want those functions devolved because they are enjoying misuse of the World Bank funding,” he said. They cautioned that the boards must be allowed to work independently according to the law, saying refusal to devolve the money and functions is sinister. Similar sentiments were shared by a member of one of the boards who sought anonymity for fear being victimisation. The official said the county administration had refused to facilitate operationalisation. “We actually even don’t know what to do because we are in the dark. We even don’t have a physical office for our day-to-day activities,” he said. The activists demanded immediate release the money to the boards or they will write to the World Bank to stop the funding. “We are telling the county government to immediately do the necessary or else we will either move to court for action,” Wanyonyi said. County Lands and Urban Planning executive Bramwel Murgor declined to return calls or respond to text messages. Bungoma Municipal Board chairperson Dougals Sasita did not reject or accept the allegations. “I don’t want to comment on the matter now, I will comment later,” he said. Some of the functions, as stated in the Urban Areas and Cities Act include solid waste management, provision of water, maintenance of urban roads, and street lighting.