The government has put in place requisite measures to deal with the scourge of coronavirus (COVID -19) ahead of three major sporting events that Kenyan will hold in 2020. Kenya will this month stage the Magical Kenya Open presented by Absa and both the World Under 20 Athletics Championship and the WRC Safari Rally in July. Speaking during the launch of the World Under 20 Athletics Championship, Sports Cabinet Secretary Ambassador Amina Mohammed noted that the issue of coronavirus is something that the whole world is grappling with and that Kenya was no exception. “As a government, we are leaving nothing to chance in ensuring that we deal with this problem accordingly. Besides screening of visitors at various ports of entry, all points in the country are currently being manned by the Kenya Defence Forces and we also have an isolation unit at Mbagathi. We are fulfilling every aspect proposed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). For now, we shall continue to be on top of things and I can assure visitors that Kenya is as prepared as any other country in the world as regards the scourge,” said Amina. The coronavirus has culminated into cancellation of myriad flights leading to hefty losses. The virus has also led to the postponement of several global sporting events. One of the biggest sporting events that could be affected should the problem persists in the next few weeks is the 2020 Olympic Games slated for July and August in Tokyo. The World Indoor Athletics Championship has also been pushed to next year in Nanjing. The Singapore and Hong Kong 7s have been postponed to October. WHO is working 24/7 to analyse data, provide advice, coordinate with partners, help countries prepare, increase supplies and manage expert networks. The outbreak was declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on January 30, 2020. The international community has asked for US$675 million to help protect states with weaker health systems as part of its Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan.