Counties benefiting from water from the Aberdare Forest in Nyandarua county should share revenue with residents for conservation efforts. That's one of the proposals to the Building Bridges Initiative by residents of Kinangop. They also want 10 per cent of the water revenue from Nairobi county. They said that despite being the food basket of the country, the region had been marginalised by successive government. respective governments with their hope now lying on BBI. These complaints were aired at a meeting held in Engineer Trading Centre in Kinangop and attended by professionals, farmers and other groups to present their recommendations to BBI. Executive director of the Conflict Resolution Center lawyer George Kimani said residents fo years had conserved forests and rivers but never benefited from them. “We have been involved in conserving Aberdare Forest which is the source of water in Nairobi and it's time that we benefitted from our sweat,” he said. He said their hopes lie with BBI, adding they would hand over their recommendations to the taskforce. “This region produces water and milk used in our cities but we have no say on how it’s used and we have been left paupers,” he said. Kimani said the county was not represented in government bodies for years, leading to continued marginalisation. “In all the government parastatals we don’t have any representation even in bodies involved in farming," he said. Youth leader Dorcas Wangui said that the county should get 10 per cent of revenue collected from water in Nairobi and Rift Valley. “Residents of Nairobi and some counties in Rift Valley benefit from our water and it's time that we got a share of the revenue for conservation,” she said. She added that despite the county having a high number of youths, there was no institution of higher learning. “We have been marginalised for years in infrastructure and job opportunities and we hope this will be addressed through the BBI,” he said. Farmer John Korona said despite production of vegetables and milk for nearly the whole country, farmers had little to show for it. “In our recommendations we want the issue of pricing for farm produce addressed and the importation of cheap products banned,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)