Miraa traders in Garissa are going about their trade despite Governor Ali Korane's ban on the transportation and sale of the product to contain the spread of coronavirus. A spot check by the Star on Sunday showed the commodity being offloaded along Miraa Road, near Heller petrol station at 6am as the traders scrambled to take their share. It is not clear how the vehicles pass all the roadblocks from Meru 300km away. Last week, Korane said transportation and sale of miraa had temporarily been suspended. He spoke after meeting the county security and intelligence committee led by county commissioner Mwangi Meru. “Due to the unhygienic way in which miraa is handled at source and during transportation and trading, we are asking the relevant authorities to suspend transportation and sale of miraa to minimise the risk of transmission of the virus," he said. Some traders who spoke to the Star called the decision unfair. They said the ban will lead to loss of jobs for women who sell the product to earn a living. Rahma Akli who has been selling miraa for 10 years said it will be difficult to completely suspend miraa trade since the same police officers charged with enforcing the ban "are the same ones encouraging it". “One only needs to part with something small to continue with his journey of getting the commodity to its destination," a driver transporting miraa from Maua to Garissa confided. Miraa Traders in Garissa chairperson Rahma Aden admits that miraa might "in one way or another" aid in spreading the virus but asked what other sources of income the residents will be left with. “We have more than 300 women in the miraa business in Garissa town alone with many others in other parts of this county. These are some of the things they should have considered before arriving at that decision,” she said. Commissioner Meru on Friday said they were aware miraa was still being sold secretly. He promised to take stern action against the transporters and traders found violating the directive. “We are aware of the tricks they are using to get the substance into town. They won't go far,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie