Health CS Mutahi Kagwe yesterday announced that the number of coronavirus cases has hit seven. The counties meanwhile, continue to put in place measure to prevent the spread of the disease. They include: Mombasa The county has set up isolation centres at three health facilities—Coast General Hospital, Mvita Clinic and Tudor Subcounty Hospital. Twenty-four doctors and nurses have been trained to lead the team that will take care of coronavirus patients.   Public beaches and recreational facilities have been closed. Kenya Ferry Services has been directed to sanitise vessels before and after use. Nairobi County workers were to start disinfecting the CBD and street families from yesterday. The county announced plans to train 3,500 health workers on Covid-19. Residents have been directed to access county services online and discouraged from physically visiting the county headquarters at City Hall. Kisumu The county has set up isolation wards at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kisumu County Hospital and Airport Health Centre. A quarantine centre has been set up at Old Airport Hospital. The county has ordered all bodies buried within the next 48 hours. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has closed all open-air markets immediately and suspended market days. Makueni Market days and nightclub operations have been suspended indefinitely. Miraa sellers have been ordered to close shop as a precautionary measure. Bars to operate bars between 5pm and 11pm. Funerals to be attended by close relatives only. Samburu The county has established a health emergency response committee to enhance surveillance. Isolation rooms have been established at Maralal Level 5 Referral Hospital as well as in all subcounty hospitals. Nyeri Hospital visiting hours have been restricted to just once a day from the previous three. Patients will now be visited from 1pm to 2pm, and by relatives only. An isolation centre with 21 beds has been established at Mt Kenya Hospital, with three doctors and four nurses assigned to it. Residents who have registered for Universal Health Coverage to be treated for coronavirus for free. Elgeyo Marakwet Open-air markets and livestock auctions have been suspended for 30 days. Athletics training camps have been closed. A 20-bed isolation ward has been established at Iten County Referral Hospital and a five-bed isolation ward at Kapsowar Mission Hospital. Trans Nzoia The county has bought protective gear worth Sh10 million and put an ambulance on standby to transport Covid-19 patients. An isolation ward has been prepared at Kitale Hospital’s Doctors Plaza. Two hotline numbers—0759-454347 or 0734-396344 set up. Kiambu Thika Water and Sewerage Company to instal water points at bus parks, marketplaces, courts, outside hospitals and other public spaces for handwashing. Siaya Residents urged to avoid unnecessary travel outside their villages. All county health workers recalled from leave immediately. Isolation wards set up at Siaya County Referral Hospital and Bondo Subcounty Hospital. Kisii All open-air markets closed indefinitely. Bars and nightclubs ordered to limit operating hours. A 40-bed isolation ward prepared at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. Lamu County has established an eight-bed isolation centre at King Fahad Hospital. It has started training nurses and doctors to handle the virus. Isiolo Converted Shambani dispensary into an isolation centre. Wajir Screening centre established at Wajir airport for all travellers. Eight-bed isolation ward prepared and five health workers trained. One ambulance put on standby. Bungoma The administration has set up an isolation centre at Webuye Subcounty Hospital. PSV operators ordered to provide water and soap for clients. Busia Enhanced surveillance at Malaba, Kenya-Uganda, border point. Two isolation centres put in place at Busia Trailer Park Clinic and Malaba Port Health Services. Uasin Gishu Isolation ward prepared at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospitals and staff trained on how to handle coronavirus patients. Open-air markets closed. Those who travelled outside the country ordered to report to the provincial headquarters for monitoring. Homa Bay Increased surveillance and thermal checks at Uganda and Tanzania border points. A 16-bed isolation centre prepared at Malela Health Centre in Ndhiwa constituency. Nyandarua A 24-hour emergency call centre has been put up at JM Memorial Hospital. Daily surveillance by a recently launched county response team. Travel by county staff outside the country suspended. Isolation wards in four health facilities with a combined capacity of 42 beds launched. Kajiado Heightened surveillance at international borders at Loitokitok, Namanga and Shompole, all bordering Tanzania. The county has trained 150 health workers in all health facilities. Hospital visits suspended until further notice. Turkana Public gatherings of more than 20 people banned. Organisations ordered to ensure employees are stationed at least two metres apart in offices. Narok Deployed medics to entry, exit points and airstrips at the Maasai Mara Game Reserve. To partner with Red Cross to ensure identification, treatment and evacuation of coronavirus patients. Bars and nightclubs ordered closed, social gatherings banned. Kakamega Waived mortuary bills. Plans to put up isolation centres in each of the 13 subcounty hospitals. Mandera The county has set up isolation centres in all level 4 hospitals. It has accelerated completion of a 47-bed infectious diseases hospital in Mandera East. Emergency hotlines at county and sub-county offices for reporting suspected cases of the virus. Screening and surveillance of incoming passengers on Kenya-Somalia border points. Muranga Has indefinitely shut clubs and bars. A county emergency response team and call centre have been set up. Matatu termini to be connected with tapped water even as 4,500 community workers sensitise residents on the disease. Nandi The county's 4,000 employees have been ordered to work from home for the next 30 days. Food hawking has been banned and open-air markets, ECD centres and nightclubs ordered closed. Athletes have been ordered to vacate training facilities. Meru Supermarkets, markets and public facilities have been ordered to comply with hygiene guidelines or be shut down. Food vendors ordered off the streets.