The curfew order was well adhered to in Nyanza, regional police commander Vincent Makokha has said. He said on Saturday most residents in the six counties of the region complied with the directive aimed at slowing down the spread of coronavirus. The curfew was imposed by the National Security Council and gazetted by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i. The Public Order Act, which has been in place for decades, grants security agencies powers to enforce the curfew and force Kenyans indoors from 7pm to 5am daily. Makokha said those who were found outside past the curfew were directed to go home. “We advised them to be at home and obey the precaution measures in order not to get infected." The police boss said despite a few hiccups, residents understand the curfew is for their own safety. “Combating the virus requires a collective responsibility,” Makokha said. On Friday night met slight resistance from some residents in Kondele but they finally went away. Makokha said the officers acted with caution and observed the social distancing measure. “We engaged residents in talks on the need to be home. No arrest was made as  those found past deadlines were told to rush home." With the social distancing directive and owing to the closure of courts, the police could not make any arrests. The police boss urged residents to continue obeying the curfew order as the country enters the second day of the dusk-to-dawn curfew. The police chief asked those who failed to reach home on time to organise themselves to avoid being caught on the wrong side of the law. Makokha said they have not reported any police brutality noting the enforcement was well implemented. Senator Fred Outa appealed to residents to obey the curfew as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said the order is not to punish residents but for their own safety. Outa said the fight against the virus needs collective responsibility from all Kenyans by observing the measures the government has put in place. “We need to discipline ourselves specifically in burial rituals where we normally have a night vigil ahead of burial. This must come to an end to deal with coronavirus," the senator said. Edited by R.Wamochie