The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has called for the immediate prosecution of all officers culpable of violating human rights on Friday while enforcing the curfew order. Police patrolled the streets to ensure people were in their houses from 7pm to 5am as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. Pictures and videos that went viral showed police attacking and using violence on Kenyans to enforce the directive. The commission termed the force used by police as “uncalled for, brutal and ruthless on defenceless citizens". “It is pitiable and despicable to watch the video clips of uniformed law enforcement officers, who are deemed to be custodians of law and order, incessantly bludgeoning innocent and unarmed Kenyans, especially in Mombasa, at the entrance of the Kenya Ferry Services and other parts of the country,” KNCHR said in a statement on Friday night. The commission wants the Inspector General of Police to fast-track the issuance of guidelines with regard to handling members of the public during the Covid-19 pandemic and the dawn-to-dusk curfew. “These guidelines should call on all law enforcement officers to abide by the law and the Service Standing Orders in the arrests and handling of persons,” the statement reads. The media, members of the public and human rights defenders have been lauded by the commission for capturing the force witnessed in several parts of the country. Commission CEO Bernard Mogesa also wants the IG to direct all officers to avoid situations of compromise, unwarranted deprivation of the right to security and liberty of the person, harassment and extortion of Kenyans. “While KNCHR fully supports the government’s response mechanisms and measures of dealing with the pandemic, we reiterate that observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms is cardinal,” he said. The commission highlighted that the enforcement of the Covid-19 pandemic curfew directives should not be a ticket to unleash terror. As a result, the public has been invited to report on any illegal law enforcement actions to the mobile numbers;  0741584608 and 0721519715. Citizens can also report via WhatsApp on 0798849871, email; complaint@knchr.org, haki@knchr.org or  send  a text message to 22359 The IG has also been urged to issue an immediate directive on zero-tolerance to human rights violations by law enforcement officers to avert further deterioration and perpetuation of human rights violations. KNCHR has also recommended employers around the country to allow staff to leave earlier to beat the curfew. The government has also been urged to put in place mechanisms to cushion the vulnerable and persons from the lower-income bracket that still have to fend for their families despite the prevailing risk of the virus. Edited by R.Wamochie