A Kieleweke MP from the Mt Kenya region has toned down his attacks on Deputy President William Ruto. A few months ago, the MP's verbal onslaught had hit a crescendo. However, as it would appear, the politician had encountered resistance in his own constituency. The BBI meeting in his county was the straw that broke the camel's back. Only one other MP attended the delegates' meeting. Corridors of Power understands that the poor showing by Ruto-allied MPs from the county could have forced him to take it easy. Staff at a state agency are praying that the term of their chief executive officer is not extended.  The staff accuses her of highhandedness. The officer has been openly scolding staff over lateness and recently held a highly charged meeting where she hurled epithets. It is not clear why the CEO is always emotional and disparaging the staff. The conduct has sent shockwaves across the institution. The CEO has also been issuing threatening memos across cadres of staff without following laid-down human resource management protocols. However, the staff may soon have the last laugh as her term is coming to an end. A speaker of a county assembly that has been rocked with chaos in the recent past could well be on his way out. MCAs are said to be plotting to remove the speaker for what they term highhandedness. A source familiar with the plan has revealed that there have been overnight meetings. The MCAs and a senior politician from the county have been holding secret sessions to plan the removal of the speaker. According to the source, signatures have been collected to kickstart the ouster process and it's just a matter of time before the motion is tabled on the floor of the assembly. The more things change, the more they stay the same. For two officials of a national party, the situation in the outfit is getting worse. It is only a matter of time before the situation explodes. A section of the officials of the party wants the party leader removed over graft claims. The party leader is being accused of running the party like a personal kiosk without any consultations. Officials who dare challenge him on matters of accountability have been issued with lengthy warning letters. One official was recently kicked out. Sources whisper to Corridors that as much as Sh10 million cannot be accounted for. It is said the party leader has declined to allow a financial audit of the party's funds.