Dr Allan Pamba has been appointed CEO of Nairobi Hospital. He takes over from Christopher Abeid who was in acting capacity since April last year when Gordon Odundo was fired over a clash with the board on the management of the Sh8 billion hospital projects. Prior to his appointment, Pamba was vice president of global health at GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) - a British multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Brentford, London. Pamba holds a master of science degree in public health and two bachelors degrees in medicine and surgery from Moi University. According to an internal memo by Kenya Hospital Association chairperson Irungu Ndirangu, Pamba orchestrated successful partnerships with governments across Africa for new vaccine introduction, driving a Sh50 million growth to the annual turnover of GSK 's vaccines business. Pamba is also responsible for the negotiation and implementation of Sh30 million healthcare delivery model projects in Rwanda, Mozambique and Zambia. He previously served as the board chairman at GSK. Following Odundo's dismissal, there were fears of a fierce battle over control of the hospital between the board and the shareholders. Nairobi Hospital – easily the most successful private hospital in East Africa – is owned by the non-profit Kenya Hospital Association, a company limited by guarantee whose profits are ploughed back. The entire board of management was sent packing after an exceptionally stormy annual general meeting in November last year. Six members were fired following the audit of the Sh5.7 billion hospital expansion project launched in 2016. Four members had resigned in advance. The audit by Ernst and Young, discussed at the meeting, revealed procurement irregularities and conflicts of interest in the project. Consequently, a nine-member team was voted in during a special general meeting called by KHA. The shareholders allegedly wanted Baringo Senator Gideon Moi’s wife Zahra Moi and former Kenya Rugby Union boss Richard Omwela to run the health facility. Edited by R.Wamochie