Harassment, verbal abuse and threats are among the commonest cases filed by tenants against landlords at the Business Premises Rent Tribunal. Other complaints are unjustifiable rent increases, disconnection of utilities like electricity and water, dilapidated premises, overflowing sewers and leaking roofs. More than 15 cases are filed daily under a certificate of urgency at the rent tribunal court after tenants are evicted. The tribunals hear no less than eight cases on a daily basis. A Judiciary report released last year showed that the highest number of cases at the tribunals involved rent payment. “Rent Restriction Tribunal had the highest number of cases followed by Cooperative Tribunal and Business Premises Tribunal,” according to the report. Some 3,620 cases were filed at the Rent Restriction Tribunal, out of which 889 had been resolved by mid-year. Assault cases involving both landlords and tenants are also on the rise. They emanated from either the increase of rent or failure to pay rent. The report cited a June 2019 case of tenant Yohana Sunday assaulting landlord George Shiundu for waking him up at night to demand rent. Yohana, who appeared before Nakuru principal magistrate Bernard Mararo, was aggrieved by the landlord's decision to come for rent at night. The same year, a landlord was charged with assaulting a truck driver he alleged made women scream as he made love to them, thus being a nuisance to other tenants. Stanley Mwaura assaulted Samuel Gitonga in Nairobi's Bahati estate. The tenant had arrived at night to find his house padlocked. It was drizzling and he decided to break the door and enter. The landlord attacked him with a walking stick and ordered him to leave despite the tenant promising to repair the door. The intervention of other tenants ended the scuffle. The driver reported the matter to the police and the landlord was arrested. A similar case was reported in Meru where a landlady assaulted one of her tenants. "You are stupid. Do what you want James. I won't return your money. If you want war I am ready," tenant James Njoroge recorded her saying on the video. The woman had stormed the house and found him semi-naked. The victim posted the altercation on Twitter. The landlady locked him out of the house although he claimed to have paid rent up to this month (March). The matter was reported to the police and landlady was arrested and arraigned.  SIDEBAR   (Abusive Kenyan landlady fined $2.4m in US) An American court fined Anne Kihagi 2.4 million dollars in 2017 for being abusive to her tenants. Kihagi was accused of harassing 23 tenants and evicting 10 others, one of them a cancer patient. Her trouble began two years earlier when she was accused of evicting people under the guise that she wanted to renovate the houses only to turn around and rent them out at higher rates. According to a report by San Francisco City attorney Dennis Herrera, the tactics used by Kahiga included: “Fraud, harassment, threats, intimidation, verbal abuse, interrupting gas, electric, water and cable service, failing to cash rent cheques, only to later claim them as untimely rent payment and violating tenants’ privacy by entering their apartments without required notice”. Judge Angela Bradstreet ruled that Kihagi’s behaviour had serious effects on the lives of several San Francisco citizens to the point that one former tenant had to quit her job and move out of the state. In another case, Kihagi forced a tenant suffering from cancer out of his home. US newspapers reported that Kihagi began buying properties in June 2013 in Noe Valley,  Mission and North Beach and Castro. She owned over 50 units in San Francisco.  – mwaniki f.m.