Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's father on Friday challenged DCI boss George Kinoti to publish the names of those who delete information from his son’s phone. John Chesang wants the Director of Criminal Investigations to "make public its findings without censoring the truth". He said the family believes there was a lot of information in the telephone conversations among his son, his killers and their associates. Chesang spoke during the funeral service of his son at Umash Funeral Home in Nakuru county. "I was very happy when the investigators opened his phone because I am sure that is where the truth is," he said. The distraught man said it is after the publication that the family members, friends and neighbours will start healing. "Many of us have come here with broken hearts, tears and pain to receive Kenei's body and I am sure this will bring closure," he said. On Thursday, Kinoti said one of the suspects linked to the death had communicated with the slain officer. The officer was a key witness in the Sh39 billion arms deal. Detectives have put the office of Deputy President William Ruto on the spot over the same. CCTV footage played by the DCI show Kenei was at the premises when former Sports CS Rashid Echesa visited with Polish businessmen. He would later be found dead in his house at Imara Daima, Nairobi, with a gun by his side. Police pursued a suicide theory. However, after further investigations, Kinoti concluded that "all evidence showed that Kenei was murdered elsewhere and placed in his house." He said staff of a telecommunication company colluded with the murderers to flush out crucial data linking them to the killing. FULL POLICE HONORS Kenei was accorded full police honors. His casket was draped in his police unit flag carried by eight officers in full ceremonial uniform. Mourners were moved to tears as they streamed past to view his body at the funeral. His father said during the final send-off at Chemasis village, in Rongai subcounty, Nakuru, that his son should be celebrated. But even as the officer will be laid to rest on Saturday, DP Ruto and his allies, as well as the public, turned the heat on Kinoti over how he has handled the case so far. In a tweet, Ruto said while the truth must be found on why, how and who killed Kenei, Kinoti should be professional and stop dramatising the probe. “ The family, ODP, and Kenyans want the truth and justice and culprits held to account. The drama, distortions, convenient half-truths and the smear campaigns in sponsored headlines amount to criminal cover-up,” the DP said. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen challenged the DCI boss to reveal the names of the foreigners who accompanied Echesa. "Are they mercenaries for hire? What is their mission in Kenya and DP office? Why aren’t they arrested? Who was communicating with Kenei (Safaricom data must be there),” he said. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator also asked the DCI to share forensic and ballistic reports. “DCI spent the afternoon discussing Harambee Annex and shared nothing concerning the scene where Kenei was killed? Where are the pictures of the scene taken by DCI officers? Why was the body moved by DCI officers and later returned to the house? Mr DCI, stop the drama and tell us who killed Kenei,” the lawmaker said. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said he knew the late officer well, noting that he was a good man but warned against politicisation of the investigations. “Sad how his life ended. If he was Killed, may his Killers never know peace. Same goes for those who see in his death, an opportunity to play little political games,” he said. Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi and economist David Ndii took issue with the quality of investigation, questioning the competence of the DCI and the manner they shared the supposed evidence instead of presenting it in court. “Kinoti footage on Kenei is an insult on our national intelligence. Footage does not support 1hour 22 minutes. It supports 23 minutes or so. Watch it. Clinical incompetence from Kinoti, bad for Uhuru no wonder Hajji is losing all his graft cases. Maraga not the problem,” he tweeted. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, however, differed with those castigating the DCI, saying the DP should lead the way in recording statement with investigators. “I fully support the investigative work being undertaken by DCI boss George Kinoti and urge him to tell us who killed or who ordered the killing of a young man, who was someone’s son, sibling, cousin, lover and friend. Sgt Kenei deserves justice,” he said during a function in Kang’undo sub-county. Mutua, who has fallen out with Ruto, said culprits of previous assassination cases have never been caught. “This has, in turn, created a culture of impunity with a few fiddling they can always get away with murder. Sgt Kenei’s brutal killing should be the turning point so that we end such killings,” he added.