Parliament has given Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa 11 days to surrender a vehicle belonging to the Water ministry he has been irregularly holding for two years. The CS, who previously served at the Water ministry, has failed to hand over the vehicle registration number KCH 683T as required by law. He moved from the Water ministry in February 2018. Eugene moved with the vehicle to his new work station and has ignored various requests by the Water department to return the vehicle. Water PS Joseph Irungu told MPs that his attempts to take back the vehicle have failed. “A review of the state department’s transport correspondences showed that the motor vehicle registration No KCH 683T, which was allocated to a former Cabinet Secretary, was not handed over to the department when the officer was transferred to another state department,” Irungu told the Public Accounts Committee. Irungu tabled letters between his office and the Devolution ministry demanding the release of the vehicle. "This is an issue I have addressed myself and have even written to my counterpart in the Devolution ministry and you know I don't have powers beyond that. It is our car and we need it back." PAC chairman Opiyo Wandayi ordered Eugene to release the vehicle by March 13. He further directed Irungu to furnish the committee with the status of the report of the vehicle in question once it is surrendered. "I direct that CS Eugene take it upon himself to surrender the vehicle back to the Water ministry by March 13, 2020," Wandayi said. At the same time, PAC has ordered the Water ministry to provide a status report of all dams in the country within 21 days. Wandayi also wants Irungu to furnish the committee with specific details of individuals who issued certificates of completion as well as those who approve payments for boreholes across the 47 counties. The report will contain details of the dams, date of commencement of the project, duration of completion and the cost involved. The dams include Thwake, Mwache, Boston, Itare, Arror, Kimwarer and Karemenu.