Kuria community leaders have accused the Migori County government of discriminating against them in the ongoing fight against malaria. Last Monday, government through Usaid kicked off the Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) programme to curb spread of malaria through a local NGO, Vector Link. Out of eight sub-counties in Migori, only six, which are predominantly occupied by majority Luo community, will be covered, locking out Kuria East and Kuria West. “Kuria as a community is used to being discriminated in Migori county, there is a systematic plan by local administration to leave us out of projects and they have brought in international donors,” Ntimaru East MCA Augustine Mwera told the Star on Sunday. Mwera said before the project kicked off, local Kuria leaders and elders approached Usaid and Migori county public health officials to ensure the region is included to no avail. “Our basic right to health enshrined in the constitution has been trampled upon, Migori has been among the highest counties with malaria prevalence and being left out is an insult,” Mwera said. He said the move shows “negative attitude by county leadership” to discriminate against minority Kuria, insisting some departments have no projects in the region despite have others “in particular areas.” Kuria elder and politician Matiko Bohoko said Kuria, as a minority tribe in Migori, has been negatively targeted in skewed development projects by national and county government after demanding to have their own county. “Children from Kuria have also suffered from malaria, we won’t have a section of a community being shunned in political and development projects to extend even into health. We demand the spraying to stop,” Bohoko said. The fourth phase of IRS, aimed to reduce the spread of the disease by reducing the survival of mosquitoes, started on February 24th and will end on March 21. Addressing the press in his office on Friday, county public health chief officer Fidellis Majiwa said the regions were considered after donors reduced funding for exercise and most prone areas were picked. “We left sub-counties in Kuria because of reduced funds by donors and we considered those which are heavily affected by malaria burden,” Majiwa said. According to Ministry of Health indicator, Migori county has 56,736 mamaria cases per 100,000 people compared to a national figure of 20,252.