Governors have ruled out extending an agreement signed with the Health ministry for procurement of universal healthcare resources. The Intergovernmental Participatory Agreement ends in June. Under the arrangement, UHC resources are channelled through the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to counties. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya yesterday said starting July, they want the arrangement stopped to allow counties to handle procurement as provided for under the Constitution. “We do not foresee the application of the IPAs beyond the current financial year and therefore we call upon the Ministry of Health to ensure that UHC is rolled out without hitches,” he said. Governors insist Kemsa lacks the capacity to satisfy the expected high demand for drugs and non-pharmaceuticals across the 47 counties. “Currently, Kemsa remains the one-stop shop for health commodities and that is not practical. We want that law dismissed. With one monopoly with no capacity, implementation of UHC will be a challenge.” In May, MPs amended the Kemsa Act to give the authority a near-absolute monopoly in the supply of drugs to public health facilities. The Act now imposes a Sh2 million penalty or five years imprisonment, or both, on anyone who purchases drugs from other firms. Governors, however, said major supply problems were experienced during the UHC pilot in Kisumu, Machakos, Isiolo and Nyeri. Before the Act was amended, counties had the choice of buying from independent suppliers or the Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies, owned jointly by the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Christian Health Association of Kenya. The governors want President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a committee to fast-track reforms at NHIF and present results within 100 days. The county bosses yesterday said the ongoing process to reform the national insurer was too slow yet the rollout of UHC banks on the institution. Oparanya said the reforms will ensure transparency and accountability in the management of public resources. They want an independent institution established to manage health insurance claims review and reimbursement. In addition, they want an independent institution formed to carry out accreditation of health facilities and service providers for insurance reimbursement services. “Given the current happenings at the NHIF, it is imperative that the EACC and DCI move in with speed to investigate and bring to book all those who will be found culpable of mismanaging the institution leading to plunder and loss of public resources,” Oparanya said. Edited by Henry Makori