Many are the stories of a fabulously wealthy traffic policeman who extort money from motorists, sharing it with their superiors. That's one reason police recently did away with all roadblocks. Some traffic cops have given ridiculous excuses and some even resigned rather than be vetted. Here is a case in which the state is seeking to repossess Sh47 million in unexplained wealth from traffic police officer Jamal Barre Muhammed. A court has not established his guilt or innocence and he says his money was legitimately acquired. The EACC said he solicited bribes from road users along the Thika-Garissa highway. Muhammed was based at Thika patrol base. The highest salary he ever earned was Sh35,000 a month, yet he has Sh26 million cash in his account and properties making a total of Sh47 million. However, Muhammed says part of his wealth was inherited from his father who died in 1987 while he was 10 years old. During vetting, he said he got 120 camels, 80 cows and 200 goats. The livestock has since increased and now he has 217 camels, 180 cows and 268 goats. He also said he is in the livestock selling business. Paul Mugwe, a forensic investigator with EACC, told the court the EACC set up an investigation team after it received a complaint Muhammed was soliciting bribes from road users. The EACC said, “We shall demonstrate the disproportion and reasonable suspicion of corruption and unsatisfactory explanation.” However, investigator Mugwe's testimony was cut short after the traffic policeman's lawyer opposed production of photographic and video evidence, saying they could have been manipulated. Earlier, Muhammed said he is the sole custodian of his father’s wealth, acting as trustee on behalf of his family and relatives. He has been ordered not to access the money in question or dispose of properties. After his father’s death, he said he managed the inheritance after seeking the counsel of the rest of the family and relatives while adhering to Islamic law. He further said that he and his family have engaged in livestock trade using the livestock inherited from his father for more than 20 years, from 1995 to 2016. The traffic officer said this business attracted good returns. He attributes the proceeds under scrutiny to the success of the livestock business. But the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission finds his explanation unsatisfactory and says it has reasons to believe he engaged in corruption. The commission said his claim that he inherited the wealth is not credible evidence and secondly he did not give any proof of the business he claims to engage in. The EACC told high Court judge Mumbi Ngugi in its opening statement that between 2010 to 2016 Muhammed earned Sh 1.8 million as salary. All the livestock he had quoted as inheritance have a value of Sh4.3 million, which does not explain the millions in his account and cash used to buy land, it said. The EACC said, “Where the defendant has been able to explain some income, for instance, rental income the investigating officer applied that amount to his credit. So if you hear the investigating officer talking about Sh47 million. it's after taking into account his salary and everything contained in his declaration of income assets and liabilities,” the commission said. On March 14, 2018, a High Court judge stopped the police officer from accessing the money in question or disposing of the properties. (Edited by V. Graham)      