Wajir county has partnered with the national government to enhance surveillance for coronavirus at the airport. All passengers will undergo screening after cases were confirmed in Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia. Speaking at the Wajir County Referral Hospital after taking journalists on a tour of the newly established isolation wards, county director of health Dahir Somow said they were not leaving anything to chance. “As you are aware, our county neighbours Somalia which reported its first case on Sunday. The fact that citizens from that country make stopovers at our airstrip en route to or from Nairobi means we have to be extravigilant,” he said. Somow said eight beds had been set aside for patients with five health workers already trained to handle such cases. Governor Mohamed Abdi opened the isolation ward and urged residents not to panic but instead take seriously the advice they had been given by health experts. He said the county had put an ambulance on standby to take anyone who showed Covid-19 symptoms to hospital. “We are encouraging the public to remain calm and avoid rumours that will cause panic. We will overcome all challenges with the help of God. The Ministry of Health will provide timely updates and intervention measures as we go along,” he said. “As a county, we continue to work closely with the national government through the office of the county commissioner to ensure that our population is not affected in any way. And in the event we register such cases, then we are fully prepared to handle them.” Abdi, who later held a meeting with county commissioner Jacob Nerengo, said the fact that residents were pastoralists who moved far and wide, including crossing over to neighbouring countries in search of water and posture, posed a great risk. He, however, said the county cross-border surveillance team was in touch with that from Somalia and Ethiopia to share timely information. The county government has dispatched teams of health and information officers to sensitize residents. The health information is also broadcast through local FM radio stations. County commissioner Nerengo warned social media users against spreading rumours that could create panic among members of the public. Such individuals, he said, will be traced, arrested and charged. Edited by Henry Makori