The Kenya Rugby Union are impressed with the development of the game in Kisii County. Nyanza region development officer Laban Ouko said more schools are embracing the game. During the County championships, 14 teams took part in the 7's category and eight in 15's. “Generally, there's amazing growth right from sub-counties. The number of coaches and referees has also increased. The interest in the game is growing and many teams have embraced it,” said Ouko. However, Ouko said having both 7's and 15's championships in Term One has negatively affected the performance of teams and thus will derail the development of the game going forward. He challenged the Ministry of Education to move 7's game to Term Two while 15's remain in Term One. “The ministry needs to review this since it's not good for the Sevens game which is the pride of Kenya,” he added. Ouko praised Kisii County 15's champions Nduru Boys and 7's winners St Joseph's Nyabigena. “The 15's final was exciting. Both Nduru Boys and Kisii School displayed a good game. I'm confident Nduru Boys will represent us well at the regionals. I also expect Nyabigena and Cardinal Otunga to do well in 7's,” Ouko added. Nduru coached by the principal J.J Masime beat Kisii School 8-3 in a tough final to lift the 15's title while Nyabigena clinched the 7's title after thrashing hosts Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho 31-0. Masime says he will target the semi-finals at the regionals to be held at St Joseph's Rapogi next week. “I don't want to put the boys under a lot of pressure. We want to reach the semi-finals because the competition at the regionals will be tough,” said Masime. Nyabigena's coach Saphinah Kenyando said she is targeting the regional title. “I know it will not be easy but this year, we are eyeing the regional title. We want to represent Kenya at the East Africa Games,” she said. Defending champions Maseno School and former champions St Mary's Yala have also booked a placed at the regional level. Maseno clinched both the 15's and 7's titles during the Kisumu County championships held at Maseno School. In 7's, Maseno edged Nyabondo 14-7 while in 15's Maseno walloped Nyabondo 47-0. Maseno coach Paul Nyamita said they dedicated the wins to their former captain Tony Onyango, who died last week in Nairobi. Onyango captained Maseno in 2009. “We have already resumed training for regionals. We want to retain the 15's title and qualify for nationals in 7's. At the county level, the boys played according to our plan,” said Nyamita.