Kiambu county has opened a free outpatient rehabilitation centre to support recovering drug addicts. Governor James Nyoro said on Saturday the facility cost Sh50 million, and a further Sh400 million for operational costs courtesy of Medicins Sans Frontieres(Doctors without Borders). The facility will mean people don't have to travel to Nairobi's Mathari hospital for medication. It will help those addicted to heroin, cocaine and bhang, which is not usually considered a hard drug. The programme lasts three months. Hanana, Karuri and Gachie are the worst-affected regions in Kiambu, he said, Nyoro said. He was speaking at Mat clinic, within Karuri Level 4 Hospital in Kiambaa. Public relation officer at Mat clinic Paul Odongo said the facility has enrolled 149 patients for detox, treatment and counselling. Nyoro was joined by public health CAS Rashid Mohammed and MCAs Peter Wainaina (Karuri), Samuel Mugwanja (Karai), Henry Kagiri (Kikuyu) and other leaders. "The hospital will help all the affected people lead normal, productive lives. We aim at eliminating discrimination, stigma and everything else negative that affects these users. We need them now and tomorrow," he said. "Some addicts have families, some are professionals, others don't have training. The county plans to enrol them in polytechnics in the area." One patient said he started abusing hard drugs in 2005 while he was in Class 7. Bhang, cocaine and heroin are the most common drugs, he said. "We normally buy a roll of bhang for Sh10 to Sh30 while a dose of either cocaine or heroin goes for Sh200 and Sh250," he said. He urged families of addicts to ensure they get treatment so they are not in bondage. A woman whose husband has been abusing hard drugs said she's relieved since her husband has started to become responsible after treatment. "I have been married for 15 years but about 13 years ago, I have been in living hell. He would sell everything in the house to pay for drugs. I would keep my clothes in our neighbour's house so he wouldn't see them," she said. (Edited by V. Graham)