The Murang'a government will provide free water for the next 30 days in efforts to combat Covid-19. Governor Mwangi wa Iria on Wednesday said the move will make it possible for all residents to enjoy services without disconnection and maintain the required standards of hygiene. Many people had been unable to get water after failing to raise monthly bills. They will, however, be required to clear the previous bills even as they enjoy it free in the next 30 days. Those who previously had their water disconnected will have it reconnected. "We are putting these measures in place to ensure nobody is unable to frequently wash his/her hands and sanitise their homes because of lack of water," he said. The county government, in liaison with the five water companies in county, will provide the necessities for water processing to support the offer. Those who use more than 6,000 litres will pay for the extra amount. Water tanks that can hold 4,000 litres have been distributed to all markets, alongside soap and sanitiser.  The county government has produced 3,000 litres of sanitiser that has been distributed to shopping centres. Hygiene is the first means to combat the highly contagious virus. The county has also fumigated all high-risk areas using commercial tractors and will continuously disinfect towns until the pandemic is controlled. The governor said there is round-the-clock surveillance of all main bus termini to limit movement in and out of the county. "Those visiting the termini will have to give viable reasons to travel. We have to limit the interactions of people to stop the disease from spreading," he said. Wa Iria was addressing journalists in Murang'a town. He appealed to residents to stock dry foods sop they are not inconvenienced in case of a lockdown. He said that would be the only way for residents to shield themselves from starvation as the country fights the disease. "The money that they should have paid water bills with should be used to buy food," he said, warning residents against going ton drinking joints. "Let us use that money to buy food as we prepare for the lockdown." He said that in some countries such as India, the police are enforcing lockdowns to compel their citizens to stay indoors and enable the government to fight the virus. Wa Iria lauded the government for forcing visitors from abroad to quarantine, saying Kenyans were getting anxious over their failure to quarantine and exposing them to risk. Meanwhile, six MCAs who travelled from Dubai on March 7 have decried harassment by members of public who wanted them to stay away despite the lapse of their quarantine period. County director of health Winfred Kanyi told the Star that she was in the process of clearing the MCAs and had asked for their travel documents. County commissioner Mohamed Barre said 33 people in the county were placed in isolation after interacting with visitors from abroad.