Is an Opposition legislator who holds a critical position in one of the Houses in Parliament suffering in silence? A mole has whispered to corridors that the lawmaker was rearing to take a strong position challenging the manner in which the national government arm-twisted the Nairobi county government and took back some of the lucrative functions leaving governor Mike Sonko just a ceremonial head. The MP on Wednesday evening hinted in a WhatsApp group bringing together the Opposition MPs that he will address a press conference to condemn the opposition. However, he was prevailed upon “that his move would likely jeopardize” the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga. The outbreak of Covid-19 in Kenya is an unfortunate occurrence but it seems to be a blessing in disguise for two governors from Mt Kenya region. Reason? The two county bosses were overheard on Monday telling a businessman of Asian origin at a hotel in the region that they were coerced by the powers that be to back the Building Bridges Initiative against their wishes. The source who overheard them as they conversed heartily, said the governors' break from the BBI rallies was a big relief for them. This is because they were also under pressure to support public rallies with county resources. Word has it that one of the City MPs was forced to directly divert some Constituency Development Fund money and purchase a school bus for one of the schools in the constituency after his popularity waned. The residents had complained that the MP had resorted to clubbing at the expense of serving residents. Those in the know say to save face, the first time legislator was forced to divert the CDF cash allocated for construction of roads and buy a school bus. Several schools are also demanding school buses after they were promised the same by the vocal city MP. Those close to the MP say he fears the wrath of the constituents are daily turning against him. The real heroes who are ensuring Kenyans are screened professionally are the least sang in the unfolding fight against the Coronavirus conundrum. Apparently there are those who are hellbent on outshining others in PR while the real drones toil behind the scenes to ensure the testing of Coronavirus cases is accurate and reliable. Our mole tells us that the individuals behind the microscopes and those with scientific knowledge are being kept away from inspiring the confidence of Kenyans yet they pack such enviable knowledge in their respective CVs. The three main outfits involved in giving technical support to the Presidential Taskforce on Coronavirus are Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI), Kenya Aids Vaccine Initiative (KAVI) and University of Nairobi Institute of Tropical and Infectious Diseases (UNITID).