Water will be distributed fairly to city residents to fight the spread of coronavirus, Nairobi water firm boss has said. Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company acting Managing Director Nahason Muguna said his firm can only produce 526,600 cubic meters per day from Ndakaini Dam. This despite heavy rains and more to come. This is against the demand of 800,000 cubic meters per day, leaving a shortfall of 273, 400 cubic meters a day. "Coronavirus is a hygiene disease and we have put in place measures to ensure that the entire 526,600 cubic meters per day reach the city," Muguna said on the phone. Muguna said even though there is a shortfall, his firm is doing everything possible to ensure that hygiene has been maintained in the wake of coronavirus. Water rationing has been applied in the city over time as water produced from Ndakaini is not enough. Muguna however, said they are planning to rehabilitate 15 boreholes in various parts of the city. "We are planning to drill more on an emergency basis," he said. Muguna said 500 toilets across the county, especially in the Central Business District, slums, markets were also being rehabilitated. "All blocked sewers will be unblocked within six hours. Water for handwashing will also be availed," he said. Muguna said all community-based organisations have been instructed to avail water for handwashing for the public in their toilets. The acting MD said chemicals for purifying water will be availed in the plants to avoid lockdown. Kenya reported the seventh case of coronavirus on Wednesday, as it emerged that local hospitals will be forced to deny some patients ICU beds should infections spike. So far none of the patients in Kenya requires breathing assistance in an intensive care unit. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said the latest three cases were a couple who travelled to Madrid, Spain and a Burundian who was picked up at the airport for quarantine because he had a high fever. Kenya confirmed its first case of coronavirus last Friday with President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday confirming two more cases — for a total of three, until Tuesday. For the two cases confirmed on Sunday, a total of 36 of their contacts have been traced and a surveillance team is monitoring them. Countries are forestalling a medical disaster through extreme measures such as social distancing, banning public gatherings and limiting visitors from affected regions. On March 15, the government suspended entry for travellers from countries that have reported Covid-19 cases. This measure is currently in place for 30 days. Following the spike in the coronavirus, experts have urged Kenyans to enhance hygiene. (edited by o. owino)