Residents of Mkokoni and Kizingitini villages in Lamu East have expressed concern over the dilapidated state of seawalls. The collapsed walls have put the villages at risk of being swept away by the water from the Indian Ocean. Seawalls are erected along the sea shore to prevent overflow of water from the Indian Ocean into residential areas. The seawalls in the two villagers collapsed, leaving water from the ocean free to flow into homes. Residents have accused the county and national governments of failing to put up stronger structures that can withstand strong ocean tides. They have to contend with the frequent flow of water from the Indian Ocean into houses, schools and business premises. Mkokoni villager Ahmed Aboud said both the national and county governments have neglected maintenance of the structures, causing them to collapse. “The seawalls in Mkokoni were built less than three years ago. Apart from the poor way they were set up, they didn’t also receive the constant maintenance required, and so they collapsed," Aboud said. Musa Hamza said their biggest fear was waking up one morning to find their village swept away by the water. Residents want the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe probable corruption that may have resulted in substandard construction of the seawalls. “There have been cases elsewhere where people woke up to find a village carried away by water. There is a need to prevent disaster before it happens. Whoever constructed these walls did a shoddy job and should be investigated by the EACC,” Hamza said. Construction of the new Kizingitini seawall was abandoned five years ago and most of the sections have since collapsed. Tens of residents whose houses are close to the shores have been forced to relocate. “Seawalls need to be strong enough to withstand the frequent ocean waves and tides otherwise they cave in way fast. Most homes along the Indian Ocean here are submerged in water. Some owners have moved out but those who have nowhere to go. It’s unhealthy,” Omar Kassim of Kizingitini said. Edited by Henry Makori