Deputy President William Ruto should record a statement with the DCI over the death of AP Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. Kenei was found dead in his house at Villa Franca in Imara Daima on February 20, the same day he was expected to record a statement with the DCI over the Sh39.5 fake military arms deal. Kenei was attached to his Harambee Annex. He handled former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and his guests when they visited the DP’s office. Kenei was buried at his Solai home in Nakuru county on Saturday. Savula said the DP should avoid exchanges in the media with DCI director George Kinoti, but should instead visit his office and narrate what he knows about the officer. “The DP knows that the only constitutional way to handle this matter is by recording a statement with the detectives on what he knows about the many scandals,” he said. Kinoti on Thursday said Kenei was murdered and his death made to appear like he committed suicide. Kinoti released CCTV footage showing the officer's interaction with Daniel Omondi, alias Juma, who posed as a military general in the negotiations for the Sh39 billion military equipment supply. On Saturday, during Kenei's burial, Ruto said it was unfortunate that instead of the DCI looking for the killers, they have shifted the focus on him. "I know there is a bigger scheme to destroy my office and ensure I do not go anywhere. The schemers are trying to threaten, undermine and demean my office in a bid to stop me, they may have the system but I have God," an agitated DP said. Ruto said Kenei’s murder was politically instigated and that the DCI was being used undermine his office. He accused Kinoti of being used to bring him down, for political reasons, through cases that have ties to his office. The DP said the people who were fighting him politically – the system- went for Kenei instead of facing him. On Friday, the DP had asked Kinoti to stop the drama and tell Kenyans who killed Kenei and why. "The truth must be found on why and who killed Sgt Kenei. The family, ODP and Kenyans want truth and justice and the culprits held to account. The drama, distortions, half- truths and the smear campaigns in sponsored headlines amounts to a criminal cover-up," he posted on his Twitter handle on Friday. Savula said that press statements by the DP will not absolve him and his office from the scandal that has rocked it.      