The widow of slain businessman Tob Cohen says her case could be a mistrial due to way it has been handled by the DPP. Sarah Wairimu, through lawyer Phillip Murgor, told the court she was considering filing an application to declare the case against her a mistrial. Murgor told Justice Stella Mutuku that six months after Wairimu was charged with her husband's murder, police had not completed investigations. They were still recording statements as late as last week, he said. The prosecution, led by assistant DPP Nicholas Mutuku, sought more time to supply witness statements and documents to the defence. Nicholas asked the court to give them until April 30 and then have a mention in early May for a pretrial. The court heard that forensic analysis of 26 samples taken to the Government Chemist was not yet complete. Nicholas said they had supplied 31 witness statements and 15 documents to the defence. About 10 more statements were pending, including one from the cybercrime lab. Murgor said the defence will file another application seeking to disqualify state counsels Nicholas and Wangui Gichuhi from the case for being at the crime scene when the body was found. He told the court that they had evidence Nicholas and some of his colleagues were at the scene. Murgor said they were not competent to handle the prosecution and asked the DPP to replace them. “If they don’t disqualify themselves we will file a formal application in court to remove them from this case,” he said. But Nicholas said there was no evidence before the court to show they were present at the scene, adding that he would only respond to a formal application that was before court. Justice Mutuku directed the parties to work together to expedite the case. She said at least five prosecutors have been assigned to the case since it was brought to court. Nicholas said only he and Gichuhi will prosecute the case. The judge declined an application by Nicholas for one month to supply all witness statements and directed them to supply the materials by March 30. The case will be mentioned on April 1 and heard in July. Edited by Henry Makori