Vihiga nurses have been advised to run to safety if they encounter a patient showing Covid-19-like symptoms. Kenya National Union of Nurses county chairman Zadock Miheso told the nurses that their lives and those of their families are more important than their profession. Miheso told the Star on Sunday morning that there is a need for quick facilitation of emergency kits for nurses in case the virus hits Vihiga. "We have not been provided with protective gears, therefore, there is no need for us to endanger our lives. If it means running for our lives then we shall do so," he said. So far, the county has not reported a positive coronavirus case. Governor Wilbur Ottichillo has, however, said that eight officials from the Health department were trained by the national government in Kisumu and they will train other officers within the county. He further stated that healthcare workers had been trained on measures to undertake in case they have to handle patient with symptoms similar to Covid-19 to prevent further infections. Ottichillo was addressing the press at the county headquarters on Saturday evening. The county has set up a 24/7 hours county command centres that will coordinate all related cases of Covid-19 up to subcounty level, the governor said. “Anyone found mingling with residents in Vihiga yet they are supposed to be under self-quarantine will be forced into isolation at their own expenses. Those young boys and girls who are still gathering themselves in football grounds for training should suspend that with immediate effect." County commissioner Ochillo Oyugi insisted that the curfew ordered by the President will be implemented. Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi said, "Follow the orders in place and be on the safe side of the law, we have enough time to do what is needed for us before the stipulated time to be in our homes." He said the state is still in consultation over the lockdown and will outline the measures to be followed. All open-air markets in Vihiga have been ordered closed. Edited by R.Wamochie