More than 200 Amani Tiwi Hotel workers in Kwale county have gone on strike to protest delayed payments and alleged racism at the workplace. The workers are demanding improved salaries, service charges and allowances dating back from 2015. The employees say more than Sh20 million in unpaid salaries is still in the hands of their employer. Led by acting chief animator Robert Munga, the employees claimed they have been mistreated and abused along racial line whenever they ask for salaries. "The employers call us monkeys, donkeys among other displeasing names when we demand justice," he said. Munga said they won't vacate the premises until the hotel settles the pending bills. The workers said life has been miserable for them as children are sent back home due to lack of school fees. Another employee said they have been locked out of rental houses because there is no money to sustain their livelihoods. Mwacharo Alawi said they are threatened with sacking when speaking about salaries. He said the management has reduced the contract term from one year to a month. "They have come up with this idea of decreasing the working duration to dismiss us easily," Alawi said. He said efforts to find justice through the union has proved futile. The workers now want the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi and the Cotu secretary Francis Atwoli to intervene. Joy Ambia said they hoped unions will help mediate over the crisis. She said the hotel is always full to capacity but the management does not consider paying the arrears. Amani Tiwi Hotel general manager Arvin George denied the racism accusations. He said most of the workers complain about racism without evidence to support their accusations. George said the management will do what it takes to address the salary issues and wouldn't want to violate anyone's rights. He, however, said they are going to investigate some of the allegations made against them and take legal action if the culprits are found. Kwale Tourism CEC Nasib Nyahi had promised to mediate the dispute between the employer and the workers.  (edited by O. Owino)