Kenya, Sudan and Ethiopia are the latest African countries to report confirmed cases of coronavirus. They are first in East Africa. Kenya announced on Friday morning that a Kenyan woman, 27, who travelled to Nairobi from the US via London had tested positive for Covid-19. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said she was Kenya's first confirmed case. Shortly after, authorities in Ethiopia announced the country's first case—a Japanese who had travelled to the country on March 4 from Burkina Faso. Sudan also reported its first confirmed case—a man who died on Thursday and had visited the United Arab Emirates in the first week of March. The man, in his 50s, died in the capital Khartoum, the Health ministry said in a statement. Globally, 138,275 people have tested positive for the virus, with 5,082 fatalities recorded. At least 70,719 people have recovered globally, 45 of them in Africa. Africa has recorded six deaths: Two in Egypt, Two in Algeria, one in Morocco and one in Sudan. The World Health Organization's situational report published on March 13 indicated the number of countries affected in Africa had risen to 16 from the 12 reported the previous day. A total of 170 people have confirmed positive for the virus. The 16 countries are: Egypt (80), Algeria (27), Nigeria (two),  Burkina Faso (two), Ethiopia (one), Cameroon (two), South Africa (24), Senegal (10), Morocco (seven), Tunisia (seven), DRC Congo (two), Ghana (two), Togo (one) Cote d'Ivoire (one), Gabon (one) and  Kenya (one). Algeria and Egypt reported their second deaths from the novel coronavirus late Thursday. The Algerian Health ministry said in a statement that the victim was 55 years old. It added that the number of cases in the country had risen to 26. Egypt’s Health ministry meanwhile said a 60-year-old woman suffering from acute pneumonia, one of the complications caused by the virus, had died. The number of confirmed cases in Egypt has risen to 80, the ministry added. Coronavirus was confirmed in the Chinese city of Wuhan on January 7. Cases have since been confirmed in at least 133 countries. Governments have put in place strict screening and testing measures at points of entry, especially airports. All African airlines but one—Ethiopian Airlines—have cancelled flights to China.