Some Kitui legislators have expressed dissatisfaction with the government's preparedness for a coronavirus outbreak. They say the government is doing "very little to avert the deadly viral disease". Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu on Friday said the government should be more serious in handling the threat. He said measures such as washing hands, avoiding touching one's face, using hand sanitiser, cleaning phones and wearing masks are not nearly enough. The only sure way to prevent the entry of the virus into Kenya is to close the country's airspace, Nzengu said. “Better measures to prevent any possible chances of spreading the virus to Kenya through international visitors should be key,” the MP said at Kyuso market where he issued bursary cheques. He asked why the government was comfortable allowing in visitors from countries such as Italy, China, Iran, the US and Turkey, which have reported cases of coronavirus infections and deaths. “The awaiting disaster should be prevented by stopping flights from coronavirus affected countries because the disease is deadly,” the MP said. His remarks were echoed by Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi. “Along our borders lies the threat. The government should be on the lookout or else Kenya is not far from the infection,” he cautioned. Mulyungi spoke on Saturday at a burial in Kalisasi, Mwingi Central. He said the government should create awareness, capacity and set aside a budget to deal with an outbreak. Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu told the Star on Monday that efforts by the Health Ministry to prepare isolation/treatment wards at Mbagathi Hospital were commendable but more needed to be done. “As we take preventive measures seriously as advised by health practitioners, let us also pray for forgiveness,” he said. Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna, however, said on Monday the government was fully prepared to handle coronavirus cases. He said the presidential directive to people arriving from the affected countries to self-quarantine for 21 days and the putting up of an isolation treatment centre at Mbagathi Hospital show the country is well prepared. “Given what they have been able to set so far, I feel the country is set to tackle the Covid-19 virus,” the MP said. On Friday last week, the Health Ministry banned all international meetings, conferences and events for 30 days. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said more than 100 isolation hospital beds at Mbagathi Hospital are ready and the unit fully equipped. The CS added that over 1,100 health workers had been trained and deployed at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and other areas. Edited by E.Kibii