Patrick Mwakio, the police officer seconded to City Hall as head of security by the National Police Service is yet to get his letter of appointment. On Tuesday, MCAs demanded to know why acting County Secretary Justus Kathenge had not handed the appointment letter to the NPS. Mwakio reported for duty on February 6. County Public and Service Board chief executive Susan Waweru told the assembly's Legal and Justice Committee that they had also not received the letter despite the PSB dictating the terms of appointment. Kathenge failed to appear for the meeting although the committee had demanded that he attends. Nominated MCA Silvia Musieya pressed Waweru to explain whether the board recognised Mwakio as the new head of security. The CEO said the board had no mandate to decide who heads the security docket. Mwakio told the committee: "I haven't heard from the county secretary on this (appointment) issue." Committee vice-chair Moses Ogeto accused Kathenge and the acting inspectorate deputy director Joseph Kipsang of sabotaging Mwakio. "This means there are officers of the Inspectorate department who demean  Mwakio if they can't give the letter of appointment," Ogeto said. The committee found out that Kipsang has been acting since 2017. No requisition has been made by the Inspectorate department for two months. Kipsang said the department had no accountant to make requisitions. Mwakio and the Inspectorate directors were told to appear before the committee on March 16. The officer was seconded after the NPS recalled Tito Kilonzi. Kilonzi was recalled on January 27 for redeployment. "I was told that my letter of acceptance has to come from the County Public Service Board. I am still waiting for it,” he was quoted as saying. In an earlier appearance, Mwakio said former acting county secretary Leboo Morintat had directed him to look for the governor to get the appointment letter. "After a week I personally went to the county secretary to seek the letter but he told me to look for the governor for him to give me the letter". Edited by Frank Obonyo