Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has called on employers to support their casual workers affected by the government lock down as part of measures to reduce the spread of coronavirus. Murkomen's remarks come at a time when many companies have asked their employees to work from home. He said on Tuesday that workers who are being paid per day and who will be required to keep off work during this period should be compensated to be able to sustain themselves. “Let us think about Kenyans in the jua kali sector (totaling to 14.9 million) who cannot afford to stay at home or work from home, and even if they do – at the end of the day, they must interact with the end user, to be able to sell their products. How do we protect them from contracting the virus while still ensuring they earn a living? Murkomen said. He added, "Let us also think about the farmers who have to take their produce to the market every day, the artisans, the mama mboga, fruits vendors, retail shops retailers and supermarket staff, boda boda and matatu operators, construction workers and others who cannot afford to shut down their businesses or avoid human contact." The senator lauded the step taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta which was aimed at curbing the spread of the virus. He asked Kenyans to heed the directives issued and that the country should address water shortages in the country. “We need to address issues of water shortage facing Kenyans and those who cannot afford hand sanitisers, or even soap,” he said. Senator Murkomen also advised Kenyans against panic buying while calling on retailers to desist from hoarding commodities and inflating prices, saying such acts will only make the situation worse. “If one person cannot access hand sanitisers or water, or soap or other basic commodities that person is posing risk to everyone," Murkomen added. Murkomen has further proposed a raft of measures to be taken to cushion the economy from crushing, including the issuing of concessionary loans at low rates by banks, the release of VAT refunds by the government to assist businesses to manage cash flow.