Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has urged PSV operators to carry less passengers in the fight against the coronavirus. "Fourteen seater matatus should carry eight passengers only," he said. Addressing the media on Friday, Kagwe said 25 seater PSVS should carry 15 passengers only. A thirty-seater matatu and above should maintain 60 per cent seating capacity.  Kagwe said this is effective beginning Monday, March 23, 2020. But he noted that the issues of fares going up is still under discussion with the transport sector. "We have left that matter under the discussion of transport operators..we will have an economical challenge," he said. "...there is no organisation, that is not going to be affected. What we are trying to do is mitigate it, so that instead of a total closure you attain a 50 per cent." NEW SUSPECTED CASES He further noted that four more suspected cases have been admitted at Mbagathi Hospital. "One case tested negative while the remaining three are awaiting results," he said. He noted that the government is following a case in Kilifi whose test are also running and are to be cleared by 7 am on Saturday. Kagwe noted that the government is monitoring an additional seven people. BARS CLOSED He ordered that all entertainment areas, bars and social case are to close by 7.30pm every day effective Monday. "During operational hours they are to define the maximum number of persons at any given time. The facilities are encouraged to introduce home delivery service to support this initiative. Kagwe also ordered that all supermarkets limit the number of shoppers inside based on the size of the premises. "They are to encourage home deliveries. They must also disinfect the facilities several times a day," he said. "We encourage them to open on a 24-hour basis. The government will provide security for the personnel." He said people have to go the supermarket one person at a time. "Shopping should be restricted to one person. Open air market are high risk transmission environment," he said. "...the management are directed that the premises should be disinfected." Kagwe said the open air markets should ensure that goods are put on raised platforms. The government has defined at least nine services which must remain in place in the event of a complete shutdown of the country if coronavirus infections spike. All agencies offering services in the water, health, security, air traffic control and civil aviation, fire services, ports, financial and transport sectors are essential services and are not to downsize staff in any manner. The Cabinet on Thursday discussed a possible shutdown but deferred any decision to impose a total lockdown on Nairobi or any part of Kenya even though preparations are in place.