Kenya can learn from how China, Italy, USA, Singapore and the UK have handled the coronavirus pandemic. Experts and leaders said that the Kenya health system does not have the capacity to manage an explosion of the virus. However, they said Kenyans must maintain hygiene, self-isolation and social distancing to limit the spread. “The coronavirus pandemic is inevitable. We have 100 ICU beds, which are partly occupied by other patients. In fact, we will have no facilities to admit patients if it explodes,” the CEO of Lancet Group of Laboratories Ahmed Kalebi said. “Italy and the United States assumed it’s just a minor thing but were forced to go back to the drawing board after it exploded." They said Singapore, USA, France, UK and China among other countries addressed the pandemic differently to save lives and unveil relief that will ensure their economies recover. "Coronavirus is a health pandemic war with serious economic, social and financial devastation. But we can learn from what other states have done so that we pick the best lessons to save lives,”  International Center for Policy and Conflict Centre Executive Director Ndung’u Wainaina said. The countries have already announced stimulus packages, set aside research on the virus, announced financial support to the affected, enhanced testing and other measures to support the needy. "Singapore invested heavily in social distancing and isolation, which made it hard for the virus to spread,"  Kalebi said. "The deaths in Italy have been attributed to the old generation in the country, which is higher than in most European countries." International Budget Partnership's (IBP) Kenya country manager Abraham Rugo asked the government to audit its preparedness and continue providing the right information to its citizens. “My main concern is that many rely on daily jobs and the government should consider subsidy of basic goods such as sugar, cooking oil, kerosene and other items to reduce their cost,” the economists said. Rugo said that the economy has been doing badly for the last three months and the coronavirus pandemic occurred at a time Kenyans had started feeling the pinch. He called on banks and saccos to renegotiate loan payment terms with clients. Rugo called on the government to provide subsidies and set up a fund to address the economic mess, which will be caused by the pandemic. “Employers can provide some subsidy in vouchers to support their staff. It has to be coordinated by tax authorities.  Loan repayment and mortgages can be put on hold for three months,” he said. Kalebi challenged the state to invest more in testing, which has helped the United States, UK, Singapore and other countries control the spread. "I also urge Kenyans to know that we are not well resourced as a country and should follow what the government has told them, which remains the most viable solution right now,” Kalebi said. The doctor said that President Uhuru Kenyatta's directives might have borrowed from Singapore to avoid the peak of the disease by putting in place mechanisms that will stop its spread.