Kisii and Nyamira counties face acute blood shortage and the situation could have disastrous consequences. This has been blamed on the national government's failure to provide resources to the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service to enable its Kisii Satellite Centre to conduct blood donation. Henry Sendora, the in-charge at the centre, yesterday told the press in his office that the two counties require 24,000 units of blood per year, yet it has only 60 units, of which only 10 is treated. He said they lack blood bags, soda and screening reagents, thus hampering donation of enough blood by residents. "We are really facing a blood crisis, which has been occasioned by lack of blood bags, soda, and screening reagents, among other things," Sendora said. "The two counties require 2,000 units of blood per week, but Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital uses 850 of that. You can see the magnitude of the problems from the figures." Previously, the region had enough stock to cater for patients who required transfusion because there is was funding. He said the situation worsened last September when PEPFAR, a US government initiative that addresses the global HIV-Aids epidemic, stopped supporting the exercise. The President's Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief was working under the Centre for Disease Control. "The satellite does not help only Kisii and Nyamira counties, but also extends to neighbouring counties when they request for the blood," Sendora  said. "Unless the Ministry of Health comes up with quick interventions to address the crisis, patients will be in trouble." The region has two testing centres for collected blood — Kisumu and Eldoret. Sendora said testing was interrupted in Kisumu after a machine broke down. He added that they used to visit schools and tertiary institutions for blood donation but currently they are unable because they are not in a position to service or fuel the only vehicle they have. A blood satellite is the smallest unit of blood donation and has to be well equipped to effectively discharge its functions. "The demand for blood in the two devolved units is higher than the available units. We're sometimes forced to discard expired blood because of screen machines," he said. Sendora urged the county government to factor in some money in its budget to acquire a screening machine as Machokos did. He further called for the upgrading of satellites to regional centres so they are given testing equipment to ensure availability of safe blood when urgently required. "Kisii satellite is one of the satellites that serve a larger population. That is why it should be upgraded to a regional blood donation centre because it equally has enough space." (Edited by F'Orieny)