National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has called for the disbandment of political parties that fail to secure any seat in the National Assembly During the general elections. Speaking on Monday when he submitted his recommendations to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee, Muturi said the move will be critical in enhancing the performance of political parties. "A political party that fails to win any seat at a proceeding general election should be struck off from the Register of Political Parties," Muturi said. The speaker added that there should be strict provisions before the registration of the new political parties. He also said the Registrar of Political  Parties should be strengthened by being entrenched in the Constitution as an independent office. Muturi said some political parties are currently relying on individuals with influence to survive. "Individuals form and kill political parties at will. These individuals even hop from one party to another at will," Muturi said. He also said the country should have a conversation on the abolishment of the constituency boundaries in order to cure the strife and strike that characterises general elections. As a result, the Speaker said the National Assembly should represent Kenyans on the basis of a national formula that has nearly as possible the same number of representatives. He also suggested that the presidential election through the universal suffrage should be removed and replace with one man one vote, where the party with the majority should pick the president. The National Assembly Speaker said that voters should vote for a party that best captures their aspirations during the general election. "This will help entrench a new dispensation of politics of ideas rather than politics of ethnic mobilisation and clan inclinations," Muturi said. He added that the party that becomes second in a proceeding general election should become the official opposition party with its leader being the Visio-Opposition leader in the National Assembly. The speaker added that there should be proper guidelines to end the supremacy battle between the Senate and the National Assembly. He said all the laws and bills relating to county governments should only be passed by the Senate.