The closure of Kibos Sugar Factory in Kisumu will destroy the economy the entire Western region and reduce residents to paupers, senators have warned. They criticised the National Environment Management Authority for shutting down the company, which they termed as the backbone of the region’s economy. It was ordered closed last week because of massive air pollution by Kibos and associated operations. Nema has said Kibos' emission was 254 micrometres, five times more than the international standard of 50 micrometres. Nominated Senator Beatrice Kwamboka said the livelihoods of thousands of employees and farmers from the region were at risk. “We have farmers who have delivered their cane to the company and are awaiting payment. Others have just harvested and now the cane is at risk of rotting,” she said. Minority Leader James Orengo asked why the authority was quick to close the company yet it authorised the establishment of the firm. “Investors are putting in millions of shillings in these ventures and before they do that, they seek approval from Nema. Why should come and close the company now?” Orengo asked. The lawmakers were reacting to a statement sought by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei on why the authority closed the only surviving sugar company in the region. “The biggest suppliers to Kibos are from Nandi, Kericho and then Kisumu. All these farmers are now at risk of losing their fortunes,” he said. Cherargei further demanded to know why the Ministry of Agriculture has not acted swiftly to rescue the company from closure despite knowing that it was the only operational sugar company in the region after Chemelil and Miwani sugar went under. “The ministry should state the fate of sugarcane farmers in the region as well as staff that worked in the company,” he said. Senators Judith Pareno (nominated), Fred Outa (Kisumu), Ledama Olekina (Narok), Farhiya Ali (nominated) and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) assailed the authority for closing down the firm. Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki termed the matter as urgent amd ordered Agriculture committee and work with Lands and Environment committee to immediately inquire into the matter. He ordered the committee to immediately summon Nema MD Mamo Mamo to explain the circumstances that led to the closure of the factory. On Monday, the farmers and the workers demanded the lifting of the closure order, saying it had put several lives at stake. Edited by R.Wamochie