Tuskys Supermarket has announced that it will close its branches at 6 pm. Group CEO Dan Githua on Friday said following President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive on a dusk to dawn curfew, the retailer has made adjustments to its staffing, logistics and supply chain of operations to facilitate the smooth running of its businesses across the country. Githua said the retailer has put alternative channels operation stepped up and as a result, all the branches across the country will close at 6 pm and open at 7 am going forward. "Following the National Security Council sanctioning and issuance of the Public Order Number 1 on the Coronavirus pandemic, the retailer has adjusted its staffing, supply and restocking schedules for essential products such as milk, bread and vegetables among other perishables that are typically delivered in the wee hours of the morning," Githua said. "All the firm's retail outlets will close at 6 pm and open at 7 am but will continue processing orders placed on its alternative channels round the clock". Githua said many of the suppliers have graciously made critical adjustments which will allow the retailer to comply with the curfew requirements easily. As part of the adjustments, the firm has activated its sales platforms across three alternative channels alongside its physical stores. "Tuskys retails services are now available on Glovo, Sendy Home Deliveries and the firm’s online retail portal www.Tuskys.dpo.store with orders placed on either of the platforms before 6 pm set to be delivered the same day while orders received after 6 pm will be delivered the next day," he said. The CEO said customers have also overwhelmingly embraced the retailers home deliveries shopping option which is now available in 16 branches in Nairobi, Eldoret, Nakuru, Mombasa, Thika, Athi River and Kisumu. According to Githua, ready to eat foods, dry rations, bottled water and pet food are among those that customers have been placing orders. He said orders placed on the WhatsApp and SMS options have increased by more than 600%, and basket value has also increased and now stands at an average rate of Sh7,200 as customers stock up on essential items. “Across our Tuskys network, we have developed localized operating procedures to be applied during the curfew period as an adjustment to our COVID-19 retail operations contingency plan,” he said. He said the procedures provide the necessary safeguards and convenience for all our stakeholders including staff, suppliers and customers. Last week, the retailer stepped up their COVID-19 Retail interventions with the launch of a “Kibanda Menu”. In a collaborative effort with UBER EATS, the Tuskys Kibanda Menu service is available for home deliveries and is on offer in-store at selected branches. Githua said the retailer has also rolled out a pilot project to facilitate home deliveries using security vetted foot soldiers. The pilot project will see Tuskys retain more than 200-foot soldiers who will act as commission sales agents within specific localities. “Our customers have been providing great insights on touch-points we can use to ease the existing COVID-19 challenges in relation to retail services, and we are actively responding,” Githua said. At the same time, Githua said he has opted to take a 20% pay cut effective this month for a sixth month period as part of a cost-cutting measure. He said the Business community is facing lean times occasioned by business uncertainty which will require internal cost management considerations thus his decision to lead from the front in cost management. “Conscious of the times ahead, we have suspended all non-business critical expenditure even as we look forward to interventions placed by the government to cushion the business community. I urge all of us (business and individuals) to take a hard look at their expenditures and cut out all unnecessary expenses,” Githua said.