Deputy President William Ruto cancelled a series of meetings in North Rift after the government put on hold public gatherings to stop the spread of coronavirus. After touring Nandi county on Friday, the DP was to visit Cherangany in Trans Nzoia and West Pokot on Saturday and Sunday. He told the organisers to set new dates. He also urged them to adhere to government measures set to curb the spread of the virus. The government has suspended all public gatherings, church crusades, games and even inter-school events. It has also suspended visits to prisons for the next 30 days. After the cancellation, Ruto, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and Soy MP Caleb Kositany drove around the region and later left for Nairobi. Several other key forums in Eldoret, including the consumer awareness forum that had been organised by the Communications Authority of Kenya, were also shelved at the last minute. The organisers had set up tents and other facilities to be used during the meeting "All meetings, be they political or government-related, have to be suspended for now as directed,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. The BBI meeting that was to be held in Nakuru on March 21 was also cancelled. “Plans for the Nakuru meeting were going well, but we had no other option than to reschedule it so that we can join the government in efforts to enforce measures that will stop coronavirus from spreading,” Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet said. He is the BBI chairman for the Rift Valley chapter. Leaders from the North Rift counties were also to meet in Eldoret this week over the BBI but Mandago said the meeting had been put off. After the cancellation of the Nakuru BBI meeting, Ruto supporters celebrated saying coronavirus had finally "stopped reggae" in reference to the BBI clarion call that 'nobody one can stop reggae' — a lyric from the Reggae Strong song by South African musician Lucky Dube. The song does not, however, say 'nothing' can stop reggae. “Coronavirus is a real threat, which we have to confront. So dangerous is the virus, that it has even stopped reggae that was to be Nakuru,” one of the DP supporters in Eldoret said. Inter-school, college games and other activities in the region were also cancelled. Most school management said they would confine pupils and students to remain indoors, especially those in boarding schools. The Education ministry on Friday warned schools against sending learners home following the confirmation of the country's first coronavirus case. Boarding schools have also been instructed not to discharge students out of the compound unless in cases of a medical emergency. Those exhibiting symptoms such as coughing, sneezing and fever will be isolated within the institutions as they receive treatment. Edited by A. Ndung'u