Public transport operators in Bungoma town have installed handwashing points in the town in the war on coronavirus. Water and soap are also being provided in markets. On Tuesday at the busy Bungoma bus terminal, passengers were directed to wash their hands before boarding matatus and buses. Bungoma Classic Shuttle director Simon Ombongita said they had ensured all their Western and North Rift regional offices had water and soap for passengers to wash their hands. Charity Wanjiku, a Form 3 student at Butere Girls High School, said she was happy with the measures that had been put in place at the bus station to curb the spread of the virus. "We [students] are only afraid that it [directive to stay away from school] might take long and affect Form 4s who are waiting to sit their national exam at the end of the year," she said. On Sunday, President Uhuru Kenyatta while announcing that the country had three confirmed cases of coronavirus directed that all learning institutions be closed to tame the spread of the virus. Primary and secondary day schools were to suspend operations from Monday. For those who board, their school administrations are to ensure they are home by Wednesday. Universities and tertiary institutions are to be closed latest Friday. Bungoma Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry chairman John Max Wafula urged traders to comply with the national government's directive and wash their hands every hour. "We are appealing to our traders not to ignore the directives since our county is located at the border and every measure must be put in place to guarantee the safety of our people," he said. Wafula further warned traders against hiking prices of commodities. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said he will meet all chiefs and assistant chiefs on Thursday to educate residents on the prevention of coronavirus. He asked the national government to ensure they include Bungoma among the 14 high-risk counties. “This way, we ensure that as a county, we have the right focus and are adequately prepared and equipped to handle any cases,” Wangamati said. Fourteen counties that have been categorised as high-risk have each received 10,000 kits. They include Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kakamega, Kisumu, Busia, Migori, Nakuru, Kajiado, Mombasa, Uasin Gishu, Kilifi, Wajir and Garissa because of their proximity to international borders. Wangamati further asked residents to observe high hygiene standards and avoid crowded places. He urged the public to look out for any signs and seek immediate medical intervention at the nearest medical facility. Symptoms on coronavirus include coughing, sneezing, high fever, breathing difficulties and general body pains. Wangamati assured residents that an isolation ward has been set up at the Webuye Subcounty Hospital for the management of any case that may be reported within the borders. Edited by A. Ndung'u