The National Treasury has set the ball rolling in implementing the measures spelt out by President Uhuru Kenyatta to save the economy from the effects of Covid-19. The ministry has also opened a special account for the deduction of salaries volunteered by government officials as well as contributions by well-wishers. Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani told the Star that the Treasury is ready to implement the changes in the shortest time possible. House speakers Justin Muturi and Ken Lusaka had also pledged their readiness to preside over the changes. "The amendments are ready and will be sent to Parliament by early Monday morning," Yatani said. This morning, Yatani is expected to present the Covid-19 Fund (Regulations), 2020, to the National Assembly. The legislation outlines the reliefs directed by the President. Yatani told the Star the changes have been gazetted and is awaiting Parliament's approval. Changes to the Value Added Tax Act were gazetted last Thursday and will be sent to the National Assembly for ratification. The VAT (Amendment of the Rate of Tax) Order 2020, which reduces VAT to 14 per cent, will come into force effective April 1. The committee on Delegated Legislation chaired by Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei is expected to vote within 20 days after it is tabled. The CS has powers to amend VAT by less than twenty-five per cent, but changes to Income and Corporation taxes require MPs approval. He said these are part of amendments to the Income Tax Act as well as to Excise Duty Miscellaneous Fees and Levies Act. Income Tax would be changed to have employees pay five per cent less in Pay As You Earn (PAYE) deductions, currently at 30 per cent. Eyes are now on Parliament to convene a special sitting to ratify the legislation. However, this will only happen once National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale or his Minority counterpart John Mbadi puts a request to the speaker, as MPs are on recess. There must be a specific agenda for such a sitting, of which the communication from the Treasury can now be part. Mbadi said if the House doesn’t hold a special sitting this week, it has to do so by the April 7 deadline for voting on TSC commissioner nominees. "Before closure, we had agreed on a sitting by April 7 to pass the nominees to the Teachers Service Commission," he said. President Kenyatta, in his reliefs to Kenyans following the Covid-19 pandemic, also ordered a 100 per cent tax relief for incomes of up to Sh24,000. He directed reduction of corporation tax to 25 per cent and reduction of the Uzalendo tax to one per cent for SMEs. The President further set for release Sh10 billion in cash transfers for elderly, orphans, and the vulnerable in society. The Treasury CS also addressed the concerns that the reliefs will not trickle to the poor, who are the most hit by the disruptions caused by the virus. On this, he exuded the confidence that on full implementation, there would be “lots of benefit for low-income Kenyans". He cited the tax holiday for persons earning below Sh24,000 as positioning them to have more disposable income. “This will, for instance, increase the basket of food one can buy,” the former governor said. Yatani further pointed out that the reduction in VAT is expected to usher in an era of price cuts to benefit wananchi. "This will offer an opportunity for people to afford basic commodities,” the CS said, adding that the suspension of listing with Credit Reference Bureau cushions all loan defaulters. Non-listing by CRB means loanees can access other loans which were not possible with a red flag on their creditworthiness. Yatani says the additional Sh10 billion the President directed for social protection to the elderly and vulnerable persons will be of great impact on the poor. The government is of the view that by ministries, departments, and agencies releasing Sh13 billion in payments of pending bills, there will be an increase in liquidity. “This will cushion the concerned organisations against layoffs and enable them to expand business and, therefore, more jobs,” Yatani said. For his part, Mbadi urged that the National Assembly approval move those earning Sh24,000 to the zero-tax band and remove the top band from 30 to 25 per cent. If the pay cut call is implemented fully, the top members of the Executive will raise Sh26.6 million. President Kenyatta and DP William Ruto will raise Sh1.2 million and Sh981,750 respectively in each of the next three months. Speakers Muturi and Lusaka – if factored on basic pay — will both raise Sh693,000. The 21 Cabinet Secretaries will raise Sh5.8 million per month; PSs Sh11.24 million and Chief Administrative Secretaries Sh6.7 million.