  Deputy President William Ruto will today attend the burial of policeman Kipyego Kenei even after police linked the murder to the fake arms deal allegedly hatched in Ruto's office. The DCI George Kinoti on Thursday ruled out suicide and said Kenei was murdered. The former officer who worked at Ruto's Harambee Annex Office will be buried today at their home in Chemasis village in Rongai, Nakuru county. Kenei's father, former chief John Chesang', has called for speedy investigations after Kinoti said his son did not commit suicide as was initially claimed. Ruto and his allies have since dismissed Kinoti's murder theory and piled pressure on the DCI boss to nail the culprits. "The drama, distortions, convenient half-truths and the smear campaigns in sponsored headlines amount to criminal cover-up," Ruto posted on his Twitter account. Chesang has called for peace during his son’s burial and dismissed claims there would be chaos at the funeral. He called on the police to reveal the identity of the person(s) who called Kenei and had their records deleted. Ruto was on Friday caught up in a fracas pitting Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria and Kandara MP Alice Wahome. The DP was in the county to deliver a bus. Kenei was a security officer at the DP’s Harambee House Annex. He was found dead in his house on February 20 in Imara Daima estate in Nairobi. The cop died in the wake of investigations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations into a Sh39 billion arms deal scandal. Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa was charged with attempting to defraud Polish businessmen in the fake arms deal. The ex-CS held a meeting with the Polish fellows at the DP’s office and were ushered in the premises by Kenei. Kinoti recently claimed Kenei's phone records were deleted, further insinuating that part of them was from a powerful individual. He concluded that the officer was murdered in a cover-up plot by the said powerful individuals. Kinoti put Ruto office on the spot over the arms deal. But the DP has castigated the DCI boss accusing him of ‘dramatising the case’, distorting facts, and running a smear campaign against his office. He asked the investigators to reveal the truth behind Kenei’s murder. “The truth must be found on why, how, and who killed Sgt Kenei. The family, ODPP, and Kenyans want the truth and justice and culprits held to account,” Ruto said. He is likely to be accompanied by his allies who have asked the DCI to publish the forensic and ballistic reports from Kenei murder scene.  edited by peter obuya