Random screening of Kenyans will continue as Kenya seeks to contain the spread of the coronavirus, government spokesman Cyrus Oguna has said. In a statement on Saturday, Oguna said markets and other high risk areas have successfully been fumigated. He said the daily briefing by the Ministry of Health did not happen on Saturday as the day was dominated by the National Prayer Service against the coronavirus. A briefing will be done on Sunday. Meanwhile, Oguna urged Kenyans to continue maintaining high standards of hygiene as well as social distancing and self-quarantining. Kenya has seven confirmed cases of Covid-19. There are 1,038 confirmed cases in Africa including 29 fatalities. Oguna said health workers will continue to be trained on containing the coronavirus. Wash basins have been installed at major points in Nairobi's CBD as the fight against the coronavirus continues. Ministry of Health officials on Saturday fumigated Gikomba and Muthurwa Markets to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Other areas fumigated are tea room and Machakos bus stop. "We will be taking the temperature of the public at random to identify those with elevated temperatures. Those with temperatures of 38 degrees will have their history taken and if necessary referred for further assessment," Nairobi Health CEC Hitan Majevdia said. There had been concern Gikomba and other open air markets would be closed, but Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said they would remain open as long as traders observe high levels of cleanliness and social distancing. Officers from the Ministry of Health lead the exercise from 10am. At various points at the market, health officials stood at washing points where traders and consumers cleaned their hands with soap and water. The Ministry of Health team also demonstrated how traders should properly wash their hands with soap and water. Chairman of the Public Health Council Simon Kimani , urged the traders to observe the basic hygiene measures against Covid-19. “ The traders had been asking for help and as the government we are here to provide fumigation services. The response is positive and we thank them for cooperating,” he said. Kimani urged other counties to embark on the fumigation process in crowded places as a preventative measure.