Former Kenya sevens strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani has been appointed as the lead consultant of its Strength and Conditioning Program. Kimani has had three two stints with the Kenya Sevens during 2007-2012, 2015-2016 and 2017-2018 and was part of the coaching staff that saw Shujaa bag its maiden tournament trophy in Singapore in 2016. He was also part of the coaching staff during Team Kenya's successful campaign at the World Athletics Championships in Beijing in 2015. NOC-K Acting Secretary-General Francis Mutuku said: "The Strength and Conditioning Program is part of NOC-K strategic objective on Elite Athlete Development arising from its Strategic Plan 2019 – 2024. This is the first step towards the overall plan of setting up a Sports Science Facility that will serve all sports in Kenya.’’ The Elite Development Committee constituted by NOC-K, comprising of top coaches in the country has been assisting teams on a volunteer basis; and this has now been formalised by appointing Kimani to officially lead the consultancy with federations. Kimani noted that: The S&C program arises from the challenges within federations, most of whom have no structured S&C Programs. Through groundwork done by Elite Development Committee, it has been noted that most disciplines will have the coach incorporating strength training/rehab into their training. On sustainability, he added that the Elite team will strive to work with university students pursuing Exercise and Sports Science. Kimani will assist in the development of curriculum development around this field. He will also work with specific national coaches interested in this field, under the national federations, to nurture upcoming coaches through workshops and training with an aim of increasing the strength and conditioning talent pool in the country. Kimani begins his duties immediately and has been engaged on a 10-month contract that will see him work with the Tokyo 2020 squad. He will also lay the foundation for the preparation of Team Kenya’s squads to the 2021 Commonwealth Youth Games and the 2022 Youth Olympics in Dakar, the aim is for the team of the future to understand what constitutes elite athlete training and start early incorporating this in their training.