The government order to close Kenya's four donkey slaughterhouses will hurt the economy and hundreds of families, Naivasha P Jane Kihara has said. The legislator said on Monday there was no consultation before the government issued the one-month closure notice, adding that she would raise the matter in Parliament. She spoke a couple of days after Agriculture CS Peter Munya issued the order to close the four donkey slaughterhouses in the country to save the donkeys. Munya said the order was necessitated by a dramatic decline in the number of donkeys caused by rampant theft of the animals. They are exported to China where their hides are used for traditional Chinese medicine and skin-whitening cosmetics. Addressing the press in Naivasha, Kihara said the directive was unfortunate and many workers would lose their jobs. She said the Naivasha slaughterhouse had recently acquired Sh100m equipment ad embarked on a multi-million project of donkey breeding and raising. “Cases of cattle rustling have been the norm in the country but the government has not closed the slaughterhouses and it’s a lame excuse to use donkey theft to close the four abattoirs,” she said. The MP said she supported plans by slaughterhouse owners to sue the government, saying the closure would deter investors. “The owners went through the process of getting licenses from the government but through the influence of some NGOs things have changed,” she said. The slaughterhouses are Star Brilliant in Naivasha, Goldox Kenya in Baringo, Silzha in Turkana and Fuhai in Machakos. “After consultations with various government agencies, the management of the four slaughterhouses have been given a month notice to transform their abattoirs and their licenses are revoked,” reads the government statement. Kamau Njuguna, a director with the East Africa Chamber of Commerce, accused the government of double standards. He said donkey theft should be handled by the appropriate arms of government as in the case of cattle rustling. The proprietor of Star Brilliant John Kariuki denied allegations that the number of donkeys in the country was on the decline, saying there was no evidence to support the claims. “We have some NGOs who have been inciting people to fight us instead of seeking ways of backing donkey farmers who have immensely benefitted from this trade,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)