Nandi county government is to set to complete new health projects worth more than Sh1.2 billion to improve access to medical care in the region. Nandi is one of the counties that have invested heavily in healthcare projects following Governor Stephen Sang alignment of his county's development plans with the national government's Big Four agenda. Under what he terms as his transformative agenda for Nandi, Governor Sang has rolled a programme to rehabilitate and expand the Kapsabet County Referral Hospital, subcounty hospitals, health centers, dispensaries and other health-related facilities in the region, including morgues. “We believe that with a healthy population, then all other development programmes will run smoothly and people will be able to easily overcome diseases and poverty, which are our key challenges as a country," Sang said.. Nandi is investing about Sh430 million to put up a 250-bed mother and baby unit at the Kapsabet County Referral Hospital. The project is nearing completion and will be the largest of its kind put up by a county government. “We are on course to complete the key project in good time as scheduled because the contractor is ahead of time," Sang added. The project has attracted the admiration of US Ambassador Kyle McCarter,  who visited the county recently to asses some health programmes, especially those linked to HIV-Aids and children Sangs’s administration has transformed the Kapsabet Referral Hospital, which has reduced by more than 80 per cent cases of patients being referred to the Moi Referral Hospital in Eldoret and other regions. Nandi has also put into full use of the equipment supplied by the national government under the Managed Equipment Service Programme.  The modern equipment, including digital scanners, X-ray machines and dialysis machines, among others, installed at the Kapsabet Hospital are all operational and the county is now handling patients from neighbouring counties unlike before. “We used to be scared of going to Kapsabet Hospital but today, even the outlook of the hospital makes patients have hope. It was a dirty place full of all kinds of dirt but now the county has rehabilitated wards and made the hospital environment clean," Joan Too, a resident, said. The county has also invested in putting up modern trauma centers and maternity wings at the Kabiyet, Nandi Hills, Kaptumo and Kobujoi subcounty hospitals which have also been given a face a lift of all other facilities and additional staff to be able to offer 24hrs medical services to residents. 