AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda believes President Uhuru Kenyatta's decision to grace the 88th edition of the Mashemeji Derby will drive sponsors back into the game. Leopards are among Kenyan Premier League clubs struggling financially since SportPesa's exit in August last year. The gaming firm's sponsorship withdrawal spelt doom for most of the sporting bodies under their wings in a perilous situation, with football hard hit since, in addition to sponsoring the league, SportPesa were also supporting individual clubs. Some of the clubs have even gone for six months without grants from KPL and thus unable to meet even administrative costs. However, Shikanda, a former international who played for both Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards, said Uhuru’s surprise visit of Sunday will make a difference. “I think his visit will give sponsors a reason and confidence to come back to the game. It will also help raise the status of the league and unlock more financial opportunities for clubs," said Shikanda. "We thank him for gracing the match and we are looking forward to many more visits.” Shikanda, who led his troops to State House for the official unveiling of their newly-acquired bus on Saturday, said they also discussed issues to do with the accessibility of Nyayo Stadium, which has been under lock-down for reservations for close to two years. “We had a discussion which lasted for more than an hour. We presented our request to have easy access to the two major facilities in a bid to boost our revenue collection and we are glad he promised to fast track the completion of Nyayo Stadium," said Shikanda. "It was frustrating that for us to host the derby at Kasarani we had to plead with Sports Kenya for more than three weeks. We never make profits when we play outside the city." Shikanda, in the meantime, said they are keen to clinch the Betway Shield Cup and make their return to continental football. Ingwe last played in Caf matches in 2018. They face Ushuru in the Round of 16 this weekend. “We have been starved of continental football for quite some time and this leaves us with no option other win the Shield Cup. The team is currently doing well and if we can shift our focus on the tournament then we will earn the ticket to the bigger stage,” he added.