The Kenya Airways on Sunday celebrated the International Women’s Day with a special treat to its female crew. In honour of women who have made strides in the aviation industry, the national carrier let women pilots take charge of three of their most lucrative destinations. Reknown Captain Koki Mutungi led an all-female crew from JKIA to New York in the Boeing 787. Koki with the assistance of First officer Patrick Kipsambu departed from JKIA a few minutes past midnight on Saturday. The cabin crew was a 50/50 affair in line with this year’s theme of ‘each for equal’. Captain Parul Patel pairing with First Officer Sumanpreet Rehal will be in charge from New York to JKIA. Captain Koki became the first African female pilot to fly the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. She flew the plane from the US to Nairobi in 2014. The ultra-long-haul flight, unique to Kenya Airways network, requires four Pilots and 12 attendants as well as 85 tons of fuel each way, making it an exceptional operation. According to KQ, it gave out three types of its fleet to be operated by the female crew to three destinations. "To celebrate all women during this year's International Women's Day Weekend, we will be featuring three destinations on three aircraft types from our fleet across our network. Each operated by our amazing female Crew," KQ posted on twitter. While Captain Pasty Ouma and First Officer Evelyne Nzogi were in charge of the Boeing 737 to Lusaka, Captain Ngumi and her first officer Barmao flew the Embraer 190 to Mombasa. "It’s been amazing at Kenya Airways. Having been the first and only woman for six years in the airline, we now have over 30 female pilots which, is a great example for the rest of the world to emulate. Looking at where we have come from makes me proud of whom we have become," Koki said. Quoting Marianne Williamson's A Return to Love, Koki said her deepest fear is not that women are inadequate but the fact that they are powerful beyond measure. "At 29, I feel very fortunate to be flying this aircraft. I have had a lot of inspiration from both male and female pilots and I am happy to be one of the women to break the stereotype that it’s a man’s job."  Sumanpreet Rehal, First Officer – B787 "These buttons and levers in the flight deck don’t know how to differentiate between a man and a woman. I am here because I’m capable, I’m qualified, I’m disciplined, I’m a professional". – Parul Patel, Captain – B787.