Government officials in Garissa on Wednesday took Covid-19 awareness campaigns to the streets in intensified efforts to curb the spread of the virus. Led by Garissa deputy county commissioner Samuel Njuguna, chiefs and their assistants visited Garissa livestock and open markets where they emphasized the need for traders and their customers to maintain social distancing and regular handwashing. “These two have been proven to limit the spread of the virus. We are here to emphasize the same and urge each one of you to follow the instructions by the Ministry of Health,” Njuguna said. He said the government would from time to time announce new measures where appropriate but for the time being "let’s all stick to the guidelines to stop the virus from spreading." The administrator announced all bars, hotels and eateries in the area had been closed indefinitely. He however noted that the hotels and eateries could prepare takeaway food, while those who wanted to drink could buy their favourite brands from wine and spirit shops. “If you want to drink then get your drinks from wine and spirit shops. No bars will be allowed to operate. Hotels can prepare and sell takeaway food only,” Njuguna said. He urged those coming to Garissa town to shop to do so and leave the town when they were through and avoid idling around. “We will not allow idling and crowding within the town. When you are done with your business, please go home,” he said. The administrator said the Garissa open-air and livestock markets will remain open but called on traders to maintain high standards of hygiene. Shops will also remain open. “These are the drivers of our economy and for now, they will remain open,” the deputy county commissioner said. “The traders should have sanitisers and water for hand washing as these have been identified as the best practices to stop the spread of the virus.” Dinah Kambura, a trader, thanked the government for the campaign it had put in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Kambura pleaded with Kenyans to stop ignoring government directives or things would get out of hand. Faith Makena, a boda boda rider, said they are having a difficult time in persuading their customers to adhere to the new directives. “We are losing a lot of customers because they don’t want to change. There are those who insist to be ferried in pairs to save on the fare, although this has been stopped. We are losing customers but this is the price we have to pay,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori