A senior NYS official has been bragging to all and sundry about connections.  Many senior government officials are unable to work with the officer who brags of connections to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the powers that be. Recently, the officer told off a team of detectives probing acquisition of several parcels of land in Mavoko and Athi River. The official told them that they will do nothing about the case. ******* A governor from Western has reportedly gone berserk on social media. The man has released his attack dogs on the leading county WhatsApp forums. The men, reportedly working under instructions from the governor, have been sexually insulting women in WhatsApp groups critical of the county boss. They have been using uncouth language, hurling insults and posting “unprintable” words. On Monday, members were shocked when one of the men who is in his mid-20s insulted his former primary school teacher—a woman in her late 60s. The young man shamelessly claimed he slept with her while in primary school. ******* A health CEC from one of the counties in Nyanza is on the spot over allegations of conflict of interest. The official, who is in office controversially, is said to have lined up contractors without capacity to undertake certain projects touching on human life. In the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic that has caused panic in the county, officials want the governor to take action against the officer for risking people's lives by recommending inept companies to carry out health projects. ****** A well-known politician is under siege. Exactly a year after controversially parting ways with her former husband, the MP's new catch has deserted her for greener pastures. The businessman allegedly escaped Kenya to a Middle East nation after avoiding auctioneers who were on his neck over millions of shillings in debt. It is claimed that the businessman linked up with his former girlfriend, who is working as a high-ranking government official in the Middle East country, after stashing a lot of money out of Kenya.