 The 19-bed Rahamtula ward of Coast General Hospital has been converted into an isolation centre just in case Covid-19 strikes in Mombasa. The county government is leaving nothing to chance and will also convert Mvita Clinic and Tudor sub-county hospital into isolation centres. Each of them has a bed capacity of 30. Rahamtula is equipped with ventilators among other kits to combat coronavirus. A total of 24 doctors and health practitioners have been trained on how to handle patients with coronavirus or those with symptoms. Initially, the county wanted to convert Marimani hospital in Kisauni constituency and Mtongwe hospital in Likoni into isolation centres but medical experts said it would take a longer time to do so as some equipment are yet to be installed. The county has entered into a partnership with private hospitals for the supply of some equipment like ventilators. “We don’t expect them to be able to have the capacity to look after a Covid-19 patient. We will all bring them to one centre. We have talked to them and they are cooperating,” Governor Hassan Joho said at the CGH isolation centre on Monday. Joho said if anyone suspected a Covid-19 case anywhere, they should call the County Emergency Response Committee on toll-free numbers 0777777242, 0734881233 and 0793390984. The response team is co-chaired by Joho and county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo. “Our doctors are ready to come to where you are so they can take samples from you or anyone presenting with the symptoms,” said the Governor. Visitors to all national and county government offices should sanitise themselves before entering the facilities. The sanitisers have been provided at entrances. Joho urged residents to cooperate with health officials as dong so was the sure way to defeat the pandemic. “Your behaviour determines the safety of your brother, sister or neighbour. Don’t take things for granted,” he cautioned. Kitiyo on Sunday announced the closure of public beaches and recreation areas. The emergency response team had on Saturday banned all nightclub business for a month but this was opposed by bar and nightclub owners. Meanwhile, the Kenya Ferry Services was on Tuesday training the second batch of its officers on how to handle themselves to avoid contracting the virus and what to do should they contract the disease. The KFS intends to train 300 of its staff. The agency is supposed to provide running water, soap and sanitisers at both waiting bays at the ferry crossing. The management,  regional coordinator John Elungata and Joho were at the same time discussing the best ways of handling ferry users in case of the coronavirus outbreak. TV monitors at the waiting bays streamed content sensitising ferry users on preventive measures against Covid-19.  – mwaniki fm