Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has been acquitted of hate speech case on grounds of unconstitutionality. Milimani magistrate Kenneth Cheruiyot said the basis of the charges was unconstitutional, citing a higher court ruling. He said the MP should have been required to provide his innocence —not the state to prove his guilt. The burden of proof must rest with the state, the High Court had ruled. Cheruiyot said the High Court had declared section 96A of the Penal Code unconstitutional. “I hereby dismiss the charges against the accused. The case is terminated,” he said. Kuria was on November 25, 2015, charged with uttering words indicating that it was desirable to bring death and physical injury to people in Kenya. He spoke in Kikuyu. “If I get a person, you, and that is why I said you should come with your pangas. These pangas are not only for clearing, have you heard? A person like that you should slash and finish him,” the MP allegedly said on June 26, 2015, at Gatundu stadium. Last July, the MP was charged afresh with incitement. He denied the charge. On August 2, last year, a different Milimani court dismissed another incitement charge against the MP, saying he had no case to answer. The charge was that on September 5, 2017, at Wangige market in Kiambu, Kuria used abusive words intended to cause physical injury. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi said the state evidential video clip was sourced from social media and no evidence was used in the mainstream media. It was the third time Kuria was being acquitted for the similar offences. The words were directed at ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kuria is said to have posted on his Facebook account words implying they were ready for another election but that they will hunt down people who did not elect President Uhuru Kenyatta. "Kiambu has spoken. They have said wembe ni ule ule (it is the same razor blade). Wangige and Kiambu people are seething with anger. One million of their votes were cancelled by four people," Kuria's post read. – mwaniki fm