Uganda president Yoweri  Museveni on Monday announce 14-day lock down for all private cars. In the new targeted interventions to contain spread of the disease in Uganda, Museveni said no private car would move as from 10pm Monday till  14 days are over. He said non-food shops will also remain closed for 14 days starting April 1. Museveni said food shops, agricultural inputs, vet inputs, detergents and pharmaceuticals will however remain open. He said home delivery is encouraged. According to the President, Supermarket continue but with SOPs. "All established food markets will remain open but with 4 metres social distancing in the market. Sellers must not go home during the 14 days, must sleep at the market,"  he said. He added, "Factories should stay open but workers stay in the factory overnight.  Saloons, lodges and barbers will close". He said people who will take undue advantage to set up  food banks will be arrested and treated for attempted murder. Museveni said construction will only continue if workers can camp overnight at the site He said essential services that can continue like  banking, garbage, cleaning, fire, petrol stations, water departments, some KCCA stuff, URA, UNRA and  funeral services will be clarified by the Health Ministry. The president said cargo operations will continue but with with minimum numbers. While directing that lorries should not have more than 3 passengers, Museveni said all gatherings of more than 5 people have been prohibited hence forth. "I have directed a 7pm curfew across Uganda and no movement will be akllowed other than cargo,"  he said. He said in case of (medical) emergencies, permission can be sought from RDC to travel by government vehicles under command of district medical officer. He also said a fund will be set up to support import substitution with relief from banks, water and electricity to be announced. "Government workers should stay at home with exception of army, police, health, water, telephone and a few others. SOPs to be implemented in barracks," Museveni said. Uganda has so far confirmed 33 cases with  19 having been reported in the last 24 hours. On Saturday Museveni dismissed reports that had imposed a total lockdown in the country. While terming the reports as false, Museveni on his  Twitter account said he had not not given such directives and that he will inform Ugandans of any new measures that the country will take to mitigate the spread of coronavirus using the usual channel of a live broadcast. “My team has notified me about a forged tweet reportedly saying I have ordered a total lockdown of the country. That is false. Like I indicated earlier, I will keep the country informed of any new measures to curb Covid-19 through the usual channel of a live broadcast,” Museveni said.