 The government is considering reopening NCPB to buy maize and other food stocks from farmers to restock the depleted strategic food reserves due to the coronavirus crisis. On Tuesday, farmers led by Moiben MP Sila Tiren urged the government to immediately instruct the Strategic Food Reserves board to use Sh10 billion at its disposal to buy maize from farmers and avoid importation. “We are in an emergency situation and we urge the government to quickly move and ensure we have adequate food stocks at the NCPB. Let them mop up the maize which farmers still have so we are food secure as we deal with the coronavirus, Tiren said. He said the state should not consider importation before mopping up all stocks that farmers still have. NCPB requires an additional four million bags as it did not buy maize from farmers after last year’s harvest yet it had sold out more than 2.5 million bags to millers. The state is assessing food stocks in the country to establish levels of food security. It is being carried out especially in high-producing areas in the North Rift. Farmers have been asked to give details of all types of food stocks in their stores. Uasin Gishu Agriculture executive Samwel Yego says they will collect the necessary data this week and file reports with the Ministry of Agriculture. “We are aware that most farmers did not sell off their stocks after harvesting last year," Yego said. The state needs to know the number of bags of maize, beans, wheat, millet and sorghum among other crops. The plan is to have food stocks ready should there be a need for distribution of relief food because of the coronavirus. Hospitals will also require additional food stocks. Yego said fears over the spread of the virus has limited farming activities and will also hurt production. Tiren along with the director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo and farmers representative Thomas Korogoren said it was evident that many Kenyans did not have food yet they were required to stay at home to avoid the coronavirus.  (Edited by V. Graham) 