Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has warned leaders against attacking president and his deputy ahead of Nakuru BBI rally. "I want to warn them. If you come there to insult the DP William Ruto or the president. Please, don't blame us if people walk out of the meeting," Murkomen said. Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV on Wednesday night, Murkomen said the scenario that was witnessed in Kinoru stadium in Meru during the Mt Kenya rally might repeat itself. During that rally, Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria stormed out of the BBI meet The leaders, who were accompanied by Chuka-Igambang'ombe MP Patrick Munene, left when EALA MP Mpuru Aburi was speaking. The anticipated Rift Valley region rally will be held on March 21 at the Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Murkomen who appeared at the JKL show  together with Suna East Mp Junet Mohamed said that people might walk out of the meeting if leaders will start the attacks. But Junet dismissed his claims saying that he is against the BBI and that he just appeared at the Kinoru stadium to cause disruption. "He came there, incited the public... he never talked anything about the BBI," Junet said. Nakuru rally will bring together leaders from the 11 counties who will present their recommendations to the BBI steering committee. ODM leader Raila Odinga who has been present in other BBI rallies among other leaders are expected to attend the rally. The rally had earlier been scheduled for March 7 but was rescheduled by Governor Lee Kinyanjui to give residents humble time to air their issues. The governor announced the rally will be a culmination of consultative meetings to build consensus on the document and include local agenda. On Monday, the president met a section of governors from the region ahead of the rally. The consultative meeting which took place at State House Nairobi saw the governors brief the president on the planning of the rally. According to Statehouse, the governors assured the President of their full backing of the BBI process and undertook to ensure unity and inclusion of all stakeholders in the run-up to the Nakuru rally. Rift Valley leaders will converge in Eldoret on March 19 to harmonise the document which will be presented to the BBI steering committee during the rally.