It will be illegal to collect a shell at Kenya's coastline unless you have a license according to the new draft policy. The Marine and Inland fisheries policy will also make it an offense to take, gather or collect coral, either alive or dead, from the Kenya marine fishery waters if implemented. Families and commercial entities will have to keep a logbook of their fish aquarium. The logbook must indicate on a daily basis all additions to the aquarium, species, origin, cause of death and the fish which has bred or hatched and losses. “Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offense and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding 50,000 shillings or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or to both,” the policy says. The policy by the Agriculture Ministry intends to address challenges in the fisheries subsector such as low investment in deep-sea fishing, inadequate manpower, and skills in the subsector, inadequate fisheries, monitoring, control, and surveillance. It will ensure all fishing vessels -boats, canoes, and ships among others are registered after being approved by the director-general. All fish will be weighed by the Beach Management Unit before it's allowed in the market for consumption or other commercial purposes. “Operators from Kenyans with fishing vessels outside the country will make reports to the state or risk a fine of one million shillings and/or three years in jail,” the draft said. The policy will also ban small scale purse net and trawls for fishing with those found guilty risking a two million shillings fine or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both. The Director-General will provide regulations on the size and species to be fished to protect maritime life. No person shall fish, harvest, or remove live rocks from their natural habitats for use in aquaria. No person shall use any spear guns to catch any fish within the Kenya marine fishery waters. "No person shall operate any fishing vessel in the Kenya marine fishery waters or the operator of a  fishing vessel operating outside these waters, use any large-scale driftnets," the draft quotes in part. "Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offense and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both." It will be an offense to move a live fish from one body or catchment area to another unless you have a permit. The DG will have powers to specify the times, place and methods for fishing prawns and Lobster. No person shall use any mechanical apparatus to take oysters from natural beds in Kenya marine fishery waters. No person shall fish for anadromous or catadromous fish from rivers.