Normalcy returned to Kitibei village in Bartolimo, Baringo North subcounty on Tuesday after it had been barricaded by protesters for six days. Protestors said some of their ancestral land had been encroached upon.  A solution has not been found but both sides agreed to talk. “Protests and barricading of public roads cannot help settle individual or community scores, instead, dialogue through public participation serves the best” Baringo North subcounty commissioner Bwobwocha Opwocha said. The road was barricaded after a mob from the Kapnyekwel clan armed with pangas and arrows heaped the road with boulders, fenced it off with poles and barbed wire, demanding resolution of their land dispute.  “As government we will only listen and address your plight after you clear up the mess and open up the road,” Opwocha said. Closure of the road forced more than 50 families and schoolchildren to use long routes to access their homes from school, markets, churches, water sources, cattle dips and dispensaries. The protesters from Kapnyekwel clan pledged to keep the road closed until they received compensation for their ‘destroyed’ ancestral land in Kitibei claiming they weren’t consulted. But the acting Saimo-Kipsaraman ward administrator Simon Chongwo told the crowd that three public participations were held before opening the road, “and the two warring communities were brought together” he said. He was backed by the MCA John Aengwo, who launched the feeder road last week, and Kitibei village elder James Chelekwel. Opwocha said as government officers they cannot watch such a new road being closed after millions of public funds were allocated. “After this we expect people from both clans to coexist peacefully. Our security officers are vigilant to arrest anybody suspected to lead any incitement or plan such unnecessary protests again,” he said. He was backed by Kipsamaran Area County Commissioner (ACC) Timothy Maiyo and Baringo North Police Commander Fred Odinga who led 30 officers to supervise the opening of the road. Last week, a villager Vincent Cherogony said they watched helplessly as “the hired goons” fenced off the road threatening to kill anyone daring to open it. (Edited by Victoria. Graham) 