As Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe (pictured) and his team relay information to the public on the coronavirus pandemic, a senior government official almost ran into trouble with an intended press address on the Covid-19. The officer was quickly advised that raising the matter would elicit unnecessary attention to many families affected by the virus. It is said the usually abrasive and fearless officer has had a not so welcome experience since the coronavirus pandemic started stalking Kenyans. A fly on the wall intimated to Corridors that  media handlers had to change the officials’ press brief seconds to the address to remove the ‘counterproductive’ disclosures that the officer was about to make. *** Not all is well for a  governor from a Mt.Kenya county. Corridors is informed that the county boss could soon find himself in hot soup. Reason? Word has it that the man who recently found himself on the edge following his outbursts at a Building Bridges Initiative rally could be having a mental breakdown that his staffers worry could throw the county into disarray. The man has been on a shouting spree and makes scary outbursts in his office that even his closest workers avoid him or dread the thought of being with him in the same room. Who will save him from himself or rescue the big man from falling from the frying pan into the fire? *** An outspoken County MP has been ruffling lawmakers with a devastatingly stinging odour occasioned by what those in the know say poor hygiene. The MP who harbours ambitions of becoming a governor has been sending MPs scampering at the lounge every time she walks around their tables to engage in their usual political banter. The MPs often feign phone calls so they can walk away from their colleague. Male lawmakers have vainly challenged female MPs to pass the word to her for fear of her piercing tongue. Can the legislator use her 6th sense to read the reaction of those around her every time she shows up? *** Illicit liaisons have returned to haunt an MP from the Rift region following recent political tribulations. A group of irate electorate are threatening to unleash her nudes to avenge on her perceived apocalyptic political decision and stand with the depressed hubby who was ditched immediately after the 2017 elections. Deeply incensed electorate have promised to teach the MP and her virile side wheel a lesson should they dare set foot in the vast county. The MP was overheard bragging that their godfather will be hoisted to the top seat by the “system “ and hence can’t be fazed by the political plans of her detractors. 