A Congolese man accused of attempting to steal a Sh600 million aircraft from a company will on March 26 know whether the court will release him on bond. Yannick Kamate Mushipay was charged in January with three counts related to attempted theft, forgery and fraud. In the charge sheet, Mushipay is accused that on October 22, 2017, at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport with others not before the court, he attempted to steal an aircraft valued at Sh600 million belonging to Aviation Link International Limited. He was charged with another count that on October 27, 2016, at an unknown place in the country, with intent to defraud, forged an aircraft bill of sale purporting it to have been signed and issued by Ibrahim Mohamed Ghouli of aviation link international. Mushipay faced another accusation of obtaining registration of an aircraft by falsely pretending that he acquired the aircraft from aviation link international on May 9, 2019. The prosecution in an affidavit dated January 21, asked the court to deny Mushipay bail stating that he was a flight risk since he was arrested while exiting the country on January 9, 2020. The DPP added that the accused was fleeing the country knowing that he was under investigations having recorded a statement on October 22 last year for the offence he is currently facing. “The accused person is a foreigner with dual citizenship from DRC Congo and United States and has no fixed abode in Kenya, if granted bond he may abscond court”, the prosecution said in the affidavit. They also accused Mushipay of likely hood to interfere with witnesses as he had threatened the complainant through text messages. The accused through his lawyer Steven Nzaku, however, opposed the application by DPP and asked the court to release him on bond. Nzaku said Mushipay is not a flight risk and has a fiancée in the country who is willing to stand surety for him. “Your honour, the prosecution merely alleges that the accused is likely to interfere with witnesses, there is no evidence of the said threats towards the complainant”, the affidavits read. He added that there are no compelling reasons to warrant denial of bail to Mushipay and if granted bail, he will abide by the conditions that the court may deem fit to impose. The case will be heard on March 26.