The Education ministry on Friday warned schools against sending learners home following the confirmation of the country's first coronavirus case. Boarding schools have also been instructed not to discharge students out of the compound unless in cases of a medical emergency. Those exhibiting symptoms such as coughing, sneezing and fever will be isolated within the institutions as they receive treatment. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha in a letter notes, "Learners should not be sent home for any reason other than extreme medical emergencies." Learners who are not in boarding schools have been advised to "stay at home or that they keep a safe distance and avoid mixing with others in a crowd". The ministry also requires institutions that provide transport to learners to clean and sanitize the buses. The letter dated March 13 addresses county and regional directors of education, vice chancellors, principals of TVET institutions, CEO Teachers Service Commission and principals of constituent colleges. The CS also announced a ban on physical contact such as handshakes or hugging as a form of greetings between learners in all schools as a precaution against the COVID-19 outbreak. The order includes maintaining high standards of hygiene. Physical contact will only be allowed in instances of extreme medical emergencies, the order reads. Instead, the ministry has asked school heads to encourage adoption of hand clapping, holding of the chest, nodding or bowing as alternatives to physical greetings. Primary and secondary school heads have been asked to ensure minimal movement in and out of the schools. In effect, the ministry suspended all gatherings, meetings and events. "Annual General Meetings, thanksgiving days, visiting days, prize giving and other school events have been suspended... all non-essential travel including school and institutional trips have also been suspended," the circular reads. On Friday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe also announced that the government had suspended with immediate effect all intra- and inter-school events such as games, drama and club gatherings. Edited by R.Wamochie