The Homa Bay government has dispatched public health and surveillance officers to islands and entry points in Lake Victoria to screen travellers. The county borders Tanzania and Uganda through some of the lake islands in Suba South and Suba North constituencies. The officers are expected to screen and monitor people getting in and out of the islands for Covid-19. Some of the islands include Remba, Kiwa, Mfang’ano, Rusinga, Ringiti, and Takawiri. Health executive Richard Muga on Monday said they have heightened monitoring in a number of beaches along the lake. “It is part of our preparedness in collaboration with the national government to curb any suspected spread of the virus,” he said. Last Friday, Governor Cyprian Awiti said they have established a 16-bed coronavirus isolation center at Malela Health Centre in Ndhiwa constituency. Awiti said the center will be used for treating those infected with the virus. “We’re establishing special wards at the county referral hospital and in all the eight subcounty hospitals for temporary accommodation of Covid-19 suspected cases,” Awiti said. Speaking to journalists in his office on Tuesday, Muga said they were on high alert for the virus. He said the health officers were working closely with the Lake Victoria Patrol Base and officials from the immigration department. “The larger part of the lake waters is in Homa Bay since we have more than 134 active and operating beaches. Nobody is allowed to sneak into the county without undergoing screening,” Muga said. The screening of passengers is also mandatory at Kabunde Airstrip in Homa Bay Town constituency. On Monday, county commissioner Yatich Kipkemei urged fishermen to cooperate with the government in doing monitoring against the spread of Covid-19. Kipkemei told fishermen to avoid handshakes and body contact that may predispose them to the virus. “Fishing expeditions, especially in Homa Bay, involve a lot of interactions between people from Uganda and Tanzania. Fishermen should be vigilant,” Kipkemei said. Homa Bay government is also using community health volunteers (CHVs) to sensitise residents on coronavirus and precaution measures. “We’re telling our people to avoid panic and adopt safety measures given by the government for prevention of the spread of the virus,” Muga said. Edited by Peter Obuya