The 47 governors have taken the cue from the national government and announced a salary cut of30 per cent to support the coronavirus campaigns. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya announced that deputy governors will also take a similar spay cut. County executives will take a 20 per cent pay cut while chief officers and those in job group S will take a 15 per cent cut effective this month. County directors and those in job group R will take a 10 per cent salary cut. Oparanya said that the decision is in line with the gesture by the national government where the President and his deputy took an 80 per cent pay cut. “We have also resolved that other cadres are welcome to voluntarily contribute whatever percentage that they deem fit. We also call upon the county assemblies to follow suit and agree on a figure as this is for the benefit of our people,” he said. The resolutions were reached after a two-hour teleconference by the county bosses. The money raised through the salary cuts will be channelled to the special purpose account at the county level. “The national government and development partners are welcome to contribute to this account," Oparanya said. Oparanya said governors are concerned that the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits that are being distributed in counties are of low quality and not able to protect health workers in their line of duty. “We, therefore, call upon Kenya Medical Supplies Agency and Kebs to ensure the kits are of good quality. We further note that most counties have not received the kits despite follow up from the council." The county bosses also urged the   within which no power disconnections should occur in order to cushion citizens during the same period. “We want all water companies to suspend disconnection of water for the next three months. Slum-dwellers, vulnerable groups and the urban poor will be supplied with free water,” he said. “We want to assure Kenyans that county governments are taking every measure to ensure including channelling resources towards addressing this pandemic. In addition, we urge Kenyans to remain vigilant and to take the necessary precaution,” he added. Edited by R.Wamochie