A Mandera County official has confirmed that residents have resumed their normal routine after fierce clashes erupted between Somalia troops and Jubaland forces in Bulla Hawa on Monday. The official who sought anonymity said the residents have somehow adjusted to the shifting security breaches. "Right now things are normal. It's a calm day, cars are moving, mosques are open, schools are open people are back to work, hospitals are also working," he said. The source also confirmed to the Star that some people were injured as they tried to run away from the clashes. "There are people who were shot by stray bullets as they were running away from the skirmishes. The county referral hospital has treated almost a dozen people from injuries ranging from soft tissues to fractures," he said. The police on Monday issued a security alert confirming the incident in Bulla Hawa but maintained security teams remained on high alert. On Monday, Chairman of the Council of Governors Wycliffe Opaaranya urged the government to take prompt action in restoring peace and calmness in the county. He said the CoG is concerned about the rampant attacks in Mandera County that has caused a lot of distress to citizens. "The National Government is mandated to ensure Kenyan lives are protected and our borders remain safe and impregnable to attacks as what has been witnessed today," he said in a press statement. He urged the residents to shun the affected area to avoid any fatalities. The heavy gunfire and explosions coupled with black smoke yesterday could be seen emanating in Bulla Hawa in Somalia which borders Mandera town. Sources told the Star that Somalia National Army launched the attacks on the Jubaland army after tension was reported over the weekend. SNA claimed that the attacks were to get rid of al Shabaab militants but the Jubaland president Ahmed Mohamed has disputed these claims. Mohamed claims that Somalia President Mohamed Farmaajo is planning to overthrow him. A source told the Star that Mogadishu wants to takeover Jubaland which is a break-away state and install a friendly government. Reports indicate that SNA have jammed the Safaricom communication masts located in Mandera while the army was fighting with Jubaland. The clash brought business to a standstill in Mandera town, where most shops remained closed. Earlier, the Kenyan government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dismissed the report from the Federal Republic of Somalia that Kenya is encroaching its borders.