In the wake of the transfer saga involving Sofapaka and Egyptian side Tanta over the future of John Avire, clubs have been urged to ensure they meet all their contractual obligations to avoid opening a window for litigation by players or other affected personnel. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) head of Competitions & Transfer Matching Systems manager Frank Ogolla said that several clubs have suffered after the exit of players who are under contracts due to failure to pay them their salary and wages as agreed in their contracts. “We have seen many players who leave clubs when still on contract . We saw the situation with Gor Mahia as well as the one involving Avire. All of them claimed they had not been paid their dues for months hence they terminated their contracts. My challenge to the clubs is to always open a window for discussion with their contracted players or coaches so that in case there are any challenges, they can always sort it out internally,” advised Ogolla. Gor saw Francis Afiriye and Yikpe Gnamien both leave for Township Rollers and Yanga SC respectively without receiving a dime in transfer fees. According to Ogolla, Sofapaka expected a compensation package of Sh15 million for Avire but Tanta were only willing to pay Sh3 million hence the disagreement. In a statement last week, Sofapaka President Elly Kalekwa claimed Tanta had never reached out to with a view to resolve the impasse. "We have rather been approached by people who are very familiar to us purporting to be negotiating on their behalf," read part of Kalekwa's statement. According to Ogolla, Fifa through a single judge Geoffrey Thompson sitting in the Players’ Status Committee, decided to hand over a provisional International Transfer Certificate to Avire for the sake of the player's welfare. This was also meant to enable his registration to play for Tanta as they awaited a final decision on the matter. "A provisional registration could be revoked depending on the outcome of the  pending final ruling. We are confident that this decision by FIFA will not be used as a loophole by others seeking to get out of their contracts without following the due process," Ogolla said.