A watchman sentenced to death for defiling and strangling to death a three-year-old girl will serve his jail term after the Court of Appeal dismissed his case. Bernard Wamuti Kamau was convicted in 2014 after the High Court found him guilty. Those sentenced to death often serve life imprisonment. Kamau committed the offence on January 5, 2009, at Kiamara Estate in Kiambu. He appealed his sentence on grounds that there was no DNA conducted to determine it was him who committed the offence and that no parade was conducted to identify him. While upholding the sentence on March 6, appellate court judges Roselyne Nambuye, Martha Koome and Sankale Ole Kantai said they had taken into account the nature of the offence committed and the level of violence on "an innocent and defenceless child of about three years". “The defilement, which was heinous enough to begin with, was compounded by murder through strangulation. On the whole therefore, we find this is one case that deserved the sentence that was meted by the trial judge. We find no reason to interfere with it. For the aforesaid reasons, we find all the grounds of appeal lacking and we order it dismissed with the result that the death sentence imposed by the trial Judge is upheld,” the judges ruled. The prosecution said the body of the girl was found in a coffee plantation the next morning. The evidence that linked Kamau to the murder was the account of his younger brother John Njoroge. Njoroge testified that on January 5, 2009, he was hired to trim his neighbour’s fence and while doing so, he saw Kamau at the neighbour’s home. It was about 3:45pm. He said Kamau used to work as a watchman and he used to share a room with him. Njoroge said he left the neighbour’s home at around 6:30pm and went to his home which was about 30 metres away. After a short while, he heard an announcement through a loudspeaker that the girl had gone missing. He joined a group of neighbours who launched a search for the missing child. They did not find her. The next morning, he heard people screaming from the coffee plantation. He went there and saw the body of the girl. It was covered with a jacket. The girl's father said he arrived home from work at around 5:30pm and soon after, his wife also arrived. However, they could not trace their lastborn child around the homestead. The mother raised an alarm. He said the next day's search took them to the coffee plantation where the body was found. He recognised his daughter's pink sandals. Her red T-shirt was stained with vomit and her shorts had been removed and were lying next to her. He also noticed that her body had bruises, mostly on the neck. The matter was reported at Kiambu police station. Police Constable Nicholas Mutinda who was the investigating officer said the exhibits consisted of a pair of blood-stained green trousers, a striped shirt stained with the victim’s vomit, a bottle containing the deceased’s blood sample, a khaki envelope containing soil sample collected at the scene, a bottle containing the deceased’s vaginal swab, a bottle containing appellant’s saliva sample and a bottle containing appellant’s blood sample. The blood analysis report prepared by the Government Analyst Stephen Makinde showed the bloodstains on the trouser and shirt both matched the blood group of the girl. Government pathologist Johansen Oduor performed the postmortem at the City Mortuary. He told the court there were multiple bruises on the deceased’s chin, both cheeks and behind the left ear. There were more bruises on the loins and both thighs. There were also blood clots and tears in the vagina and the hymen was raptured. It was his opinion that the cause of death was asphyxia due to manual strangulation and there were signs of defilement. The court noted that apart from Kamau admitting that the clothes were his, he did not offer any explanation as to how the deceased’s blood came into contact with his clothes which he was seen wearing by other witnesses. His defence that he left his home at 5pm arriving at his place of work at 7pm where he stayed overnight could not pass the test of credibility in the face of the strong prosecution evidence, the court said. edited by peter obuya