Former Harambee Stars ace Boniface Ambani believes AFC Leopards are poised to carry the day during the 88th edition of the Mashemeji Derby this weekend. The match set for the Moi Stadium, Kasarani will see the two traditional nemesis muscle for bragging rights but Ambani has thrown his weight behind Ingwe courtesy of their latest form. Leopards will be out to redeem themselves from a 4-1 loss in the first leg played at the same venue. Ambani reckons that Leopards, who are under the tutelage of another retired Kenyan international Anthony Kimani, will end their four-year derby winless jinx if their recent form is anything to go by. Ingwe have won five of their last six matches where they have conceded twice. Ambani, who holds the KPL record of scoring more goals, has challenged Ingwe forwards to capitalise on the leaking Gor defence and put the result beyond reach. Gor have conceded nine goals in their last six league games, thanks to injuries and suspensions within the department. Their assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo had raised concerns over their defensive frailties which he noted had left the club vulnerable “Leopards have been on a good run recently and the players have gelled well. They have a youthful coach, who the players enjoy a good working relationship with. Gor's defence is not strong at the moment and Leopards should fully seize the moment and win the match. However, it will not be an easy match as Gor will also be seeking to extend their rich form over their rivals,” he said Ambani, a former Leopards' junior team coach is, in the meantime, hopeful that a win over Gor will enrich their chances of dethroning Gor Mahia. Leopards trail Gor by eleven points and the former Yanga striker feels a win over Gor will inspire the club to slice the gap further and eventually end their more than two-decade KPL title drought. “The league is still open for the more than half a dozen teams. The only way Leopards can remain in the race is by beating the league leaders. A win over Gor will not only reduce the gap but give them the impetus to keep pushing till the final round ,” he added