Nairobi  has spent Sh30 million to purchase Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and drugs for coronavirus. This comes as the first coronavirus case has been confirmed in Kenya on March 13 in Nairobi. the first preparedness drill will be on Sunday at Mbagahi Hospital at 11am. The PPE includes masks, goggles or face shields, gloves, Hazmat, gowns,  and other items. County Assembly Health Committee Chairman Peter Warutere confirmed the purchase and said the county had activated its emergency funds kitty for preparedness. "The PPE are here with us and shall be available at county facilities especially Mbagathi Hospital. The National Government had set aside Sh600 million for Nairobi county but it has not yet been released," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta two weeks ago ordered that the just-completed 120-bed capacity Maternity Wing at Mbagathi hospital to be converted into an isolation ward. It accommodates 40 patients. Mama Lucy Superintendent Dr Musa Mohammed told the Star that sensitisation had started at the facility to prepare patients and the surrounding community. "Our officers are ensuring that the right measurements are taken and as well as the right information on the virus is given to people," he said. Pumwani Maternity Hospital Administrator Geoffrey Mosiria said health officers and administrators are having meetings to strategise on how to handle the virus in case it is confirmed in the facility. And also how to sensitise the mothers and hospital staff County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said she might reconsider legislators' travel retreats as a precaution. "Our members in various committees usually go on retreats as far as Mombasa but now since we have the case with us in Nairobi, some measures have to be taken. Sanitizaton within the precincts will be compulsory and also the availability of water and soap," she said. "When members leave we don't track who they meet but I urge them to take all necessary preventive measures to keep themselves safe and also the people surrounding them," she added. (Edited by V. Graham)