Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei had an impeccable sense of style and was always sharply dressed. Kenei was a pleasure to be with, always making people laugh, these were the words of Eliud Bichii, the cousin to the slain officer. In a moving tribute on Saturday, Bichii said his cousin was great with people, brave, easy-going, and a charming man who made friends easily. He said the late Kenei had a successful career in the police service rising to the rank of sergeant in 2015. "Before meeting the love of his life, Judy Chepsoi on Valentine’s Day of 2019, he took an active role in his son, Kiptoo Yegon’s upbringing. He was a dedicated father and was always present in all his academic meetings. He later married Judy and was blessed with a second son, Sanzel Yegon," he said. He said while Kenei was forced to move around the country because of work, he made sure he spent as much quality time with his family as possible. "Hard work and determination characterised this strong and loving father, husband, son and brother. He cherished his job and worked diligently wherever he was deployed and in whatever assignment he was tasked," Bichii said. Bichii said Kenei's lifetime of dedication and self-sacrifice served as a monument to the exemplary man he was. "Kenei's humility, integrity, and hard work continue to inspire those who knew him. In spite of his tender age, Kenei’s knowledge and grasp of his people’s traditional ways of life was deep and wide," the tribute read in part. His family describes him as a very special person who was exceptional in so many ways. He was the most lively and intense person who was full of life. Bichii said nothing gave the late officer greater pleasure than to share his time with his grandmother Kabon Chesang’, who is yet to come to terms with his passing on. Kenei was born to the retired Chief John and Alice Chesang, on January 29, 1987, in Kisanana, Baringo county. He was the fourth child in a family of eight brothers. He started his schooling in January 1993 when he joined Kisanana Primary School. Upon completion of primary education, he proceeded to Baringo High School between 2001 and 2004 before enrolling at the Administrative Police Training College at Embakasi in 2006. After the completion of his training, Kenei was posted to Oldonyiro, Isiolo County. Kenei served in Wajir and Kakamega before being transferred to Nairobi under the Security of Government Buildings Unit, stationed at Harambee Annex where he worked until his departure. Harambee Annex is the house that houses the Deputy President William Ruto's offices. Kenei was the head of security. The family learned of his departure on February 20, 2020. At the time of his sudden demise, Kenei was a healthy, strong, upbeat 33-year-old. The late sergeant will be laid to rest today at Chemasis village in Nakuru county. His death has attracted public interest and several politicians are expected to attend his burial. Deputy President William Ruto is among the leaders expected at his final send-off.