It was always our position that the cases that were before the International Criminal Court did not meet the threshold. The allegations against our clients were false and the prosecution witnesses were not saying the truth. We had also consented that quite a number of the witnesses that had been lined up were induced into taking a position and adopting testimonies that were not necessarily true. As a consequence, in the course of the trial, some of them were saying things that were obviously untrue, that everybody could see were very untrue. Others were contradicting themselves and others were disowning their own statements and all these vindicated our position that, indeed, the allegations were false, fabricated and concocted to suit other agendas. The reason why the United States declined to join ICC is that it is subject to manipulation and that is the reason why Pokot South MP David Pkosing was pushing to have ICC prosecutor held accountable. The United States, in their own words, said the prosecutor was rogue in the sense that that office is not answerable to anybody, not accountable and is not open to scrutiny. On our part, apart from the grounds we had indicated that some witnesses went as far as disowning their statements, there were some contradictions. Apart from that, there were instances even the prosecution themselves conceded that what their witnesses had said were not true despite having brought them, prepared and relied on them to present the case. In the last minute, we just had to agree that the so-called evidence was unfounded. As a consequence, we asked the office of the prosecutor be subjected to investigations into how the witness statements were collected. We also argued that as much as the investigator had the monopoly of investigation, it was very unlikely that if they were to conduct investigations into their own office and functions they would do good work. We, therefore, asked the judges to consider creating a different body or a different set of personnel to investigate the matter but unfortunately the judge went to the Rome Statute establishing the court and said reading from the totality of the structure of the ICC, it is only the prosecutor who has the monopoly of investigations. They had nowhere else to source for investigations other than the prosecutor. Lawyer Katwa Kigen spoke to the Star.