We’re living through history and staying safe is a major priority right now. The ongoing efforts to control the pandemic has made it necessary for most of us to work from home. This also means that our lifestyles have been disrupted and we only make moves when necessary. All in an effort to try and curtail the spread of the virus. During such a pandemic and also with public health emergencies, impacts can be seen in both the local and national economies. We are all concerned about our investments but there are proactive steps you can take to protect yourself. Banks and financial institutions are introducing ways that you can manage your money to not only help you weather these trying times, but strengthen your portfolio. One of these introduced is the Standard Chartered digital mobile banking app which helps you make decisions on investments as well as control your finances. You can even open accounts on the app. Through the app, you can buy and sell bonds and T-bills, view market trends and buy mutual funds. We are currently in a bear market meaning that the stock market has fallen for a prolonged period of time. This leads to an increased sell-off of stocks reinforcing the downward direction of the market. However, falling stock prices and depressed markets are good for the long-term value investor. With lowered stock prices, you can make periodic, fixed amount investments over time. Choosing who or what to invest in comes with its own challenges, but Standard Chartered can help you with that. You can receive monthly portfolio statements which show the status of your investments which are professionally managed. While we may be stuck at home, it does not mean that our bank accounts have to be too. Through the Standard Chartered mobile banking app, you can invest directly from your current account and enjoy the benefits of regular income. How to get started The SC Mobile app gives you the freedom and time to apply for new bank accounts from the comfort of your home, office or on the go. They’re helping you Bank anytime, anywhere with iPhone and Android mobile banking apps. For the Mobile Banking Account Opening application, all that’s needed is you and your mobile. You’ll be asked for uploads of your Identity Documents that you can prepare before you start. Then with your mobile, simply capture, attach and even upload from your preferred cloud storage. Open your account now - https://www.sc.com/ke/open-account/