 Marsabit MCAs have been urged to come up with legislation that will provide first lady Alamitu Jattani with funds to finance her war against female genital mutilation. The funds will facilitate her engagement with thousands of pastoralists who need to be educated on the dangers that girls are exposed to when they are circumcised. Alamitu said more than 90 per cent of girls in the county are circumcised while many young mothers lose their lives while giving birth due to FGM-related complications. The first lady, who spoke in Marsabit at the weekend, said her Gaddis Gamme programme organises camps for women and girls during which they are exposed to the dangers of FGM and educated on how to express themselves against the dehumanising practice. More than 60 per cent of girls in Marsabit drop out of the school to either get married or help their parents in domestic chores as their brothers continue learning. Alamitu said sexual and reproductive health issues are considered sensitive and rarely discussed openly. She was grateful to donors for facilitating the four girl camps her organisation has held so far. She also thanked parents for allowing their daughters to attend as well as political and community leaders who joined in discussions. Female genital mutilation remains a menace in the county despite a relatively high level of awareness against the vice. But organisations like the first lady's need the support of religious, political and community leaders. Alamitu was concerned that many youths are abusing drugs. " Most of the youths have become desperate and turned to drugs," she said. County commissioner Evans Achoki pledged to cooperate with the office of the First Lady in the fight against FGM. Achoki said the President was determined to end the female cut by 2022. Chiefs have been instructed to ensure that happens before that date. The administrator emphasised the need for peaceful coexistence and tolerance. "We must reconcile and unite for peace. Leaders must commit themselves to promote peace and reconciliation, " he said. He at the same time warned school heads against sending home students whose parents lacked fees. He assured parents that all children will get secondary school education.  