In Maasai culture, FGM is held dearly for they believe it adds dignity to girls and women. The culture, often praised and used as a tourist attraction, encourages FGM which it views as the key to success in all aspects of a woman's life. Many Maasai families who cannot afford to give their children formal schooling try to protect them from lives of poverty by marrying them off at a young age. We met Sandau Kuunya, an 85-year-old woman, who decided to drop the blade and become a champion against Female Genital Mutilation in Nkolile village, Loitoktok subcounty, Kajiado. The mother of 12 children said she stopped the exercise and threw away her tools in a latrine upon realising the practice ruined the future of girls and gave her no profit. She started circumcising girls when she was 30 years old. She was given a sheep for every girl she cut. Kuunya said she could not recall the number of girls she cut in all those years before she quit. "FGM is an old practice and I no longer do it anymore. I used to cut girls but now I have realised it has no profit at all. I have realised its effects and it has no use," she said. She said a girl would be cut when she reached the age of 10 and married off as she was considered ready for wifely duties. "During those times, we did not see the loss or effects of the practice because once they were cut, they went directly to start their own family," Kuunya said. "When a girl is circumcised she knows that's a sign of being a woman ready for marriage." It was the responsibility of the girl's father to look for a suitable man to marry her once she was cut. "During our time I used to cut over 20 girls per day because the whole society was prepared for that day. I would work the whole day and night going from house to house until all girls were cut because it was a special occasion," Kuunya said. That meant she would go home with at 20 sheep, except when a father of two daughters requested her to accept one sheep for both. In places where there were no schools or during the holidays, families would set aside a special day to perform the initiation. Circumcision was so important that an uncut woman even if at the age of 20 would still be referred to as a child who was yet to mature. "If you go to schools now you will find girls at the age of 20 who are not yet married since they are not cut because their fathers still view them as children until they get circumcised,"she said. In Kajiado county, eradication of FGM has met stiff opposition from residents who still uphold the Maasai culture. But Kuunya said since the county government of Kajiado started the new policy to eradicate FGM, most families take their children to school. Some have even joined the campaign to end the custom. "Now we know its wrong and it affects the girl's life. We know if we would have stopped the practice earlier, we would have achieved much development from our girls. When a girl is educated, the society benefited from her achievements," she said.