Churches and mosques in Mombasa are preaching and holding services online to avoid crowds and the risk of spreading the coronavirus. Gatherings, including church congregations, have been banned as the government battles to contain Covid-19. A spot check in Mombasa town showed that capture card, a device used in live streaming videos on social media platforms, was on high demand. “The demand for captured cards has really gone up. I have sold several gadgets to churches and mosques,” said a businessman dealing with computer accessories in Mombasa town.  On Sunday, several churches in Mombasa conducted their services on digital platforms; Facebook live, YouTube live-streaming and on their websites. Crossroads Fellowship Nyali, Mombasa Pentecostal Church, International Christian Centre Mombasa are some of the institutions that conducted their services online. Crossroads Fellowship, through its Facebook page, said on Friday their 10.30am service on Sunday would be conducted online. “Social distancing does not mean spiritual distancing. We are a church without walls. Join us online on Sunday morning at 10.30am as we worship God together in different locations,” the church said. At Mombasa Pentecostal Church, senior pastor Ronald Makokha on Saturday evening announced their service will be transmitted live on Facebook. MPC Bamburi, a branch of the Mombasa Pentecostal Church, also had its services captured live on Facebook. International Christian Centre Mombasa, which is under the leadership of Reverend Edward Munene, live-streamed its three services on Sunday on various social media pages. “This is our invitation to you. Don’t miss out on being part of our service tomorrow. You can join us on three different channels, using Facebook live right on this page, on our YouTube channel @iccmombasa or by going to iccmsa.online.church,” Munene posted on Twitter on Saturday. ICC Mombasa has three services on Sunday at 8am, 10am and 12pm and the services will be running on three channels. edited by peter obuya