Some bar owners in Bomet are counting losses after their premises were broken by chiefs said to be enforcing the closure directive. The group of seven administrative officers is said to have raided Kapsimotwo trading centre in Bomet Central around 4pm when they broke into the bars and destroyed drinks before confiscating some. The team led by Bomet Township chief Reuben Ngetich and  assistant Caleb Kirui, according to those who spoke to the press, had suspected that some people had locked themselves inside the pubs to evade arrests. No arrests were made. The owner of White House – one of the pubs broken into – claims to have lost property worth Sh52,000 while the owner of the adjacent bar identified as Erick Bett said Sh20,000 in cash was stolen from his bar. Addressing the press at the centre, Bett asked why the officials took advantage of the order to destroy the property yet they had complied by not opening. “When we received the instructions that all the entertainments joints must be closed we adhered to it and ordered our workers to close but we were surprised to find the chiefs breaking in,” Bett said. “If they are genuine and there were some people inside, why did they not arrest them?” Reached for a comment, the administrator referred the Star to the Bomet Central assistant county commissioner who he said had sanctioned their acts. “The ACC is the one answerable since he was and the one in charge of the ongoing operation of ensuring the bars and wine shops adhere to the closure directive in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19,” the administrator said. Deputy county commissioner Henry Metto denied the allegations. He said there are only two licensed bars in the area and the two said to have been broken into are operating illegally. He also said people had locked themselves inside and were found drinking but the chiefs had to disperse them. “We have told our officers not to arrest anyone but to disperse people found gathering and that is what they did. Those allegations are cooked." Edited by R.Wamochie