A multi-billion-shilling programme to support women and young entrepreneurs  in agriculture was launched on Friday. The Sh5.1 billion AgriBiz programme will fund 2,400 women and youth-led agribusinesses. The European Union and partners launched the programme in collaboration with the government, Denmark, FAO and the African Development Bank. It will work with local financial institutions to obtain Sh17.6 billion in loans for agribusiness. The programme will be implemented jointly with selected county governments. It will establish eight business incubation hubs to provide training, business advisory and financing to women and youth in agribusiness. Speaking during the launch in Nairobi, Chief Administrative Secretary for Agriculture Anne Nyaga said: "We welcome and fully support this initiative from the European Union, which is very much aligned with the ministry's agricultural transformation and growth strategy 2019-2029 priorities." Nyaga said concerted efforts were needed to empower rural youth and women to develop and implement sustainable solutions to difficult challenges facing farming communities, counter negative perception of the agricultural sector and make it easier to access the land and other resources needed to engage in commercial farming. EU ambassador to Kenya Simon Mordue said: "This programme is a timely intervention for the women and youth of Kenya." Mordue said the project brings to life the Europe-Africa alliance which emphasizes a relationship based on sustainable investment and job creation. "With more than 60 per cent of the unemployed Kenyans being young people, AgriBiz will channel resources to a crucial sector that can absorb a majority of these unskilled and semi-skilled workers," he said. Danish ambassador Mette Knudsen said: “The AgriBiz programme holds a promise of sustainable and decent jobs for women and youth in agricultural value chains. "It reflects the wishes for a more equal and greener future. For Denmark, it is key to promote gender equality and inclusive growth as well as support climate change adaptation and climate innovation." Knudsen said the programme would unlock job opportunities for the youth and women towards achievement to the Big Four Agenda on food and nutrition security and manufacturing. Dr Tobias Takavarasha, FAO country representative, said the alignment to the FAO strategic focus and the government of Kenya was required and should bring around the focus from ‘farm to fork’ and foster sustainable land and natural resource management for the future. The CEO of Kenya Climate Innovation Centre Edward Mungai hailed the new wave of innovation in Kenya. “There is a silent revolution taking place in Kenya with hundreds of young people and women farmers abandoning traditional ways of farming in favour of innovation and technology and this is what this program will augment,” he said.