PrideInn Paradise Beach Resort and Spa has temporarily suspended operations until the coronavirus pandemic subsides. This comes after the government’s advice to the public to avoid unnecessary travel and ban on meetings and gatherings as a way of taming the spread of the virus. “This is a temporary measure that is reflective of the current business environment, agonizing decision for me and one of the hardest things I have had to do in my entire career,” PrideInn managing director Hasnain Noorani said. He added that the company’s priority is the safety of all staff, guests, and the community at large and they look forward to reopening soon and putting this challenging time behind. The hotel which heavily depended on international visitors and meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE), has been affected by the ban of flights into the country and suspension of meetings. It boasts of having the largest conference facility at the Kenyan coast. The facility is among many hotels that have had to suspend operations amid high cancellation of bookings. “We have over 400 employees, we have been forced to send them on leave because we have not been receiving a significant number of guests in the last three weeks,” general manager Ann Peggy said. Meanwhile, Noorani has lauded the government for measures put in place to curb the spread of the virus. He has urged Kenyans to cooperate with the government and take all precautionary measures to ensure their safety. Out of the nine PrideInn hotels, five units have remained operational-PrideInn Azure, PrideInn Raphta, PrideInn Lantana, PrideInn Nyali and PrideInn Mombasa City. The cancellation of international flights has negatively impacted travel. Mombasa, which depends on foreign tourists, particularly has seen a slump in business. The epidemic has seen a ban of flights to and from the biggest tourists’ source markets of Asia and Europe. Italy, one of the biggest source markets for the country's tourism sector with chartered planes landing twice in Mombasa, has been one of the hardest-hit European country. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), airlines could lose up to $113 billion (Sh11.3 trillion) if the coronavirus spread continues unabated.