Matatus, boda bodas and taxis will be banned from transporting milk if the tough 2020 Dairy Bill goes through. The proposed law requires players in the dairy industry to have exclusively customised vehicles to transport milk. Those who violate the law will pay Sh10,000 fine or be locked up in jail for three months. “A person shall not transport any dairy products or cause dairy products for sale to be transported in a passenger public service vehicle or in a vehicle whose design does not meet milk carriage requirements,” the Bill says. It revokes the Dairy Industry Regulations, the Dairy Industry Orders and other rules in place. Milk vehicles should be made of food-grade materials with complete drainage systems, which can effectively be cleaned and sanitised. All raw milk from each farm will have a unique number and name to help in tracking the source and the company. However, the Bill fails to protect companies imitating KCC products. “The use of trademarks or similar logos on milk trucks, vans, tankers, bottles and other containers and vehicles shall not constitute misleading marks or words so long as the same are not used so as to obscure the labeling required by the regulation,” proposed law says. Handlers of milk such as farmers, traders and loaders must undergo training in tertiary institutions under the National Industrial Training Authority syllabus. Giving wrong information will attract a fine of Sh10,000 or imprisonment not exceeding three months. Milk equipment and containers will be designed and built in a way to ensure they can be adequately cleaned, sanitised and maintained to avoid contamination. Storage tanks, surfaces and associated equipment must be easy to clean and disinfect, corrosion-resistant and not capable of transferring substances to the milk. No drinking, chewing, smoking or eating is allowed while handling milk. No engines shall run while loading or unloading milk and all doors and lids of the part containing milk or dairy produce must be closed. Dairy business operators must ensure only qualified persons with relevant competencies from institutions recognised by the National Industrial Training Authority or any other institution of higher learning handle dairy products. Lactating animals with abnormalities shall be milked last or in separate equipment. "A person shall not sell, attempt to sell, offer, expose for sale or have in possession with intent to provide, sell, offer or expose for sale any dairy products which is adulterated or misbranded,” the Bill says. Government officials, under the Dairy Board, will obtain samples of milk at any point in the value chain for examination. They will also have powers to demand all the persons handling milk (farmers, traders and loaders) to go for a medical check-up. Dairy business operators shall only sell pasteurized dairy produce. All persons operating dairy produce testing, monitoring or recording equipment must obtain a valid calibration certificate. The also outlines requirements for sanitation at collection points, farms or shops selling milk.