 Tob Cohen’s widow Sarah Wairimu on Monday suffered a setback after the High Court removed the DPP and the DCI from the list of respondents in her succession case. In her ruling, Justice Lydia Achode said DCI George Kinti and DPP Noordin Haji cannot be part of the succession case as had been filed by Wairimu. Wairimu had listed the DPP and DCI among the respondents in her suit. She, however, did not list Cohen's relatives to whom the businessman bequeathed his wealth. Achode said the state cannot be part of a succession case as they have no interest in the deceased property. She said the DCI was only holding Cohen's house because it was still a crime scene. The court held that the state agencies cannot be enjoined in the suit because they were not beneficiaries of Cohen’s wealth. Achode issued a 45-day stay order for the ruling after Wairimu’s lawyer Philip Murgor requested he be allowed to appeal. Murgor said both the DPP and DCI were party to the case as long as they were in possession of the house. The case will proceed on April 2 when Wairimu's application alleging that Cohen's sister produced a fake will will be heard. Meanwhile, Wairimu has filed a new application in the murder case asking the criminal court to visit her matrimonial home in Kitusuru within the next seven days. The application was filed on Monday. Wairimu says the court should be in possession of the home after the visit. She also wants all contents to be handed back to her. Wairimu further wants the court to authorise the release of her two pet dogs - Major and Snow - that are held at the Kenya Society for Protection and Care of Animals in Karen. “The honorable court be pleased to order that forthwith, the state releases Wairimu’s personal motor vehicle - a Porsche Cayenne, Reg No. KBW 171G to her,” reads the application. Murgor says the continued holding of his client’s matrimonial property by the state is without lawful cause. “The state can no longer content that investigations are ongoing in the said home as it has been more than five months and 17 days since the house was taken over by the DCI on September 10, 2019.”  edited by peter obuya