Fifty per cent of Hazina Sacco's workforce is working from home, national chairman Evans Kibagendi said on Friday. “The employees are now working from home, offering services to members without exposure,” Kibagendi said. The sacco has 43 workers, according to CEO Dickson Okungu who spoke during a press conference at their offices in Nairobi. Kibagendi attributed the possibility of working from home to the 20,0000-member sacco's investment in innovation. Seven cases of coronavirus had been confirmed in the country on Wednesday. The government has announced a raft of measures to contain the spread, among them maintaining the highest standard of hygiene. Public transporters are encouraged to adopt a cashless system. On 16 March, Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority urged all cooperatives to suspend all their general meetings as one way of containing the virus. “You are hereby advised that all general meetings have been suspended for the next 30 days following the presidential pronouncement on March 15, 2020, with immediate effect,” the regulator said in a statement. Hazina members are drawn from ministries, parastatals and the private sector. Kibagendi said Hazina members can contact staff working from home and be served. “For members who wish to access services at our offices, we have maintained a lean staff and installed hand sanitisers and handwashing points at various consumer touchpoints,” he said. This is meant to curb the spread of virus. Kibagendi also announced that mobile loans have been doubled from Sh40,000 to Sh80,000. “Members can get the loan instantly.” “All applications forms are done online. They are scanned and sent online to our staff,” he said. Kibagendi said their operations have not been scaled down. He said they held their general meeting February 29, way before measures to curb the virus were announced. The chairman urged members to embrace paperless transactions through mobile banking USSD code*850#, Hazina Sacco App and their Visa ATM cards. He announced the introduction of Flash Advance, a new mobile loan available to all active members with a limit of Sh20,000 with a repayment period of two months. Okungu said, “Our revenue last year was Sh999.8 million. Members got Sh604 million in the form of returns on investment.” He said the sacco has an asset base of Sh8.4 billion.