Kisii residents have said the newly-built Makutano-Getare road has reduced traffic snarl-ups withing the busy town. The three-kilometre tarmac stretch constructed by the Kisii government connects the county with Nyamira at Getare along the Kisii-Nyamira road. “I thank Governor James Ongwae for ensuring that the road is tarmacked. It has been in bad shape for a long time,” motorcycle operator Philip Mauti said. Mauti said that landlords along the road and in adjacent areas have increased rent on grounds of improved security in the area. “A single room in an apartment used to go for Sh7,000 per month but the rent has since doubled,” Johnson Misati said. Misati said a number of development projects including real estates are coming up and property values have doubled. “Prices of land adjacent to the link road have appreciated. Crime rates have drastically dropped. We are seeing fruits of devolution,” Misati said. While launching the construction two years ago, Governor Ongwae noted that once complete, the road will decongest nearby roads. Ongwae said locals would benefit as the value of the land and property along the road will appreciate. “Locals can easily connect to social amenities like hospitals, schools, markets and health facilities. The cost of transport has also come down,” Ongwae said. The governor who is serving his second term said the county has opened up many access roads. They include the Erera-Kenonka road which he said have opened up the county. Ongwae said the county will in conjunction with other government agencies continue building more bypasses as the town is growing at a fast rate. He cited the Cathedral-Mwembe-Etangi road, Black House-Gusii Highlights and the Mashauri-Kisii University walkway being done under the World Bank-funded Kenya Devolution Support Programme. “The cabro works roads are almost complete. Once complete, they will facilitate ease movement within the town," he said. The governor said the walkway will facilitate safe pedestrian pathway along the high human traffic road mostly used by the Kisii University students. Ongwae said the county is improving road infrastructure across all the 45 wards by grading and gravelling the access roads.