The Alcoholic Beverage Association of Kenya has said it will abide by government regulations should the National Emergency Response Committee recommend closure of all night clubs over the coronavirus pandemic. ABAK chairman Gordon Mutugi in a statement said they will fully support the move since the pandemic is 'unprecedented' and 'much bigger' than any company or industry. "What we are doing is taking responsibility as an industry to protect consumers in restaurants, hotels, bars and social places," Mutugi said. "Since the country is not on a lockdown we are cautioning is against County Governments making uncoordinated directives against the National Emergency Response Committee that may result in mass hysteria." The association said it was pleased by the speed of action and raft of measures taken by the National Government to mitigate its potential spread, including public health messages and the invocation of the Public Health Act. "ABAK is pleased by the set of preventive measures taken by our member organisations and individual outlets to safeguard the health and wellbeing of Kenyans," Mutugi said. "Particularly, we strongly commend the heightened response measures by outlets (bars, pubs, hotels) have effected including screening and hand-sanitising of patrons on the entry of their facilities.". The statement comes hours after Mombasa County banned all night clubs from operating for the next 30 days in the wake of the coronavirus case in the country. The Mombasa County Emergency Response on Covid-19 Committee, co-chaired by Governor Hassan Joho and County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, placed the ban on Saturday as part of measures against the spread of the coronavirus. The move comes despite the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya (Perak) Coast chapter on Sunday said they were not consulted on such an important decision. ABAK said it is already helping outlets communicate basic precautionary measures. "We are in the process of printing and distributing over 50,000 posters across the country, to raise awareness on basic hygiene," Mutugi said. The association appealed for calm and sobriety in dealing with Covid-19 and warned against the spread of messages and directives that may result in mass hysteria.