There's no doubt President Uhuru Kenyatta is doing everything possible to rally the Mt Kenya region behind him. He's leaving nothing to chance to tighten his grip on the vote-rich region. However, going by the events following the Meru rally last Saturday, the mountain could go up in smoke. A leaked conversation among the region's leaders lifts the lid on the complex political equation. Some leaders were not amused by the rally organisers It is alleged that "foreigners” gave them the runaround on their own turf. The power brokers who pulled the strings and dictated the proceedings are being blamed for sidelining residents and respected political leaders. Still on BBI Meru rally. The miscalculated move to ferry supporters from Nakuru county to fill Kinoru stadium to the rafters has sparked fierce debate. Was it wise for organisers to include Nakuru in the Mt Kenya region? Residents of the cosmopolitan county are infuriated by the purported representation of their views by 'strange' people from a distant county. Corridors understands the leaders could have plotted to hoodwink locals, given their unpopularity on the ground in the guise of Mount Kenya diaspora counties. Disquiet is already simmering ahead of other rallies as leaders risk humiliation in their backyards. King Solomon is here with us. While other governors are busy rolling out development projects, one of Rift Valley governors has an insatiable appetite for young ladies. Of late, he is said to be on a shopping spree for them. The man on Saturday acquired six grey Toyota Vits, two V8 guzzlers and one Mercedes-Benz for his girlfriends in the last seven months. The governor's close friends and associates were laughing at him at a famous members-only club on the outskirts of one of the region's counties. A little bird tells corridors the Vitz number plates are so similar that even villagers can easily identify them. The game of musical chairs in a troubled county took a new twist on Tuesday last week. A source tells Corridors that a beleaguered county boss may have been coerced by powerful forces to enter into a deal shaping up to be his biggest political undoing ahead of 2022. The hard-pressed official pulled a subterranean trick through his vast networks in and out of the county. The first trick the besieged boss pulled was to sponsor a petition challenging the deal. The individuals challenging the deal are said to have received a huge amount of cash apparently delivered in two A2 brown envelops at a basement parking garage. The car that delivered the spoils belongs to a vocal nominated MP.