Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday took his battle with DCI boss George Kinoti to the doorstep of his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei’s murder was politically instigated and that the DCI was being used undermine his office. The DP now claims his political competitors could be behind the Kenei’s murder as part of the wider scheme to block him from becoming President in 2022. He accused Kinoti of being used to bring him down, for political reasons, through cases that have ties to his office. The DP said the people who were fighting him politically – the system- went for Kenei instead of facing him. He said Kenei was killed by the very system “that equally wants me dead”, saying his office had no link with the Department of Defence. “If you killed him to threaten me, his blood will accost you. I know what I am saying. I am not a mad man,” Ruto said. Ruto’s latest assertions can easily pass as a swipe at his boss Uhuru who appointed Kinoti. All national security units in the country are under the President’s command, including the National Police Service where the DCI falls. Kinoti is leading an investigation into the murder and has unraveled details beyond what was treated as suicide. He put the DP’s office on the spot, even claiming some powerful individuals called the officer before he was found dead in his house at Imara Daima. In his fondness of turning serious matters into political games, the DP has now thrown the challenge to the DCI to look elsewhere in the murder probe. In other scandals where his office has been implicated, the DP has been handy with details in an attempt to poke holes on facts informing a case. This was the case in the contrasting figures of Sh7 billion versus the DCI’s Sh28 billion in the Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal. It is not the first time the DP is claiming death threats, having made the same during the infamous La Mada Hotel meetings. He even cited a plot by detractors to haul him to The Hague to answer to charges that arose from events of the 2007-08 elections. Ruto has said the same of the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative campaigns, complaining it was hatched to stop his presidential bid. The DP has in some instances dismissed the presidency, saying he may not run after all. Kenei was attached to the DP’s security detail and was a major witness in the Sh39 billion arms deal scandal under probe. But Ruto says the goings-on in the Kenei case are a political plot to create a wedge between him and the people of Rift Valley. His take is that those behind the fake arms deal deliberately chose his office to tarnish his name. “I am aware that there is a huge scheme orchestrated to demean and to destroy my office and to ensure that I don’t get anywhere. It is obvious.” He said it wasn’t a coincidence that former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and his co-conspirators were arrested barely minutes after leaving his office. “If it was known that some people were planning such a thing, why were they not arrested before they got to my office?” he asked mourners at Kenei’s home in Nakuru. “What is this? To confirm the plot, those who were involved in this crime are not being seen, just my office,” Ruto said. “Those executing this elaborate scheme should know that they may have the system, but we have God.” The DP’s allies led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen have joined the fray, launching vicious attacks on Kinoti. In tweets, the lawmaker accused the DCI of hiding information citing the transfer of two officers who first handled the case. He said the DCI of executed a cover-up following the transfers, which the Star has learned followed the shambolic manner n which the officers first handled the crime scene. The officers removed the body from the scene and concluded that Kenei had committed suicide. Kinoti later ordered that the body returned to the scene after which fresh investigations began. Among his observations to dismiss the suicide theory was that there were no stains on the officer’s neatly spread bed. He said in the preliminary probe report the killers destroyed the evidence that could link others to the crime, citing a stolen SIM card that was paired with the phone. Kinoti stated that the phone was restored to factory settings rendering the question of why Kenei would destroy evidence when he intended to commit suicide.