Great Britain’s Aaron Rai is among the five past winners enlisted for this year’s Magical Kenya Open presented by Absa set for March 12-15 at the Karen Country Club. Other star attractions at this year’s event include the previous winners Guido Migliozzi (2019), Lorenzo Gagli (2018), Sebastian Soderberg (2016) and Haydn Porteous who ruled the event in 2015. Others expected to spice up the tournament include Chris Wood, winner of the 2016 BMW PGA Championship; Justin Harding, winner of the 2019 Qatar Masters; Ashun Wu, winner of the 2018 KLM Open; Alexander Levy, five-time European Tour champion; Shubhankar Sharma, winner of the 2018 Maybank Championship and Haoton Li, winner of the 2018 Omega Dubai Desert Classic. The Kenyan charge will be led by hard-hitting Dismas Indiza and Thika Club’s Simon Ngige who are part of the eight Kenyan professionals who qualified through the just-concluded 2019/20 Safari Tour Golf Series. Kenyan elite amateurs Samuel Njoroge, Daniel Nduva, Paul Muchangi, Taimur Malik and Mutahi Kabung, who were selected by the Kenya Golf Union to play at this year’s event. They will be joined by Victor Joseph of Tanzania who has been invited. Tournament director, Patrick Obath said there is increased interest from the European Tour players to play in the tournament, having received over 200 entries. “The field this year will remain at 144 players. We have, however, seen a significant increase in interest from the European Tour players, to come to play with over 200 entries received,” he noted. Apart from the world-class golf, Obath assured golf fans of plenty of entertainment at the tournament’s village. Meanwhile, Kenya Open Golf Limited is ready for this year’s Kenya Open, according to the chairman, Peter Kanyago. “We are nine days to the tournament and preparations are complete,” he said. He said the tournament’s prize fund will remain at 1.1 million euros (Sh125m) with the overall winner pocketing Sh20.5 million. “We have once again partnered with the Kenya Breweries Limited, through its Johnnie Walker Brand to ensure that fans enjoy great entertainment while following the action live at the village,” he added.