The panel selecting candidates for Auditor General did not send any name to President Uhuru Kenyatta for appointment, chairman Sammy Onyango has said. Onyango told MPs on Friday that of the 17 applicants, only one scored the minimum 70 per cent. A further background check disqualified the candidate. “We asked other agencies for further information on the individuals. The top candidate did not have a practising certificate and was not a member of good standing at ICPAK,” Onyango said. The panel chairman said two others got 65 and 62 per cent, hence did not reach the pass mark of 70 per cent. Onyango denied claims “there was undue pressure on the team to get a candidate from the correct quarters” to replace Edward Ouko whose term ended in August last year. He was before the Joint Parliamentary Committee investigating the delay — by more than seven months — in the appointment of an Auditor General. The team comprises members of the Public Investments Committee (PIC), Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Special Funds Committee. Onyango did not disclose the agency that advised against the candidates. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua was expected but did not appear citing other engagements. He sought a later date. MPs took up the matter following a request by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani for extension of deadlines for state agencies to present their audited reports to Parliament. The reports were due on December 31 last year – being six months after the end of the financial period. Reports of the Central Bank of Kenya, Kenya Power, KenGen, East African Portland Cement, Capital Markets Authority and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) are among those affected. The semi-autonomous agencies are unable to pay dividends to their shareholders since only a substantive auditor can express an opinion on their books. Onyango came under fire by MPs saying his report was an insult to auditors in the country as “it is not possible none of the 17 candidates qualified.” “Wasn't there a single Kenyan who met the requirements? Or did you as a panel come up with another framework? Didn’t any of the 17 applicants pass the integrity test?” Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir asked. Kibwezi East’s Jessica Mbalu questioned why the detailed report of the interview was not submitted to Parliament as required by the law. “Does it mean all the deputy auditors general that applied for this job suffer integrity questions?” Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito asked. “Was there an additional criterion? We can conclude that the panel failed the task they were given by the President,” Rashid Kassim of Wajir East quipped. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa asked the panel chair: “Did you work under duress? Were you influenced to operate in a particular way?” But Onyango said the law requires the panel to send three names of candidates who are suitable for appointment. “Taking cognisance of section 11 of the Public Audit Act, we concluded there was none qualified for appointment. “We did a report and submitted to the President stating our recommendations,” the former Deloitte CEO said. He castigated Parliament’s failure to amend the Public Audit Act to avert a transitional crisis at the crucial accountability office. “We went through the process and concluded that we wouldn't make a mistake of taking somebody who has failed the integrity test. “We have made a recommendation that if there is anybody who has failed Kenyans, it is Parliament,” he said. Ouko’s post is likely to remain vacant longer than anticipated in the wake of the legal deadlock on his replacement. Activist Okiya Omtatah secured court orders stopping the second recruitment citing violations of the Public Audit Act. He sued after the Public Service Commission re-advertised the job in December following the selection panel’s report. The Act has no provision for what happens in the event a panel fails to get a suitable candidate after interviews. The President declared the vacancy at Ouko’s office through a gazette notice within the seven days required by law. The Public Service Commission (PSC) is required to advertise a call for applications within 14 days. The names are thereafter published in a gazette notice and a selection panel formed by the President to settle on three qualified applicants. The panel is expected to conduct the interviews in public, settle on three names to send to the President and submit the scores to Parliament. The President is required to select one person and forward his/her name to the National Assembly for approval within three days. The Public Audit Act has no clear provisions for a transition unless the previous office holder dies, resigns, or is removed. Ouko, when leaving in August last year, faulted this arrangement. He said that other than creating a void in the crucial office, it does not guarantee a proper handover. (edited by O. Owino)