Former Lands commissioner Sammy Mwaita has been ordered to surrender a plot he allocated, during his time in office, to a tour company he is linked with. Mombasa Environment and Lands Court judge Sila Munyao declared the transfer of the property illegal. Munyao said the registration of the parcel of land to Lekyo Tours Limited by Mwaita was unlawful and irregular. The judge directed that the Mombasa Lands registrar cancels the title held by Lekyo and transfers it to the government. He also directed that in the interest of the public, an advertisement should be placed on the Kenya gazette notifying wananchi on the title cancellation. He restrained Mwaita and Lekyo from visiting or entering the land. The two are the defendants in the suit filed by the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission "I'm persuaded the EACC proved its case against the defendants and deserves orders they sought," Justice Munyao said. The matter was filed in 2014 by EACC. The agency accused the defendant of abusing his powers as lands commissioner. EACC said the land which is allocated in Bamburi was set aside by the government for construction of houses which were to be occupied by civil servants. They said between 1975 and 1979, the said houses were built and allocated to government employees. However, in 1998, Mwaita issued a letter of allotment to Lekyo and in 2000, a deed plan was prepared and approved. The agency told the court that Lekyo Tours was linked to Mwaita as he served as a director. The EACC said Mwaita breached his fiduciary duties by allocating the land to himself through Lekyo Tours. In response, Lekyo Tours and Mwaita said the land was lawfully allocated by the government for residential houses. Mwaita said he executed his obligations as commissioner of lands and there was no law precluding him from discharging his duties in favour of Lekyo Tours. But Munyao said Mwaita and Lekyo Tours opted not to defend themselves after they failed to participate in the proceedings. The judge said Mwaita and Lekyo Tours ought to have appeared and justified his actions and tendered evidence to support the claims in their defence. He said it was evident that Mwaita abused his office by not following procedures in the allotment of the house thus the land was irregularly allocated to Lekyo Tours. (edited by O. Owino)