French-speaking countries on Thursday launched the Francophonie month, which also marks 50 years of the International Organisation of La Francophonie. The organisation was formed on March 20, 1970, to promote the cultures of its members. The respective diplomatic representatives in the country held a press conference at Alliance Française and gave a line up of the events to celebrate 50 years of the Francophonie. They were French ambassador Aline Kuster-Menager, Swiss Ambassador Ralf Heckner, Tunisian chargé d'affaires Salim Hafsi, Egyptian Deputy Ambassador Nelly El Orabi, Algerian counsellor Nabila Ghazli and e-Kitabu CEO Will Clurman. The theme of the Francophonie in Kenya this year is Urban change and sustainable cities: being together in the world. Hafsi said the event is an opportunity to develop interaction and cooperation between countries. During the launch, there was the signing of an agreement between eKitabu and the French embassy for the deployment of access in the 20 French Language Resource Centers through eKitabu. The MoU will involve donation of digital tablets and training in the tool financed by a fund of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs (FSPI EFIP). eKitabu offers these centers the full content of its application with thousands of books online, including 100 in the French language. Other than Alliance Française, other venues that will host various events will be the Technical University of Kenya, Kenyatta University, Kibera, United Nations campus, and Lycee Francais D. Diderot (French School, Nairobi), among others. Ambassador Kuster-Menager said Alliance Française is the main vehicle to not only teach French but also disseminate the French culture and that of countries participating in the Francophonie. “Other embassies also use the centre to also showcase their cultures,” she said. “To demonstrate how Egypt cares about the Francophonie, the first director-general was an Egyptian, Boutros Boutros-Ghali,” Egypt’s El Orabi said. She also said that at least 29 African Union countries use French as their first or second language. Celine Banza performed later gave an electrifying performance during the launch.  