Good evening, Safaricom has unveiled revamped PostPay plans that will offer customers bundled voice, data and SMS with no-expiry. The new plans will be available on a 30-day basis with any unused resources rolling over to the next month. These are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. ODM party leader Raila Odinga has hit out at Deputy President William Ruto over his stand on storing his 'riches in heaven'. Without naming names, Raila who was speaking during Kiambu businessman Nginyo Kariuki's burial on Tuesday said people should also invest on earth. "Unity in diversity. We want to deal with this cancer of corruption.. that walking around in sacks of money in terms of harambees and investing in heaven here on earth. We want you to invest here on earth for development not for heaven because ultimately all of us will go to heaven," he said.  Members of Parliament who were scheduled to travel to the UN Status of Women Conference have been asked to refund their per diems. This comes after organizers of the conference restricted attendance to missions due to concerns related to the global coronavirus pandemic. The 64th session of the Commission on the Status of Women begins on March 9 A Kenyan-born man might be hanged for allegedly killing more than 22 grandmothers at care homes in the United States. Billy Chemirmir 47, was charged with killing at least 11 elderly women and stealing their jewellery and valuables in Dallas, Texas. Chemirmir was previously arrested for the death of an 81-year-old woman, ABC Fox Montana reported. Kenya Ports Authority managing director Daniel Manduku and Kenya Revenue Authority Commissioner for Customs Kevin Safari have been released. The duo was arrested on Monday by the DCI after months of investigations into leased extra storage space for containers by the agency. They were detained at the DIC headquarters along Kiambu Road before being moved to Muthaiga police station. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has established that one of the number plates that Rashid Echesa has is not his. The owner of the KCW 289Q has been established as Irene Mueni. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has asked Mueni to present herself to the detectives to provide information over the ownership of a Land Cruiser impounded at Echesa's home.