A partnership between Kenya Pipeline, East African Breweries and other private companies has delivered at least 130,000 litres of sanitisers to the counties. On Monday, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro and county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga received a consignment of the sanitisers to be distributed to residents. Residents who experience water scarcity especially in markets and slums within Kiambu will be given priority to stop the spread of coronavirus. KPC chief corporate communications officer Jacinta Ochieng said oil marketing companies and other institutions are taking part in the partnership. “The government has mandated us to produce sanitisers which are supposed to be distributed for free to members of the public,” Ochieng said. She said that the county commissioners will help in the distribution of sanitisers through the Nyumba Kumi leaders. The village administrators are also to sensitise residents on cleanliness and the need to use water and soap to clean hands and sanitisers where there is no water. EABL national business development manager George Onsongo said that the company's foundation has set aside Sh50 million for the project. The company will partner with Tropikal and Haco industries to produce 135,000 litres of sanitisers which will be distributed in the counties. “We are using the EABL trucks to distribute the sanitisers. We also produce sanitisers which will be given for free in our distribution centres across the country,” Onsongo said. Wanyanga said that the sanitisers will be used in police stations, markets, tea buying centres and other busy areas. “We appeal for more well-wishers to give sanitisers as we want our people to be safe,” Wanyanga said. He appealed to residents to heed the government directives to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Governor Nyoro said that some of the sanitisers will be distributed to health facilities across the county. He said they have ordered a consignment of masks from a young Kiambu entrepreneur to be tested for quality. The county will ask him to supply if they meet the standards. “We ask the corporate innovators to help us because very soon we might realise that there is a lot of demand than supply,” Nyoro said. He said that people should stop politicising the closure of markets in the county. He said markets are now open but with clear directives on how to maintain social distance. “The buyers are recognising that they need to sanitise beforehand. We have asked our water companies to continue supplying water, especially to the slums for free,” Nyoro said.  (edited by o. owino)