Thirteen Kajiado police officers have been arrested for drinking in bars. The national government has ordered bars closed and banned social gatherings in an attempt to contain the spread of coronavirus. Kajiado county commissioner Joshua Nkanatha confirmed the arrests on Friday morning and said the names have been forwarded to the concerned authorities for further action. “This happened after members of the public raised concerns over the behaviour of some police officers at a time the country is grappling to contain the spread of the coronavirus,” he said. The officers were arrested on Wednesday and Thursday. Nkanatha said he learnt of the arrests after they happened and warned police officers against engaging in activities that work against the government’s resolve to combat the spread of Covid-19. He said seven police officers were arrested in Mashuuru, two in Maili Tisa, one  in Namanga and three in Masimba. The commissioner thanked wananchi for alerting the authorities and promised to take action against others found to be aiding bar owners to bend the rules. “The curfew imposed by the government starts today, and I am not going to sleep today. We will be all out there to ensure this order takes effect as planned,” Nkanatha said. He spent the whole of Thursday strategising how to enforce the curfew. Nkanatha said 25 licences have been withdrawn from traders who have flouted government rules in the past five days. Some residents of Kitengela on Friday accused junior police officers of aiding some bar owners to flout rules. “We have reported to the local police station the misconduct of their police officers but no action is being taken,” a businessman said. Business people said the officers go around in a police car collecting protection money from owners of small bars in the backstreets. Several bar owners, before the order to close, had complained of police harassment. They said officers from Kitengela collect between Sh200 to Sh400 every day as protection money. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya