The Nairobi Central Business District and its environs will on Wednesday be fumigated as part of the measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. Street families will be disinfected during the exercise. On Tuesday, county deputy director of health Wilson Langat said fumigators will be mounted on county vehicles in the CBD. "The vehicles will move around and disinfect locations within the CBD. We have requested the Ministry of Health to provide the necessary equipment for the process," he said. "Street children are also part of us, and we shall come in as a county and sanitise those we find on the streets. This way they won't be left out." The first fumigation in the country was done on Saturday in Rongai by public health officials after it was reported that a woman who tested positive for coronavirus resided in the area. The 27-year-old woman landed in the country on March 5 from the United States of America via London. Countries which are using fumigation against Covid-19 include India, China, United Kingdom, Australia and Iran. The Nairobi government will start training at least 3,500 health workers on coronavirus by Friday. County's health executive Hitan Majevdia confirmed on Monday that 80 health officers were trained at Mbagathi, 112 in Mama Lucy, 60 in Pumwani Maternity and 38 at Mutuini hospitals. On Tuesday, 100 health workers underwent training on coronavirus; 50 at the STC clinic and 50 at Pumwani Maternity Hospital. "By today (Wednesday) it is expected that the training will escalate, aiming at 3,000 health workers across Nairobi. Those we have trained are expected to train other health officers, which will definitely increase the numbers," Majevida stated. The county administration urged city residents to access services online where necessary to avoid crowding at City Hall. “People should take the basic and simple preventative measures on sanitisation and avoid crowded places where necessary. By so doing, we shall fight and overcome this virus,” Majevdia added. He praised the national government's efforts, especially in ensuring that county hospitals are well-equipped . Mbagathi Hospital chairman George Osewe urged the county and media to sensitise the public. “There is denial that the coronavirus is not here with us and people are not taking preventative measures seriously. We need to give the public the correct information and report as it is,” he said. Osewe said Monday's strike by nurses had been called off and services had resumed at the facility. “The public should not fear visiting Mbagathi in case of any suspected case of coronavirus,” he added. On Monday morning, nurses at the facility went on strike to protest against what they said was negligence and lack of proper training by the government. After a meeting between the hospital, the ministry and KNH the strike was called off. Edited by Henry Makori