The shark-infested political waters of Msambweni don't scare communication and governance expert Sharlet Mariam. The 29-year-old describes herself as an orca, a black-and-white toothed killer whale that feeds on large fish, squid, seals, other whales and dolphins. And sharks. “People say Msambweni is now full of sharks. But what sharks fear most is the orca,” says Mariam, with a smile that tells of confidence. She is the first woman to publicly declare interest in the Msambweni MP seat following the death of Suleiman Dori on Monday. The battlefield is already getting crowded and survival is for the fittest. Strategy meetings are being held with some prospective candidates going as far as printing campaign posters even before the seat is officially declared vacant. Others who have declared interest include Charles Bilali, a member of the Estates Agents Registration Board, former Kinondo MCA Juma Moane, Kwale Finance CEC Bakari Sebe, Msambweni Knut secretary Bashiri Kilalo, former Gombato MCA Omar Boga, and Coast Development Authority director Mshenga Ruga. Former Msambweni MP Marere wa Mwachai is said to be interested but she is yet to publicly declare her interest. The Msambweni MP seat is high stakes. Political observers say it is not only a local battle but also a national one pitting ODM leader Raila Odinga against his political nemesis Deputy President William Ruto. Mariam is yet to decide on a party. At Dori's funeral were the big guns: National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, Siaya Senator James Orengo, ODM chair and Suba MP John Mbadi, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, and Governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Salim Mvurya (Kwale) at Dori’s burial at his rural home in Gasi spoke volumes of the stakes. Dori’s relative and former personal assistant Feisal Abdalla Bader is also said to be interested in the seat. But Mariam on Friday said she not intimidated. “I have done a lot of things for the Msambweni people through the Hope Avenue, a local movement seeking to inspire, transform and restore hope to residents," Mariaam said. Sometimes she wears a hijib, sometimes, not. Born at the Msambweni district hospital in Kwale county, Mariam was brought up in Kona ya Musa in Ukunda ward, where her mother lives. Speaking the Digo language, Mariam attended Mwakigwena Primary and Likunda Primary schools before she went to Lulu high school all in Kwale county. She later joined Moi University, Nairobi campus, where she graduated with a bachelor’s degree in communications and public relations. Her Hope Avenue movement has put her in touch with the base and she said she now understands the needs and demands of the Msambweni people. She is also an alumna of the Friends for Life Foundation, an education fund that sponsors needy students from the Coast region. She says though this is her first shot in active politics, she is confident she can fill Dori's shoes. Being a woman does not diminish her confidence. “In fact, being a woman motivates me more, because I have to show the world that women can be as good as or even better than men in politics,” she says. The mother of one worked as head of protocol and executive secretary to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko from 2017 to 2018. She had been seconded there from her current workplace at the National Construction Authority where she has a corporate communication officer since 2014. The ODM Kwale branch is to meet on Monday to inform interested members about the nomination process.ess. There are about 12 candidates who have shown interest. Out of these, nine want the ODM ticket, an ODM member said. (Edited by V. Graham)