KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno is contemplating introducing technology in his coaching philosophy to keep pace with the modern football demands. Zico said he arrived at the decision owing to the current coronavirus crisis that has temporarily grounded football activities and that of other sporting disciplines in the country. The former Gor Mahia assistant coach said the current situation which has seen clubs suspend training would have been different if clubs invested in virtual coaching and communication. Zico revealed that since Football Kenya Federation suspended all competitions in the country in line with government's directive to call off public gatherings for a month, he had not had the platform to fine-tune his charges unlike abroad where tacticians are executing their duties online. "The use of technology in football is clearly inevitable if the current situation is anything to go by. It caught everyone off guard but going forward, I will consider incorporating virtual coaching if need be. We normally analyse our performance when gathered as a team but we can't do it at the moment. All local clubs have been affected too but I have resolved to diversify and embrace technology," he said. Meanwhile, the Harambee Stars assistant coach is optimistic that they will attain their objective of the season despite the break which he noted will affect the fitness of all players who ply their trade in the top flight. KCB, who are ranked fifth did not shy from setting their eyes on the title before the season began, but they trail league leaders Gor Mahia by 12 points with less than 10 matches to go. Zico expressed confidence that his players will observe the instructions he dished before they broke camp for them to remain fit for the time they will be out of action "Every coach is worried that his players will dip in form but there is little we can do. Health comes first and we hope normalcy will return soon. We gave our players instructions on how to remain fit and safe and I believe they are observing them daily for us to remain on course in achieving our targets for the season, " he added