More leaders from Kilifi county are in self-quarantine after Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi tested positive for Covid-19. The deputy governor recently returned from a trip to Germany and came into direct contact with some county leaders and officials. On Sunday, Governor Amason Kingi said he was in self-quarantine. He had met with Saburi. The governor said he tested negative but was still observing the mandatory 14-day isolation period. On Monday, Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said he decided to go into quarantine after interacting with people who had interacted with the deputy governor. Mwambire urged residents to observe proper hygiene and follow all government directives. "I did not meet the deputy governor after his trip from Germany but I met people who mingled with him. It is for this reason that I have decided to quarantine myself for the 14 days. It’s good to stay safe and make sure you do not become a threat to the public," Mwambire said. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya is also in self-quarantine. The MP did not come into contact with Saburi but said he is doing it as a precautionary measure. "I do not want to take chances. I do not know where the whole web ended. Maybe I am in it because as leaders we meet many people whose movements we are not sure of," he said. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said he has been trying to call the emergency response team numbers without success. He said he mingled with Rabai MP William Kamoti on Women’s Day in Rabai. Kamoti has been taken ill but it is not yet clear if he has tested positive for the virus. "I did not interact with Saburi during the Women’s Day at Rabai but I interacted with Kamoti who had had a meeting with Saburi before coming to the function. I have been trying to call the numbers so I can get tested but I have not been successful. Kamoti is already in hospital and I have decided to remain at home," Katana said. Others who met the deputy governor included Lands CAS Gideon Mung’aro. Mung’aro has also isolated himself. "I am currently at home and a team is here to take samples for testing," Mung’aro said. The deputy governor also met a host of MCAs and county executive committee members. Public Health chief officer Alio Ibrahim said all MCAs were ordered on Monday to self-quarantine. "We have communicated to them and we expect they will be honourable enough to go to self-quarantine unless they turn into wild animals," Ibrahim said.