Nduru Boys have cited Maseno and St Mary's Yala as their biggest threat as they seek to reach the rugby,  handball and hockey finals at the Nyanza regional games. Rugby 15’s coach and principal J.J Masime said his target is to go past the semi-finals in all events though he expects stiff opposition from defending champions Maseno and St Mary’s School Yala. Maseno and Yala have dominated rugby scene in Nyanza for the last 10 years but Masime expects his team to give them a run for their money. “It’s only a matter of time before we catch up with them,” he said. Two weeks ago, Nduru Boys dominated the Kisii County Term One games, winning the rugby 15’s, hockey and handball titles at the expense of giants Kisii School and Cardinal Otunga, Mosocho. Their basketball team lost in the semis to eventual winners Nyanchwa Boys. In rugby, Nduru upset Kisii School 8-3 to lift the title. “I told the boys to continue keeping fit at home when we closed following a government directive to stop the spread of coronavirus,” said Masime. Nyanza region KRU development officer, Laban Ouko, was full of praise for Nduru and tipped the school to dominate the rugby scene in Nyanza. At the regionals, Nduru have been pitted against Nyamira’s Gesiaga, St Joseph’s Rapogi (Migori) and Nyabondo in Pool 'B' while Pool 'A' will have holders Maseno, rivals Yala, Oriwo and Kameji. In hockey, Nduru Boys will make their debut at the regionals and coach Phillip Wekesa is not afraid of giants Kisumu Day and defending champions Homa Bay School. Homa Bay High School lost the Homa Bay county title to Mbita after going down 3-2. Wekesa said: “The boys are up to the task. We are going to the regionals to compete not to participate. Lifting the title is our target.” Nduru thrashed Nyabigena 6-0 to lift the Kisii County title. Nduru Boys will also be going for the handball title according to head coach Kevin Wandera. Nduru narrowly defeated Ndonyo 13-12 to lift the title. “It has been a tough journey but we thank God and our principal for supporting us. The boys are ready for the big stage at the regionals. We are not afraid of any team because they are champions from other counties just like us,” said Wandera. The regionals will be held at St Joseph's Rapogi and St Pius Uriri in Migori County.