The BBI process in Ukambani has left the region divided due to supremacy battles to control the two million-strong voting bloc. There is  bitter rivalry among second term governors and party chiefs from the area. As a result, Wiper has failed to hold the BBI report validation rallies in the region two times. “We are now rethinking for how long we can maintain somebody [Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka] whose value for the region has drastically diminished,” Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said in a statement on Monday. The first rally was to be held in Wote by Kalonzo's allies on February 7 but they postponed it to mourn retired president Daniel arap Moi. The party scheduled another rally for Friday, March 6 but it did not take place. The failure follows differences between party leaders Musyoka (Wiper), Charity Ngilu (Narc) as well as second term governors Kibwana and his counterpart in Machakos Alfred Mutua. Wiper party chairman Chirau Makwere dismissed Kibwana's remarks about his party and leader Musyoka as a non-issue. “Ukambani just like other regions in the country is solidly behind our party leader. He (Kibwana) moved a long time ago but choices have consequences,” Makwere said. “He has a constitutional right to stay or leave.” Former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama who is said to be eying Machakos governor's seat told the Star that they differed with Kalonzo on principle. Muthama said he wanted to transform Wiper into an issue-based party but his proposals were not considered. "I wanted Wiper to have officials across the nation so that we can have a national image but it never happened. I also had proposals to BBI that Wiper refused to present," Muthama said. Muthama said he would remain active in politics and vie where his followers would direct him. “I don’t need Wiper to win. I can win an election anywhere with a strong or briefcase party,” Muthama said. Muthama and Kalonzo’s differences escalated following party politics. Kalonzo picked former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti against former Machakos DG Bernand Kiala to contest for governor. Key stakeholders in Ukambani politics told the Star they were not happy with the former vice president working with  Jubilee ally Peter Muthoka following the handshake. “A number are not happy to see Kalonzo associating with Muthoka who is also protecting the interests of President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Kalonzo’s aide told the Star. Last year, Kibwana and Mutua announced their plans to contest for the presidency in a bid to unseat Kalonzo as the region’s kingpin. “When the time comes for grassroots BBI sensitisation activities and the referendum campaign, all will be free to host as many meetings as is necessary to demonstrate genuine support,” Kibwana told Kalonzo. He said they supported Kalonzo when his fortunes were dwindling in Mwingi, Kitui and Maçhakos. Makueni has been the thread on which Kalonzo's political life precariously hangs. “It is sad for Wiper to hoodwink the people of Makueni, the larger Ukambàni and Kenya in general that it intends to hold a BBI rally in Makuèni county. No BBI rally has been held in the name of any political party up to now,” Kibwana said. He and Ngilu's allies believe the Makueni rally is meant to humiliate them at the grassroots. “This is not a season for political rallies. We will not allow Wiper to use its members to frustrate county activities,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori