Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said more than 2,000 people who arrived at JKIA since Monday have been put under mandatory quarantine. While giving the daily briefing on Covid-19 cases, the CAS said Kenya has confirmed three new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 31. "They will be tested in due time in line with guidelines," Mwangangi said. Testing is expected to be carried out for them after five days from the date of arrival. This is in line with the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines on testing. The CAS said countries wishing to evacuate their nationals can contact the Foreign Affairs ministry for assistance. Kenya suspended international flights on Wednesday. All the new Covid-19 cases are Kenyans females aged between 30 and 61 and are close contacts of previously confirmed cases. They have been taken into isolation facilities and are being monitored. Two of the three new cases are from Kilifi, while one is from Nairobi. The total 31 cases are spread out in five counties Nairobi, Kajiado, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale. A total of 123  of 1,0029 close contacts have been discharged after completing the 14 day quarantine period. The government also announced that testing will be scaled up. Mwangangi said Health CS Mutahi Kagwe met religous leaders on Wednesday to encourage them to spread the message of social distancing. Earlier, Kakamega government closed its offices for two weeks to contain the spread of the coronavirus as county reported its first case. Announcing the shutdown on Thursday, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said that only staff from the health, fire brigade, security and enforcement, water and revenue collection departments will remain on duty during the closure. “We don’t want visitors and that is why we’re closing down and those who will remain in office must strictly observe the measures spelled out by both levels of government,” Oparanya said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday announced the full recovery of one Covid-19 patient. "Today we have registered our first patient who has fully recovered from this virus," he said on Wednesday. The President said the recovery showed there was hope to overcoming the pandemic. 