The Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company will instal 200 water points in markets and matatu termini in the county to enhance hygiene. Managing director Daniel Ng’ang’a said the company had installed 60 points in matatu termini. He said the company had procured water tanks with a holding capacity of 4,000 litres and filled them with a solution of water, soap and sanitiser. This, Ng’ang’a said, was more effective than providing soap, water and sanitisers separately. Speaking while inspecting the water points in matatu stages in Murang’a town on Thursday, Ng’ang’a said the programme is a partnership between the county government and the department of public health. “We want to ensure those who use matatus are sanitised before and after they alight to safeguard them,” he said. Ng’ang’a said he started the inspection as early as 7am and found matatu operators asking passengers to wash their hands before they board. The MD said people living in informal settlements will get free water until the pandemic is brought under control. He said the company has installed water kiosks that have been selling water to residents of slums. Over time, however, the majority of the residents got connected to tap water, rendering the kiosks under-utilised. “We are reviving the water points to serve those who may have challenges getting constant water,” he said. Ng’ang’a is a member of a technical committee that was formed on Monday by the county government to spearhead response efforts in the fight against coronavirus. At a meeting led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria and county commissioner Mohamed Barre, stakeholders agreed not to close markets but ensure they were fitted with sufficient hygiene agents. Nga’ng’a however decried the vandalisation of taps in a water point installed in a matatu terminus in Murang’a town on Wednesday night. The company was forced to instal new taps on Thursday morning. Murang’a county police commander Josphat Kinyua urged residents to safeguard water point. “If the water points are not working as they should, it puts all our lives in danger,” he said. He, however, noted that he had communicated with matatu saccos and instructed them to ensure their guards were alert. Murang’a County Matatu Association chairperson Francis Manyeki appealed to the county government to post the coronavirus hotline in all public places. “People do not know what to do in case there is a patient and may panic and run away,” he said. He lauded Muwasco for installing water points, saying they would go a long way in averting the spread of the disease among passengers and matatu operators. Edited by Henry Makori