National Olympic Committee of Kenya is targeting to take over 100 athletes to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. So far, 87 athletes have qualified for the quadrennial event. The number has risen compared to the 2016 Rio showpiece where Kenya managed to take only 67 participants. Among the disciplines that have already booked their tickets include taekwondo, boxing, volleyball and rugby (both Lionesses and Shujaa). NOCK is now counting on karate, cycling, judo, wrestling, badminton and shooting among others to fill the remaining slots with qualifications set for March and April. The  Team Kenya Chef de Mission, Waithaka Kioni, expressed his satisfaction with the preparations of teams to this end and said they will not relent in supporting them. He credited the government for the funding NOCK has received and hinted that a Sh 10 million Kitty will be given to various federations to invest in their preps. "We are more than excited with the preparation progress of various disciplines. We want to hit the 100 mark target and the few places left will be filled with the teams whose qualification processes are ongoing. We have set aside 10 million that will be given to the federations in order to have quality preparations." "The government, through the CS for sports Amb. Amina Mohamed and PS Joe Okudo's support, has been exceptional. Qualified teams have given us their preparation programs and we are working to ensure they are funded. We will hold meetings with team managers, head of federations and the government to ensure they get the support they need to boost their performance in Tokyo." Asked to comment on the coronavirus threat on the games, Kioni said: "NOCK is in communication with both International Olympic Committee and Tokyo and we will brief you next week on the same." Secretary-general Francis Mutuku said the two slots allocated to Kenyan swimmers should not go to waste. "Our ultimate aim is to see the two make it to Tokyo," he added. At the same time, Kenyans have been advised to obtain their tickets now to avoid last-minute congestion.  Kingdom Sports Group managing director, Daniel Beniston, said they have launched packages for the games at various prices with an average price of US$220. The tickets for athletics are the most expensive at US$1320. Tickets will be on sale from March 6 from 9:00 am at kingdomsg.com. "The demand for ticketing is great. Now is the best time to secure a ticket with less than 140 days to go before the world event. We cannot release the information about the number of tickets allocated to Kenya because it is confidential. However, we have a good allocation of tickets for Volleyball, Rugby and Taekwondo."