Lamu county government has set aside Sh10 million to combat the coronavirus pandemic that has since killed one person in the country. At least 42 people have been confirmed to be infected by the respiratory disease. Lamu has not recorded a single case of the Covid-19 following the announcement of the first case on March 13. With a population of 143,920 according to the 2019 Census, the county, governor Fahim Twaha said, was taking all necessary steps to ensure the disease stayed out of its borders. Speaking on Monday, Twaha said the money will be used to mobilise response capacity and also for medication, prevention and treatment where necessary. The governor said designated quarantine centres had been set up and that part of the money would go towards facilitating the effective functioning of the centres. He said part of the money will also go towards the provision of nutritional support and humanitarian aid for locals. Twaha, however, said the Sh10 million was a drop in the ocean considering the various measures and tools needed to tackle the pandemic in case of an outbreak in the county. As a result, the governor said, his office had requested the county assembly to convene an emergency sitting to debate and, if possible, approve a supplementary budget for emergency funds. “The Sh10 million we have isn’t enough. We don’t know how long this Covid-19 will last and therefore, there is need for adequate planning so that we aren’t caught off-guard,” Twaha said. Meanwhile, elders in the county are appealing to the national and county government to restrict the entrance of people from counties affected by coronavirus. Lamu Council of Elders chairperson Sharif Salim said there was an urgent need to stop people from Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale from entering Lamu at all costs. He observed that people from these counties continued to flock Lamu daily. “It’s for the common good. We have nothing personal against our brothers and sisters from these counties. We just want to stay safe and alive. They should be stopped from coming to Lamu until the coronavirus is contained." The elders also urged the government to undertake mass coronavirus tests for all Kenyans so as to be able to ascertain the impact of the virus. Edited by R.Wamochie