Public hospitals in Kisumu are well stocked with drugs and any claims to the contrary are false, Health chief officer Joseph Okweso has said. Okweso said no patients have been turned away from health facilities due to drug shortage. He spoke when he accompanied the Kisumu assembly health committee chaired by Vincent Jagongo in tour of the county referral hospital. The chief officer said that the county government was focused and committed to ensuring efficient healthcare provision to residents. His remarks come after residents complained that there were no drugs, food for inpatients and reagents for tests in public hospitals. The Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kisumu County Referral Hospital and Ahero Subcounty Hospital all reportedly had no drugs. The residents demanded that Nyong’o fully equip the health facilities to restore full operations. They said that patients were dying yet the county government was less concerned about their plight. Okweso announced that funds have been disbursed to cater for water and electricity bills in health facilities. “We have already given out cheques to clear the bills in subcounties,” he said. Some of the health facilities whose electricity and water meters were disconnected due to accrued bills are in Rabuor (Nyando) and Nyahera (Kisumu West). Okweso said statutory deductions of health workers such as NHIF, NSSF, and loans have been remitted. “We appreciate the good work that health providers give to our people. I want to assure them that we have paid all deductions,” he said. Former health chief officer Ojwang Lusi questioned the committee over salary payment delays and non-remittance of deduction to relevant authorities. He asked the committee to fast-track salary payments and prioritise workers' welfare for smooth service delivery in the county. Okweso said that they have also promoted health workers in various cadres. He said the rise in the number of patients seeking treatment since the inception of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) pilot requires additional staff. “We have already recruited 173 health workers to be deployed in various facilities to bridge the gap,” he said. The chief officer attributed the challenges being experienced in hospitals to the UHC pilot programme. The county is working towards streamlining the operations, he said. Jagongo asked Governor Anyang Nyong’o to put more funds in the health docket for proper service delivery to residents. “We want health funds to be in a pool for proper management of the docket. The bureaucracy should be reduced by decentralising money departments causing unnecessary delays when essential materials are needed in hospitals,” he said. Jagongo told Okweso to liaise with his Finance counterpart to speed up the completion of new maternity building at county referral hospital to ease congestion. The current ward has a 16-bed capacity despite a high number of patients. “We want our mothers, sisters, and wives to deliver in a well-equipped facility to reduce the mortality rate in our county,” he said. Since the inception of UHC, Kisumu county referral hospital’s maternity unit has been handling 15,000 patients per month. (edited by O. Owino)