Did an ODM MP from Nyanza petition Raila Odinga to kick out a former legislator who recently returned to the party? A mole has whispered that the MP has reported to the party leader that the ex-lawmaker has started campaigning despite him (Raila) giving directives that no politics should be played at this time. The man is said to be fearing that the former MP could unseat him in 2022 and has been doing he call to remove him from the party. But Raila reportedly sent him away, saying he needed all in the party and asked them sort out their differences away. A governor from Central Kenya is on the spot. Why? The first time governor moved quickly to set aside a multi-million shilling fund to deal with the contagious Covid-19. However, instead of starting with the most essential including sanitizers in strategic locations in the county, governor used a huge chunk of the cash to print materials purportedly to educate residents on the disease. However, each of the materials including reflectors distributed to boda boda operators bear his pictures. So the governor is using a crisis to campaign for his re-election. Corridors has learnt that a Cabinet Secretary is leaving his last days in his current docket. It is reported that soon after the country is declared Covid-19 free, there will be a Cabinet shake-up that will see three CSs exchange positions. Two of those earmarked are said to be doing everything possible to impress President Uhuru Kenyatta so that they may be spared but those in the know say the die is cast. It the plan is executed as it is, one one them will end with a less influential docket. A party leader and a powerful governor are reportedly not reading from the same script. Sources whispered to Corridors that the governor is not in talking terms with his party leader. Their differences remain unclear. However, sources said the governor has been ignoring calls from his boss. Some claim the governor is quietly planning to chart his own political path. He however feels that his boss is not willing to give way just yet. It’s said that when the opposition politician visited his county not long ago, the two did not meet. Instead, the opposition leader met the deputy governor and some other politicians in the county. It remains to be seen how the politics of the region will play out. 