Sports Fund has set aside Sh320m for renovation works at the Moi International Sports Complex in preparation for the Continental Tour and World Under 20 Championships set for mid this year. The stadium will host a leg of the World Athletics Continental Tour, the only in Africa, on May 2 while the World U20 event is set for July 7-13. Sports Kenya Director General Pius Meto said in view of this, the facility will be closed for public use on Monday with all sporting events being directed to Nyayo Stadium, whose renovations are set to be over in two weeks. "We will have the money coming from Sports Funds, through the Sports Facility Development Fund," said Meto."We have already identified areas that will undergo refurbishment to ensure the entire facility is ready to host the two championships." "The money is available and we expect contractors to be on the site by Monday for the works to begin on Tuesday," added Meto. The warm-up areas and training fields, as well as some facilities in the main stadium, are among those earmarked for a facelift. "There will be a lot of plumbing works going on as well as improvements on the media centre and changing rooms. We have also contacted Mondo (the contractor who laid the tartan track) to come and assess its condition and advise on any improvement that will need to be done," added Meto. The Police Station at the stadium, adjacent to the training field will be moved with the building turned into a changing room/bathroom for the athletes. Sports Kenya chairman Fred Muteti revealed that the refurbishment of Nyayo Stadium in on course with 95 per cent of the repairs complete. "Nyayo will be opened in two weeks, just like Cabinet Secretary for Sports Amina Mohamed promised. Only the swimming pool and the gym require slight touch ups but we expect to move most of the sports activities there as we work on Kasarani," said Muteti. "We want the contractors to have adequate time for mobilisation so that they do a good job and in the expected time frame."