Thirdway Alliance Party leader Ekuru Aukot has questioned the credibility of curfew imposition as a measure of curbing further spread of coronavirus. In an open letter to the Inspector General police Hillary Mutyambai on Sunday, Aukot said a curfew is ordinarily not imposed on a peaceful population. “We feel that the efforts by the Minister of Health, though commendable through the regular briefings, appear to have misadvised the President in suggesting a curfew in particular on the timings,” Aukot said. He said despite obeying the curfew order, police officers mishandled and violated the rights of Kenyans in the pretext of enforcing the curfew “Not even a single Kenyan has behaved in an unruly manner prior to and during this curfew,” Aukot said. He stated that majority of Kenyans lack basic needs such as food and water, hence prompting them to go out and look for food. “They will risk getting the virus to put food on the table for their children unless government gives an alternative that would ensure they stay home, as other countries have done,” Aukot added. The party leader has further said that a curfew is only imposed if the state security is under a threat or people are unruly, which according to him was not the case. Aukot has said instead of imposing a dusk-to-dawn order, restrictions on how to protect the population from possible spread of the COVID-19 should be adhered to. The party said several questions and issues were never answered before the curfew was imposed:, including; He said the police officers should know that any brutality is against the rule of law and that violations against a curfew as by law only attracts a fine of Sh1, 000 or a three- month jail term. “The brutal beating of civilians without any justifiable cause is, in fact, aggravated assault by the very people we expect to ensure law is followed by all citizens,” party leader said. He has asked Mutyambai to investigate the police officers who were caught on camera during day one of the curfew implementation assaulting Kenyans. “We urge that there be an immediate investigations, identification and prosecution of officers involved in brutality committed against Kenyans during this time,” Aukot said. He added that “impunity in our country has emboldened culprits over time, this must also come to an end”.