Former Kenya Cup champions Mean Machine hopes to return to the top tier rugby league after sealing a home quarter-final place in the KRU Championship. Machine face Egerton Wasps at the University of Nairobi grounds on March 14 while in the second quarter-final, United States International University's Martials host debutants Northern Suburbs. Machine defeated Mombasa 18-13 in the last game of the regular season while USIU  beat hosts Egerton University’s Wasps 18-13. The winner between USIU and Northern Suburbs will play Strathmore Leos while the winner between Machine and Wasps will travel to Kakamega County for a semi-final against Ochieng' Ahaya's Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology. Strathmore Leos concluded the regular season unbeaten after edging South Coast Pirates 40-20 at St Joseph’s Ukunda Primary School while Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology (MMUST) defeated the University of Eldoret Trojans 7-6 in the last regular season encounter. Suburbs secured their quarter-final place despite losing 23-15 against Catholic Monks at the Catholic University of East Africa grounds in Langata. Relegated Kisii RFC ended their Kenya Cup campaign on a high after beating Eldoret RFC 13-8 at Gusii Stadium. However, Eldoret abandoned the game in the dying minutes after their player who beat up a Kisii RFC fan was also roughed up by fans. Mombasa also joined Kisii in relegation to the Nationwide League next season. Mombasa finished 11th on the log with 23 points while Kisii’s campaign ended up with a paltry 13 points. Mombasa and Kisii are former Kenya Cup sides. Meanwhile, Citam Kisumu emerged the Western region champions after beating hosts Maseno University 15-10 while Kitale RFC emerged winners in the Rift Valley region after thrashing Kabarak University 30-9 at St Joseph’s Kitale. In Central, JKUAT Cougars edged Embu RFC 17-5 while the Technical University of Mombasa walloped Malindi RFC 52-0. In Nairobi, Shamas Rugby Foundation defeated Daystar Falcons 28-25 at KCB Sports Club. In the Nationwide national quarterfinals, Shamas Foundation will host Maseno University at the KCB with Kitale RFC welcoming JKUAT Cougars at St Antony Kitale. Kabarak University will tackle Technical University of Mombasa as Citam Kisumu entertain Daystar Falcons at Maseno University. 