Parliament has announced a raft of precautionary measures to protect lawmakers and staff from the deadly coronavirus. This comes soon after Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe confirmed the first case of the Covid-19 in the country on Friday. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, who chairs the Parliamentary Service Commission, and his Senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka announced the suspension of all foreign travel by MPs and staff for at least 30 days. During that period, conferences, retreats, workshops and similar events will be held within the precincts of Parliament in Nairobi. Visits to Parliament by schools, colleges and other groups have been suspended, while entry and movement of other visitors to Parliament will be restricted. "All committees are encouraged to defer the sittings and visits outside the precincts of Parliament,” Muturi and Lusaka said in a notice to all members and staff. Any official engagements that had been scheduled to be held within the precincts of Parliament in the next 30 days shall stand deferred until further notice. And members and staff who might have returned to the country from trips abroad, especially from affected countries, have been urged to stay at home for at least 14 days. Should they begin to feel unwell, even with mild symptoms such as headache and slight runny nose, and they should avoid contact with others. "If you develop a fever, cough and difficulty in breathing, seek medical advice promptly. Call in advance and tell your medical service provider about your recent travel. "Calling in advance will allow your health care provider to quickly direct you to the right health facility and prevent a possible spread of COVID-19 and other viruses. "Any other Member of Parliament or member of staff who may have been exposed to the coronavirus through their contacts, or who has the symptoms currently associated with infection with the virus, is encouraged to immediately seek medical advice and to minimise close interaction with other persons in the interim," the notice reads. MPs and parliamentary staff have also been told to regularly and thoroughly wash their hands with soap and running water or use an alcohol-based sanitiser to keep the virus at bay. Disinfectants have been provided within the precincts. They have also been asked to maintain a distance of at least one metre between themselves and from anyone who coughs or sneezes. "Persons with a cough or sneezing should stay at home or keep a social distance, and avoid mixing with others in a crowd.  Maintain good respiratory hygiene by covering your mouth and nose while coughing and sneezing into a handkerchief, tissue or your flexed elbow," the notice says. (Edited by F'Orieny)