Governors in the North Rift have insisted on joint measures to fight the spread of coronavirus. However, some residents in Uasin Gishu have accused Governor Jackson Mandago of enforcing a near lockdown including closure of markets although Health CS Mutahi Kagwe indicated markets should operate. Mandago went around Eldoret town leading enforcement of the measures, which also include relocation of bus parks to decongest the town. “The counties should not take advantage of the coronavirus situation to push their own agenda and frustrate most of us who are poor,” said Jane Wangai, a trader at the main market in Eldoret that was shut by Mandago. The counties have shut down morgues, ordered burials within 24 hours of death, closed markets and restricted unnecessary movements, among other measures Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said although individual counties had taken the needed measures to fight the virus, joint initiatives would be more effective. The eight counties under the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) have agreed to enforce joint measures in order to be more effective in stopping the virus. “We need a joint approach as counties and as a country because if we act as one then we will be able to deal with this situation and return to normalcy very fast. ”, Sang said. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba said counties still lacked adequate capacity and resources to effectively fight against the spread of the coronavirus. Khaemba said the counties required to train more staff, deploy ambulances and provide material required for the staff to operate effectively. The county boss said they were,however, working closely with Treasury. “It’s clear that without resources we may not do much and we urge the national government to help pull together all that we have so that we move forward as one,” Khaemba said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo asked the DCI to take stern measures against individuals spreading misinformation on the coronavirus through social media. Khaemba said the individuals were joking with a critical situation touching on the lives of Kenyans and the entire world and they should not be entertained. Kenyans have no other options but to strictly follow guidelines directed by the government to fight against the decease, he said. The Catholic Church in Eldoret has in the meantime increased its services to more than seven on Sunday in a move to stop congestion by allowing fewer faithful to attend each of the services. Bishop Dominic Kimengich of Eldoret said they follow procedures issued by the conference of bishops to help in stopping the spreading of coronavirus. Edited by Henry Makori