Due to the increase of families broken by the terrorism, Fatuma Juma set up a non-governmental organisation known as Engage Jamii Initiative in 2016. The organisation specialises on women and youth empowerment, counselling women who have lost sons and husbands to terror groups and teaching women on effective and cautious parenting. "After working with the youth for many years, I realised there was a gap between them and the parents. Many youths fall trap to external influences due to weak family structures," she said. EJI helps women to understand different stages of child growth and how to engage the children as they grow up. "Many of the sons are recruited into terror groups by fellow family members and religious leaders well known to the parents. We are telling parents to be there for their children throughout and not to entrust them to neighbours and relatives." "Parents should know what their children are learning in Sunday school and Madrassas," she said. Maria*, Marriam* and Zena are some of the beneficiaries of EJI programmes. Currently, the NGO targets women and youth in Nairobi areas of Majengo and Kawangware and Coast areas of Kisauni, and Kilifi areas. Juma says many women whose children join the al Shabaab terror group find it hard to move on with life while others suffer stress-related ailments. She talks of a woman who is now almost paralysed on one side after her husband ran away from the family when their 19-year-old son joined the terror group five years ago. Despite parenting being a joint responsibility, her husband and relatives blamed her for the son's disappearance. Her health has degenerated over years out of trauma and stress. EJI team occasionally visits her at her Kisauni home in Mombasa to offer counselling. Juma says that children from divorced families are at the risk of being radicalised. "We train the women on early warning signs and how to select their husbands in case they want to remarry," she said. The Star attended a sensitisation drive at Maina Wanjigi Secondary School by Fatuma and her team. "Many girls are trafficked to be Islamic State militant group brides due to peer pressure and influence of social media. You need to be careful who you talk to on Facebook," she tells a full packed hall in the school. Women take turns addressing the girls on the importance of education, how to open their hearts to their parents and advantages of close-knit families. Juma notes that it's easy for a girl to notice changes in behaviour in their brothers and the entire family. After the training, the women are required to write compelling business plans which are funded and are required to train other five women on economic empowerment. The women are also trained on terrorism laws and repercussion of hosting radical characters and engaging in terrorism activities. EJI programmes are funded by the US Embassy in Nairobi. Juma says more partners need to come on board as many women remain unreached. Al Shabaab group lures potential recruits with lucrative salaries and better lives in Somalia. Kenyan-born militants have taken part in past terror attacks which have claimed dozens of innocent lives in the country. At the height of radicalisation in 2011-2015, many youths in Mombasa's Majengo and Kisauni and Nairobi's Majengo slums were recruited by hardcore clerics who have since been felled by police bullets. Despite government interventions, Kenya continues to experience deadly attacks in parts of Coast and Northern Kenya.