An MP has asked the government to punish those who disregard stringent measures to combat coronavirus. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma said everyone must comply with health advice to avert a total lockdown of the country. “It is time to introduce a punitive regime. In Italy, there are very heavy fines for those who leave the house without certification. We do not wish to get there but we must make sure that the measures already in place are adhered to by everybody,” he said. Kaluma gave the example of overcrowding, which he said should be avoided at all costs. “If we find you in an overcrowded market, what should the government do to you? These are the questions we should begin asking ourselves.” He said institutions and businesses that do not provide sanitisers or water and soap to their clients should be fined. “We are playing with fire. If you consider a developed country like Italy, with all the hospitals, water and good sanitation and you then you look at the damage the disease has done, you will realise we are headed for trouble,” he said. Kaluma was, however, quick to point out that his suggestions were not meant to cause panic among Kenyans. “We must have fewer people in matatus. Those that will be found to have all seats taken should be fined because we need people to be at least a metre away from each other. These are the painful measures we must take,” he said. Kaluma further asked the government to order all places of worship closed. Entertainment spots should be closed and sporting activities suspended. “It is very surprising that I am still getting invitations by churches for various events. It is selfish that some religious leaders are insisting on being open. People can worship from their homes and send tithe through mobile money transfer,” he advised. The MP pointed out that Homa Bay has four large markets which are overcrowded but are still operating. “We need tougher regulations to be issued by the national government. You cannot provide sanitisers and then allow too many people to get into a matatu,” he added. At Parliament Buildings, nothing was left to chance in the fight against the disease. Security staff and officers from the Ministry of Health at the gates checked the temperatures of MPs, their drivers and bodyguards as they handed them sanitisers. Parliament has suspended all foreign travel for the parliamentarians and staff. Visits to Parliament by schools, colleges and other groups were also suspended. Edited by Henry Makori