A spouse of a popular governor from a county in Western Kenya is now a wanted person after fleecing a women's group of their hard-earned monthly savings. The women known for her love of the legal tender had allegedly mobilised hundreds of women in an empowerment programme. In the 'sweet' project, women would make monthly subscriptions running into several thousands of shillings as savings. After she collected six months of savings, the woman’s cell phone is said to be permanently 'busy' and she no longer visits her home in the area. The desperate women, in their hundreds, have threatened to camp at the governor’s office until their savings running into millions hit their accounts. As women continue to push for a proposal to compel candidates vying for governors' seats to pick deputies of the opposite gender, nominated MP David ole Sangok appears to be pushing the debate a notch higher. The vocal legislator, now says the proposal should be replicated in other top elective seats. In his presentation to the Building Bridges Initiative under the Pastoralist Parliamentary Group umbrella, Sangok proposed that the same principle should apply for presidential candidates. He argued that male presidential candidates should be deputised by women. As if that is not enough, the MP dropped the bombshell: The next Prime Minister, under BBI, should be a person living with a disability. The audience at the BBI validation forum burst into laughter when he went on to say that the two deputy prime ministers should be the youth of either gender. A parliamentary committee was left in stitches when a member appeared not to have an understanding of some basic mathematics and accounting terms. A government official had appeared before the committee and was trying to explain budget matters when the legislator interjected. The senator said he could not understand the “algorithm” the official was explaining. He said the subject was not taught in primary and secondary school back in his days in school. He was, however, reminded that the terms were basics in primary and secondary school. The legislator could only smile in shame and asked that the presentation proceeds. A Building Bridges Initiative taskforce committee member found himself in hot soup when he suggested that the government should ensure there are water and electricity in North Eastern areas. These, according to him, would discourage people from running away from the region. He was of the opinion that people would move to the North-Eastern parts if the government provides basic amenities and services. The taskforce’s chair Yusuf Haji was not amused and told Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale to ignore the comments. In his reply, Duale said it was ridiculous for someone to make such a comment. He said there are people already living in the North-Eastern who need these services. “If you can only come after your conditions are fulfilled, then don’t come to North Eastern,” Duale fired back.