North Rift MPs have urged Kenyans to take seriously measures by the state to contain the spread of coronavirus. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and his Lugari counterpart Ayub Savula said that staying at home was the safest way to stop crowding, keep social distance and stop the virus. Sudi said Kenyans must support the measures being rolled out by the government to ensure the coronavirus outbreak is effectively neutralised. “This is not the time to joke around as we usually think. This is a critical time that requires highest levels of self-discipline and responsibility from all Kenyans,” Sudi said. He said those who have no business outside their homes should keep indoors and also ensure that children remain safe. “Those who are used to going round in bars and loitering for other issues should know that this is not the time for that,” Sudi said in Eldoret. He commended Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for his effective handling of the coronavirus situation with effective communication to Kenyans. Savula said many communities were not used to funerals being done by only family members but the critical situation in the country had brought about the severe measures that were necessary. He said adopting a business-as-usual attitude would be more catastrophic because the coronavirus spreads fast but through ways that can be prevented. “That is why we support the ban on meetings including weddings, parties, funerals and others,” Savula said. Moiben MP Sila Tiren and his Ainabkoi counterpart William Chepkut have also urged Kenyans to stay in their homes as directed by the government Elsewhere, a section of bishops in Rift Valley has said they fully support most of the measures so far taken by the government to control the spread of the virus. But they asked the government not to enforce a total lockdown in the country in a bid to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The bishops led by Wilson Kurui said 70 per cent of Kenyans are poor and cannot sustain life under lockdown. The government should tighten the current measures for dealing with the virus, they said. Kurui said the government should also allow individual worshipers to use churches for prayers without crowding.  (edited by o. owino)