Deputy President William Ruto has no moral authority to hold that position and should resign, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga has said. Wanga said Ruto continuously defies President Uhuru Kenyatta and shows him utmost disrespect by going against him on issues of national importance. “If you do not want to support the BBI, go and tell Kenyans why you, as Deputy President, are defying your boss,” the woman MP said. She spoke at the Mombasa Sports Club on Sunday evening after meeting members of Kochia Welfare Association, an association of Kuoyo Kochia residents of Homa Bay county living in Mombasa. “I want to ask Ruto whether he feels he still has the moral authority to pretend to deputise Uhuru when he is openly and continuously defying him and showing him utmost disrespect.” The Woma Rep said Ruto was behind the "childish acts" of his lieutenants like Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, "who want to steal the limelight in public BBI rallies ". Murkomen and Kuria on Saturday stormed out of the BBI rally at Kinoru stadium in Meru, attracting criticism from EALA MP Mpuru Aburi who was speaking at the time. Aburi said it was disrespectful to leave a meeting halfway even if one was offended. However, Murkomen denied he intentionally walked out of the BBI meeting saying he was catching a lift and had parental duties to undertake. "Moses Kuria who gave me lift was leaving for another engagement. I had no choice but to follow," he said in a tweet. On Sunday evening, Wanga tore into Mukormen and Kuria accusing them of paying some 300 people Sh500 each to accompany them to the Meru BBI meeting to try and show they have numbers. She said the two were childish. “Walking out of a stadium with a rented crowd of 300 people out of the 30,000 people who were at the Kinoru stadium is childish, to say the least,” she said. Wanga said the BBI train has left the station and is unstoppable. She noted that disrupting the BBI meetings only revealed the true nature of some of the leaders whom she said did not deserve leadership positions because they did not want the best for Kenyans. “If you support the BBI, support it from deep down in your heart. If you oppose the BBI, please go and tell Kenyans you oppose the BBI and why you oppose it. “But coming and showing disrespect to the people of Mt Kenya who already organised their meeting and were articulating their issues is unacceptable and childish.” Homa Bay residents have seen the fruits of the handshake, Wanga said. They include water projects, road projects, cotton ginneries and the Kisumu Port. “We want all Kenyans to go to Canaan, which is not just for Nasa supporters now." Edited by R.Wamochie