More than 700 youths from Kiharu will benefit from free driving courses courtesy of area MP Ndindi Nyoro. Ndindi said his Constituency Development Fund has partnered with local driving schools to offer the training. The MP said the programme is aimed at assisting unemployed youths to become self-reliant. He spoke when launching the programme in Murang'a town on Wednesday. He said the 760 youths come from every part of the constituency. In the second phase, the CDF will train more youths in hospitality and beauty courses for three months. Youths who complete the training will be assisted to secure internship opportunities for another period of three months. “We have conducted a survey in the constituency that has shown that the three courses provide the fastest employment opportunities,” he said. The MP noted that he has previously focused on implementing infrastructural projects but the training will help put money in the pockets of locals. Ndindi said about 100 primary schools are targeted for renovations to provide a conducive environment for pupils. He said most of the schools that have already benefited have registered an increase in academic performance. “Upgrading the schools gets the children excited about learning and consequently boosts their performance,” he noted. They also do not suffer from illnesses caused by dust and drastically improves their hygiene, he added. Late last month, the MP was awarded for having the best managed CDF kitty in the country. The awards organised by research firm Mizani Africa said the kitty was the best in the utilisation of public funds. The MP said the victory was through the partnership of his constituents who made it easy to implement projects. Other leaders in Murang'a county who have initiated similar programmes include Woman Representative Sabina Chege who has given free technical training to over 1,000 youths. Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has also trained over 40,000 youths in technical training and has initiated a Sh100 million revolving fund used to purchase tools for the trained youths starting this month. (edited by O. Owino)