The National Assembly has been given 14 days to respond to petitions challenging the legality of 18 laws passed by the National Assembly without the Senate’s input. The petitions were filed by the Senate and the Council of Governors. Justices Jairus Ngaah, Anthony Ndung’u and Teresia Matheka directed the matter to be mentioned on May 4 for compliance. The judges consolidated the petitions after petitioners agreed they raised similar issues. Kemsa, the Katiba Institute and three other parties were enjoined as interested parties. Lawyer Donald Kipkorir representing Kemsa told the bench that the National Assembly passed an Omnibus Bill called The National (Amendment) Health Laws, which made changes to all laws touching on health in Kenya. Health is a devolved function handled by counties. The law already enacted gives Kemsa exclusive rights to supply medicine and equipment to all 47 counties. The Senate through lawyers James Orengo, Okong’o Omogeni and others want that law nullified, along with all others involving counties and devolution if the Senate was not involved. The senators want the court to declare the National Assembly must be in concurrence with the Senate in considering Bills. “The continued enactment of legislation without the concurrence of the Speaker of the Senate creates uncertainty and is not in the public interest,” Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka said in an affidavit. He said the National Assembly’s persistent non-compliance with constitutional provisions is a threat to devolution and is unconstitutional. The Senate wants the court to declare that it is mandatory for any Bill that is published by either House to be subjected to a joint concurrence process. This would determine whether the Bill is a special or ordinary and that the determination is not dependent on a question arising as to whether the Bill concerns counties. They also want the high court to declare that one Speaker cannot unilaterally make a decision on whether the Bill does or does not concern counties. The case will be mentioned on May 4. (Edited by V. Graham) 