Public servants should be careful not to allow themselves to be used to perpetuate political agenda, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto on Sunday cautioned public servants and asked them to serve Kenyans in accordance with the law rather than blackmailing and intimidating others to achieve political ends. “We live in a country that is free and democratic. To try and use the criminal justice system to perpetuate a certain political agenda is in itself criminal,” Ruto said. He was speaking at the Catholic Church of Uganda Martyrs Kibirichia Parish in Buuri, Meru county where he attended a service. Ruto said governors, senators, MPs and MCAs were being blackmailed because of their political choices. He said if some people were uncomfortable with leaders associating with him, they should “come forward and face me instead of hiding behind some shadows”. Ruto was accompanied by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, MPs Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Kirima Nguchine (Central Imenti), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), Halima Mucheke (nominated), Kawira Mwangaza (Meru Woman Representative), Kanyuithia Mutunga (Tigania West), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East) and Kubai Iringo (Igembe Central). Linturi asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Kenya Revenue Authority and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to discharge their mandate independently. He said the agencies had been infiltrated by politicians and turned into outfits that intimidate others. In particular, Linturi cautioned DCI boss George Kinoti against being used by politicians. Ichungwa said the intimidation that they were facing was epic. “We cannot freely speak out our minds because of our association with the Deputy President. We would not accept to be the slaves of the so-called system,” Ichungwa said. The said political brokers were after a "weak judiciary for manipulation" and demanded answers as to why the Flying Squad was disbanded. “Is the new formation meant to eliminate some leaders perceived to be independent-minded?” he asked. The leaders said they were being coerced into supporting the Building Bridges Initiative. They said they will not support the BBI because it was a misplaced focus. They claimed BBI in its current form was for reviving political fortunes and creating more political seats rather than empowering Kenyans. “BBI has no focus on the people and the development of the country. Its agenda is on the 2022 succession politics,” Kabeabea said. They said BBI's main objective is to stop Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid and instead elevate Opposition leader Raila Odinga. “But the use of state machinery to intimidate us would not stop the will of the people,” Mugambi said. Iringo said Kenyans will not be forced to swallow what is bitter to them. Mwangaza said political brokers were behind the current hate and divisions in the country. “There is a strong bridge that was built by Uhuru and Ruto. It cannot be brought down to build a new one that is being done by political brokers,” Mwangaza said. Moses Kuria said the Tangatanga brigade will not bow to the pressure despite the threats. “If it were not for Ruto, Uhuru Kenyatta would not have been a President in Kenya. That I can state without any fear of contradiction,” Kuria said. edited by p.obuya