A section of legislators from Kisii have urged  tolerance at rallies to popularise the Building Bridges Initiative. They want those expressing dissenting views on the initiative to be accommodated rather than harassed and bashed. Speaking  at fundraiser on Saturday at Getengerie Seventh Day Adventist in Masaba South subcounty MPs Richard Onyonka ( Kitutu Chache North ), Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba) and Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache South ) said it is against the spirit of the initiative for proponents of BBI to bash other  leaders whose thinking was not aligned with them. "BBI is good but there are those who still hold contrary views and that is a fact. But should we go on castigating them left , right and centre for holding contrary views? No," Onyonka said. The MPs said the ultimate purpose of BBI was to unite the country and not to divide it. "Let it not be the purpose of those vouching for the BBI to harass and throw abuses at those who are not agreeing with them. We cannot be in the same political side and it is good to understand this," Onyonka said. Machogu and Angwenyi said the apparent intolerance witnessed in BBI forums could spark conflicts and defeat its purpose. "Kenya has decidedly walked from the embers of the past and nobody should again look back to such. We vouch for a country whose people coexist in harmony," Machogu said. Nyamira assembly speaker Moffat Teya called for the unity of Omogusii. He said the community's political leadership should be united and rally behind their own in the next election. Teya said there was a strong need for the community to rally around the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. "Let's respect him by virtue of his office. As things appear, he will be at the apex or near the apex of the country's leadership after the coming polls," the speaker said. More than 35 MCAs from Kisii said they would support MP Ezekiel Machogu in his governorship bid. Machogu, deputy governor Joash Maangi, Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati, Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka and former South Mugirango MPs Manson Nyamweya and Omingo Magara want to succeed James Ongwae when he completes his second term. Majority leader Timothy Ogugu said Machogu had matured politically and should be voted to lead the county. "We have assessed and reached the conclusion that Machogu has continued to stand with us and it is time we stood with him also," Ogutu said.