The government has withdrawn from the importation of fertiliser in a move to stop cartels from taking advantage to frustrate farmers. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said the government has instead negotiated with fertiliser manufacturers to directly export into the country and sell it to farmers. Munya said the move will also ensure farmers get quality fertiliser. “That way farmers will be assured of getting quality fertiliser and on time rather than wait for the government to engage in the importation and then they are also frustrated by cartels, who even interfere with the quality of fertiliser,” Munya said in Eldoret. Munya toured the NCPB depots, met with farmers representatives and elected leaders from the region and opened the ASK Eldoret National Show on Friday. Two weeks ago, the government allowed a Moroccan company to import quality fertilizer for farmers during the planting season that starts this month. Part of the fertiliser consignments imported by the Moroccan OCP Group has already arrived in the country, resulting in a drop in fertiliser prices from more than Sh3,200 per 50kg bag of DAP two weeks ago to Sh2,800. “Already, we are happy that we have supplies of quality fertilizer that will be sold out at competitive prices,” director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said.. Farmers mostly use DAP variety for planting maize and wheat in high producing areas in the Rift Valley and CAN for top dressing. The region requires more than five million bags of DAP for farmers who are preparing their farms in readiness for planting. Rains have begun pounding parts of the region, an indication that the planting season will start in the next two weeks. Farmers had expressed fear of a possible shortage of fertiliser ahead of the planting season. The farmers are also worried about the locust invasion in the region. Agriculture CAS Linah Kilimo said President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed the ministry to ensure farmers access quality fertiliser. Maize production dropped to less than 34 million bags last year from more than 44 million bags in 2018. Moiben MP Sila Tiren said Munya should put in place measures that will protect local farmers. “We have had no importation of maize to flood local markets and affect prices for our farmers and that is why there has been no outcry from the farmers who have enjoyed better prices,” Tiren said. The farmers have sold much of their maize through the open market at prices of averagely Sh3,000 per bag and the NCPB did not purchase maize from farmers for the first time in many years.