Members of the National Assembly are set to hold a special sitting on Wednesday next week starting 10 am, pending approval by Speaker Justin Muturi. Leader of Majority Aden Duale requested for the sitting whose agenda would include laying on the table, Covid-19 Emergency Fund Regulations. In the regulations are reliefs spelt out by President Uhuru Kenyatta to save the country’s economy and cushion Kenyans from adverse economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Duale in his letter said the sitting will also be for laying papers relating to measures taken or proposed to address the pandemic. MPs will also pass the Tax Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 which adjusts the income tax bands to give 100 per cent tax holiday for those earning less than Sh24,000. “The bill contains part of the legislative measures to address taxation regime due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Duale said. The sitting will also be for consideration of legislative measures to cushion the country from the effects of the virus. MPs will also be given a message by Muturi on the nomination of persons for appointment as chief executive officer of the Constituency Fund Board. Parliament will also sit for the conveyance of any other messages from the Senate and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. There will also be a notice of motion for consideration of approval of Teachers Service Commission nominees. The move comes after Senators are set to reconvene on Tuesday afternoon to debate a raft of measures among them the protection of tenants, employees and reduction of food prices. These measures are aimed at cushioning Kenyans against the economic effects of Covid-19. In a motion that will be debated in the chamber, Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has proposed the formation of a seven-member ad hoc committee to work around measures to save Kenyans from effects of the pandemic. Those proposed to sit in the committee are Senators Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia), Abshiro Halake (nominated), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Okong’o Mogeni (Nyamira), Sylvia Kasanga (nominated) and  Mohamed Faki (Mombasa). The ad hoc committee shall oversight actions and measures taken by the national and county governments in addressing the spread and effects of COVID-19 in Kenya. In a raft of measures to help observe social distancing, only 28 Senators will be allowed to participate in the debate. According to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, the 28 designated Senators are the only ones who will transact house business on Tuesday and the foreseeable future.