The global death toll from coronavirus, code-named COVID-19, has surpassed the 3,000 mark as at Monday, March 2, while more than 89,000 people across 58 countries have been infected. Countries across the world, including Kenya, have heightened their surveillance systems either to prevent infections or control the spread of the virus. Kenya is among countries that are yet to report a positive case although over 15 alerts have been reported. The Star spoke to Dr Abdhalah Ziraba, an epidemiologist at African Population and Health Research Centre, to shade more light on coronavirus. Below is an excerpt of the interview. Coronavirus is a small microorganism that normally survives in animals - wild and domestic - and human beings. It is rounded in shape with spikes like a crown, hence the name corona. Its closest relative is the influenza virus that causes the common cold. Coronavirus is less severe than earlier forms of hemorrhagic infections such as SARS, MERS and Ebola although the risk of transmission is very high. Its primary form of transmission is through body droplets, like when an infected person coughs near a healthy person. Compared to influenza which presents mild symptoms like fever, headache, sneezing, coughing, coronavirus causes a severe form of pneumonia which leads to difficulty in breathing, coughing and eventually lung failure. The good news is that infected patients can recover. In every 100 infections, only one to three complications lead to death. Most fatalities are reported in people with pre-existing conditions or elderly people battling diseases like diabetes which compromises their immunity. Indications are that coronavirus could be more severe under cold weather. This could explain why infections are high in colder countries like Italy (1,694) and France (130) than in Africa where the weather is warmer. Europe has registered 2,199 cases and 38 deaths, most of them in Italy. If infections go down at the end of winter in March, then coronavirus could be assumed to be related to weather patterns. Theories running around that the African race could be immune to coronavirus should be ignored as this might lead to laxity in taking precaution. It is important that countries restrict all non-essential travel to China, particularly Wuhan where the virus originated. Screening, especially of passengers travelling from high-risk countries, should also be enhanced. Health education on the virus should also be sustained so people can know more about coronavirus and its symptoms. Emergency preparedness should also be prioritised and enough isolation facilities, blood testing laboratories and test kits made available at all points of entry. Other preventive measures should include ensuring frontline workers at airports and hospitals are supplied with enough disinfectants and face masks. Contact tracing should also be enhanced on all people who may have potentially come in contact with infected patients. Individually, everyone should practise frequent hand washing. It’s important to note that chances of infection are very high if you touch a contaminated surface and then touch your eyes, face, mouth or any other mucus membrane on your body. Exercise coughing hygiene. Cough inside your elbow or tissue and throw it away. Workplaces should also have sanitizers at every door for frequent disinfection by employees.