The Health Ministry is mulling the use of Kenyatta University Teaching Referral and Research Hospital for isolation and management of coronavirus cases. Last Friday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe unveiled a 120-bed capacity isolation centre at Mbagathi Hospital. KUTRRH is a 650-bed capacity health facility on the Northern Bypass near Kahawa West. It is well-equipped for oncology, trauma and orthopaedics, renal and other treatments. Kenya has so far investigated 31 suspected Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases. All tested negative. Two of the cases investigated recently were in Nairobi. Worldwide, 107,351 cases have been reported. A total of 60,558 people have recovered from the virus. There have been 3,646 deaths. Mbagathi's isolation wing has since been equipped with beds, scanners and test kits. “This is a global challenge and I want to assure Kenyans that we are not leaving anything to chance when it comes in our preparedness,” Kagwe said in the company of his Foreign Affairs colleague Raychelle Omamo and other government officials. The government has banned all international meetings, conferences and events to minimise the possibility of coronavirus contact. “The government has issued a travel advisory to all Kenyans to avoid non-essential travel to high-risk countries for conferences/meetings or events where more than 15 people would be gathering,” the ministry said. County governments have until next Sunday to ensure that isolation wards in Level 4 and 5 hospitals are set up and ready for use. About 1,100 health care workers have been trained and additional health workers deployed at JKIA. An additional 5,000 personal protective kits have been procured with the support of USAID. The kits have been disbursed to the counties. Last week, the World Health Organisation asked the government to hasten its preparation. The UN agency noted that the confirmation of the virus in Algeria, Nigeria and Senegal should act as a wake-up call, noting that time is of essence. Other African countries with reported cases are South Africa, Togo, Cameroon, Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. WHO officials say the outbreak in African countries is "a once a distant threat to public health in Africa that has become a reality". Kenyans have been encouraged to remain vigilant as the risk is high and to take precautionary measures like maintaining basic hand and respiratory hygiene, safe food practices and avoid close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory infections. Anyone with respiratory illness symptoms like fever, coughing, difficulty in breathing and sneezing with a history of recent travel to China is advised to go to the nearest health facility for assessment and management.