The County Assembly of Nairobi has suspended its plenary sitting for 30 days to avoid the threat posed by the spread of coronavirus. In a statement on Monday, County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi also suspended foreign travel of the MCAs and staff. "Due to the unprecedented nature of this emergency, which is not anticipated in our Standing Orders, plenary sittings shall stand suspended for the next 30 days from Tuesday. All staff are also asked to stay away from precincts of the Assembly," Elachi said. MCAs were to break this week on Thursday from plenary sittings for a two -week recess period. Despite the suspension of plenary, the Speaker said special sittings may be called in case of any compelling need. However, the assembly board shall put in place stringent mechanisms to ensure the health of legislators and assembly staff is not put at risk during such sittings. The foreign travel by MCAs and staff also begins with immediate effect. "Visiting to the County Assembly by schools and other groups either local or international delegations are suspended forthwith," Elachi added. The decision was arrived at after the House Business Committee(HBC) in the view of the fact that the county assembly is located "in a high-risk area." In addition, all MCAs and assembly staff who have in the last 14 weeks travelled and returned from countries with reported cases of coronavirus have been asked to seek medical check-up and self-quarantine. To observe hygiene and sanitary measures within the assembly in order to curb the spread of Covid-19, Elachi said sanitizers and high hygienic standards will be provided by the Office of the Clerk. This is to ensure that the assembly is collaborating with the Ministry of Health to fight the global pandemic As part of sanitary measures put in place by the assembly to curb the spread of the disease, the speaker said the office of the clerk has been advised to provide adequate sanitizer and institute higher hygienic standards within the assembly. In addition, Speaker Elachi invited well-wishers who are willing to donate sanitary equipment such as sanitizers. "Those willing to donate can also distribute to our Ward reps who I also urge to sensitize the public back in the wards on prevention and spread on the virus," she said. The assembly urges well-wishers who may be willing to donate sanitary wares such as sanitisers to avail the same to MCAs for distribution to Nairobi residents in their wards. The ward representatives are also urged to sensitise residents on how to prevent the spread of the virus, said Elachi. Besides suspension of sittings, the Speaker highlighted on the deed of transfer which officially started on Tuesday. She said the assembly had dispensed the business based on the ratification of the Deed of Transfer of functions from the County Government to National Government. A report was on the same was tabled last week and adopted by the House. Elachi, however, indicated that the County Assembly Public Service Board will be monitoring the situation and shall be communicating new measures taken as the situation unfolds. "As the legislative arm our role does not change and the ward reps will continue with their oversight role despite the transfer of some county functions," she said.