DCI boss George Kinoti has said ex-sports CS Rashid Echesa and two other white men were at Deputy President William Ruto's offices for one hour 22 minutes and 59 seconds. This is contrary to the initial 23 minutes, that Ruto had earlier claimed. Kinoti said the video given to the detectives was actually only an excerpt of the footage from different cameras in the building. "Contrary to the 23 minutes, we are going to see the cartels entering through the back door carrying the actual exhibit which will be manipulated somewhere, It took one hour 22 minutes and 59 seconds from 8.50 am," Kinoti narrated. Kinoti added that his officers had been denied access to the whole footage. "Security refused to grant the officers access to the footage claiming that it will interfere with the setup," he said. He said that forensic officers however successfully managed to extract the whole footage. Kinoti said Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's murder was a cold-blooded murder that was well stage-managed. He said from the evidence from the crime scene and days prior to the discovery of Kenei, suicide has been ruled out. He insisted that the scene was tampered with to make it appear like a suicide. He said the Office of the Deputy President sent contradicting letters to the DCI over the incident. Kinoti said the same morning the DCI was expecting Kenei to record statements he never appeared. "Investigations established he was ready to record a statement because he called a close friend asking for guidance on how to write the same. There was no signal or an OB to declare Kenei missing," he said. According to the postmortem results, Kenei died from a single contact gunshot wound. The postmortem showed that Kenei died a day or two before he was discovered. The results revealed the body had no marks of struggle by the officer. No other wound except the bullet entry one under the chin and its point of exit at the forehead. Kenei who was attached to Deputy President William Ruto's Harambee Annex was found dead after missing for two days.