The principal of a secondary school in Kisumu West subcounty has denied suspending three students for stealing chapatis from the school canteen. The Form Three students at Chulaimbo Boys High School were reportedly sent away on Wednesday for two weeks by the school management. Principal Duncan Owiye termed the allegations untrue, saying the students stole school uniforms. But a guardian claimed her student was suspended over allegations he stole chapatis. The school canteen is owned by a teacher. The principal said the students were not suspended but sent home to come with their parents. “The three have cases of theft, and we wanted them to share with parents. They are coming with their parents today," Owiye said. He said one of the students has a case against his parents. A guardian, who sought anonymity, said the school leadership told her the student was among several who had been stealing chapatis from the school canteen. "I was called by the school deputy principal over the conduct of the student. I was told he stole chapatis," she said. The school canteen, she was informed, had lost close to 200 chapatis in a week under mysterious circumstances. The boys were suspects. "The deputy principal told me they will notify me on the fate of my student via phone," she said. One of the students said they were falsely targeted. “We were accused of a non-existent offence. We did not steal chapatis as alleged,” he said. On Monday night, he said, he and two others were studying with a teacher before leaving for their dormitory at about 9pm. On their way, it started raining heavily, so they decided to shelter at the canteen. “After some time, we headed for dorm and left one student at the canteen. A watchman who was on patrol found the other student and claimed that he was stealing chapatis. He was forced to name those he was with,” he said. The watchman, he said, came with a teacher to the class, they searched their lockers and boxes in the dorms but did not find anything. “We were canned and forced to accept that we had been stealing chapatis, but we declined as we are innocent,” said. Kisumu West subcounty education officer Mary Moraa Ochoe said she was following up the matter with the school management. Edited by Henry Makori