Amira Sailors are targeting consistency after winning their first match of the season in a 3-0 demolition of newbies  Orange Leonas at the City Park Stadium yesterday. The Thomas Mucheni tutored side won courtesy of goals from captain Leah Omwandho who sounded the board in the 17th minute. Sandra Vodoti and Madowo Yvonne scored in the last quarter to seal the victory. Vodoti's goal came in the 51st minute before Madwo's stoppage-time goal put the result to bed. Sailors who finished fifth last season have set the second spot as the bear minimum. Mucheni was impressed with the clean sheet and the captain in particular. He promised to go back to the drawing board to polish the small defensive mistakes and urged the players to step up their fitness levels. "This was a dream start that we expected and we intend to take our game a notch higher from this win. It was a good experience from all the departments as we target a faultless run. This is just the beginning," said Mucheni who doubles up as Greensharks player. "I have no doubt about Leah. Her performances have been superb for the whole team not forgetting that she is a national team player. She is an example to be emulated by the rest of the playing unit." In the Women's Super League, Debutants Nairobi Chapel received the baptism of fire from  Multimedia University. The church financed team was hammered 11-0  by the free-flowing students. Despite the defeat, coach Emmanuel Were said the team will learn from their mistakes and become a better side. "Defensive lapses costed us but there were positives from the girls. So far so good as the players adjust to the demands of this league,",he said. Elsewhere, The Bank Of Africa sponsored side Vikings was held to a disappointing 1-1 draw against the Technical University of Kenya TUK. In the Men's Super League, Elijah  Magiya was the hero as his solitary goal for JKUAT Wildcats was enough to bag maximum points against a misfiring Multimedia University Trojans. JKUAT were playing in the second tier for the first time after winning promotion from the National League last season.