The long rain might slow down the locust infestation, especially in regions that will receive above-average rainfall. However, pesticides remain the most effective way to control the infestation, according to scientists. Entomological Society of Kenya chairman Muo Kasina told the Star too much rain can kill eggs by submerging them, causing them to rot or washing them out of the ground. The floods can also drown large numbers of young hoppers, he said. "In some areas, they prefer to lay their eggs in moist river beds, which will be submerged if the rivers are swollen," Kasina said. However, Kasina said, rains can work to the advantage of the pest by increasing foliage which will hide young hoppers from pesticides. According to the IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, the rains might also bring suitable conditions for the locust to thrive in, especially in Western Kenya. "The current wind directions favour locust movement from East to West, from infested to non-infested areas," ICPAC said. Kasina said rains are unlikely to slow down spraying. "We only need proper forecasting because it is advised that you spray two to three hours before it rains." "The only challenge is if the pesticide is not available," the scientist – a member of the Africa Association of Insect Science, said. Agriculture CS Peter Munya had said that the government plans to clear locusts by June. He said the ministry has increased sprayer aircraft from eight to 20 to contain and manage the infestation. The government has so far used more than 20,000 litres of chemicals to control the pests. The Food and Agriculture Organization warned that the situation remains extremely alarming for Kenya because widespread breeding is in progress and new swarms are starting to form. "Widespread swarm breeding continues in Northern and Central counties where an increasing number of hopper bands are forming and, in the past few days, a new generation of immature swarms have started to form," FAO said in its latest update. "This may be supplemented by new-generation immature swarms arriving from  Somalia. Further concentration is expected in Marsabit and Turkana. Aerial and ground control operations continue." Swarms have since December last year invaded 15 counties since they crossed over from Somalia and Ethiopia. "We lacked chemicals for three weeks but we have now procured enough from Japan. The chemicals are diluted not to harm people, animals and the environment,” Munya said on Monday. Edited by R.Wamochie