The sale of counterfeit farm inputs has drastically reduced in Kisii following an intensified crackdown by the county and national governments. Kisii Agriculture minister Ezman Onsarigo said the practice had been rampant but sought to assure farmers that most distributors and stockists now sell genuine products. He spoke at Dans Hotel in Kisii where he launched Yara East Africa's planting season programme, which brought together Yara fertiliser distributors, agro-dealers and farmers from Kisii, Nyamira and Narok counties. The firm manufactures fertiliser. The farmers were trained in best practice in preparation for the upcoming planting season. Onsarigo urged manufacturers to put unique marks on their products. "I'm happy that Yara is working closely with its distributors and stockists. This will help in ensuring farmers get genuine inputs, which will increase their productivity. We must root out counterfeits," he said. He said the county government and the private sector are committed to ensuring increased production, especially among young farmers. "In Kisii, we have an open-door policy. When private sector comes on board, we embrace them. Yara has fertilisers tailored to specific crops which is good. Crop-specific fertilisers will help farmers grow their yields," the executive said. Farmers were urged to adopt technology and modern farming skills. “I'm happy to report here that with our diminishing land sizes, Kisii is still a producer of maize,” Onsarigo said. Yara commercial manager Vitalis Wafula said they are working closely with county governments and the Cereal Growers Association to increase farmers' productivity. "Counterfeit farm inputs are a big challenge. At Yara, we have put in place several measures, which include labelling of our authorised stockists and distributors. We have special markers on our bags," he said. Onsarigo also asked farmers not to be scared by the possible invasion of desert locusts. "Continue preparing your farms, don't stop. As a county government, we are on high alert over the possible invasion. We are ready and we have already acquired chemicals to deal with them," he said.