Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula has called upon Building Bridges Initiative chairman Senator Yusuf Haji and his team to stop retrogressive politics during BBI rallies. The Bungoma senator said divisive politics preached by a section of leaders at BBI meetings, if not stopped, might tear the country apart. Wetang'ula spoke at Matulo ward in Webuye West constituency, Bungoma county, during the burial of Mzee Vincent Kinisu. “I have told Yusuf Haji and his team not to allow BBI to be turned into a contest of who will be what in 2022 politics but have the interests of wananchi at heart,” he said. Wetang'ula noted that it was saddening and disappointing to see BBI turned into a contest of who is going to speak better than the other in the public rallies that are meant to collect the views of wananchi. “Kenyans do not want BBI to be a contest between who will be cheered more and clapped for better than whom in the rallies after attacking others but want the report that will help the country move forward,” he added. “The Ford Kenya party is calling upon Haji and his team not to allow BBI to be an instrument of dividing Kenyans even more and lose its main purpose and goal of uniting Kenyans.” He said the only way to heal the country and stop it from plunging into bloodshed is having a win-win situation for everyone. Speaking at the same funeral, Kimilili MP Didimus Barasa and his Webuye West counterpart Dan Wanyama lashed out at ODM leader Raila Odinga for using BBI rallies to popularise himself ahead of 2022 polls. Barasa warned Uhuru against tricks Raila was using against his regime to ensure he leaves behind a bad legacy. “BBI in its initial plan was very good as it was intended to unite Kenyans and bring more money to counties. But the mistake Uhuru made was to bring Raila into the centre of it as everything Raila touches usually fails,” he said. Wanyama said Kenyans were fed up with political tricks that have made life unbearable for Wanjiku who is yearning for meaningful development. “I want to tell you all that if there is anyone who has brought confusion in BBI it is Raila who is singing "no one can stop reggae" yet he dances to a twist tune,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori