Sportsmen, who had jetted out for international assignments prior to the emergence of the first coronavirus case in the country, have been directed to embrace self-quarantine. This is part of the stringent directives rolled out by the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage yesterday in their bid to seal any loophole for the spread of the virus. Harambee Starlets are some of the teams expected to execute this after the team returned last week from Turkey where they participated in the Turkish Cup. Other teams are Shujaa who participated in the Las Vegas and Vancouver Sevens and more than ten boxers who were muscling for Olympics slots in the qualifiers in Senegal. Individual athletes who participated in various international events, notably the Tokyo Marathon are also expected to follow suit. Heads of federations affected by the directive have been asked to ensure it is adhered to. “All Sportspersons, including coaches and teams’ support personnel who have travelled outside the country in the past 14 days should immediately self-quarantine for 14 days. Heads of sports organisations should ensure that this directive is adhered to,” directed the statement signed by Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohammed. Besides the ministry instructing teams and athletes who were on international assignments to observe a mandatory two-week long self-quarantine, they also reserve the right to regulate the access to training for those preparing for Olympics. “The State Department of Sports will put in place protocol to regulate athletes’ access to training facilities as they continue to prepare for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics,” said part of the statement. With the country looking forward to hosting the World U20 Championships in July and the Continental Tour in May, Amina said the Local Organising Committees will be forced to grasp technology and hold virtual meetings to deliver successful events. “Steering and Local Organising Committees set up to organise national and international sporting and cultural activities, including the World Athletics Continental Tour, 2020 Tokyo Olympics, Paralympics, 10th Commonwealth Sports Ministers Meeting, World Athletics Under-20 and WRC Safari Rally Kenya should  set up virtual meeting tools to facilitate continued high-level preparations for these events,” added the statement Meanwhile, in line with the national government's directive to suspend public gatherings for a month, Amina ordered the closure of the libraries, Museum, Archives and the Cultural centre for one month.  Also affected by the move are all public sporting facilities.  However, contractors mandated to renovate various facilities will have to wait for communication from the ministry’s Principal Secretary, Joe Okudo. “The Kenya National Library Services and all public libraries across the country will remain closed to the public for the next 30 days. The National Museums of Kenya, Kenya National Archives and Documentation Service, Kenya Cultural Centre and the Kenya Academy of Sports will also remain closed to the public for the next 30 days,” ordered the statement. Meanwhile, the National Olympic Committee (NOCK) has welcomed the statement by Sports CS Amina Mohammed. “We are in total support of the ministry’s directives. Accordingly, we are already taking action within our areas,” said the committee’s secretary-general Francis Mutuku.    