In Kenya drones have been banned after Parliament annulled the Remote Piloted Aircraft Systems Regulations, 2017 leaving no regulatory framework in place. This was due to security risks it may cause like terrorism. Despite this, drones can be used in various sectors such as in farming, media and medical fields. Farmers will benefit from technology in this era with the use of drones to be able to get a picture of their farms and detect problems. The Parrot Bluegrass drone comes in handy for them as it is used for surveying and detecting problem areas in different types of crop fields. It has a bunch of in built sensors that help it to orient and cover the ground more efficiently. It also has the GPS and altimeter which are used in making flight plans and allowing the drone to hold altitude. The flight planning is actually useful when large fields have to be covered from the air. Instead of you flying the drone manually, you have an option of setting a flight plan. There are even automatic flight plan grids that you can transpose over fields using the accompanying software. It contains the multispectral sensor that has five cameras in total. The sensors on it are able to capture wavelength data coming from the crops. From the wavelength data, you are able to generate coloration maps that show a section of the field where crops need herbicides, pesticides or fertilizer. There is also a sunshine sensor that measures the levels of sunshine so that you can optimize irrigation. Journalists and media houses can now rest easy if they have the Freefly Atlas 8 drone to get the shots they want during rallies and crowded spots. It was designed with MOVI camera stabilizers in mind. It gives you the ability to make smooth transition from handheld filming to capturing aerials in just moments using the toad in the Hole Quick Release. Toad in the Hole Quick Release streamlines the process of getting airborne quickly with a MOVI payload. It has the Freefly’s MOVI 5 which is not only underneath but also on the top, opening up more shooting possibilities. You can confidently fly RED, ARRI and other professional cameras guided by the State-of-the-art Synapse Flight controller. Its efficient powerful custom designed motors achieve a perfect balance between performance and proficiency, setting the standard for heavy lift machines up to 20 pounds (about 9kgs). For the medical doctors who cannot reach their patients in the remote places, there is a drone that can help you transport medicine. Zipline is a delivery drone for blood and medical drugs. It can deliver medical supplies to anywhere within 80 kilometres in under 45 minutes. It has dual propellers for reliability and can fly with one operating propeller or meter. It also features a quickly replaced streamlined battery for rapid turnaround between flights. It records a top speed of 128 kilometres per hour. These types of drones will help improve our economy by saving on time and costs that we incur.