A lawyer has sued the Meru county assembly and its service board seeking revocation of the appointment of clerk Jacob Kirari. Kenneth Muriuki, chairman of the Meru Bar Association, says the appointment was in gross violation of the Constitution and the County Assembly Service Act. He wants the court to declare the whole process of recruitment null and void. Muriuki has enjoined Kirari- the clerk- and Earnest Kimaita as first and second interested parties in the matter. Kimaita was among the shortlisted candidates for the position of county clerk. In an application filed under urgency, the lawyer says Kirari was appointed on February 27 following the retirement of former clerk Justus Kiambi on July 30 last year. The house embarked on replacing him as required by law. Following an advert placed by the assembly on August 27, 2019 in a local daily, the assembly shortlisted seven people for the interview. Muriuki accuses the county assembly and service board of failing to seek public participation contrary to the Constitution. He faults the composition of the panel that interviewed the candidates, saying it did not meet the gender rule stipulated in the Constitution. The board comprising four male members and a woman was chaired by speaker Joseph Kaberia. The candidates were interviewed on February 21 before the board retreated for five days to Nairobi to prepare a report. Muriuki alleges the interviews were mere formality meant to hoodwink members of the public. According to the documents filed in court, the board awarded scores to the candidates with first interested party scoring 90 per cent while lawyer Kimaita attained 80 per cent. The lawyer claims the debate and motion which led to the nomination of the clerk was not in the weekly schedule of house business. “The entire process of recruitment of clerk of the assembly was irregular and tainted with illegalities for contravening the explicit provisions of the statutes that outline criteria of approval by county assembly," he states. The case will be heard on March 16. Edited by Henry Makori