The London and Paris 7s legs of the HSBC World Sevens Series earlier scheduled for May have been provisionally moved to September due to coronavirus, World Rugby has announced. World Rugby President Sir. Bill Beaumont said the move comes after detailed and constructive dialogue with the respective host and participating unions. At the same time, the women’s HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series tournament earlier scheduled for May in Langford, Canada, where Kenya Lionesses were to represent the country, has been postponed until later in the year. Shujaa technical director Paul Feeney said they may have to tweak their training schedule in light of the latest developments. "We have to rethink our plans going forward and as a group, we will need to have more game situation and training sessions within this time. We’re looking at dividing the whole squad into different teams where they’ll play against each other and then we will have video analysis sessions to see how to improve ourselves,” added Feeney. Kenya Lionesses who were training for the Langford event in Canada in May from the start of the year have postponed training indefinitely, according to head coach Felix Oloo. Oloo confirmed players have been given individual home exercises that will ensure they maintain their fitness as they wait to resume training. “Due to the current spread of Covid-19, we have been advised to sit out the group training sessions until mid-April and we fully respect this because our players’ health is paramount. "Once the dust settles, we shall pick up from where we left as we await the directive from Kenya Rugby, Rugby Africa and World Rugby,” he said. The final men’s HSBC World Rugby Sevens Challenger Series event has also been postponed until later in the year as well as Rugby World Cup 2021 and 2023. Following the government’s directive, the team is currently not in session since they came back from Vancouver and they are all in self-quarantine as a preventive measure. The Hong Kong and Singapore Sevens were also pushed to October due to the Covid-19.