Good evening, Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said the government will clear locusts in the country by June this year. Munya said the government had a good road map that will ensure all locusts are wiped out before the planting season begins this year. He added that the locusts access the country on different days and time taking different routes. Here are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa has been arrested at his Karen home in Nairobi. The sleuths from the Economic Crimes Unit camped at his house since Monday morning and had been earlier denied entry into Echesa's premises. After waiting for hours they forced themselves inside the house after climbing the wall. Mandera residents were on Monday forced to flee after fierce clashes between Somalia troops and Jubaland forces. Heavy gunfire and explosions coupled with black smoke could be seen emanating from the Mandera border as residents scampered for their lives. Sources told the Star that Somalia National Army launched the attacks on Jubaland army after tension was reported over the weekend. SNA claimed that the attacks are to get rid of al Shabaab militants but the Jubaland president Ahmed Mohamed has disputed these claims. Kenyans spreading fake alerts about coronavirus on social media are being tracked and will be arrested, the government spokesman says. Some alerts allege confirmed cases at the Kenyatta National Hospital and at Mbagathi County Hospital. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna said there is no reported case of Covid-19 in the country.  High Court Judge Weldon Korir has stopped the DPP and DCI from arresting and prosecuting Gire Ali over alleged criminal charges of terrorism. The charges according to the court documents arise out of an alleged act of video recording of China Southern Airline at JKIA on February 26. Gire, an assistant security agent at KQ, witnessed the landing of the said aircraft which was contrary to communications by KQ that the flights from china had been suspended from landing due to the outbreak of the COVID-19. Bungoma politician Moses Nandalwe now says he is ready to cater for flight expenses for a Kenyan artist to Botswana. Nandalwe popularly known as Mr Moneybags on Monday said he was touched by popular US television host Steve Harvey who said he is looking for a Kenyan painter Collins Omondi. Omondi, who is using pencils to draw pictures had posted on his twitter account a portrait image of Steve Harvey.