The Nyamira county administration has ordered residents to bury their dead in a day to prevent crowding during vigils and activities associated with funerals. Governor John Nyagarama said only close family members will be allowed at the interment of their loved ones. “This is to limit mass interactions, hugging and shaking of hands, that have been found to spread the coronavirus,” Nyagarama said in a statement. The county has also ordered the immediate closure of all mortuaries as part of efforts aimed at stemming the spread of Covid-19. Kenya has confirmed seven cases so far, all in the capital Nairobi. Most of them are citizens who checked into the country from foreign destinations. The administration will help families enforce the directive on burials, the county chief said. The governor also banned prayer vigil in churches commonly known as kesha and other forms of night partying including disco matanga. Food hawking across the region has also been prohibited for 30 days, Nyagarama said. Also closed are all open-air markets in the county among them the Miruka market which attracts hundreds of traders. Other markets closed include Ting'a, Keroka, Mosobeti and Ikonge as the country continued to upscale surveillance. None of the two Gusii counties (Kisii and Nyamira) has recorded any case of infections. Governor Nyagarama said nothing will be left to chance as his administration moves to protect residents from contracting the disease. He has also suspended games and other sporting events where youth often gather for recreation. “We have suspended all manner of sports, pool games and gatherings in video halls in the next 30 days,” Nyagarama said. All youth who had plans to get married this month would also have to wait for a month as the government monitors the situation. The administration has further ordered hotels in the region to register details of visitors lodging at the facilities including their movements in the last two weeks. “Any guest exhibiting sudden bouts of headache, fever, coughing, sneezing and shortness of breath should be reported to the health authorities,” the governor said. The directives will remain effective for 30 days and an announcement will be made after a review. At least 7,900 people, mainly in China, Italy, Iran, USA, France and UK have died of the virus. Chinese regional city of Wuhan which was the initial epicentre of the pandemic remains the worst hit. Authorities have however begun to report a decline in deaths even as other countries in Europe and America grapple with the pandemic. Some 35 African countries have recorded cases. In Kisii, health authorities said they have limited hospital visits. Health county executive Sara Omache said all main markets in the region will also remain closed to traders as part of the efforts to address the new health challenge. (edited by o. owino)