The Commissioner of Customs and  Border Control at Kenya Revenue Authority Kevin Safari has now written to the DPP seeking to stop his intended prosecution. On Tuesday this week, Safari and KPA MD Daniel Manduku were arraigned before a Nairobi court to face fraud charges but their file was not presented to the court as expected. They were both released unconditionally as it emerged that the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji had sought more time to review the file. However, through his lawyer Danstan Omari the commissioner has asked Haji to relook and reconsider his case and equally invoke his powers and halt the intended prosecution. “This will undeniably avert the now concerted attempts aimed at abusing the criminal justice system in order to cause his ouster or uncelebrated removal from office by some ill-intended individual(s),” reads the letter in part. Safari further says that since he took over last year, KRA has not experienced any loss of money under his watch. “Suffice to say, the KRA has not experienced any loss of revenue under my watch especially in view of the newly opened Peripheral Storage Facilities, which have in an actual sense solved the previously predominant challenge amongst the small scale traders in Nyamakima, Gikomba and Kamukunji,” he wrote. In the letter, Omari says his client decisions and action was at all material time legal and motivated by national concern and the public interest which ensured ease of business amongst SST’s, increased revenue collection by the KRA and proper utilization of the Standard gauge railway. According to them, it is now strange and shocking to learn that he is under the imminent threat of facing an allegation of the unprocedural gazettement of the Kenya Ports Authority  Peripheral Storage Facilities. He says before the appointment as a commissioner he was the Regional Coordinator responsible for North Rift Region, based in Eldoret, Kenya with myriad of achievements to his name including the growth of revenue at Eldoret Airport; licensing of transit shade (Signon Limited) and opening up of Lodwar and other remote areas for compliant business. Safari argues that it is bewildering to note that the threats against his hard-earned reputation, employment and his liberty comes against a backdrop of numerous statements he wrote on the 29th November,2019,2nd January 2020 and 25th February 2020. Further claiming that that the aforesaid statements were shared with officers from the DCI clarifying his involvement, the circumstances obtaining prior and after, the law, to wit Section 11(4) of the KRA Act, Section 2East African Community Customs Management Act 2004 and procedures regarding the impugned gazettement of the Peripheral Storage Facilities. “As a result, our client feels dissatisfied with the recommendation by the Directorate of Criminal investigations to have him charged for otherwise doing his job as the law requires," Omari said. He added, "The thought that he presently faces an imminent threat to his employment and reputation yet he has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to the protection and promotion of public interest is at least unfortunate". He said May, 26,  2019, President Uhuru Kenyatta visited the Inland Container Depot Nairobi and expressed deep concerns over the issue of long-stay cargo at ICDN that belonged to the small scale traders to wit, Nyamakima and Kamukunji area. He said the delay was obviously caused by the increase in cargo to the facility in the course of the year 2018 following the operationalization of the Standard Gauge Railway that significantly eased the movement of goods from the Kilindini Port, Mombasa to the ICDN. The letter also claims that they had resolution after the meeting between them and the president that they agreed KRA, KPA and KEBS would facilitate the expedited removal of the cargo. “That immediately following the directive by the head of public service, the KPA recommended the gazettement of three facilities namely Mitchell Cotts Peripheral Storage Facility,  Nairobi Inland Cargo Terminal peripheral Storage facility and the Multiple Haulier Limited PSF,” reads the letter. Omari says his client avers that through the successful concerted efforts of officers of the customs and border control department and his office, he proceeded to have the two facilities gazette as extensions of ICDN in conformity with the directive by the head of public service.