Following the recent waiver on the Single Business Permits, there are chances that the revenue collection might decline further. Governor Mike Sonko through the Acting County Secretary Justus Kathenge On February 28, 2020, issued a public notice on the waiver of Single Business Permit for all new business. The waiver is inclusive of all associated fees for New businesses for the next two years from the date of business registration and was effective as of March 1, 2020. "Pursuant to Executive Order No.1 of January 31,2020 and Executive Order No.2 of February 28,2020 waived the requirement to obtain a Single Business Permit,' reads the notice. Single Business Permits is among the top three own source stream that brings massive revenue to the county. In the last Financial Year, Sh2 billion was collected, creating a shortfall of Sh600 million as compared to Sh1.8 billion which was collected against Sh3.2 billion in FY 2017-18. During the 2016-17 financial year, Sh1.8 billion was collected against Sh3.6 billion while in FY 2015-16 Sh1.8 billion was collected against Sh2.8 billion. Underperformance was due to poor enforcement, invasion of unscrupulous traders and inaccuracy of records on business establishments. According to Sonko, the object of the waiver is aimed at streamlining business registration processes in reducing the number of procedures and costs, especially for starting small and medium scale businesses. Adding to that, the waiver is said to make the city a more attractive and competitive investment destination. Sonko in the notice highlights that the waiver also promotes President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four Agenda and his Commitment on Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) for the youth, women and persons with disabilities. For the next two years, business people will be expected to use a valid certificate of registration or Business Name issued by the Business Registration Service shall service as business permits for the purposes of enforcing this Order. Giving caution, the Governor says that the waiver does not override the need to comply with other existing legal requirements for the business . LEGALITY OF WAIVER QUESTIONED However, Speaker of the County Assembly of Nairobi Beatrice Elachi said on Wednesday as per the law the waiver issued by Governor Mike Sonko is null and void. Elachi said that the issuance of waivers is the responsibility of the County Executive for Finance as per the law, not the governor. “Governor Sonko should have let the County Executive for Finance take care of the waiver as required by the law,' she said. In support of Elachi is County Assembly Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman Robert Mbatia who said the issuance of waiver was a political gimmick. " We saw the notice being done by the acting county secretary which is irregular and will not be effected," he said. Explaining further, Mbatia said the waiver is not properly defined and the timing has a big effect on the revenue collected. " Not that we are against the waiver but it does not define if it is the person running the business or the one employed to run the business. Also, the macroeconomic dynamics should have been considered before getting into the microeconomics bit," he added. On Tuesday, a section of ODM MCAs led by Minority leader David Mberia expressed concerns on the waiver especially pertaining to the revenue being collected from the Single Business Permit. “ The waiver means that for the next two years the revenue won't be collected a drastic decline will be recorded," Mberia said. He alluded that there was a plan to destabilise some county functions which is contrary to the intentions of the President in making Nairobi 'alive' again. “ We are not sure what the intention is but we know the deed of transfer is also suppose to end in that period,” Mberia said.