The entire world is in panic following the pandemic coronavirus outbreak. Businesses, learning, banking institutions, and government services have been halted in countries that have been largely hit by the virus. China, where the pandemic first broke out, has tightened movement restrictions in locked-down Wuhan city, forbidding feverish people from visiting hospitals outside of their home districts. The virus is believed to have originated from Wuhan, in a market selling wild animals. Prior to restrictions on movement, the Chinese Government had sealed off residential compounds in the central city. As a result, the number of new cases in the city reduced. The purpose of the restricting movement is to curb the rate of new cases of infections. The Kenyan Government has reported three cases of the virus and issued measures to citizens to prevent further infections. On Sunday, while confirming the new cases, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that some of the measures to be applied may cause inconveniences saying that the interventions are designed to ensure that the spread of the virus is contained. “I appeal to all of us to strictly observe these measures. I would also like to appeal for calm. Kenyans must avoid misinformation that causes panic and anxiety,” Uhuru said. One of the measures announced by the President is shutting down all the learning institutions for an indefinite period of time. The closure of learning institutions caused varying reactions from parents. Some said that the move was the best way considering that some of the schools have a high number of students, hence becoming a challenge to contain the spread of the pandemic should it occur. Others said that they preferred staying with their children at home rather than being in schools during this time of crisis. Some parents said that the government should not have paralysed learning in boarding schools but provide them with sanitizers. Not all agreed to receive students after the announcement of closure. Some fear that the large movement during the closure puts them at high risk of being infected. The fear is also that people in Nairobi should be restricted from moving to rural areas, considering that the cases have been reported in the city. The people in the rural also said that some of them hardly consider hygiene issues and allowing movements during the closure of schools will make them vulnerable to the virus. But with the measures issued, people moving from areas with reported cases or to areas without major cases should consider their health and the well being of the people around them. People should also think about the risk they might cause to the people they will mingle within areas they will move to or from. Also, whether you should travel the rural areas or stay at your home, you should think about self-quarantine. You might end up being caught up in the quarantine process if an outbreak is reported during your movement. The government has urged citizens to ensure personal hygiene is maintained and follow the given steps to avoid being a victim. People have been asked to wash their hands frequently, cover their mouth and nose while coughing and to avoid close contact with people displaying symptoms relating to the virus. The government also issued a toll-free line to the public to dial in case they experience some of the conditions while at their home or when travelling. The government directed public vehicles to ensure that they provide sanitiser to passengers. Coronavirus is a pandemic disease that has no vaccine but is curable if personal hygiene is considered.