Kenya Pipeline Company, in partnership with several public and private sector players, has released at least 130,000 litres of free hand sanitisers Ministry of Health says by March 28, Kenya had 38 reported cases of Covid-19. The distribution will be overseen by county commissioners in all the 47 counties. The sanitisers are packed in 500 millilitre bottles for household use and 20-litre containers for institutions such as health centres, police stations, market centres, and other places where Kenyans frequent for essential services. According to KPC Managing Director Dr Macharia Irungu, the free hand sanitisers are an example of what a joint public and private sector effort can do. "In less than two weeks, KPC, oil marketing companies and other players have produced over 130,000 litres of free hand sanitisers to benefit Kenya’s most vulnerable people. This will go a long way in mitigating the spread of Covid-19 in the country,” he observed. Dr Irungu applauded East African Breweries, Bollore Logistics, and Maersk Kenya for providing their vehicles and warehouses for free to store and transport these sanitisers to all the 47 counties in Kenya. “This is a selfless act to support government efforts in containing this global pandemic,” he said. Principal Secretary for Petroleum Andrew Kamau had earlier noted that the hand sanitizers, whose production KPC was coordinating, will be distributed for free across the country, mainly targeting the informal settlements. “President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed us to ensure that we make available to Kenyans especially those from low socio-economic backgrounds free hand-sanitisers so that as a country, we are able to fight this global pandemic more effectively,” he said. Vivo Energy Kenya, Total Kenya, Ola Energy, Kenol Kobil, Pwani Oil and Sepyanna Oil East Africa have been recognised for providing their blending plants at no cost to package the free hand sanitisers. So far, over 93,000 litres of the free government of Kenya hand sanitizer have been released to several counties, namely Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Nakuru. Other counties include Siaya, Kajiado, Kiambu, Muranga, Makueni and Machakos. According to KPC Health and Safety Manager Beatrice Orgut, the company’s distribution model has prioritised those counties that have confirmed Covid-19 cases followed by those that are potential hotspots. “However, KPS is still mapping its strategy that will cover all the 47 counties,” she said. In addition, to KPC Managing Director Irungu said the company is yet to receive over 600,000 litres of ethanol, a critical ingredient in blending of hand sanitisers, that is in KRA’s custody. “Other private sector players have also promised us more free ethanol to continue producing the hand sanitisers. This means that we need more support as we fight to make Kenya coronavirus free,” he said.