John Gitonga, a knife sharpener, could not contain his happiness after the release of his wife who had been detained in hospital for seven months over a Sh1.8 million bill. It remains unpaid. His wife Esther Wanyoike, a vegetable seller, had been admitted to St Francis Community Hospital since May 2019 in Kasarani after suffering a spine collapse. She was taken to a hospital that referred her to St. Francis. In October, the hospital withdrew its services and put her in an isolation ward until she paid the bill. Esther's mother handed over her title deed as security for her release. The family agreed to pay Sh10,000 monthly for the next 10 years for principal and interest. Her eldest son has agreed to pay Sh5,000 a month. "I still have an issue with the amount they are asking us to pay because for about five months she was not receiving any services yet they are listed and charged on the bill. "However, I agreed to sign for her release because they had told me the other option I had was leaving her to die there," he said. When the Star visited her home, Esther was sitting in her wheelchair grateful she is back home despite still being unable to walk. The two live in a small one-room house in Kihunguro, Ruiru. She tripped and fell when she was walking upcountry. "I am regaining strength in my legs and I know by the grace of God, in his right time,  will walk again," she said. "All I need is a few exercises and I know I will be walking in no time." Gitonga had unsuccessfully tried to appeal wellwishers for help after Esther was detained by the hospital over failure to service the bill.  They had already contributed a lot. "The relatives who had brought her here left after they saw that the hospital bill was rising but she was not getting better," he said. "The hospital did not recognise me as her husband until they disappeared and the bills were no longer being serviced." During her detention, she was moved from a surgical ward to an isolation ward where the hospital discontinued services, including a  mattress, physiotherapy, medicine, doctor's visits and diapers. Esther spent her days and nights reading her New Testament and John would sometimes take her to the window to see the outside world. "Before Esther's accident, I would make Sh600 to Sh800 a day which was enough but the business has been taken over because of my long absence," he said. His daily routine for almost a year has been visiting his wife to take care of her and ensure she was okay and trying to convince the hospital to draft an agreement with him so she could be released. The hospital had maintained it would not release her without property, a title deed, or car logbook for security. The hospital had already lowered some costs, including that of surgery. Sometimes John would miss visits because he did not have fare from Ruiru to Kasarani. "Younger people have come and taken over my clients because I missed a lot of work last year. These days even getting Sh200 per day is a problem," he said. Since he has to wake up and take care of his wife each morning, he misses the peak business hours. "My bicycle also has a problem because the tyes are deflated. When I go to the market, I have to carry the bicycle since I cannot ride it," he said. However, when he gets to the market, butcheries and kiosks, his main customers have already had their knives sharpened. His main concern, however, remains how his wife will walk again. "I will have to find a doctor to come to look at my wife and help her walk. I will continue paying the hospital but only if they correct the bill in accordance with the services she received [and not charging for more than a bed during detention," she said. John said the hospital should not have included the cost of services after she was able to be discharged, but was detained. He has no intention to go to court because his only wish was that his wife got out of the hospital. "Taking care of my wife is my priority. We will continue paying the bill but first, she has to be fully okay and walk again before we can worry about it," he said. The hospital through general surgeon and hospital Superintendent Dr Benjamin Njihia said the hospital had tried to help the family with different payment options and even waived the spinal surgical fee. Njihia said when Esther was admitted she had acute paralysis and when doctors performed scans, they found her spine had collapsed. They carried out a decompression procedure. "However, when the procedure is performed more than eight hours after the injury, it is unlikely to recover neural function," he said. This explains why Esther was unable to walk after surgery, he said. The hospital has declined further comment. A representative from the Ruiru MP's office told the Star the Kingara Foundation will facilitate physiotherapy. "I talked to the MP and he said he will see how to help us this week, I am hopeful and waiting," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)