@Alicewangechi Murang’a Assembly Speaker Nduati Kariuki has asked five female MCAs who jetted in from Dubai on March 8 to stay home for 14 days. They will be released when they are cleared of possible coronavirus infection. The United Arab Emirates recorded its first case of coronavirus on January 29. There were 59 cases by the time the MCAs returned from the busy transit hub. “This is not because they are suspected to have contracted the coronavirus but as a precautionary measure,” Kariuki said. The five MCAs attended a women's caucus and continued with their official duties on returning to the country. “Before the first case was confirmed there was no alarm, but now with the measures the government has taken, we have to ensure we are also alert,” the speaker said. Kariuki also postponed until further notice all committee meetings to be held outside the assembly precincts. The speaker said the house has procured sanitizers that have been placed at the gate to ensure all visitors clean their hands before entry. The sanitizers will also be placed at both entrances of the assembly’s building, in the chambers and all committee rooms. “Members of staff are required to sanitize regularly and observe strict personal hygiene at all times,” the speaker said in a statement. He noted that additional precautionary directives will be issued in consultation with the government and other stakeholders. Kariuki said discussions are underway with other county assemblies to see whether the situation calls for temporary adjournment of sittings. NO decision has been reached. The issue will also be discussed in the House  Business and Rules committee meeting. Leader of Majority Eric Kamande said the speaker had sent a circular asking the MCAs to cut short their stay outside the country due to the risk of contamination but they faced challenges trying to change their return flights. They returned on the day they were scheduled to and were checked at the airport. The lawmakers were asked to stay in seclusion for 14 days. He said he will liaise with the speaker to organise testing for assembly workers who may have interacted with the MCAs. “Because we cannot lock people in their houses, we are asking everyone who may have been exposed to self-quarantine to protect others,” he said. (edited by O. Owino)