The Coast region has become the first beneficiary of an initiative by an international organisation helping to fight Covid-19 disease. Blue Heart International, which lobbies for child rights including issues of trafficking and abuse, has offered preventive measures to children against coronavirus. While launching the quarantine centre at Garden Groove hotel in Mombasa, Blue Heart chairperson Nadeem Khan said children are vulnerable to infections "yet no specific preventive measures have been taken to protect them". “We have opened this centre today that will serve the children, of course through their parents, and will ensure they get food coupons, re-usable masks, gloves, sanitisers and any other basic needs they may have,” Nadeem said. The organisation has partnered with various international and local firms alongside hotels and legal experts led by lawyer Francis Kadima, who will provide legal backing in cases where minors require such help. “If this crisis goes on, it may be hard for example, to get the masks. Already they are not in the market. That is why we invented the re-usable ones that you just boil and wash and they can be fine for about six months,” project manager Michael Nyore said. Already, 1,000 masks and sanitiser are out for donation with the lobby group calling upon other institutions to team up. Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties in the region have been listed as high-risk. “With the emergence of Covid-19, we had to refocus our efforts and upscale government efforts in getting rid of the virus. Mombasa is a gateway to so many things, that is why this is our first stop,” Nyore said. If the situation gets worse, we know most Kenyans live hand-to-mouth so food will be scarce and that is why we have our partners and call on more, to assist in this venture." Lawyer Kadima, who is accredited as the first children’s magistrate in Coast before going into private practice, was also in the Ephy Owour-led steering committee that prepared the Children’s Act. “Children's matters are diverse and need many stakeholders in trying to find solutions,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie