The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has established that one of the number plates that Rashid Echesa has is not his. The owner of the KCW 289Q has been established as Irene Mueni. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has asked Mueni to present herself to the detectives to provide information over the ownership of a Land Cruiser impounded at Echesa's home. The directorate on Monday said they had established that the registration number KCW289Q of a Toyota Land Cruiser V8 that was impounded from the embattled former sports CS was forged. According to the DCI, the sleuths traced the number to another vehicle,  a Mazda KBZ 009J belonging to Mueni. As a result, the detectives believe Mueni would be having information that may be valuable to the investigations. Detectives attached to the Serious Crimes Unit on Monday raided Echesa's home in Karen where they took away five cars. This included the V8, a Lexus KBY750U, a Volkswagen KAY388A, a Mercedes Benz KCL350J and a pickup. Echesa is said to have forged the registration details of a vehicle believed to be under the ownership of his deceased friend, Patrick Akifuma. Akifuma died in 2016. Echesa was later released after several hours of questioning. Court documents indicate that Echesa occasionally hired Akifuma's car,  a Toyota Landcruiser V8, but later failed to return after he passed on. Echesa termed his rearrest and the entire operation a political witch-hunt. Earlier, the former CS had denied the detectives from the Special Crimes Unit access to the house, prompting them to jump over the perimeter wall at around 9 am. Though the sleuths entered the compound, Echesa denied them access to his house until his lawyer, Brian Khaemba, arrived. On February 26, the detectives obtained a search warrant from the Kiambu chief magistrate’s court under a miscellaneous criminal application number 94 0f 2020. “…that this honourable court be pleased to issue a warrant to search the premises, homes, motor vehicles and offices of the respondent to enable the investigating team to ascertain the allegations and recover evidence as the case may be…,” the court document read.