Former Grandpa Records artiste Majirani is depressed and is crying out for help. The artiste has been bankrolling his team Majirani Football club on his own but now says he has run out of cash. In an audio, Majirani narrates his life tribulations. "Last year, things started going wrong. I even called for a harambee (fundraiser) and many didn’t show up. Most of those who came never contributed. Out of 200 printed cards, only five were returned. After the event flopped last week, things took the worst turn. I couldn’t afford to pay rent amounting to Sh30,000 for three months," he said. "On Wednesday last week, the landlord came with policemen and they evicted me. I tried to talk to several friends to accommodate me but they didn’t let me in. I gave up and went on to sleep inside a house that’s still under construction. I didn’t mind about eating, all I needed was a roof under me because I had no money." Majirani says on Sunday, one of his friends sent him 500 bob, which he used to travel back to Western Kenya to meet a friend who’s currently hosting him. "I can’t go back to Eldoret because I have no means, no cash for upkeep, the house is locked. I have accepted that my life has turned for the worst, I can’t pretend all is well when it’s not,' he said. The singer is currently living in a grass-thatched house with a friend and he said he is open to any job. "I’ve lost weight and I don’t regret starting a football team, that has helped many. Only God can repay me," he said. "All I need is money for rent so the landlord can give me back my things, which are still in the house. I’m considering to move to a bedsitter which costs less than Sh5,000 to start afresh from nothing. If anyone connects me to any job, I’ll appreciate it," he said. In a series of posts on his WhatsApp stories, Majirani begs for prayers, hoping someone will rescue him before he sinks deeper into depression. "Pray for me when you get time. Take a step back from your schedule, check on your friends. Depression is real. If I ever get out of this, my life will be a completely new one," he wrote. Adding, "You will never truly understand something until it happens to you." The artiste, just like many, has been receiving very little from MCSK, and he regrets spending late nights in the studio. "I hate music. I hate all the long nights I spent recording," he said. Edited by T Jalio