Hosts Cardinal Otunga High School Mosocho and St Joseph's Nyabigena's rugby 7's team have qualified for the Nyanza region term one games. Cardinal Otunga and Nyabigena won their respective semi-finals to seal places at the regional games scheduled for Migori in two weeks. Nyabigena thrashed debutants Nyabisase 39-0 while Cardinal Otunga beat rivals Kisii School 12-5. In the 15's category, Kisii School showed scant respect for the hosts after beating them 42-0 in the semis while Nduru Boys beat Nyamagwa Boys 42-7. When the two teams met in the preliminaries, Nduru Boys won 3-0. Kisii School coach Hesbon Chweya said the final against Nduru will be tough but said noted that his side is equal to the task. He said his team will play for their former player late Jeff Oigara who died in December last year. Nduru's games master Chris Omollo said that his side will seek to complete a double on Kisii School after winning 3-0 in the preliminaries. "We want to show them that the win in the group stage was not by fluke," said Omollo. In boy's basketball, defending Champions Nyanchwa Boys and Kisii School will renew their rivalry in the repeat of last year's final. This year, Kisii beat Nyanchwa Boys 45-43 in the Kisii Central Sub County final. In yesterday's semis Nyanchwa walloped Nyamagwa Boys 132-24 while Kisii School thrashed Nduru Boys 106-46. Kisii School coach Gilbert Okumu said, "We want to go for the title. Last year we lost by one basket against them in the finals. All I want to appeal for is fair officiating". His Nyanchwa counterpart Kepher Mogire said his boys are going for nothing but their title. "We lost to Kisii School in the Sub County finals but the boys have improved since then. It will not be an easy game but we want to defend our trophy," he said. In the girls' category, Itierio Girls will seek to defend their title for the fourth straight year. Itierio will face Sengera Girls in the finals. In the semis, Itierio overcame 65-39 while Sengera overcame Kereri Girls 39-32 in another tough semi. New Champions will emerge in both women's and men's handball. In the men's category, Ndonyo and Nduru Boys will face off. In the semis, Ndonyo beat last year's winners Tabaka 20-16 as Nduru defeated Nyamache Boys 22-16. Tabaka settled for the third position after beating Nyamache 28-23. Sengera Girls will face Omobera in the girl's handball semi-final. Sengera beat debutants Nduru Girls 13-11 as Omobera narrowly overcame Ichuni Girls 17-16. Nyabigena knocked out boys hockey Champions Cardinal Otunga after edging them 2-1 while Nduru Boys defeated Nyamagwa Boys 3-2 in another semi-final. Nduru Boys coach Mwangwale Wekesa said revenge will be on his mind when they will take on Nyabigena after a 4-1 loss at the Sub County level. "The final will be a tactical affair. If the boys play according to my instruction, they will emerge winners," said Wekesa. Nyabigena's Obed Ragira said, "We are confident of winning the tournament. It has been a very competitive tournament but we want to finish on a high."