The Port of Mombasa has been rocked by turbulence the arrest on Monday of KPA Managing Director Daniel Manduku. On Tuesday, senior KPA officials were panicking. Manduku was arrested over leasing and gazettement of the Nairobi Inland Container Terminal as a peripheral facility of KPA. The firm did not tender for the contract, however, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said. The MD, who was confirmed Kenya Ports Authority boss in November 2018, was attending a meeting in Nairobi at time of his arrest. He was seized alongside Kevin Safari, who is the Kenya Revenue Authority's commissioner for Border Control. The two spent the night at Muthaiga police station. Sources told the Star several other officials could be summoned to DCI headquarters to record statements in connection with the tender. There could also be more arrests over the alleged financial irregularities, they said. “There is tension here, but things are moving on well. No cause for alarm,” a KPA staffer, who is not allowed to speak to the press, told the Star. KPA chairman General (Rtd) Joseph Kibwana on Tuesday disconnected calls made to him by the Star seeking comment on the arrest of the MD. “Sorry, I can’t talk right now,” he said in an SMS. Manduku and Safari are battling 11 graft-related charges, among them conniving to commit the offence, willful disobedience of statutory duty, neglect of official duty, abuse of office and breach of trust. Since last year, Manduku has been battling several accusations including the loss of Sh2.7 billion that could have been lost in the unauthorised expenditure by the national government. According to the DCI, Sh3 billion that had been set aside and approved for the purchase of land for the Inland Container Depot was diverted. The land was meant to ease congestion. Detectives said Sh500 million was used to finance concreting of the Makongeni yard in Nairobiwhile Sh2 billion was used to dredge Mombasa Port. Only Sh500 million was retained for its original purpose. Manduku and several other senior officers were to be arrested by November last year, but the KPA boss rushed to court seeking anticipatory bail. Mombasa High Court Judge Erick Ogolla in December granted him Sh500,000 anticipatory bail. Others mentioned in the Sh2.7 billion scandal last year were General Manager for Operations William Ruto, senior works officer Anthony Muhanji and principal civil engineer Bernard Nyobange. In September last year, Manduku told the Star that his track record is clear and that he has nothing to hide. He blamed business interests and high-political power plays for his woes. “These are just business interests. I had foreseen this, but the truth will eventually come out,” he told the Star in a phone interview. Manduku said for the short time he has been at the helm of KPA, he has been resisted for his achievements in ensuring growth. “I do not have anything to hide. Let the government agencies do their job and eventually, we shall all come to know the truth. I’m being fought. I’m aware of what is happening, but I do not want to engage,” he said at the time. Edited by R.Wamochie