Taita Taveta has closed all main markets within the county as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. Deputy Governor Majala Mlagui on Wednesday said the directive will also affect the Taveta border market. “The county government reiterates that our departments of Trade, Water, Health and the Office of the Governor will be relaying safeguard measures shortly in liaison with the national government within the next 72 hours,” she said. Majala noted that the decision was prompted by confirmation of a Covid-19 case in neighbouring Tanzania. The border market in Taveta attracts hundreds of traders from Kenya and Tanzania. “It is very necessary to take early precautions. All traders are encouraged to adhere to the directive. Business operators should also have sanitizers at their premises,” the deputy governor said. The closed markets are Voi Highway, Mwatate, Wundanyi and Taveta markets. “Please bear with us as we are a transit and border county and must take high precautions to safeguard the health of our citizens while minimising economic losses during these uncertain times,” Majala added. The county has set a hotline – 0735480405 - for assistance in case of any coronavirus concerns. Health services executive John Mwakima said some health workers from Voi and Taveta subcounties have undergone training on handling the virus. He said the department is building capacity of its human resource on care management, personal protection and specimen collection in a bid to mitigate the virus. A medical officer and the county laboratory coordinator are among those being trained as Trainers of Trainers (ToTs) and are expected to cascade knowledge and skills to Subcounty Rapid Response Team members who will later train other workers across the county. “The department is collaborating with Port Health Services officers who are using Thermo Scanner to detect individuals coming to Kenya from Tanzania through the Taveta One-Stop Border Post. Suspected cases will be held at the border holding area, quarantine room and later isolated in the Taveta Isolation Centre in Rekeke Model Health Centre,” Mwakima added. Edited by R.Wamochie