Members of Parliament on Tuesday rejected Prof Mohamed Abdile’s nomination as CEO of the National Government Constituency Development Fund. Signs of Abdille’s rejection were clear from the start after MPs drowned communication from Speaker Justin Muturi when he announced the nomination by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani two weeks ago. The NGCDF committee chaired Maoka Maore on Tuesday tabled the report urging the House to reject the nominee. Mt Elgon MP Fred Kapondi, who tabled it, urged the House to reject Abdille after the committee found him unfit for the office. The committee observed that the nominee holds a degree in Microbiology and Clinical biochemistry which is not relevant to business administration, finance, accounting, engineering, economics, community development, law or any other related field. Abdille also fell short of the 15 years' experience requirement. He had 11 years of experience. Abdille was appointed to head the position which has been operating for 11 months without a substantive boss. Since the term of first substantive CEO Agnes Odhiambo expired, Yusuf Mbuno has been acting in the capacity. The development means Yatani will now submit one of the two remaining names submitted by the NGCDF board for consideration within seven days. Mbuno scored highest in the board’s ranking followed by Abdille. Jactone Akelo came third in the board’s report submitted to Yatani. Yatani, however, bypassed Mbuno who scored 93 per cent and picked Abdille with a score of 73.3 per cent in the interview. Akelo came third with a 66.35 per cent score. According to new regulations, Yatani will within seven days pick either Mbuno or Akelo and relay the name to the National Assembly’s speaker. During his vetting on Thursday last week, Abdille was accused of being economical with the truth especially on the circumstances surrounding his unceremonial suspension and eventual dismissal as MMU's Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Finance, Administration and Planning. He was dismissed on March 5 by the University’s council chaired by Samuel Ochola. The committee received six submissions but only two met the threshold for consideration by the committee as required by provisions of the Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approval) Act, 2011. But the nominee while appearing before MPs insisted that he was the substantive DVC. He was accused of presiding over irregular employment of staff and usurping the powers of the university council. Edited by R.Wamochie