The last two months have been extremely difficult for a number of female police officers attached to an arm of government. Their female boss has gone rogue and they want the Police IG Hillary Mutyambai to check her. Corridors has learnt the officer has gone too far in expressing loathing for her juniors. She gets irritated whenever a junior is closer than an arm's length. She has cracked the whip on officers whom she accuses of giving her undue competition. Since the beginning of the year, she has transferred 14 'beautiful' female officers and replaced them with older women or men. *** Are MCAs of a Mt Kenya region county assembly known for fighting corruption and impunity sleeping on their job? They seem to have looked the other way when an old man due to retire in June was appointed clerk after engineering the removal of his boss (clerk) on grounds of tribal machinations. The newly appointed man and the speaker who claims to be a man of God are on a looting spree. They do not hesitate to intimidate, blackmail and silence employees about issues of misappropriation of public fund and abuse of the law. In the Assembly, the Speaker is quick to drop the name of the President and their close ties. *** A senator, a first-term MP and a Nyanza governor are feuding over 2022. The senator who harbours gubernatorial ambitions and the MP are being accused by the governor's lieutenants of sponsoring an impeachment motion against the second-term county chief. The MP has reportedly been involved in the scheme after rumours went round that the Governor is planning to defend his seat after his term expires in 2022. Now, the ODM party that sponsored the trio is concerned that the fights may derail development in the county. It plans to summon the vocal senator, the MP and a deputy speaker for scheming to destabilise the county through the plot as well as numerous petitions to the anti-graft body against the governor. *** Our little bird tells Corridors a number of MCAs from one of the 47 county assemblies are plotting to teach their beleaguered governor a lesson over his refusal to change a nominee for a crucial position in the county executive. The idea is to ensure MCAs use every possible way to identify a better way to find a new nominee capable of plausible leadership while the boss disentangles himself from the web he’s in. Meantime, the county boss has sworn to resubmit the nominee's name come what may, arguing the individual is more capable of securing certain interests than other appointees. 