A ban on the export of donkey meat to protect them from extinction has touched off a storm as slaughterhouse investors and workers cry foul, while donkey owners and animal rights activists rejoice. Agriculture and Livestock CS Peter Munya banned the commercial slaughter of donkeys on February 24, amid a spate of donkey thefts blamed for the decline of donkey numbers from 1.8 million a decade ago to 1.2 million today. The meat is a delicacy in China and the skin is processed to create ejiao, a traditional remedy used to treat everything from anaemia to dizziness. Up to 400,000 donkeys are slaughtered in Kenya every year to supply China. Munya revoked the licences of the four donkey slaughterhouses in the country, namely Goldox Kenya Ltd in Baringo county, Star Brilliant Donkey Abattoir in Nakuru county, Silzha Ltd in Turkana county and Fuhai Machakos Trading Co Ltd in Machakos county. The CS said gave the abattoirs a month to switch to slaughtering other animals or else they would be closed. They are not going down without a fight. Some have moved to court while others have strongly protested. However, donkey owners have applauded the government for the move. “We were really excited to hear that such as drastic move has been taken as our donkeys were being stolen left right and centre,” donkey owner Simon Sokoine says. Sokoine, who hails from Kajiado county, now wants the government to tighten the noose on those found disregarding the beast of burden. He said some of the local communities have benefited immensely from the work the donkeys do for them. "Donkeys play a critical role in our livelihood. We use them to transport water from a distance of about six kilometres," he said. Sokoine says Munya has helped resolve an issue that has been bothering them. In 1999, the government gazetted the donkey as a food animal with the aim of curbing backyard slaughter and improving food safety. Then in 2012, it legalised trade in donkey meat and hide to meet growing demand from China. The animal activist said the move opened the floodgates to donkey thefts, much to the dismay of donkey owners. The increase in donkey slaughter was hurting communities that traditionally rely on donkeys as a source of livelihood. RURAL LIFEBLOOD A study by the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation ranks the donkey as the most important livestock compared to chicken, goats, sheep, cows and ducks. This was based on its use in transport, while enhancing accessibility to hard-to-reach areas, such as footpaths, marshy areas and during rainy seasons. "The donkey was a source of livelihood for the community, generating a mean income of Sh11,390.00 per month," the study says. "Income from donkeys was used to meet households’ financial needs, such as paying school fees, purchasing food, paying house rent, purchasing clothing, making contributions in savings and credit associations and purchasing farm inputs, such as fertiliser and seed." Donkeys are mostly used by low-income communities with limited resources in rural, peri-urban and pastoral areas. They are commonly used to transport water, farm produce, household goods, hardware goods and ploughing. The study presents the status of donkey slaughter in Kenya and its implication on the donkey population and community livelihoods. Data was collected from four donkey slaughterhouses, eight groups of donkey keepers, 14 groups of donkey users, seven groups of donkey traders, five county livestock production officers and 14 county and subcounty veterinary officers. The data was also collected from five police stations, seven chiefs and village elders, the Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the Kenya Society for the Protection and Care of Animals (KSPCA). Data on the slaughter of donkeys for the export market, donkey theft and illegal slaughter, the value of the donkey to communities and community livelihoods was collected. The data was analysed in aggregate form and presented as descriptive statistics, including means and frequencies. The study found that 301,977 donkeys, which represented 15 per cent of the donkey population, were slaughtered in the four export slaughterhouses between April 2016 and December 2018. Studies have projected that by the year 2022, holding all factors constant, all donkeys will have been slaughtered. Currently, the price of a donkey is between Sh15,000 and Sh20,000. Making an assumption that 25 per cent (75,494) of the donkeys slaughtered were working donkeys, and would otherwise have been used to generate the mean monthly income of Sh11,390, the income foregone was valued at Sh28.3 billion during the reference period. While the gross revenues from the export of donkey meat and skin were Sh1.82 billion during the same reference period, a comparison of the income foregone by donkey owners and users was 15 times more than the gross revenue generated from the export of donkey meat and skin. While this finding negates achievement of the expected outcome of donkey slaughter and trade, it is limited to financial costs and benefits at exporters and donkey owners/users level only. The study called for a comprehensive study to assess the social and economic impact assessment of donkey slaughter and trade for all actors to guide policymaking, taking cognisance of numerous actors along the donkey value chain. Sokoine says the donkey should now be given more protection, a suggestion that Africa Network for Animal supports. ANA chief operations director Kahindi Lekalhaile says Munya should go ahead and remove the donkey from the Meat Act of 1999, which classified donkey meat as a food animal. "That was a verbal decision by the CS. We need Meat Act of 1999 amended to declare commercial trade on donkey illegal," he said. Lekalhaile said the Act led to donkey smuggling and theft that risk wiping them out. ANA warns that high demand for donkey skins in China will lead to Kenya’s donkeys being wiped out. Already, donkeys are being smuggled from countries such as Tanzania. Despite being regulated, the slaughterhouses have often found themselves on the wrong side of the law. For instance, Silzha has been accused by animal welfare practitioners of using substandard and uncertified electric stunners, while Goldox is accused of using damaged off-loading zones. The slaughterhouses have also been accused of low compliance to the environmental standards as guided by the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, with all the slaughterhouses operating well below 50 per cent of their capacity. GLOBAL CHALLENGE Studies show that the donkey is faced with a lot of challenges. This is because the donkeys are being traded and stolen as the demand for their skins increases, driven by the production of ejiao. It is estimated that the ejiao industry requires about 4.8 million donkey skins annually, and is growing at a disturbing rate. It is estimated that the ejioa demand is rising by 20 per cent annually. With China’s donkey herd reducing from 11 million in 1992 to just 2.6 million currently, the ejiao industry has had to source donkey skins from around the world, placing unprecedented pressure on donkey populations globally and contributing to the collapse of some national donkey populations. In Kyrgyzstan, where approximately 70 per cent of the country’s population lives in rural areas, many people rely on donkeys for transport and mechanisation. The trade has, however, contributed to the national donkey herd plummeting 53 per cent in the six years between 2011 and 2017. The trade has left entire communities without the economic benefits of these essential animals, and with serious concerns about the disregard for local religion, 15 environmental pollutions and the risk of disease spread as donkeys are brought in from neighbouring Tajikistan without any quarantine or health checks. In the same six-year period, donkey numbers in Botswana dropped by 37 per cent. This collapse, fuelled both by a legal trade and underground operations, caused donkey prices to soar, making replacement of stolen donkeys impossible for some donkey owners. Brazil has seen a steady decline in donkey populations, with FAO figures showing an almost 28 per cent reduction in the donkey population between 2007 and 2017. This figure is potentially much higher as roaming donkeys, which have been targeted by the skin trade, are unlikely to have been counted in the censuses. In 2017, the Ghana Veterinary Services Directorate expressed fears about the future of the national donkey herd. “The Veterinary Services have observed, with alarm, a sharp decrease in the number of donkeys, especially in the northern parts of the country,” said the organisation’s director, Dr Kingsley Aryee. “And at this rate, the population of donkeys is likely to be depleted in two to three years.” Lekalhaile said three communities who have been eating donkey meat since time immemorial should be the only ones eating such meat. "Animal Cruelty Act must also be enforced," he said, adding that donkeys have undergone untold suffering in some of the slaughterhouses. Lekalhaile said stealing of donkeys should be declared an economic crime since many rural communities depend on them. He said donkeys in the country should be promoted as green transport. "The extension officers must be increased to promote the donkey, especially in the rural areas," Lekalhaile said. He urged donkey slaughterhouses to use their machines to add value to other acceptable livestock, such as cattle, sheep, goats and even chicken, to turn around their fortunes. LIFT THE BAN? However, many have protested the move to shut down donkey slaughterhouses. Naivasha MP Jane Kihara said the move to close Kenya's four donkey slaughterhouses will hurt the economy and hundreds of families. The legislator said on Monday last week there was no consultation before the government issued the one-month closure notice. Kihara said she will raise the matter in the National Assembly. Communities that depended on donkeys for transporting their commodities are grappling with increased incidents of donkey theft and a high price of replacing stolen donkeys. Donkey owners in Machakos and Kitui have urged the DCI to investigate smuggling cartels responsible for the theft of their animals. They say they have lost more than 300,000 donkeys since 2016, when donkey slaughterhouses were opened in the country. In Baringo, over 300 workers have protested, demanding a lift on the ban. Elsewhere, two companies and a businessman have gone to court to challenge the ban. Davis Kamau and two companies, namely Star Brilliant Limited (Nakuru) and Silzha Limited (Turkana), want the court to temporarily halt the ban. The trio claims the ban imposed by Munya is unfair.