So what role exactly does ODM leader Raila Odinga play in government? Apart from receiving Cabinet Secretaries and top government officials trooping to his Capitol Hill office, the ex-Prime Minister also has a special relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Take, for example, the burial of businessman and veteran politician Nginyo Kariuki in Kiambu county. Raila told the mourners that Uhuru had sent him with his apologies for not attending the memorial service. He said there was an important meeting at State House on coronavirus. Remarks by a governor from Mt Kenya region during the Building Bridges Initiative rally in Meru county on Saturday last week has sparked outrage among the members of the county assemblies. Reason? The governor made remarks that did not sit well with the MCAs. The ward reps are incensed that the county chief has arrogated to himself the responsibility of bickering recklessly and giving unsolicited advice purportedly on behalf of Kenyans. They pledge to teach the governor a lesson and scuttle the process they say is tailored to benefit the governor personally. As it seems, the governor could be counting his chicks before they're hatched. The planned prosecution of a state corporation head for engaging in graft is giving the political class sleepless nights. Those in the know say the case could spell doom for the elite politicians whose prints are all over the deal. Corridors understands an influential Cabinet Secretary, a larger-than-life Senator and a political stalwart invoked the name of the President to clinch the fraudulent deal that landed the corporate chief in trouble. The feuding agencies are also caught in the tussle, with senior officials in one of the agencies intimating that allowing the case to proceed will expose a son of the political bigwig who won a lucrative tender and supplied air. Could this be the source of the festering tension between the two political players and the delay in launching of a significant project in the region? An MP from Rift Valley is biting his fingernails how BBI mobilisation money is slowly slipping through his fingers. The legislator was overheard within the Corridors of Parliament narrating to his colleagues that the cancellation of the rally in Uasin Gishu county was a big blow to him as he planned to make a killing of the taxpayers' money. “Phwooh, phwooh, zimeenda tu hivyo bwana (We have just lost the deal like that),” he was overheard telling his fellow legislators.