With the Building Bridges Initiative task force announcing that it will conclude public hearings on Tuesday next week, the political class that had turned the validation rallies into cash cows are the most affected. The rallies came with a lot of cash that was allocated to “mobilise” constituents to attend the rallies, which have turned out to be about 2022 succession politics. Will the three rallies scheduled for Nakuru, Nyeri and Nairobi be called off now that Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji-led task force is retreating to write the report? An Ethics and Anti-Corruption boss in one of the Western counties is decrying orthodox interference from some of the officers under probe whom they accuse of using dirty tricks to slow him down. This is in an attempt to scare them from unearthing suspicious employment syndicate going on in the county. Some of the officers investigating the skewed employment were scared stiff on Monday night by some paraphernalia that was dropped at the doorsteps of their hotel rooms. The detectives heard some commotion outside the hotel prompting them to come out only to be confronted with scary animal parts, birds and some concoction of herbs with bloodstains on the pavement. Moles working in the hotel told Corridors that the perpetrator is an officer who works at the Lands department, who they believe was acting on behalf of his friend. He reportedly influenced the employment of his Class 5 dropout wife. Indeed, it is shocking what EACC Twalib Mbarak's boys go through in their line of duty. A governor from the Rift Valley has discretely placed two scribes from a popular TV and vernacular radio station on the county payroll. Reason? The man wants to appease the two in return for positive coverage. The duo recently skipped a critical county assembly debate on corruption in the executive arm of the county. The two also blatantly refused to provide coverage to a team of Kanu officials, fearing such a move could antagonise them with the governor. Tens of neighboring families in Mt Kenya are fighting for their land after a powerful politician asked them to move out so that they can set up a family cultural site for their family. Our mole in Central told Corridors that the family has tried to create artificial insecurity and police brutality but the neighbours are adamant. “We don’t understand why they want our land and yet they have a big land they can use to build a mausoleum for their father,” a neighbor told Corridors.