The government on Tuesday warned of an impending hunger as a result of the locust invasion although Agriculture CS Peter Munya said the state was prepared. Munya said the destruction caused by the locusts poses a serious threat to food sufficiency. He said the insects were continuing to multiply. "Of course when you have an emergency of this nature where locusts destroy vegetation and pasture especially in the north, you would worry about food security," the CS said. He said the state had mobilised necessary contingency measures "to ensure that the affected families are supported to regain their livelihoods." Munya said the government believed it has necessary networks to mobilise help to the households that would be affected by the food inadequacy, hence "there is no cause for alarm." "We believe we can mobilise enough resources to support people and families and communities that have been affected by the invasion," Munya said. He did not specify what contingency measures had been put in place. The CS said the government will unveil an aggressive intervention to contain the locust invasion to forestall further destruction to crops and vegetation. Part of the intervention, the minister explained, include unveiling three teams of experts on Wednesday to assess the extent of the damage in the infected areas-especially the food basket regions - to enable designing of better responses. "Three assessment teams will be unveiled tomorrow (Wednesday) and sent to the affected areas to determine the extent of the damage, what can be done and the resources required," Munya said. In its initial assessment, The Food and Agriculture Organization had estimated that 55 hectares of land would be invaded by the insects with a destruction tune of over Sh2.3 billion. "This estimation was not informed by the changing nature of the invasion. It was a moving target so this rapid assessment will give us a clear indication of what we require in terms of resources," the CS said. "There is no cause for alarm. What we require is a rapid assessment so that the situation does not deteriorate." The state has used Sh230 million to purchase chemicals and fund the spraying of locusts in the affected areas. Sh300 million more has been mobilised, Munya said. He said the state had already ordered 30,000 more liters of chemicals to deal with the quickly multiplying insects. The CS allayed fears the chemicals could affect the environment as well as human and animal health, saying they have been approved by FAO. Youths in locust infested areas will be enlisted by the state to help in hand spraying of the insects, Munya said. He said aerial spraying using aircraft would not be tenable anymore because the insects were moving to areas with dense populations. The use of aircraft will, however, continue in sparsely populated areas. "The ongoing rains have also affected the aerial spraying as weather visibility has become poor," Munya said. The poor weather, he said, led to the cancellation of the hand over of three helicopters to his ministry by FAO. The helicopters were to be flown from South Africa to the country. They will be deployed in aerial spraying efforts to contain the insects. The minister said a total of 26 counties have been affected by the invasion in one way or another, including by the insects passing by. The enlisted youth will monitor the locust movements within their assigned areas, record the changes happening on them and their behaviours. "Theirs is to monitor them, record information about where they are, just in case they lay eggs, they monitor the eggs so that we can deal with the hoppers," he said.  edited by peter obuya