The joint Health committees on Tuesday was forced to adjourn after three cabinet secretaries failed to appear. The committee of both houses was scheduled to meet Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiangi (Interior), Mutahi Kagwe (Health) and James Macharia (Transport) to discuss the issues of coronavirus and the country's preparedness in case of an outbreak of the scourge. The MPs also wanted to know whether the 239 Chinese who entered the country last week have been quarantined in a KDF facility as was ordered by the courts. The CSs instead sent representatives to represent them before the joint Committee. Committee co-chair Sabina Chege called off the meeting and ordered the three CSs to appear before the joint sitting tomorrow at 3 pm. The legislators took issue after the representatives gave contradicting information of the whereabouts of the CSs. While Kagwe sent his CAS to represent him, Macharia sent his PS while Matiang'i sent the director of Immigration services. While the committee was told that Matiangi was chairing a cabinet meeting, the legislators could not buy into the idea as they wondered how the CS would chair a cabinet in the absence of the president. When asked of the clearing process at JKIA, the director immigration services said all passengers arriving through the port are screened and temperatures were taken. But this did not go down with the MPs as they argued temperatures cannot be the only parameters of testing the coronavirus. "Madam chair, they have failed to come because no one wants to take responsibility. We cannot proceed with this sitting unless the CS is here in person," one of the MPs demanded. The MPs accused the CSs of taking the pandemic too casually while risking the lives of Kenyans. Earlier on, government spokesman Cyrus Oguna had indicated that the government has mechanisms in place of tracing the 239 passengers who landed from China two weeks ago at JKIA. He told the Star that the government's position would remain as had been directed by CS health. Kagwe on Sunday said there was no need for the court order as the government had put mechanisms in place to monitor the passengers. On Friday last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta formed a task force to deal with a possible outbreak of coronavirus. He said the team will coordinate Kenya's preparedness, prevention and response to the threat of the disease. "The team will coordinate the capacity building of medical personnel and other professionals," he said. Uhuru said they will also enhance surveillance at all ports and points of entry to Kenya.