Experienced Sofapaka striker Ronald Okoth is working round the clock during this lockdown period to actualise his dream of launching a sports academy. The widely travelled player albeit locally runs a non-profit-making foundation labelled RO Sports and is looking forward to starting the RO Sports Soccer Academy possibly before the year ends. The philanthropic player has capitalised on the break to develop his brainchild borne out of the desire to promote healthy, sustainable and holistic development through quality and inclusive education, strategic sport and cross-industry partnerships. Through his foundation, the former Nairobi Stima player has been distributing playing boots to local clubs in a campaign dubbed 'One Kid, one pair' The former Gor Mahia man said he is working closely with the foundation's managing director, Judith Macharia, in doing the final touches on paper and was optimistic of meeting the end of year deadline. He revealed that he is targeting at least 20 kids from either gender as part of his short term target for the academy who will be tutored by two tacticians. "There is no rest for me during this break as I am working to achieve my dream of setting up an academy. I have been working closely with Macharia on the final touches of the project and we are looking forward to launching the academy at the end of the year. Our immediate target will be around 20 kids who will be handled by two coaches," he revealed. Besides working to set up an academy, the Bachelor of Information Science holder is also shaping up his football commentary skills with the aim of rocking the waves once he hangs up his boots. " I have been landing invitations to grace various sports shows on local radio and television channels recently. It's exciting to analyse the game and at the moment, I am also sharpening my skills behind the microphone to be able to commentate and give quality insights on live matches and shows, " said the former Western Stima player. In the meantime, Okoth is hoping to nail down multiple partners to shoulder the financial burden of running both the foundation and the academy. The former Mathare United player said he had knocked doors and was self-assured that once the coronavirus wave calms, he will pen deals with corporates. "We are on the process of getting partners to come on board," he added