An inconsistent Shujaa seek to bounce back as they parade at the BC Place during the Vancouver Sevens this weekend. Paul Feeney's charges have looked lethargic so far in the World Sevens Series and are currently sitting 11th on the log with 29 points. The team has failed to make it to the quarters in four out of five tournaments in this season's campaign. The team picked a paltry three points in Los Angeles last weekend, winning two out of the six matches played. Vincent Onyala was arguably the team's best player, leading in tries, points scored and line breaks, as well as tackles, made. Fans and coaches have opined that the team is not fit enough to tackle the modern rigours of the sevens game, resulting in poor performances especially in Sydney and Los Angeles. Shujaa will open their campaign against world champions and log leaders New Zealand at 9:53 pm. The two sides clashed at the Sydney Sevens with the Kiwi outfit winning 19-5. Kenya's second match will be against Ireland at 12:43 am. This will be their third meeting against Irish dangerous outfit who sit tenth on the log with 45 points. In the first meeting in Cape Town in December, the two teams drew 24-24 with Kenya winning 29-12 last weekend in Los Angeles. Team Kenya's final game will be against Spain at 4:07 am in their first meeting of the season. The two teams split the meetings last season with Europeans winning 24-7 in Las Vegas and Kenya winning 21-5 in Singapore. Skipper Andrew Amonde said they have to minimise on the error rate and play a complete 14 minute if they harbour hopes of qualification to the last eight. "We are making too many errors in attack and defence. It's a competitive pool and we cannot take any team for granted,” added Amonde. Amonde said they have had four days of good training and they have adjusted to the cold temperatures of the Canadian winter. "It's been a good week. We have reviewed our performances from last weekend and we hope to give the fans something to celebrate about,” he added. Kenya has fond memories of Vancouver having lost the final to Fiji 24-12 in 2018 under former coach Innocent Simiyu.