A Jubilee governor and his county assembly speaker are not seeing eye to eye. Reason? The speaker is accusing the county chief of ‘setting up’ his aide with the anti-graft detectives. An insider revealed that last week, the speaker sent the aide to collect some loot from the governor’s office ostensibly to facilitate the passage of a crucial piece of legislation. On his way back, the man was arrested by EACC detectives who upon searching him, recovered the treated cash. They arrested him but his boss immediately negotiated for his release. The release irked the county chief who is to have been camping at the integrity centre demanding to know why the man has not been arraigned. Is Deputy President William Ruto already strategizing and planning how to win the vacant Msambweni MP seat? This seems to be the case if what some of his allies were overheard saying is anything to believe. The MPs, who speaking in Parliament Buildings, were heard saying how they held a successful meeting at a city hotel with opinion sharpers in the constituency to plan how to win the seat. They said they want to beat Raila Odinga’s ODM hands down to send a message that the DP is the man to beat in 2022.They will hold another meeting in the constituency on Wednesday Area MP Suleiman Dori passed on last Monday. Just why are EACC detectives in Nyanza reluctant to arrest a county official who has been accused of manipulating staff register and including ghost workers in the payroll? The man still walks freely despite the detectives having camped in the county offices and comped through the computers and ascertain the claims. Worse off, the man has been bragging to whoever cares to listen that he is untouchable and that whoever was pushing for his arrest would be shocked. County officers, some recorded statement with the investigators, now want EACC boss Twalib Mbarak to intervene to have the man arrested for his action that continues to drain the county dry. Divisions seems to have rocked Tangatanga faction of Jubilee party. During a press conference by Deputy President William Ruto’s allies on the planned BBI rally in Nakuru in Parliament Buildings on Thursday. The female MP openly busted her two colleagues, telling them off for pretending to be DP’s real foot soldiers and ‘owners of Nakuru County.’ The two had invited her to sit on the front seat during the presser but she refused, saying they [front seats] were meant for the ‘owners of Nakuru.’