Kenyans had better ensure they are at home between 7pm and 5pm every day or risk getting teargassed, beaten, or even taken to cells outside their county of residence. This is the message of police spokesman Charles Owino. "We don't want to lie to people. If you walk at night, we will arrest you. We have enough cells. If the cell in Central is full, we will take you to Kayole. If it is full, we will even take you to Machakos," he said on Friday. Owino spoke to Citizen TV following the coming into effect of the curfew declared by President Uhuru Kenya on Wednesday. The curfew is to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Owino said police have the right to use their batons if they are provoked. "When you become riotous, I have procedures, I will read a proclamation for you, if you don't listen, I'll use teargas and there's a level, I can even use my baton," he said. Owino was responding to the fracas that characterised the first day of the curfew in Mombasa. Mombasa was characterised by chaos as residents were harassed and beaten as they tried to rush to ferries. Owino said the situation was regrettable and was taken seriously. However, he said the Covid-19 situation is serious. "The disease has threatened mankind. It can wipe out mankind. It is therefore the responsibility of all to be their brother's keeper," Owino said. He said there was lack of discipline on the part of some Kenyans. "In my mother tongue they say, you abuse the mongoose and abuse the chicken... the position is very clear. We must be concerned about the rule of law. What members of the public did was very wrong. They were to keep social distance. It is there to protect you. Instead of doing this, they decided to throw stones at cars and policemen," Owino said. He said there needs to be a balance and he said members of the public were more at fault in the Mombasa incident than police officers. Owino went on to scold the reporter interviewing him, saying he shouldn't have been on the streets, but rather at his office. "Don't try blaming the police.... first ask yourself, are you doing the right thing? There are clear instructions there is a curfew," he said. 