Garissa county wants the Dairy Industry Act amended to remove the restrictive interpretation of the word 'milk'. Agriculture, Livestock and Cooperatives executive Mohamed Shale said the Act left out camel milk, which is another key product in the dairy sector.  He said Shale said the county produces between 70 million and 90 million litres of "nutritious and low-fat camel milk annually", hence the need to have it included in the law. He spoke at Garissa Government Guesthouse during a public participation forum on dairy industry regulations. Shale said that despite the huge produce, camel milk can only be hawked because it was ignored by the formal government systems. He said the current regulatory framework anchored on the Dairy Industry Act of 1958 only recognises cattle milk. He added, however, that even cow milk hasn't received requisite attention from the Kenya Dairy Board to ensure the maintenance of health and compliance with other regulatory requirements. Shale welcomed the move by the national government, through the State Department of Livestock and the Kenya Dairy Board, to initiate a review of the existing regulations with a view to aligning them with the current realities and public expectations. "We are proud that the draft was presented to the CECM caucus in Nairobi and today public participation is being done here in Garissa following an agreement between the national and county governments," Shale said. "This is a step in the right direction and our pastoralist farmers will greatly benefit if the camel milk that is widely produced is regulated. It will give way to organised market chain and production." The executive urged the Kenya Dairy Board to establish an office in Garissa to increase access by farmers and enhance sector productivity, noting that the local community relies heavily on livestock products. Livestock Principal Secretary Harry Kimutai, in a speech read by senior ministry official Mary Kitheka, said the regulations are aimed at addressing the challenges facing the sector to take it forward towards the realisation of its full potential for the mutual benefit of Kenyans. Kimutai said the regulations would improve dairy development at national and county levels for the benefit of farmers, traders and other value chain players in the sector. They would streamline the dairy sector, reduce hazards in milk and dairy products and improve nutrition, he added. Besides the regulations, the Act will facilitate planning, organisation, and decision-making for the value chain actors to promote the sustainability of the industry. Kimutai said the move would ensure fair play and provide balanced administrative action. Farmers thanked the dairy board for subjecting the Act to public participation before being reviewed. They said public participation as provided for in the law has given communities, who, otherwise would be left behind, to contribute towards pertinent issue touching on their livelihoods. (Edited by F'Orieny)