Two weeks since the first coronavirus case was reported in Kenya, the North Rift counties are facing monumental losses as a result of uncollected revenue and abandoned development projects. The eight counties under the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) estimate they have lost more than Sh1 billion in 16 days. The counties are desperate and have stopped collecting parking fees, licence charges and other levies as the focus shifts to stopping the spread of the coronavirus. Counties have sent their employees home as the government continues to enforce social distancing, ban on crowding and urges Kenyans to stay at home to stay safe. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago had targeted to hit Sh1 billion revenue collection in  during the current financial year but now the county cannot meet the target. “Possible spread of the virus is a major threat to everything in this country and the world and we cannot do anything except focus on saving lives. That is why it's important we adhere to government directives so we can return to normalcy soon," Mandago said. Mandago, who is chairman of Noreb, said many county plans have been thrown into disarray and there's no indication when the situation will return to normal. Nandi county had projected to collect Sh400 million as internal revenue while Elgeyo Marakwet had targeted Sh300 million. Trans Nzoia had targeted Sh600 million. “With most businesses paralysed, Kenyans are not making any money for them to be able to pay taxes or county charges and this will definitely hurt our performance. We pray to God that this coronavirus situation dies away faster,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Governor John Lonyangapuo of West Pokot said it's important for Kenyans to focus on fighting the coronavirus so everyone is in good health soon to refocus on nation building. Noreb has welcomed measures taken by President Kenyatta to boost the economy. They include tax waivers to help protect businesses from further losses. Mandago and his colleagues said money released to pay pending bills will also increase liquidity in the economy. (Edited by V.Graham)