Former FC Talanta midfielder John Mwita is barely living from hand to mouth in Mombasa after failing to secure a club this season. Mwita's tribulations began in July last year after Tanzanian outfit, Singida United announced that they had acquired his signature for three years, much to the chagrin of Talanta who accused the former of player tapping. Singida further argued that the midfielder had joined as a free agent—an announcement—which Talanta did not take lightly and went on to confirm that the player had a running contract. Singida also revealed that the player was a Tanzanian contrary to the Kenyan registration documents held by the player. Through Football Kenya Federation, Talanta managed to block the transfer as Mwita denied any wrongdoing, slamming Singida for soiling his reputation and career. The push and pull between the two clubs culminated in the axing of the lanky player on the eve of the start of the 2019-2020 season hence rendering him club-less till January this year. His quest to get a deal during the last transfer window did not yield fruits hence he will have to stay off the pitch till next season. The former Migori Youth player has opted to open up on his struggles to earn a living. He says he has had to survive by doing menial jobs in Mombasa and his merchandise shop in Migori is not bringing forth profits enough to cater for his basic needs. "Football was the sole source of income and from the time I left Talanta, life has been unbearable. I have had to do all menial jobs in Mombasa, where I live with my elder brother to earn a living. I also run a small shop back in Migori which has kept me going but I hope for the best come next season," he opened up Mwita, 25, in the meantime, revealed that he has been training with his former club Modern Coast Rangers in the last one month to keep fit and was hopeful of signing a deal with a club which plies its trade in the National Super League. " Coast Rangers were interested in my services in January but could not complete the deal. They hinted to me that they had financial challenges but I have been training with them for a month now. It is my hope that I will get a club in the NSL and later scale to the top flight in the subsequent seasons, " he said.