A former lawmaker who landed a plum appointment to a board of state agency seems not to have understood that the position is not an executive post but a part-time engagement. It thus does not require everyday physical presence at the agency’s headquarters. The ex-lawmaker known for his bossy nature, Corridors has learnt, reports to the agency’s headquarters as early as 8am and with no office and no specific work to do. He spends most of his time in the boardroom reading newspapers and is sometimes forced to sit at the reception when the boardroom is engaged. He is said to only leave for home at 5pm with the rest of the staff. It looks like the coronavirus epidemic will also have grave consequences for politicians in their constituencies. Homabay Town MP Peter Kaluma has already been warned by his constituents for keeping a distance from them. Kaluma told a press conference that his constituents told him they would be waiting for him at the ballot because of the way he handled them in the wake of the virus. Kaluma said he is in trouble for having chased away a crowd that had paid him a visit at his rural home and even refused to shake their hands. "They are now saying that I labelled them corona," he said. English is an imported language, so they say. But the way some legislators mutilate the Queen’s language is quite astonishing. Last week, a female nominated senator left her colleagues and a witness who had appeared before a committee over the controversial medical equipment programme in stitches. The woman kept on saying how her governor was 'castrated' by chiefs, assistant chiefs and county and subcounty commissioners for refusing to sign an MoU to allow the programme to start. Taken aback, a member sought to know the meaning of the word the legislator was using. But she brushed him off and demanded to know from the witness why they used chiefs to 'castrate' her governor. The lawmakers only learnt at the tail end that  'castigate' was the word buried in the struggle.