Irfan Karim’s second consecutive century helped Swamibapa to extend their unbeaten run in the Nairobi Invitational Twenty20 tournament as they beat Nairobi Gymkhana by 18 runs yesterday. It was a clinical performance yet again from the national team wicketkeeper before the spinners displayed some mettle as the visitors wilted under the onslaught at Nairobi Jafferys. Karim’s 53 off 40 balls came less than 48 hours after his unbeaten 69 off 41 balls had extended Swamibapa’s winning streak in the tournament to five with a 36 runs win over Sikh Union. Swamis opted to bat with top order giving them a decent start as they scored at an average of six an over halfway through the inning. Regular opener Naman Patel was dropped down the order and the opening responsibility was handed to Pankaj Sangani and Rushab Patel who put 48 before Harsh Patel broke the stand with the dismissal of Desai. This opened up for a second-wicket stand of 91 runs in 11.1 overs. Rushab faced 51 balls that included four boundaries on his way to 48 before falling to Gourav Mahapatra. Karim hit three sixes and no four as he gave his side a good platform for a decent total against his former club. “It was a good track to bat on even though I took a couple of balls to settle. Rushab and Sangani had set a good platform and so it was easy to pick up,” Karim said. The left-handed batsman fell to Amish Amin with ten balls to play. Amin added on three more wickets as Swamibapa ended on 154 for 5. In reply, Kavi Dosaja and Mahapatra put on a good fight to try and end Swamibapa’s dominance in the event but their efforts were not enough as the hosts restricted them to 136 for 6. Dosaja was involved in an opening stand of 63 runs before falling to Naman Patel in the tenth over. They lost a couple of wickets thereafter to stand at 86 for 3 but Mahapatra stuck in for some time to see his side get them closer to victory. But tight fielding and a number of bowling changes spoilt the mission for Dosaja’s side. On Saturday, Karim’s half-ton led Swamibapa to 172 for 2 against a youthful Sikh Union. Karim shared an unbeaten third wicket stand of 98 runs with Naman (33).