The infighting in the County's finance department risks plunging the county into more delayed service delivery stretching to the next financial year. The department is yet to table the County Fiscal Strategy Paper ( CFSP), a policy document that helps to determine funding of projects. The document was supposed to be tabled latest February 28, 2020, to allow the Assembly's Budget Committee kick start the Financial Year 2020/21 budget-making process. The Budget and Appropriation Committee Chairman Robert Mbatia on Wednesday said the county now runs the risk of not having a budget and even if it is, then it will have delayed and can be challenged in court. "The executive ought to have tabled the CFSP by February 28, 2020, and up to date it has not happened and it has to be approved with or without amendments by March 15,2020. This will be a missing deadline for the tabling of estimates,"he explained. The CFSP document is very crucial as it determines how big the total budget should be by estimating total revenue, total spending, and, where spending is larger than revenue and also the total deficit. “If you do not have policy how can you fund a budget? It means we will not have a budget and even if we have it, then it means it will have delayed and it can even be challenged in court because we shall have passed it unlawfully,” Mbatia added. The Budget chairan who is also the ward for Kariobangi South revealed that the executive has failed to provide funds for the CSFP public participation and three retreats held in preparation for the budget. “Can you imagine we do not even have funds for such retreats of budget preparation and in between we are still playing games? You can now understand the pressure and frustration we are going through when someone still hides vouchers meant to pay for such retreats,” Mbatia stated In addition, the chairman said that the wrangles have led to delayed tabling of crucial documents to the budget making process. It is not clear who is the substantive holder of the County's finance executive after the governor appointed CEC for Trade Allan Igambi to replace Pauline Kahiga who is still gazetted as the CEC Kahiga ad the Chief Officer for Economic Planning Washington Makodingo have been making payments and this week on Monday authorized for the release of Sh1 billion to go towards the payment of staff salaries. Last week, the two also paid Kemsa Sh166.9 million for pending bills and new order of drugs this year . The battles at the department have been a major impediment to development in the current financial year and has also led to acute payment of debts and pending bills. As of January 31 this year, the county had only spend Sh 300 million on development from the Sh 12 billion development budget. Chief Officer for Finance Alkano Wako has no access to treasury tokens with Makodingo enjoying the rights as the Chie officer for Economic Planning. A public notice published on Tuesday, said the two finance officials and for CEC for Agriculture Winfred Kathangu have ceased to be employees of the Nairobi County Government effective from February 1, 2020. Reaching for a comment, Kahiga told The Star that she is still the County Executive for Finance and Chief Officer for Economic Planning Washington Makodingo also confirmed that he is still in office. "What is happening is that the Governor wants to be in control of the treasury so that payments can be done as he wishes but that will not happen. The law has to be followed," Makodingo explained. He added that he has a valid contract until November 2022. "To sack a chief officer is entirely the mandate of the County Service Public Board and there are also procedures to be followed. Work is flowing at the Finance department and nothing has stalled," Makodingo said. Pronouncing herself on the matter, County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said she will be writing  to the National Treasury and Central Bank over the same amid supremacy battles at the County Treasury with two CECs claiming the Finance docket. According to Elachi  Pauline Kahiga remains Nairobi’s bona fide Finance Executive until the National Government completes takeover of the county’s key functions. “Kahiga remains CEC for Finance until the takeover is complete. We cannot be having confusion in the docket at this time,” she said