A mother of two is seeking justice for her children who were allegedly defiled by their Madrasa teacher on two separate occasions at South C estate, Nairobi. She wants the perpetrator who was released on a Sh300,000 bond put behind bars for the rest of his life, stating that he does not deserve to walk scot-free. “He has the tendency of handling minors inappropriately especially during Madrasa lessons and unfortunately it has never been reported before. I am standing up for my children because I do not want anything worse than this to happen again,” she said. The accused, Ibrahim Mohammed, is alleged to have defiled a girl 7 and boy 9 in broad daylight by touching them both in their private parts last year and again on February 23. The young boy rushed to report the incident to his mother where the girl also came clean and narrated the ordeal to her. Her distraught mother tried to seek guidance from her close friends and neighbours but it hit a dead end. “Some advised me to leave the matter alone and hide the embarrassment because of his position while others told me that I will be cursed by the gods,” she said. They were immediately taken for treatment at the Nairobi Women’s Hospital, Adams branch and are currently undergoing counselling sessions. She reported the matter at Akila police post (South C) under OB Number 3/2/3/2020 and Mohammed was arraigned in Kibera Law courts on March 2. He was released on March 4. Her mother also said that the police only presented one case (boy’s) in court leaving the other one behind which raised a lot of questions. Akila's police boss told the Star that he could not comment on the case. The Sexual Offenses Act 3 of 2006 states that a person who commits an offense of defilement with a child aged eleven years or less shall upon conviction be sentenced to imprisonment for life. Section 9 (2) under attempted defilement states that a person who commits an offense of attempted defilement with a child is liable upon conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years.