Harambee Stars forthcoming 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Comoros is in limbo after Football Kenya Federation wrote to Caf requesting the fixtures to be rescheduled. The federation said the decision is in line with the government’s directive to ban all international gatherings as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus epidemic. Kenya is set to host the Islanders on March 25 and travel for the return match four days later. “The government gave a directive and we have no choice other than to obey. We have requested Caf to shelve the two matches as we are not sure if Comoros will be cleared to jet in. We are also not sure if we will be allowed to fly out for the return match. We are as well concerned with the health of our team. However, the team will continue with preparations as we wait for Caf’s response,” said FKF chief executive officer Barry Otieno. Meanwhile, the Africa Under 20 Rugby tournament, popularly known as the Barthez Cup, has been postponed to due to the same reasons. A statement sent by Rugby Africa president Khaled Babbou stated: "On behalf of the Rugby Africa executive committee, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kenya has issued an update on COVID-19 on the March 6. Among other points, it states the government has, with immediate effect banned all meetings, conferences and events of international nature in Kenya." "As much as Rugby Africa, the host and most of all the young players are looking forward to the continental U20 competition in Nairobi, we need to take every precaution we possibly can from our side to protect our players and support the fight against the coronavirus as set out by the authorities." "The tournament is not cancelled, but only postponed to a later date which we will communicate in due time. We thank the Kenyan Rugby Union for their tremendous support.” Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla said: “As the host union, the safety and welfare of the participants is important for us. We support Rugby Africa and the Kenyan authorities in their protective measures to our best abilities and therefore fully support the decision to postpone the U20 Barthés Trophy." The tournament was due to be played between April 19-26 at the RFUEA ground. At the same time, the inaugural African T20 Cricket Championships set for Nairobi this month been postponed. A press statement jointly signed by the Africa Cricket Association (ACA)’s chief executive, Cassim Suliman and Chairperson, Jackie Janmohamed, ACA said: “With reference to the above-mentioned subjects please be advised (that) with in-depth communications with local and international authorities as well as to ensure safety of all concerned both domestically and internationally, we regret to advise the participating members that the ACA T20 Africa Cup Kenya 2020 has been postponed until further notice." Elsewhere, the national men's beach volleyball team will not travel to the Gambia for the second phase of the Olympic qualifiers set for March 12-16. The team has been training at the Flamengo Beach Hotel in Mombasa for the past two weeks and travelled to Nairobi yesterday but the Ministry of Health has advised the team not to move out of the country. "Through the Ministry of Health, the Sports Ministry will not be able to allow athletes to travel due to the fear of the coronavirus outbreak," said Waithaka Kioni, the Kenya Volleyball Federation president. Kioni is also Kenya's Chef de mission for Tokyo 2020.