President Uhuru Kenyatta has raised concern that nearly all anti-malaria medicines in Africa are imported. The continent accounts for 93 per cent of all malaria cases in the world, but imports most of her medicines and commodities, largely from Europe, India and China. Uhuru said the continent must boost local production to eliminate the disease, which in 2018 killed about 380,000 people globally, 94 per cent of them in Africa. "Currently local manufacturing capacity is very limited due to lack of active ingredients from the continent, weak procurement and trade policies, and lack of harmonized regulatory regime," he said, at a press conference at State House on Monday afternoon. President Uhuru is the chairman of the African Leaders Malaria Alliance (ALMA), a coalition of 49 African heads of state and government, established in 2009 for a coordinated response against malaria. Malaria is still the second biggest cause of reported deaths in Kenya after respiratory infections, according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. In 2018, there were 10.7 million malaria cases, up from 7.9 million in 2017. On Monday, President Uhuru also said the continent faces a funding shortage of between Sh250 billion to Sh300 billion to eliminate malaria. "We need to ensure that we mobilize sufficient funding including from the domestic, public and private sector," he said. The president, who took over Alma chairmanship in February from King Mswati of eSwatini, will lead the alliance for the next two years. He outlined his priority areas as digitisation and access to real time malaria data, and leveraging on regional economic blocs. President Uhuru said he will also establish at least 15 end malaria councils and funds. "We also need to create Alma youth advisory group, working with existing youth leaders from the various youth structures in Africa," he said. Head of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership Abdourahmane Diallo said progress across Africa had stalled. "Since 2010 the numbers of malaria dramatically went down by 22 per cent, deaths reduced by 43 per cent," he said. "But in the last three years the progress has stalled especially in high burden countries," he said. African Union Commissioner for Social Affairs Amira El Fadil asked President Uhuru to promote the Africa Medicines Agency to boost local production. "We've 14 countries signed but only three to four have ratified. This will be a regulatory body and will harmonise the policy to encourage local production, she said.