  Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has ordered a stop to the transfer of bodies from other counties to mortuaries in Busia until the spread of coronavirus is contained. The governor said law enforcers will be on standby to monitor traffic and make sure the directive is implemented. The order is among measures the county has instituted to curb the spread of coronavirus. “I direct that no dead bodies from other counties will be allowed into the county’s mortuaries and that people who lose their beloved ones should collect bodies within 48 hours and bury them immediately after collection,” Ojaamong said on Tuesday. He spoke to the media after a meeting he co-chaired with county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri. The meeting was convened to devise new measures to limit coronavirus spread. Ojaamong said allowing bodies from other counties into Busia morgues may be a recipe for spreading the virus. He said six people are already under quarantine after returning to Busia from Europe and Middle Eastern countries. “No case of Covid-19 has been reported in the county but six people have been self-quarantined in their respective homes including a retired priest in Malaba who had arrived from the United Kingdom,” Ojaamong said. He added, “One is quarantined in Nambale after arriving from Afghanistan while four family members who attended a funeral in Ugunja are quarantined in their Matayos home to avoid contact with other people should tests turn positive.” Busia borders Bungoma and Siaya counties. Residents of Bungoma and Siaya living along the boundary with Busia sometime transport bodies of their loved ones to mortuaries in Busia. Busia’s main mortuaries are at the County Referral Hospital, Tanaka Hospital, Frapa Funeral Home in Teso North subcounty and the one at Alupe Subcounty Hospital in Teso South. Ojaamong also ordered open-air markets shut. “Market days have been suspended but small markets will continue on condition that they observe social distance,” he said adding that congregations of many people will not be allowed. He said clubs and bars must remain closed as was ordered by the national government on Sunday while restaurants will serve food only as take away. Funeral gatherings were also suspended with burial events restricted to immediate family members of not more than 15 people only. Ojaamongg said fumigation of all hospitals and other public places with anti-coronavirus chemicals would start immediately. Disinfection would start at the Busia County Referral Hospital. The exercise will cover residential areas too. Kanyiri told businessmen to sell products at normal market prices. He warned traders of dire consequences should they sell products at exorbitant costs. He warned unscrupulous traders against any attempt to sell contraband goods especially sanitizers not certified by Kenya Bureau of Standards. "Such traders will be arrested," Kanyiri said. The two leaders asked residents to remain vigilant and report cases of high fever to hospitals. "Everyone should follow safety guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health,' Ojaamong said.  eidted by peter obuya