A TSC commissioner nominee had a difficult time trying to acquit herself when she appeared before a parliamentary vetting committee on Thursday. Leila Abdi Ali did not have academic certificates to the astonishment of the Committee on Education chaired by Tinderet MP Julius Melly. She only had mock exam results and curriculum vitae with dates that contradicted her career journey. She, for instance, said she worked at Kenya Revenue Authority at a time she also had a full-time job in London. Leila, whose net worth is Sh80 million, was also at pains to explain why she has not collected the certificates since returning to the country. She said her wealth comes from salaries, businesses, sale of companies, and has 50 acres of land in Loitoktok, Kajiado County. Her CV stated that she was in the UK between February 2004 and December 2005 and with KRA as a revenue officer between November 2004 and September 2005. Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya (vice-chair of the Education Committee) said the 41-year-old did not have the requisite experience of 10 years. “We need testimonials from the employers she has worked for,” Kimunya said as other members demanded answers on how she got admitted to a UK university. The members also cast aspersions on her citizenship as her ID card shows she was born in Mogadishu, Somalia. She had in 2017 registered her place of birth as Kitisuru, Westlands. Leila said she is a dual citizen of Kenya and the UK and that she is ready to renounce that status should she be given the job. The MPs were concerned whether the applicant gave the same information to the selection panel and how she qualified for nomination. President Uhuru Kenyatta sent her name alongside that of Mbage Njuguna from a list of nine candidates approved by the selection panel. “The contradictions are wanting. Even if we were to go further, she has just given mock results and has no KCSE certificate,” Pamela Odhiambo (Migori Woman Rep) said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion (nominated MP) said it was regrettable that the nominee had not taken her application for such an important post seriously. Leila told the panel that her background is unique. “I am a living testimony that despite hardships, one can still work hard and grow their career.” Mandera voter Ali Maalim opposed her nomination, citing her questionable education background. Maalim also said she is not a resident of either Mandera, Garissa, Marsabit or Wajir. Leila explained that her mother is a Kenyan who gave birth to her while on a trip to Somalia. "My grandfather Ali Kabati was a freedom fighter and was Thika mayor for years. He was recently honoured for his efforts in the fight for freedom," the nominee said. The nominee said she was raised in Loitoktok and attended DEB Primary School, Loitoktok. "Our community did not value girlchild education." The committee asked her to bring documentation on her parents' citizenship. According to Leila, she is a graduate of UK's London South Bank University. "My early life experience birthed my desire to promote education." The nominee is a senior auditor with Becker Merali and chairs the audit committee at the Competition Authority. She also runs an NGO in Kajiado that focuses on the education for girls. Mbage told MPs he would help resolve the longstanding dispute between the TSC and labour unions. “I'll solve poor labour relations through alternative dispute resolution. I wish to do this in a legal and sensitive way that doesn't create a winner and a loser,” the nominee said.