Investigators on Tuesday interrogated two employees of a telco accompanied by the firm's lawyer. The name of the firm whose employees are involved is yet to be made public by the DCI. Investigators are trying to unravel under whose instructions the employees deleted data from the late AP Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's phone on the morning of February 19. Detectives managed to get the data from servers of the mobile phone service provider as they try to crack details surrounding Kenei's death. Three Department of Defence staff in the procurement department are believed to have prepared the Sh39 billion fake procurement contract for the supply of military equipment. Kenei, according to the DCI, was a key player in the fake military tender and had been seen as a principal witness against the scam. DoD spokesperson Bogita Ongeri already clarified that military procurement follows strict laws under the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and that no procurement of arms was underway. The fake arms procurement contract was allegedly supposed to be signed between DoD and two Polish businessmen in Ruto's Harambee House Annex office on February 13 before detectives were tipped off. It is not clear whether the DoD officials mentioned in the scandal involving former Sports CS Rashid Echesa are military personnel or civilians attached to Ulinzi House. Some of the key support departments within the military have a blend of soldiers and civilian experts. Officers investigating the murder of Kenei have concluded that the officer was killed to cover up explosive details of the fraudulent military tender that has roiled the DP's office. The three DoD staff were in contact with the fake military general Daniel Otieno who was arrested alongside Echesa moments after they exited the DP's office. Echesa and the 'general' are out on bond after they were arraigned last month in connection with the fake procurement deal. “It is clear that the alleged procurement was a fraudulent scheme since the military informed us there was no procurement of such a manner going on. We want to know how the officers managed to get the DoD letterheads,” an officer aware of the investigations told the Star. The DoD staff are said to have also forged Defence CS Raychelle Omamo's signature contained in the fake tender documents confiscated from Echesa's car. On Sunday, the investigating team visited DoD to update the authorities on the emerging dimension of the investigations and got the green light from the top military command to interrogate officers linked to the scam. "We have the express authority to interrogate the DoD officers who are planned to come any time this week,” the officer said, adding that unmasking the fake general's contacts would be key in the unmasking the masterminds of the fraudulent tender. Edited by Henry Makori