Traders in Trans Mara, Narok county, say they are counting losses for days now due to fears of the coronavirus, which has kept their customers at bay. Many of those who turned up at the Kenyatta Market in Kilgoris decried low profits owing to the low number of buyers. Some want the government to rethink the closure of markets adding that they want those in the remote areas to continue operating normally. Risper Mongina, a raw banana seller, said she did not sell a single bunch by close of business yesterday. She had hired a van from Ogembo to deliver goods to the market. “I paid Sh2,000 to transport my bananas here and I have been standing here since morning with no customer insight. It appears many people travelled out of town or they have closed themselves in their homes because of the virus fears,” she told the Star. Mary Kemboi sells household goods from Nandi. She said she fears for her children because of the suppressed sales for the last week. “We urge that the government rethink the closure of markets that are in remote parts . Let them improve surveillance in the main towns where suspect coronavirus cases have been reported,” she said. Vegetable sellers were hard hit as they were forced to return home with them as most people left the town in droves for their upcountry homes. By yesterday, the county was mulling closing markets to prevent the spread of the virus. There are seven cases in the country by Saturday. Regional deputy county commander Hassan Nur advised the county to close the markets in the region to avoid the spread of the virus. “It is not a matter of remoteness of place or town. Kenyans travel day and night and that is why precautions should be taken anywhere so that we don’t slide into the anarchy other countries that failed to take quick action have fallen into,” Nur said. He said the government has since directed that all public health officers ensure eateries in the subcounty comply with the regulations. “Nobody should be allowed to operate without the observation of the guidelines that have been spelt out,” he said.  EDITED BY E.KIBII