Akorino Church faithful in Laikipia West want action taken against a police officer who beat up and stripped a woman from their congregation. Naomi Wangui said the officer who is based at Maili Saba police post assaulted her after she went to collect her phone from a salon on Wednesday evening. But instead of returning her phone which she had taken the previous day, the salon's proprietor started beating her. She then called the officer who also beat Wangui, stripped her of her clothes and headscarf and escorted her to Maili Saba police post, where she was forced to sit in a flooded cell. “He beat me until blood oozed from the mouth. I pleaded with him to release me to go home to my children but he said I should stay in the cell because I am a bad person,” she said. She was freed after church leaders went to the police post and demanded her release. Laikipia West subcounty deputy police boss Moffat Mang’era yesterday told the Star the matter is being investigated. “I am following it up. At the moment I don’t have full details, maybe later,” he said on the phone. Mary Anne, a witness, said she rushed outside from her shop when she heard a woman screaming. “I noticed a woman who had her skirt raised to her back being beaten as she was directed towards the police post. At some point, her headscarf also dropped. People said it was Mukurino’s wife,” she said. Mary Anne said another officer collected the headscarf and took it to Wangui. Pastor Samson Karuru of Ole Ng’arua Parish said just touching an Akorino’s headscarf is an abomination as it affects the sanctity of the religious cloth. “Our women do not remove their headscarves day and night. We want to know, from the government, if there is a new law allowing police officers to remove our headscarves. I never remove mine even when entering a courtroom,” he said. Pastor Laban Nyaga from Nyahururu said it would require the Akorino Church to hold a big religious ceremony to cleanse Wangui’s headscarf. Its religious meaning was lost the moment it was removed, Nyaga said. He said the Independent Police Oversight Authority should investigate the abuse and take the necessary actions. Ibrahim Macharia, the national secretary general of the Akorino Church, yesterday told the Star that Wangui’s rights were abused by the officer. Macharia, who is a lawyer, said whether Wangui was on the wrong or not did not warrant infringement on her religious rights. He said the church will pursue justice in court. “We are going to follow it up. I have advised them to record statements and given them a lawyer to act on the matter. “We hope the police will take the requisite disciplinary measure even as we move to protect our religious rights,” he said.  (edited by O. Owino)