  The Muhoroni-based Agro Chemicals and Food Company has been allowed to resume production a month after it was shut down over pollution. National Environmental Management Authority director-general Mamo Boru Mamo said they had allowed the resumption of production “in light of the coronavirus pandemic." The company will start emergency production of alcohol to be used in the manufacture of sanitisers, he said. Nema and the Water Resources Management Authority in Kisumu have been working closely with Agrochemicals to develop a compliance plan to help it comply with set regulations. “We will continue to monitor the company until full compliance is achieved,” Mamo said. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o thanked the State Department of Environment and Nema for restoring production at the company. “This paves the way for the factory to produce the much-needed sanitisers for medical use at this very crucial time in fighting coronavirus,” he said. Nyong’o said his administration has negotiated with the company for the establishment of a social corporate responsibility programme to supply sanitisers to fight Covid-19. Agrochemical was accused of discharging industrial waste into River Nyando and ignoring restoration orders from Nema. Last month Mamo closed the factory and directed the management to fix the industrial waste management system in seven days. He said a Nema analysis of the chemical oxygen demand in the water discharged from the factory was at 104,000 against the recommended 50. “The COD level is very high and no microorganism can survive in such an environment,” he said. Mamo warned that the matter would be escalated to court if the company failed to fix the system in seven days. Last month, two Muhoroni residents failed to convince the court to temporarily close the company over the discharge of industrial effluent into River Nyando. Patrick Odundo and Maxwell Otieno accused Agro Chemicals of discharging effluent into the river and polluting water consumed by thousands of people. Agro Chemicals told the court it had complied with all legal requirements and environmental regulations. Land and Environment Court judge Antony Ombwayo dismissed the petition on Friday. The petitioners had only produced a newspaper article indicating that Nema had ordered the closure of the company. "Having failed to establish the case, the petitioners' application is dismissed," Ombwayo ruled. The petitioners had argued that there was a deliberate and incremental discharge of toxic waste into the Nyando River basin with adverse consequences to the health of residents downstream. They said that farming, fishing, livestock keeping, laundry, domestic and other related economic activities derivative of the river waters have been disrupted. They also argued that the respondents had abdicated their lawful mandate by permitting and condoning the illegal discharge of toxic industrial waste. “Nema had withdrawn the licence of the company on account of breaches and non-compliance with the law regarding refuse disposal, factual proof of imminent danger posed by the company to the petitioners and their fellow residents,” the court documents said in part. Peter Macharia, Agro Chemicals' environment and safety manager, said the company was legally compliant and had been issued with up to date licences. The Environment Management and Coordination Act requires the company to carry out environmental sustainability and monitoring and report to Nema.   