The coronavirus has moved crop protection to a new status as super-critical to ensure we have enough food this year. For national and global measures to head off mass infections have brought our trading system to a halt, removing the safety net that existed for all nations of importing on shortages and exporting surpluses for income. That means there is no other protection if pests wipe out our food, even as insects and diseases continue to compete for our crops. This year, if we let the fall armyworm take our maize, as it did in 2017 when 70 per cent of our national maize crop was destroyed, our options will be very different as we look for imported maize to replace our own failed crops. Air cargo is now arriving at a fraction of its volume. This, alone, creates a big hole in feeding us all: By 2018, our food imports surpassed Sh1 billion a year as we imported maize, wheat, wheat flour, rice, sugar and other agricultural commodities. We are thus challenged to increase our agricultural production to cover for the imports that we can no longer bring in, as we are grappling with looming food shortage. From the crops already in, farmers are trying to keep delivering fresh produce to towns and cities, and even to get some horticultural produce to our airports to keep earning. But transport is getting harder. Our urban points of sale are also now challenged as markets are closing. Without urgent attention, we are rapidly heading towards a quagmire of urban starvation. But further up the food chain we have even bigger problems looming. Agro-inputs suppliers have been trying to keep inputs moving to farmers with the planting season now underway. But supplies may be compromised. The locust swarms in January and February laid huge breeding grounds in which the eggs have been hatching throughout March, generating a new pest for farmers. We now have an urgent agenda to address in getting the most from every crop. It isn’t going to help us losing mangoes, tomatoes, beans, maize or any crop to insects or diseases that we can counter for just shillings. Maximising our agricultural output has gained new urgency, and we need to ensure every mind is clear on the implications of dropping planting, and of dropping yields. If we turn away from that need, we will suffer the same way we have in the past. During the 2007-08 post-election violence, we were slow to spot the implications for food. The food shortages hit us later, nonetheless, in tight supplies and higher prices from as early as June that year. The problems were largely confined to the Rift Valley, the country's food basket. Now, every agricultural region has been affected by the coronavirus pandemic and the locust invasion, and given it is a global problem, we have lost our import safety net – which we had in 2008. We are, therefore, trying to ensure agrochemical supplies keep flowing, to head off the catastrophic breakdown that would come on losing even just three-quarters of our staple food crop. Yet agro-inputs have been left off every list of essential items so far. However, no one in government has told us how Kenya will fare without Sh1 billion of food imports and with our own food production down by 60 to 70 per cent as a result of growing without inputs. We are thus working to deepen and increase information to every farmer on ways to access essential inputs and even looking at initiatives to support local fertiliser production. But a national dialogue is an urgent priority. We will be fooling ourselves this planting season, and growing season too, if we think a cessation on our agricultural inputs will be a problem we can cover later by importing as most other countries also struggle to maintain their food supply chains. March and April are the peak for planting across the world, and many farmers are not planting as normal. In 2020, every crop will count, and all of us need to look at what’s necessary to get the most crops and the highest yields. CEO of Agrochemical Association of Kenya