The coronavirus has been the trending topic across the world for months since the first case was reported in Wuhan, China. Currently, there are 50 cases of the virus in Kenya with one fatality and one recovery reported as of this publication. The Ministry of Health has identified five hotspot counties in the country namely Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kajiado. The government last week announced a dusk to dawn curfew which began on Friday. All Kenyans, apart from those listed under critical and essential services, are now required to be indoors by 7 pm. Since the curfew started, we have witnessed cases of police brutality particularly last Friday at the Likoni Channel. This was after police officers were recorded on camera assaulting Kenyans who were rushing to cross the channel to get to their homes. Kenyans seem to have a hard time adhering to the directives given and end up finding themselves in trouble when the curfew officially starts. So what are some of the things one is required to do before the curfew starts? 1. Leave the office early In as much as the government urged companies to let their employees work from home, there are some jobs that require one to be physically present at their workplace/work station. Try as hard as you can to plan your time well so that you can have enough time to finish your day's work and rush home. If you are found outside after the curfew starts, you will be answerable for your actions. 2. Buy enough food. At this point, stocking up your house with food and other necessities is very important. Before you settle down at home, make sure that you have everything you need to avoid unnecessary movement once the curfew begins. Make a list of things you need and get them early in advance to avoid a last-minute rush. 3. Clean your environs Staying safe is one of the main agendas right now and staying in a clean environment helps to curb the spread of the virus. Clean your houses with disinfectants especially toilets and bathrooms and surfaces most frequently touched. Make sure that you always clean with soap and water and dry your hands with paper towels or a regular towel but make sure the towel is always clean. 5. Lock your doors Staying indoors means staying safe but not everyone is on a mission to stay safe. Some people are taking advantage of this period to steal from others. Always make sure your doors are locked whether you are just going to the shops or market. Always leave your house locked. 6. Medication If you are under medication, make sure you get your doses before you lock yourself at home. Coronavirus is not the only disease that is affecting us. There are other illnesses and it is important to keep your health in check.  Kenyans should heed the government's directives. So stay at home and make sure you wash your hands with soap and water and if you can afford, invest in a good sanitizer.