“Dad, leave me alone, dad leave me,  you are hurting me." That's a five-year-old murmured in her sleep as her mother was putting her to bed on August 11, 2015. As she spoke she clutched her trousers, a  Madaraka court was told. The mother then woke the girl up and asked her what she meant, but the child remained silent. The mother then called the girls sister to ask her what happened as they spoke freely with each other. She listened in the next room. The child described to her sister how their father defiled her and afterwards gave her Sh10 to buy chips. The following day, the mother took her to a hospital and reported the incest at a police station. The accused was arrested and charged with committing incest on August 11, 2015, at Mukuru kwa Njenga, Nairobi. He pleaded not guilty to all charges.  The court heard that her father and mother had been married for 14 years before they separated. The children stayed with their mother but all visited him regularly at the house he rented not far away. On Wednesday, Makadara chief magistrate Heston Nyaga found the man guilty of incest and sentenced him to 15 years imprisonment. “It appears the accused had been defiling his own child on several occasions. It was only when her mother heard her talking in her sleep that the issue came to light,” Nyaga said while sentencing. “The accused deserves a lengthy custodial sentence. He should be kept away from children for a long time," he ruled. The minor who was then in a nursery school, testified that on the day of the attack she had visited her father. She accused him of removing her underwear and defiing her. She told court her father had attacked her on other occasions. A medical exam showed the child been defiled over a period of time. The accused claimed that his former wife had 'fixed' him. Nyaga ruled, "It is was highly unlikely that she could have conspired with her mother to fix her father...the complainant was her daughter and despite him parting ways with his wife, the complainant continued to freely go and visit him, this points to the father-daughter relationship." He also said that the words the girl murmured in her sleep showed hat she had been traumatised. (Edited by V. Graham)