Reigning All Africa Games 1,500m gold medalist Quailyne Kiprop is keen to break Ethiopia's Genzebe Dibaba's mark over the distance set in 2015. Kiprop said she was in the right shape for the record but the current coronavirus pandemic has messed up her plans. " I still harbour the ambition of breaking the record someday when the coronavirus pandemic will be over," she added. Genzebe's world record stands at 3:50.07. Kiprop was scheduled to compete at the Doha  Diamond League but the event was shelved due to coronavirus. She, however, vowed to keep the focus as she waits for the season to resume. Kiprop said she wants to move to 5,000m but only after leaving the record-breaking mark in the three and a half lap race. She regretted that the current pandemic had cost athletes a lot hence the year 2020 will go down in their career as the worst.  “We depend on running for survival and as you can see we even do not know if to train or not," she noted. “I want to break the 1,500m world record before switching to 5000m. We are currently at home doing nothing and we even fear training because you never know the health of your partner after camps were closed,” added the Mount Elgon-based runner. Kiprop, who trains in Eldama Ravine in Baringo county, was, however, optimistic things will be back to normal soon. “For me, I am just relaxing waiting for good news. As much as I am suffering because I depend on athletics, I am not the only one affected. Even if I train, I am not sure where I will be running next. Usually, we train according to the programme. The situation is confusing,” she said. Kiprop was to use Doha meeting as part of her preparations for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, which again hangs in limbo. She was to accompany her training mates Justus Soget, reigning All Africa Games 5,000m champion Richard Kimunyan and the world Under-18 800m silver medallist, Lydia Jeruto. Kiprop was part of the Team Kenya team to the Africa Cross Country Championships but the event was also pushed to next year.