After thrashing Talanta 4-1 to advance to the quarter-finals of the Betway Shield tournament, Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya is keen to guide the club to their fourth straight final. Sharks have played in the tournament’s last three finals and yesterday, the former holders edged closer to booking a place in this year’s edition after edging the National Super League side. The match was initially planned for Moi Stadium, Kasarani but was moved to Camp Toyoyo after the former was closed for renovations Muluya, who will miss the services of his playmaker Patila Omoto in the quarters, after the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge winner saw red, is hopeful of getting past the remaining barriers and return to continental football. Talanta also finished with 10 men after Hussein Puzo’s two yellow cards. “We approached it like a normal league match and the boys did not underrate our opponents. We are pursuing to sail to the final and hopefully, we will reclaim the cup and return to continental football. I am not worried about Omoto’s absence for I have players who are able to fill in his shoes,” said the youthful tactician. While Muluya was over the moon, interim Talanta manager Patrick Muchiri rued a lapse in concentration in the second half where they conceded three goals after a 1-1 stalemate in the first half. “We played well in the first half but the boys lost concentration in the final one. We had planned to stay behind the ball and pounce on counter-attacks but they (players) went against the tact and went for the open approach.” “Sharks capitalised on this and punished us heavily even though we would have also pushed the match down to the wire had we taken our chances. We will now concentrate on our league matches,” said the St Anthony’s Boys Kitale alumnus. Meanwhile, Ulinzi Stars advanced to the last eight after gunning down Migori Youth 1-0 at the Afraha Stadium. Bernard Ongoma netted the decisive goal in the second half. AFC Leopards needed post-match penalties to toss out another NSL side Ushuru 4-2 after a barren draw within regulation time. Leopards finished with ten men after Isaac Kipyegon was sent off for a second bookable offence. Kipyegon was drafted in the starting team ahead of Washington Munene who clocked 90 minutes during the Mashemeji derby.