The Attorney-General has asked the court to dismiss a case challenging the transfer of functions of Nairobi county to the national government. AG Kihara Kariuki says the transfer of functions and powers between levels of government is purely a political process hence its rationale is not within the purview of the court. And if the court were to grant orders sought in the case, he said, it would amount to judicial overreach into the constitutional purview of national and county governments. Most importantly, the chief government adviser said there is no proof whatsoever that the transfer of functions will result in less effective performance. “None of the functions and or powers transferred by the city county government is expressly prohibited by the legislation under which it is to be performed or exercised.” In response to the case filed by Katiba Institute and Wanjiru Gikonyo, the AG noted that Governor Mike Sonko has not been divested of his constitutional authority. So far, three cases have been filed challenging the transfer. One was filed by activist Okiya Omtatah, another by Katiba Institute and another by Robbin Karani. Karani says that Sonko is not authorised to transfer the functions of the county. The handover of functions of health, transport, public works, utilities planning and development was done on February 25. Omtatah argues that the public, Cabinet, County Executive Committee, county assembly and Senate were not involved in the decision as required by law. “The Constitution provides that for the transfer of functions and powers between levels of government, the transfer ought to have involved both governments, not just the President and his people on one hand and the governor and his people on the other,” the petition reads. He further argues, “There is no Cabinet paper on the transfer. There is no resolution by Parliament, no CEC paper on the transfer, no County Executive Resolution on the impugned transfer of functions which was approved by the county assembly and then forwarded to the Senate for concurrence.” On Wednesday, Justice John Mativo consolidated the three cases and directed the parties to file submissions. The case will be mentioned on March 26. Edited by R.Wamochie