Five isolation centres have been established today in Kilifi county to quarantine suspected coronavirus patients. Authorities have also set up hotlines for reporting any suspected coronavirus cases so action can be taken swiftly by the county disaster response team. The county is tense since Kenya's first confirmed case was reported on Friday and people fear it could spread fast. The hotline numbers are 0722796220 for CEC Health, Dr Omar Anisa, together with 0745984244,0793277819 and 0794497578. Addressing a press conference at Malindi sub-county hospital, Anisa said they identified specific hospitals which can be converted to isolation wards. She said St Lukes Hospital would serve Rabai and Kaloleni subcounties, while Malindi and Magarini will have an isolation centre at Msena private clinic which has enough space and will be fully equipped. Anisa said they have talked to the community in a baraza on Friday and resolved that one can serve Malindi and Magarini subcounties. In Kilifi North, they have identified two wards equipped ut not in use. In Mtwapa an administration building will serve Kilifi South subcounty,'' Anisa said. The doctor said they are undertaking an aggressive awareness programme to inform the community about coronavirus as there was a lot of incorrect propaganda on social media that was causing panic. She said they would also go to tourism resorts and sensitise hotel staff to ensure they are aware of the symptoms of the coronavirus. For Mtwapa, Kilifi and Malindi have been regarded as key hotspots, being a major tourist destination with an airport, and sea landing sites that bring different kinds of people. ''There is a lot of fear being instilled in people; whenever people see Chinese they flee. Three days ago I got a call informing me about some Chinese who had arrived in Malindi. After sending a disaster team, it emerged they were on their way to Lamu and were safe,'' she said. The Health CEC  said there's a media campaign to ensure messages reach the grassroots to prevent the spread. Fliers depict safety procedures. Anisa said people should not use handkerchiefs when sneezing, they should always wash their hands and use sanitizers. (Edited by V. Graham)