The ban on donkey slaughter in the country is timely as the numbers of the animal take a sharp decline with the increase of abattoirs. According to the latest data from the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organization (Kalro), donkeys will be wiped out by 2022 if the closure directive is not enforced. Tens of donkey owners and water vendors in Naivasha held a peaceful demonstration on Wednesday to support the ban by Agriculture CS Peter Munya. Protesters carrying placards held a peaceful demonstration around the town before handing a petition to the subcounty office. Farming Systems project manager Purity Njoroge said the rate of donkey slaughter was five times higher than that of breeding. She noted that since the slaughterhouses started operations, 301,197 donkeys were slaughtered between 2016 and 2018 according to data from Kalro. Speaking after the demonstration, Njoroge said the ban had left hundreds of people jobless. She said there were about 600 workers employed in the four donkey slaughterhouses in the country compared to thousands who benefitted from the live animals. “We are asking the county governments where the four abattoirs are located to make sure this directive is enforced,” she said. Donkey owner Elijah Mwangi said many youths in Naivasha had their livelihoods threatened after their donkeys were stolen. He said due to an acute shortage of water in Naivasha, residents relied on water vendors who use donkeys to ferry the commodity. “We support the move by CS Munya to close down all these slaughterhouses as they are responsible for donkey theft in Naivasha,” he said. Former water vendor Zack Mwaura backed his remarks adding that he had turned to boda boda riding after the theft of his donkeys. He said there were fears tens of youths who relied on donkeys would turn into crime if their animals were stolen. Speaking earlier, owner of Naivasha-based Star Brilliant donkey slaughterhouse John Kariuki defended their operations and denied dealing with stolen animals. “We have some NGOs who have been inciting people to fight us instead of seeking ways of backing tens of donkey farmers who have immensely benefitted from this trade,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie