Fast-rising Sofapaka midfielder Wisdom Naya has the club assistant skipper Elly Asieche to thank for shedding off the stage fright of competing in the Kenyan Premier League. Sofapaka, a club deemed home to experienced players,  surprisingly acquired the services of the 17-year-old player from national secondary schools champions St Anthony’s Boys, Kitale during the January transfer window. Naya was among the outstanding players during National Secondary Schools U-19 Championships held in August last year in Kisumu and it was after his O levels that he successfully underwent trials at Sofapaka. Naya impressed during the trials held at the Ruiru grounds and consequently signed a three-year-long deal to quench his dream of training and playing alongside his role model, Asieche. Another midfielder who was part of the last year's St Anthony's team, Dan Musamali joined AFC Leopards in January The 2018 Copa national winner with the Solidarity Boys said Asieche had taken the initiative to guide him and correct him after the training sessions. He counts on his counsel to make his maiden start for the club soon. “Asieche has been my role model and when I joined the club, we became good friends. After every training session, he has always highlighted both my strengths and weaknesses. He has helped me settle at the club and adapt to KPL. He is friendly and I am looking forward to playing alongside him in competitive matches soon,” he said. In the meantime, Naya is focused to break into the national U-20 Rising Stars in the near future. He believes his record of winning nationals twice and Copa Africa while in school will convince coach Stanley Okumbi for consideration to a cut in the national Under-20 squad. Apart from making his way to the Stars junior team, he is also keen to win the monthly football award dished out by the Sports Journalists Association of Kenya(SJAK) in conjunction with sponsors, LG. “Age is on my side and I am keen to earn a call up to the U-20 team. It has been my dream to rise through the ranks until I make it to the senior team. I believe I am on track and ready in case they need my services,” he added  