Coronavirus has hit the globe hard with over 5,000 deaths and thousands of infections. Kenya has also been hit with three confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus. With this, many have panicked with various false information or myths spreading over the COVID -19. These are some of the myths that are going around either in social media or face to face interactions among Kenyans. It only kills the elderly, so younger people can relax This has been uttered by many who claim that the disease can only kill the elderly because they have a weak immune system. The truth is, this disease has higher chances of leading to serious respiratory symptoms in younger people than seasonal flu. The actions that young, healthy people take will have an important role in protecting the most vulnerable in society. So beware! Drink a lot of hot or warm water to prevent infection This we have heard from people that if you drink lots of hot or warm water it will kill the virus. There is no scientific evidence behind this claim that drinking hot water and keeping your mouth moist will prevent infection with coronavirus. But staying hydrated can help keep your immune system be strong since the virus will easily attack those with a weak immune system. Drink water flushes virus into your stomach where acid will kill it This is yet another myth being propagated by some scholars and the educated folk. How can drinking water flush the virus straight to your stomach? You cannot 'flush out' the virus from your airway by drinking water. The idea that drinking water will push the virus into your stomach where it will be killed is not based on any scientific fact. But do stay hydrated. Get the flu vaccine! The symptoms of the flu and coronavirus are similar so developing fever and cough from influenza could result in having to be tested and/or isolated due to COVID-19. There is no current evidence that the flu shot will help with coronavirus. Africans are immune to coronavirus Decades of research has found that Africans are the most genetically diverse people on earth. The genetic diversity of people from other continents is just 'a subset of the diversity within Africa', say researchers who have built Africa’s biggest genome library. This means Africans have no single 'blood genetic composition' that can 'resist' the Covid-19 coronavirus. WHO publishes daily situation reports on the COVID-19 outbreak but none of these reports mentions that African blood, or black skin, make people immune to the disease. The virus transmitted in areas with hot and humid climates According to WHO, COVID-19 virus can be transmitted in all areas, including areas with hot and humid weather. Regardless of climate, adopt protective measures if you live in, or travel to an area reporting COVID-19. The best way to protect yourself against COVID-19 is by frequently cleaning your hands. By doing this you eliminate viruses that may be on your hands and avoid infection that could occur by then touching your eyes, mouth, and nose. Government ploy to stop BBI rallies Last week after the government announced the first case of coronavirus in Kenya and an MP downplayed this saying that this was a ploy. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri said "We suspect that the coronavirus confirmation in Kenya was stage-managed with the aim of stopping the Nakuru BB rally and other upcoming meetings. This announcement might be Govt. propaganda." This is untrue. The virus has so far killed over 5,000 people globally so why would the government lie about such a disease. Does it mean that even the closure of schools, churches, workplaces is a ploy to stop people from going to rallies? Taking a hot bath Taking a hot bath will not prevent you from catching COVID-19. WHO notes that your normal body temperature remains around 36.5°C to 37°C, regardless of the temperature of your bath or shower. Actually, taking a hot bath with extremely hot water can be harmful, as it can burn you. The best way to protect yourself against COVID-19 is by frequently cleaning your hands. By doing this you eliminate viruses that may be on your hands and avoid infection that could occur by then touching your eyes, mouth, and nose. Hand dryers can kill the virus No. Hand dryers are not effective in killing the COVID-19. To protect yourself against the new coronavirus, you should frequently clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. Once your hands are cleaned, you should dry them thoroughly by using paper towels or a warm air dryer. Eating garlic can prevent infection with the new coronavirus Garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties. However, there is no evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from the new coronavirus.