Kenya's preparations to host the 2020 World Under 20 Athletics Championships received a seal of approval from United Kingdom technical officials. The visitors were taken through a tour of the facilities at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani by the Local Organising Committee officials led by Technical and Competitions Director Ibrahim Hussein, Chief Operations Officer Rebecca Gachora and Logistics Director Douglas Wakihuri. Sports Kenya chairman Fred Muteti and the Director General Pius Meto were also present. The stadium will stage the U20 championships between  July 7 and 13. The duo of Trevor Painter and Lorna Dwyer visited the championships village at Kenyatta University as well as the warm-up facilities at Kasarani. Painter, the team leader of the UK U20 and Dwyer the team manager were effusive in their praise for the LOC for ensuring that the facilities are up to scratch. "We did not take part in the 2017 World U18 championships but I am pretty confident that we will be sending our best possible team for the U20. We have some of our best athletes available particularly in the sprints and in the events where we are strong, we hope to have everyone selected available for the championships," said Trevor. However, the lingering fears of the coronavirus that has impacted the hosting of many sporting events across the world was a source of concern for Trevor. "We want to be here competing but that will be subject to the coronavirus threat and the advice we will get from the relevant bodies. But we are still pleased that the preparations are going on well. Kenya is surely ready. We are happy with the way the facilities have been put close together and everything is simple and convenient," he said. Muteti remarked that they are prepared and asked as many countries as possible to send in their athletes for what he said will be the best championships. "We are prepared to host a very good championship. The facilities will be ready in good time and I encourage all nations to send in their athletes for the events," Muteti said. Hussein was equally confident that just like the previous championships, Kenya will host a memorable tournament.