Senators are pushing county governments to allocate funds for cemeteries, funeral parlours and cremation facilities. The counties should maintain the facilities for decent send-off of the dead, the lawmakers say. In a motion by nominated Senator Alice Milgo, the legislators want counties to develop gardens for recreation, where people can hold funeral ceremonies. Milgo said most counties have neglected the facilities. Noting the diminishing land and the high cost of burying bodies, the senator appealed to the counties to adopt other methods of disposal. With the rapid urbanisation and population growth, existing burial sites in the country are filling up, crowded and counties are finding it increasingly difficult to identify land for a public cemetery. “Our society has changed. Of late, a number of people of high status in the society preferred cremation. This is because some of the crematory materials such as ash are used to make jewellery, beads and ceramic cups,” the motion reads in part. Just like schools, recreational areas, hospitals and toilets are important, she urged. Senator Patronilla Were said although planning and developing cemeteries, funeral parlors and crematoria was a function of county governments many counties do not have the services yet. “They should develop funeral homes and have chapels or churches within those funeral parlours,” she said. She said developing the facilities will enable counties to prepare themselves to bury their own people and help families that may not have a place to bury their dead. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani lauded some counties for coming up with ways and means of setting up crematoriums and cemeteries. “Death does not just become a transition as such; it is a transition for the person who has died, but it is still a transition for the community in terms of how they will carry themselves, conduct the burial and what they will do,” she said. However, the lawmakers appreciated that it was a big task to the counties, especially towns and cities, to get land for cemeteries because of mismanagement, corruption and inefficiencies at both the devolved units and the National Land Commission. The Fourth Schedule of the Constitution delegates development and management of funeral parlours and crematoria to county governments. Edited by Henry Makori