  A man in Meru has been forcefully quarantined for failing to self-quarantine after returning from outside Kenya and mingling with the public. County Health executive Misheck Mutuma said the man was arrested and put in the Isolation Ward of Meru Level 5 Hospital for 14 days. “We have one person in quarantine. Anyone who has been abroad must quarantine themselves for two weeks because we will arrest you and take you to isolation if you engage with the public,” Mutuma said. He did not provide details but the man is said to be a coronavirus case. At the same time, the Health executive discouraged “unnecessary movement of people from Nairobi to Meru even if they are our sons and daughters. They may bring the virus to Meru. They should stop visiting parents and instead send them money until the situation is back to normal." Mutuma called on people to stay at home and frequently wash hands. Anybody arriving from abroad must self-quarantine, or else they will be forcefully placed in isolation wards. Meru county police commander Patrick Lumumba said police will not allow overcrowding. The warning came after police and county askaris forcefully dispersed traders from Ntharene market. Lumumba said: “Officers have started a crackdown on restaurants that have not adhered to the directive to close. We have dispersed officers to ensure adherence.” Mutuma said that public health officers had been instructed to crack down on food hawkers and owners of unhygienic premises. "We do not want to be harsh but we do not have any other option,” he said. He asked miraa pickers, sellers and chewers, to observe strict hygiene standards. The official said they have started fumigating major towns and thorough screening of those entering the county at Keeria and the neighbourhood of Nanyuki town. “We are leaving nothing to chance. We want our people to appreciate the seriousness of the matter. We don’t want to make the mistake of allowing free movement of people like Italy,” Mutuma said.  – mwaniki fm  