Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has called for an in-depth investigation of the murder of Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei, who was based at Deputy President William Ruto’s office. Mutua urged DCI George Kinoti to meticulously probe everyone who works at Harambee Annex starting with the DP. He said Kenei's murderers deserve equal punishment – death. "You take someone's life, you should also be jailed at Kamiti and be killed," Mutua said in Kangundo. "I fully support the investigative work being undertaken by DCI boss George Kinoti and urge him to tell us who killed or who ordered the killing of a young man, who was someone’s son, sibling, cousin, lover and friend. Sgt Kenei deserves justice." Mutua said that those involved should stop "masquerading on social media" and record a statement with the DCI sleuths. He said Ruto should also record a statement on why he threatened him (governor). In December last year, Mutua recorded a statement at Kilimani Police Station, accusing the DP of attacking him at a State House function. He alleged that Ruto told him while shaking his hand: "You have been attacking me and I have to crush you. I will teach you a lesson. You wait, you will see." The threat was made allegedly in the presence of National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale who, according to the governor chipped in: "We warned you." He said Kenei's murder is now in the list of unsolved killings that have increased impunity among the perpetrators. "I urge DCI boss George Kinoti to require recording of statements by everyone, and I mean everyone, who works at the Office of the Deputy President, starting with DP William Ruto, to the person who cleans the toilets. This way, a lead will be found and the real culprit arrested and charged," he said. He added: "If going by the police analysis Sgt Kenei was murdered because he received telephone instructions to facilitate a corrupt deal, it means this is a high stakes affair and Kenyans should not rest until the truth is out for all to see." On Thursday, Kinoti ruled out suicide, saying Kenei's death was a well stage-managed cold-blood murder. 