In January 2018, Polycarp Igathe resigned as Nairobi deputy governor. Igathe said he decided to step down from the post after failing to earn trust from Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. The county has been operating for two years without the deputy governor. Following the scandals linked with the governor, there has been a crisis in the governor's office. To loop the holes, Sonko nominated Anne Kananu Mwenda to be his deputy governor. On January 6, Sonko wrote a letter to the county Speaker Beatrice Elachi saying that the decision was in line with article 180(5) of the Constitution and the Supreme Court Advisory of March 2018. "Given the foregoing, and in the interest of ensuring stability at Kenya’s Capital City and largest County by economy and population, I do hereby nominate Anne Kananu Mwenda to the position of Deputy Governor,” Sonko’s letter read. According to IEBC guidelines, the governor is required to submit the nominated person's name to the commission. IEBC Nairobi County returning Officer Joseph Eroo handed Anne Kananu a clearance certificate on February 10, paving way for her vetting. According to the electoral agency, the appointed returning officer shall vet the nominee as provided for in the Constitution and the Law. The guidelines were communicated to county governors on June 18, 2018, by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. The IEBC considers a deputy governor to occupy a political seat, hence filling it should follow standard procedure. The same commission through the letter to the County Assembly on Thursday said that it is yet to receive any official communication about the vacancy. "...the commission has not received any formal communication as to the alleged vacancy in the office of the Deputy Governor, Nairobi City County other than information in the media," IEBC letter from the Director of Legal and Public Affairs Michael Ogoa reads. The commission added that it had set out clear guidelines regarding the vacancy that had been successfully observed in Nyeri and Bomet. What the Law says on vacancy According to Article 182 of the Constitution, the vacancy in the office of the governor shall be pronounced if the person resigns in writing to the speaker of the county assembly.