Traders dealing in export and import in Kisii have begun to feel the pain of the global coronavirus pandemic as markets dry up. Stone carvers in Tabaka, South Mugirango, say many of their clients, especially from the US and the UK, are no longer going to pick curios or placing orders. John Onkoba, a trader at Nyachenge, said he has been forced to lay off some staff as his Chinese and western clients keep off. Chemist operators said they can longer place orders, especially from India. “The shelves are running dry and I'm not sure when the next consignment is due because of this pandemic,” pharmacist John Kerabu said. The World Health Organization on Wednesday declared the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic. So far 134,918 cases have been reported globally with 4,990 deaths. China's Hubei's province was the epicentre. Some countries such as Italy, the worst-hit country in Europe, and Denmark have been put on lockdown. Others have cancelled mass gatherings. The US on Wednesday suspended travel from Europe save for the UK and Ireland. Kenya recorded its first case on Friday. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced that the woman travelled from the US via London and arrived in the country on March 5. She started feeling unwell on Thursday and checked herself into hospital. Trader Nyambeki Motari said her stock of bags from China is dwindling. “I have been ordering bags from China for my business. This bag is the last of the stock. I cannot communicate with my suppliers any more. My next move is to close down or sell cereals,” she said. Nyambeki said she has been turning away loyal customers for the past week. “I placed a call to China last week but the person who received the call said they were ordered to scale down operations at their plant to await the disease to subside,” she said. Mobile phone dealers also said their orders are not going through. The county has set up isolation centres in all subcounty hospitals. Health executive Sarah Omache said staff had been trained on how to handle coronavirus cases. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya