Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has recalled all county health workers from leave immediately to prepare for a possible coronavirus outbreak. He said the war on coronavirus requires adequate manpower and resources. Addressing journalists on Tuesday in Siaya, Rasanga said the public health units will sensitise residents on the need for personal hygiene. “Yes it is common knowledge to wash hands but we are going to enforce the move through our public health units in all public places for residents to take it seriously,” he said. Rasanga said Siaya will not be left behind as other counties ramp up efforts to stop the spread of coronavirus. “We understand the anxiety that may result from misinformation or lack of information on this subject and therefore as a county, we will be very punctual and factual with the information regarding the virus,” he said. The governor said Siaya had complied with President Uhuru Kenyatta's order for counties to establish emergency response protocols. “In effect, we have a team that I chair and is co-chaired by county commissioner Michael ole Tialal that has since assessed our level of preparedness,” Rasanga said. He said they have set up and equipped a holding area at Siaya County Referral Hospital and an isolation ward at Bondo Subcounty Hospital. “Siaya County Referral Hospital is ready and the rest of the facilities in the county are at the final stages of achieving the same level of preparedness,” Rasanga said. Rasanga said the county aims to have holding areas in all hospitals. He said screening desks have been set up in all county facilities to enable early detection and containment. The national government is training health workers to handle coronavirus cases, he said. “Our officers are already undergoing training on the same as we continue to sensitise our people on what coronavirus is, how to manage it, and how to prevent ourselves and others from contracting it,” Rasanga said. The governor said they had already received protective gear from the Ministry of Health. He said they will establish a hotline number. “In the meantime, all suspected cases can be reported directly to the Department of Health through hotline numbers 0800721546 for proper management," Rasanga said. Edited by Peter Obuya