Senators and MPs on Tuesday paid glowing tribute to Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori who was buried in Kwale on Monday. Dori died at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa on Monday morning after a short illness. His colleagues on Tuesday described him as a team player, humble, hardworking, diligent and quiet politician. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and his Senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka led their respective houses in observing a minute of silence in honour of the MP before members eulogised him. Senators described Dori as an astute and humble legislator who was sensitive to the plight of his constituents. They said the MP supported poor children in his constituency, uplifted the less fortunate and fought for the land rights of Coast residents. Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki and his Kilifi counterpart Steward Madzayo said Dori built a school for girls near his home where he sponsored 50 students from poor backgrounds. “He was supporting girls whom he was teaching. He had a clean heart and we are asking the county government of Kwale to take over and support these girls,” Madzayo said. Senate Minority leader James Orengo said Dori was a team player and a humble politician whose actions were felt by the constituents and those he associated with. “He was not a microphone politician. The quite work he was doing in Msambweni and Kwale, in general, was recognised by his community. He made efforts to try to solve the land question in the Coast,” Orengo said. He added, “He was a team player. He loved working in teams. Even in the constituency, he liked socialising and politicking with a lot of people. He created harmony among members living in the constituency even with those who came from upcountry to go and stay there.” Kwale Senator Juma Boy said Dori was a strong man who brought change and development in Msambweni. He supported poor students and orphans in his constituency, Boi said. In the National Assembly, members observed a minute of silence before the commencement of the afternoon business. Muturi formally communicated Dori's death to the House, mourning him as a dependable leader. He hailed Dori as one who was committed to the economic empowerment of farmers and strongly supported a motion seeking the government’s financial support to cushion coconut farmers. "He was instrumental in the proposed inclusion of coconut insurance under the National Agricultural Insurance Programme." "He was also vocal in supporting calls for the national government to consider giving a regular honorarium to village elders as a means of appreciating their services and encouraging them to uphold their dedication to the community," Muturi said. As a passionate advocate for use of Kiswahili in the House and in other public institutions, Dori was instrumental in calling the National Council for Law Reporting to progressively translate all laws of Kenya into Kiswahili. Indeed the now realised translation of our Standing Orders into Kiswahili is his work,” Muturi said. House leaders among them Aden Duale (Majority), John Mbadi (Minority) and MPs including  Millie Odhiambo were among members who eulogised their departed colleague. “He has joined the list of our colleagues who we were within this session and who have gone to be with the Almighty God,” Duale said.  edited by peter obuya