The population of black rhinos in the country has increased from less than 400 in 1985 to 794 by the end of 2019 as a result of government efforts. Tourism CS Najib Balala, however, said the state won't rest until wildlife trade is stopped. "It is important that active publicity is maintained to ensure attention is not diluted given the threats still in existence," Balala said on Tuesday as Kenya joined the rest of the world to commemorate the World Rhino Day. The day is celebrated on September 22 and focuses on all the five species of rhino: Black, white, greater one-horned, Sumatran and Javan. The day was initiated to raise global awareness on the status of and threats facing the species. Globally, there are 27,200 rhinos. Kenya ranks fourth with the highest number of rhinos in the world after South Africa, Namibia and India. Balala said by last year there were a total of 1,441 Rhinos. This includes 794 black rhinos, 645 white and the remaining two Northern white rhinos. He disclosed that there were 45 new births in 2020. The CS said the government cannot afford to relax. “We also need to sustain the gains made to prevent future extinction of rhinos through maintaining high levels of security and surveillance and providing sufficient and dedicated space for breeding,” he said. The CS said the government will put in all its efforts to stamp out trade in wildlife. “We have a clear campaign against illegal trade. We need a total ban to stop demand and supply,” Balala said. The CS said there has been some success so far in as far as rhino horn and elephant ivory are concerned. “China has banned the illegal trade, pangolin too have been banned as well. It will be a fight but when there is more demand prices are higher,”Balala said. Balala said the government is committed to four key issues, namely, rhino conservation; security and modern surveillance technology; biological management to enhance rhino population and more space; and resource mobilisation. “We need to address mortality from other causes (predation, diseases and inter-species aggression) to achieve average growth rate of five per cent,” Balala said. He said landowners will be encouraged to set aside suitable land to establish additional rhino sanctuaries. Kenya Wildlife Service acting director for biodiversity Patrick Omondi said rhino horn was being used for things that human beings can do without. “It is not medicine and energy giving powder. World Health Organization has confirmed that it is not medicine,”Omondi said. Edited by Henry Makori