The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has announced it will start collecting plot documents for verification and issuance of titles in 28 wards beginning next week. NMS deputy director-general Kang’ethe Thuku on Wednesday called upon MCAs of the wards to support and participate in the process. “The Nairobi Metropolitan Services is in the process is issuing leased/titles to the plot owners as per the presidential directive. In this regard we will be collecting lot documents for verification and authentication of the same from plot owners at designated centres between September 23rd and October 10th, 2020,” reads the letter. The letter was addressed to assembly speaker Benson Mutura and copied to the house leadership. “We, therefore, require the support and participation of the area Members of County Assembly to make the process a success. Please request the area MCAs on our behalf to support and participate in this process,” Thuku said. The wards targeted are Mathare North, Ngei, Huruma, Kiamaiko, Hospital, Mabatini, Dandora Phase One, Two, Three and Four, Umoja One and Two, Kariobangi North and South. Also to be reached are Harambee, Lower Savannah, Embakasi, Kayole Central, South and North, Mihang’o, Matopeni, Utawala, Komarock, Mowlem, Maringo, Pumwani and California wards. Last week, Kayole Central MCA Jeremiah Themendu raised concerns in the assembly that residents were still being asked for money to pay lawyers to process the title deeds. He also sought to know the measures the NMS and City Hall were putting in place to ensure the title deeds are issued to landowners as intended. President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 12, issued more than 2,100 title deeds to landowners in the capital. Landowners were drawn from Kayole, Dandora, Mathare and Kariobangi among other suburbs in the city’s Eastlands area. He also announced that landowners associated with Embakasi Ranching Company will get 28,000 title deeds. However, as of August 30, only 3,050 out of 28,000 title deeds were ready for issuance. The Covid-19 social distancing mitigation requirement was blamed for the delay.