@robertomollo3 The construction of a Kenya Medical Training College in Ndhiwa has started with the campus expected to admit its first batch of students in March next year. Speaking during the groundbreaking ceremony in Ndhiwa town on Tuesday, area MP Martin Owino said the NG-CDF had allocated Sh28 million for the project in the last financial year with an additional Sh20 million allocated this year. Construction is expected to be completed by March. The lawmaker together with Homa Bay Kuppet executive secretary Stephen Yogo said the college will offer courses including community health assistance (two years), community health certificate (six months) and medical health records. The construction which is being undertaken on a three-acre piece of land will be done in two phases. Phase 1 involves the construction of classrooms and an administration block while the second phase will include a laboratory and other facilities. “The institution is expected to immediately admit its first batch of students when construction is complete,” Owino said. He said his office will begin support at least 70 community health workers to be trained in the college. The MP urged students from around the area to take advantage of the proximity of the college and apply for admission. “Some health and medical agencies have agreed to be training community health workers. Such training would enhance health service provision,” he said. Owino urged both the national and county governments to prioritise the employment of trained students from medical colleges. “KMTC gives the best-trained nurses and other professionals in medical fields hence governments should prioritise employing youths from middle-level colleges.” Yogo urged the government to support medical colleges by allocating funds for infrastructural development. The unionist said there is a need for the government to employ teachers in schools and colleges for their improvement. “We have a shortage of teachers across the country. It’s important for the government to allocate adequate resources for both infrastructural improvements of KMTCs and employees,” Yogo said. The ceremony was attended by Ndhiwa deputy county commissioner Ahmed Somo.  Edited by P.O