Kanu has told Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ng'eno to resign or risk being expelled following his slurs over the weekend. In a statement on Tuesday, Kanu secretary general Nick Salat condemned the MP. Salat said that the utterances made by the MP to President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is a former member of Kanu is an insult to the party. He added that the party has resolved to part ways with Ng'eno after failing to observe the leadership and integrity provisions as per the Constitution. "He must and should be deprived of the privileges to serve Kenya as a state officer." He added that "As much as we sympathise with the people of Emurua Dikirr Constituency, public interests demand that Johanna Ng'eno should not continue being a member of Kanu. The people of Emurua Dikirr will have to make a choice between peace and anarchy." Following the expulsion, Salat said that Ng'eno is at liberty to seek to continue representing his constituents with a different party. "As a party, we are parting ways with Ng'eno and we do apologise on behalf of the party to the dignity of the office of the people he mentioned." The statement comes as the court ordered that the MP spend another two days in police cells before the court gives a ruling on bail. The MP was on Tuesday charged with two counts of hate speech and offensive conduct. The MP who was charged during a virtual hearing was accused of using abusive language on September 6 at Junction area, Olgos Sofia village. He faces a second count of offensive conduct on the same day and place. The second charge states that at a public gathering, he directed insults at the presidency. He denied committing the crimes when he appeared before Nakuru Chief Magistrate Elizabeth Osui. The vocal legislator was arrested on Monday at his Mogondo home shortly before 4.30pm. Ng'eno was arrested over the remarks he made on Sunday at Murkan that the police say were meant to incite communities. When his constituents got wind that the law enforcers were looking for him, they stormed his home and guarded him. At one point, the police officers had to shoot in the air to try and disperse the crowd, but the group stayed put. The MP's supporters then escorted him from his home to Emurua Dikirr police station about six kilometres away. During the Sunday event, Ng'eno hit out at President Uhuru Kenyatta for the wrangles in Jubilee Party. He told the President to work with DP William Ruto "or go home". "You are not Kenya and Kenya is nor Kenyatta's or Mama Ngina's land. This land belongs to 47 million Kenyans, you cannot run it as you wish," the legislator said. He warned Uhuru to run the state constitutionally or go to Gatundu (home), adding that the President should not dictate who will succeed him, "and cannot threaten us". "Moi and Kibaki finished their terms and left, you should do the same next year when the time comes." the MP added.