Kapseret MP  Oscar Sudi now says he will not apologise over his controversial remarks on President Uhuru Kenyatta and his family. Sudi said he did not abuse anyone and those condemning him were brokers and looters who had destroyed the country. The lawmaker insisted he did not speak on behalf of Deputy President Ruto and that he had his own brains. "Let them tell me my mistake. All mothers are the same and we respect them but I did not abuse anyone," he said. Sudi who has been condemned by leaders from all over the country said he was very surprised to see so many women agitated with his remark on ex-First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta. "They gathered in big numbers to confront me but I want to tell them that I did not abuse anyone. They should instead apologise to me for not understanding what I said," he said. “...it is even in the bible, that was not an insult, I will apologise once people show me where I went wrong,” he said. He was speaking during a press conference on Wednesday in Eldoret. Sudi said he was a leader who cherished peace and led from the front in uniting Kenyans but he would accept to be intimidated. "...they don't have to come for me. Let them just call and tell me where am needed and I will go. No need to send so many police officers here," he added. Sudi, a staunch Ruto ally has in recent weeks taken off his gloves and trained his guns on the President, saying he was the man behind Ruto’s woes. “I want to tell Uhuru clearly that this country does not belong to you or Mama Ngina. This Kenya does not belong to Muhoho Kenyatta. This country belongs to the over 50 million Kenyans,” Sudi fired on Monday. Ruto however later came out to distance himself from Sudi's remarks saying the use of “unsavoury words against mothers and the Head of State was a no, no". “Leaders should exercise restraint and avoid insults and bad language against other Kenyans. Unsavoury words against mothers and Head of State is a NO, NO. No amount of anger justifies the use of offensive insulting language,” Ruto said.