Mandera's Garre and Murule clans have agreed to end their differences and live harmoniously. This follows a four-day meeting of leaders at Granada hotel last month. The meeting was aimed at providing long-term solutions to inter-clan animosity that has lasted two decades. In attendance were, among others, county and national government officials, security officers, and national cohesion and integration commission members. The theme of the meeting was "No to Hostilities and Violence in the County". The latest conflict between the two communities was over Yatho village at the border of Lafey and Elwak South constituency. Both the Garre and the Murule claimed the village. The government had warned the leaders of the two communities that it would declare the area dangerous and uninhabitable if security breaches continue. Governor Ali Roba implored the leaders to find a long-lasting solution for the conflict. “For the eight years that I have been in office, I have witnessed a lot. All I want to see now is people getting along," he said. Having witnessed previous clan clashes among communities in his early years in office, the governor said his administration is eager to support peace initiatives to end clan conflicts. The county boss said he will direct all available resources towards lasting inter-community peace. “I am ready to support any peace initiative. We have enough resources for it,” he said as he implored the two clans to employ forgiveness and honesty in the process. He urged the leaders to come up with resolutions that will ease tension and form the basis for reconciliation. The two communities agreed to bury the hatchet as the government works to find lasting solutions. The Murule community majorly reside in Lafey and have been agitating for the abolishment of Yatho village where several houses and classrooms were set ablaze by arsonists. The Garre claim the village lies in Elwak South, where they are the dominant occupants. Uniting the two clans has been Roba’s main peace plan. By pledging more resources to the area, advising leaders and encouraging locals, the county boss managed to persuade parties to agree on key issues. The meeting agreed to cease violence and hostilities, the arrest and prosecution of criminals. The also leaders agreed to honour previous agreements. Since Independence, northern Kenya has had its fair share of conflicts with many people killed, others maimed or uprooted from their homes, and property destroyed. The colonial ruler had two major strategies in the northern frontier district – movement restriction and rangeland demarcation – to control communal conflict over grazing land. When devolution was ushered in in 2013, northern Kenya residents were excited that they would henceforth get their fair share of  national resources. To them,  devolution meant an end to marginalisation. But Mandera remained a target of al-Shabaab, which carried out numerous terror attacks from across the border with Somalia. On October 16, 2011, Kenyan troops crossed into Somalia, a decision aimed at strengthening security and eradicating the terror group. Increased inter-clan rivalry and conflicts in Mandera emanating from clan political alliances exposed the county to external terror bouts. On several occasions, non-locals, among them quarry workers and teachers, have been targeted. Considerable progress on security has been made eight years since devolution. Inter-clan wars and militia attacks have lessened. Edited by R.Wamochie