I do not like judging people, at least not in public. I do not want the universe to wake up and say, ‘Oh, so you think you are slick? Challenge accepted!’ Then I get into the same ducking situation and have to deal with it in the manner I thought the person I judged should have dealt. So I try to figure out how the person could have got into the state they are in, and since no human experience is unique, figure out how to navigate it better. On this subject, universe, please look the other way. I have written all that to say this. I do not condone hooking up with children. Even if said child is 30 years old. If you are old enough to be his or her parent, that is a child to you. I do not care what Hugh Hefner did nor who was ok with it. It is sorcery. An 18-year-old is an adult, yes, but that 18-year-old is a child to me. Period. Before the women’s wing comes for me and mentions all the old men that go out with girls, this goes for everybody. No adult should be removing their clothes in front of children and laying down with them. What the duck is wrong with you? Yes, we like to sing ‘age ain’t nothing but a number!’. I also understand that sometimes there can be a small age difference. If that man or woman is agemates with your children, you may want to consider psychiatric help. A story is told in our circle of a wealthy man and his boys’ club. Almost every weekend, these old guys would pick young college girls and take them away for the weekend. It was all fun and games until one of the club members showed up with another member’s daughter. Reggae stopped. If you ask me these old men had serious esteem and moral issues. It is easier to manipulate a young impressionable girl than an age-appropriate woman. Yes, I have heard the argument that young girls these days are not as angelic as I would like to believe. I have news for you, it is men that made them the devils you have now. Older men, not their agemates. You really have to be a special devil to want to waste a young girl’s body and mind. I really feel there is something wrong with a person who will often be seen in the company of younger people. The interaction must be there agreed, but your confidant cannot be your child’s agemate. It tells a lot about your brain capacity. As a woman, it is easy to get life twisted. There is a lot of pressure on us to fit into roles. When we are younger, we had to marry and have children. We did, mostly without thinking. More often than not, we pick the wrong one. Some women have the temperament to live through their mistake, others are forced out while others walked out. Whatever the case, we are then told another story. We need a ‘fit’ man, a hot body that can rearrange your insides. Some will cheer you. They will say you are a modern woman. ‘It is the 21st century!’ As if the new way of telling what time we are in is by the ridiculous choices people make. The more ludicrous the more current the times. ‘Do you!’ That is your mate’s child nani. When you were breastfeeding your own, your fellow woman was breastfeeding that boy you are now calling bae. What is the future really? To deny another woman grandchildren? To waste a child? Yes, boys are often infatuated by older women. As an elder, we expect more sense from you yawa. Not everything in vogue is moral. Yes, he is an adult, legally. I said this to someone yesterday. I have an 18-year-old daughter. Legally an adult but still every bit a child. Let us use our heads and not our bodily urges to make decisions. We are not wild animals. Protect the next generation. If I find any of you old buggers with any of my children, I will cut you into small pieces. I did not carry children for you to play with. Nonsense. PS, I am not talking about the 24-year-old and 50-year-old but if the shoe fits, lace them up and jog away, please. fellyoyuga@gmail.com