The disunity portrayed by Kamba leaders could deny the community resources and the top seat in 2022, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr has said. The senator asked the community to speak with one voice to be able to negotiate for power and resources. “What is troubling is when senators failed to agree on the revenue sharing formula where the three counties in Ukambani were to lose, no one from the community stood to defend us. Not even the church. Leaders were busy bickering on who will be the next President and governor,” he said. The senator was speaking at a burial in Tulimani ward in Mbooni constituency on Saturday. Kilonzo said the Constitution has addressed equitable distribution of resources through devolution even when a community does not win the presidency. He revealed how state operatives tried to persuade the three Ukambani senators to support the contentious formula in exchange of the top seat in 2022, but that they stood their ground. “That is why I was banging the tables and very tough on the Senate speaker during the debates, because I understand even if we miss the top seat, with devolution we will develop our region,” he told mourners at the burial of Grace Nthamba at Ndolo village. In the new formula that was agreed on after 10 adjournments, Makueni will get an additional Sh800 million, Kitui Sh1.7 billion while Machakos gains Sh1.3 billion. He said while other communities met to support each other and pull resources together during the deadlock, Ukambani leaders were busy attacking each other and campaigning for various positions. “If we don’t speak with one voice, in 2022 we stand to lose. We will continue being followers of others,” he said. Present was Mbooni MP Erastus Kivasu and his predecessor Kisoi Munyao. Recently, top Kamba politicians among them Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana have been positioning themselves and strategising for 2022 elections. Mutua and Kibwana have declared to vie for President in 2022 while Muthama, who defected to DP William Ruto's camp from Kamba Kingpin Kalonzo Musyoka's, has been hosting delegations from the region. Father Patrick Mutuku from Tulimani Parish, who presided over the ceremony, said Kambas have always lived harmoniously until their leaders come to divide them. Edited by R.Wamochie