Manchester United will not be able to win the Premier League with a centre back partnership of Victor Lindelof and Harry Maguire, former England international Gary Neville has said. United’s season got underway with a shock 3-1 defeat by Crystal Palace on Saturday, with Sweden international Lindelof culpable for all three goals. United have been linked with a move for Borussia Dortmund winger Jadon Sancho but Neville believes manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer should prioritise the signing of a versatile centre back. “We can talk about Sancho all we like but until United get a centre back who can run and defend one-on-ones they are never going to win the league,” Neville, who won eight league titles at Old Trafford, told Sky Sports. “They are never going to win the Premier League with that centre back pairing. They have to get a mobile, dominant centre half in alongside either Lindelof or Maguire.” “Over the years, the best centre back partnerships have always had that really quick one who has lightning pace to get across and snuff out the danger. Lindelof and Maguire just don’t have that.” United face Luton Town in the League Cup on Tuesday before returning to Premier League action with a trip to Brighton on Saturday. Elsewhere, Arsenal match-winner Eddie Nketiah has mended fences with team mate Dani Ceballos after a standoff between the pair a week ago was forgotten as they linked up to secure a 2-1 victory over West Ham United in the Premier League on Saturday. During the warm-up before Arsenal’s match at newly-promoted Fulham last week, Nketiah, 21, and Ceballos, 24, were seen to clash briefly, in a clip widely shared on social media. But they seem to have set their differences aside since then and on Saturday at The Emirates the Spaniard laid off the ball for England Under-21 captain Nketiah to score. Speaking about the clash with Ceballos and the goal, Nketiah told Sky Sports: “We had a bit of a coming together. The reaction was there. We made up and got on with it. “It was a great pass across, good vision. I tried to stay onside. It was an easy finish from there. It was nice for him to make the assist - it’s all love now,” he added. Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta praised Nketiah’s contribution as a substitute and suggested it was an example other players who want time on the pitch should follow. “It’s so important for him and the team as well. It’s a message to everyone on the bench that they have a mission when they come on,” he told reporters. 