 More National Police Reservists should be recruited in areas that are prone to terror attacks to strengthen security, an MP has said. Speaking during a tour of his constituency on Monday, Fafi MP Abdikadir Osman said security personnel require the assistance of the reservists because the NPRs have a better understanding of local terrain. Such knowledge is crucial in fighting terrorists, the MP said. Fafi is one of the most affected subcounties in Garissa with several terror attacks having been staged by Somalia-based militants al Shabaab. Earlier in the year, the attackers killed four non-local teachers in Kamuthe and destroyed a Safaricom mast in Yumbis and Diiso. In May, there was another attack targeting health workers before the government quickly airlifted them to safety. Osman acknowledged the government has done a lot to improve security but said more needed to be done. “NPRs are recruited among the locals, including retired security officers. These are people who understand the terrain and can walk in terrains that the security officers cannot access using vehicles. This makes their role even more important,” the MP said. The militants have over the years evaded security officers on patrol by walking for long distances and using ‘panya routes' (unconventional short cuts) and placing improvised explosive devices on roads used by police. Fafi constituency has 170 NPR officers but Osman said the number is not enough to properly cover the vast subcounty. The MP was accompanied by newly recruited Walmerer chief Suleiman Hussein and three assistant chiefs from Yumbis, Bula Golol and Hagadera. He said it was crucial for the administrators to work closely with security officers to fight the militants. “Chiefs and their assistants play a central role in gathering intelligence from the members of the public and sharing the same with the security officers. I cannot overemphasise their roles in this region in matters of security,” Osman said. He urged the county government to pay the NPR officers additional allowances to boost their morale in the wake of attacks targeting them and their immediate families. In January, militants attacked several NPR officers in Holugho where they burnt down several houses belonging to the officers. They also killed the elderly father of one of the reservists.  Edited by P.O