Countries worldwide are wrestling over the predicament of how to reopen schools amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic has forced more than nine million students in Kenya to stay home as the virus ravages the community. The pandemic which has led to the closure of over 80 per cent of schools across the globe, has left parents, teachers, stakeholders and the government wondering what to do with the children who by now are sitting idle in homes. The question of opening schools is causing anxiety in Kenya even though the infection rates have declined over the past few weeks. But unlike in the US, Kenya does not have the infrastructure needed to allow children to social distance and wear masks while sanitising. A recent survey conducted by WHO in 39 African countries found that face-to-face learning has resumed in just six countries. Schools remain closed in 14 countries and are partially open for examination classes in 19 countries. In-person learning is planned to resume in 12 countries this month. For Kenya to reopen schools successfully, Education CS George Magoha can learn from European countries on how to do this. Infection rates are now far lower in Europe —though not yet entirely under control—the flattened curve has allowed schools to reopen freely over the past few months. MASKS, SANITISING In France, staff, teachers and students that are over 11 years must wear masks in which their body temperatures must be monitored when they get into the gates of the school. Even as they do this, they are able to social distance since circles have been drawn on how they are supposed to stand while maintaining the one metre distance rule. This is a basic protocol that the authorities in Kenya can easily implement without much needed. Door handles and desks must be sanitised ones in a day. Classrooms should be well ventilated to allow the circulation of air in and out. GATHERINGS To prevent students from gathering in groups, drawings have been put on the ground on where the children should stand even in the assembly. This means that a few students are the ones who should be going to the school. Also, while going home when the bell rings, the students should be able to go to the assembly and leave the premises one at a time to allow them not to come close to each other at any single time. CLASS SIZES In Italy, the class sizes are smaller with pupils seated one metre apart in single desks. Well, this may be possible in Kenya if the government was to procure desks for single students rather than desks that can carry more than two. They could also make desks that are large enough and carry only two students seated apart. But to make spaces, the country has incorporated both traditional and online learning. This means that if a classroom has 100 students, you can put the one-metre marks and desks in positions then allow probably 40 students to go to school and another 60 to learn from home. If live-streaming can be done for other students at home the better for all the students. For students who are going to school, the government would consider using museums, theatres and large spaces to teach students. Also, some classes could be conducted on Saturdays and Sundays till noon. BOXED SPACE In the Netherlands, students and teachers do not have to wear masks because they have their own translucent boxed spaces that they can easily interact with others. It remains a question, however, whether this model could work in Kenya. Also, students must wash their hands five times a day. Breaks should be given in between to allow this to happen and the supervisory mode of the teachers. Two weeks ago, a parent moved to court in a bid to compel Magoha to reopen schools for the third term. Joseph Aura argued as a parent since the state ordered for closure of schools due to Covid-19 in March, his kids and others across the country have been at home indefinitely. “I have lodged this proceedings as a parent on behalf of my children and on behalf of millions of voiceless children enrolled similarly in learning institutions across the country,” Aura says. Aura says many countries who had a high number of Covid-19 cases have since reopened their schools and Kenya should also follow suit. Some of the counties he cited include France, Japan, Nigeria, Tanzania, Senegal, Gambia, Namibia, Ghana among others even though some opened partially for finalists.