DEPUTY PRESIDENT WILLIAM Ruto is known to be a religious man. He was in fact a Christian Union official during his days at the university. However, his latest statement on how he hopes to kick out Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju (pictured) and vice-chairman David Murathe from the ruling party has sent tongues wagging with the clip being shared widely on social media. Asked by an interviewer what he would do to get both Tuju and Murathe out of the helm of Jubilee, Ruto retorted: “If it becomes difficult, we shall pray to God to get them out… God will just get them out of the party.” Some Jubilee insiders now want the DP to explain what he meant. A GROUP OF elders from a community in Western who paid a visit to an embattled politician over the weekend has shocked scribes and members of the public following the tour to the politician’s rural home. Corridors learned that disagreement ensued over the facilitation fee and the elders immediately turned against their host who is facing a lot of heat of late. The disgruntled elders addressed a press conference where they heaped praises on the politician before quickly looking for another set of journalists to whom they gave different views and called their host a corrupt person who should face the consequences of his actions. When news of the same elders having different views was aired on different vernacular radio stations, the public was left dumbfounded on the sudden change of heart on the people highly regarded in society. A CHIEF OF staff in one of the counties in Nyanza is staring at a poverty-ridden future now that he can't secure his Sh300 million assets he handed to his mistress in confidence. The mistress - a high school teacher - has turned down several pleas by the man to return the assets. The farm, plots, buildings and cash in three different bank accounts are spread in Kisumu, Nairobi, Kitengela, Rongo, and Migori. The man had pleaded with the area governor to give him the current job, invoking suicide threats following his predicament. A TOP GOVERNMENT official who recently burst into the limelight could be flying closer to the sun by overstating his unbridled ambitions. Corridors understands the outspoken state officer has been meeting leaders and government officers from his county to whisper to them the trust the President has in him. Our snitch tells us the man went to the extent of revealing that plans are underway for his endorsement alongside his other counterpart with whom they have been exhibiting bromance. But according to political commentators, the overtures by the high ranking man is to dim the star of a politician being groomed from the county.   