Orthodox boxer Nick Okoth’s 2020 Tokyo Olympic preparations have gone a notch higher, thanks to fresh online training ideas he has resorted to, ahead of the event next year. Okoth, a younger sibling of Kuala Lumpur 98’ Commonwealth Games silver medalist Absalom ‘Diablo’ Okinyi, has been keeping tabs with various techniques of the world’s top boxers on YouTube. He has taken time off training to look at what the leading boxers do in various game situations and how they react to attack. “I have been trying to improve my power exercises and endurance since the pandemic struck hence the need to analyse several techniques on YouTube. "When you look at top boxers working out or even fighting in game situations, you actually pick so much in terms of technical finesse. So I must admit that I have learnt so much in the new normal. "If Olympics were held this year, I would not be in a position to do so many things I’m doing now, which to me is a plus in my medal campaign,” said the KDF lightweight, better known as ‘Commander’. Okoth is not happy to only win by points. “I want many knockouts in the near future, considering I will be featuring in my last Olympic Games before attaining the maximum age for amateurs boxing,” he revealed. He said he has never knocked out his opponents. “I have always been winning on points. But due to the prolonged period of training due to the postponed games, I have been able to try out many tricks to help me unleash power punches, defend well and perfect my endurance,” explained Okoth, who is currently doing gym training in Nairobi’s Ruai estate. Okoth said he misses sparring due to the government ban on social gathering. “Because sparring isn’t possible, I’m counting on experience in as far as the game situation is concerned. Otherwise, training is shaping up well as we await the government to re-open sports. There is nothing we can do for now because as sportsmen and women, we also need a safe and conducive environment to train and compete.” The 37 year-old corporal at the Kenya Defence Forces has three more years left before attaining the maximum age of 40 as stipulated by world governing body, AIBA. Forty years is the upper limit in AIBA Competition Rules and one cannot compete at the Olympics beyond that age—whether pro or amateur. Tokyo 2020 Olympics, set for next year, will be Okoth’s second after Beijing in 2008. Okoth qualified for Tokyo Olympics earlier in the year in Senegal after settling for silver medal in the continual qualification event.