A former senior insurance manager will spend the next three years in jail for stealing Sh62.7 million from his employer. Lincolin Kivuti Njeru was on Monday convicted of the offence and denied the option of a fine. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi established that the former Insurance Company of East Africa (ICEA) assistant general manager could not explain the source of the millions of shillings in his bank accounts. He ruled that the 58-year-old man was guilty of stealing Sh62,704,835.60 from ICEA. State counsel Angela Fuchaka asked the court to treat Njeru as a first offender. Andayi dismissed the accused's defence that the money “was an investment loss” and rejected a probation report seeking to have the accused given non-custodial sentence. Only Sh10 million out of the stolen amount was recovered. The magistrate said it was clear from the audit reports, the evidence tendered by the prosecution and the chain of cash transactions, that Njeru stole the millions. He noted the money withdrawn from HFCK, Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited and Nyaga Stock Brokers ended up in Njeru’s bank accounts. “It is quite clear that it is Njeru who stole the money and not a hard financing debt as claimed,” the magistrate said. Andayi said the prosecution witnesses linked all the losses to the accused as he was the one who handled the transactions in question. He said Fuchaka had established beyond reasonable doubt that it was Njeru who benefited from the money withdrawn from the lenders and NSB. “From the totality of evidence presented by the prosecution, the losses experienced by ICEA were correctly linked to the accused and not as investment losses as he purported.” The court was left with one conclusion. “The prosecution has proved the case against the accused of theft by an officer contrary to Section 282 of the Penal Code.” The court had heard that the money was deposited into the accounts of ICEA at the HFCK, then transferred to BBK and later to NSB accounts allegedly for investment in stocks. However, the investment did not match the amount received from the insurer to NSB. Edited by Henry Makori