A section of MCAs from Garissa have urged the government agencies to stop using insecurity to deny essential services to residents, especially those along the border with Somalia. Addressing the press on Saturday, they cited a tendency to leave out border residents "because of security concerns". The local lawmakers spoke on the sidelines of a sensitisation meeting convened by the National Drought Management Authority (NDMA) to identify beneficiaries of the yet-to-be-launched Hunger Safety Net Programme — a flagship project under the Devolution and Asal ministry. According to assembly Majority leader Mohamed Gabow, all residents should be considered for the programme irrespective of where they have settled. “This idea of omitting villages at the border because of insecurity should not happen in this programme. We will not accept as leaders our people to be denied essential government services because of insecurity,” Gabow said. “The government has the means and mechanisms of ensuring every resident of this county gets an equal share of government services." The Iftin MCA praised the decision by the NDMA to involve elected leaders as "timely and will ensure the right beneficiaries in all corners of the county are listed for the programme". Nominated MCA Fatuma Abdi welcomed the approach taken by the NDMA to involve the leadership to make the programme a success. “In the past, we have witnessed agencies, including non-governmental organisations, use insecurity to relocate programmes benefitting residents along the border. We find this completely unfair because these are all deserving citizens,” Fatuma said. County NDMA coordinator Abdinoor Dubow said the programme will strictly target the "poorest and most vulnerable households in the communities". "Cognisant of the role the MCAs play in terms of legislation and representation, we thought we should start with them and sensitise them on the programme so going forward when we are doing the registration at the households level in various wards, the MCAs can also be leverage in terms of sensitising the community on the programme,” Dubow said. He said sensitisation "will not be a one-off thing", noting that they will continue engaging and interacting with the MCAs during the implementation of the programme to ensure transparency and accountability.