The government will pay 50 per cent to those who win tenders to supply desks to schools to enable them to meet expected quality. Tharaka Nithi county commissioner  Beverly Opwora said the new desks will help needy schools meet the social distancing guidelines of the Ministry of Health. Opwora said the government has established implementation committees at the county and subcounty levels. The committees will put in place compliance measures to enable the schools to reopen in favourable environments. “Covid-19 has affected education, among other sectors in our country, and the government has established the county implementation committee to oversee the provision of desks to needy schools in preparation for schools reopening,” Opwora said. She spoke during the launch of the exercise at Chuka Girls High school Tuesday. On Monday, Education CS George Magoha announced that government has allocated Sh1.9 billion for the purchase of locally assembled desks to public primary and secondary schools. The ministry also invited interested  jua kali workshops and artisans to apply to supply the desks at subcounty level. The artisans will be required to register for the tenders using prescribed forms that can be downloaded from the websites of the ministries of Interior and Education or collect them from the offices of deputy county commissioners and assistant county commissioners countrywide. Opwora called on youth groups in Tharaka Nithi county in the jua kali sector to apply for the supply of the desks. “Application forms are available through the chiefs and their assistants but once duly completed, they should be handed over to the deputy county commissioners and the beneficiaries are the youth with skills who have organised themselves into groups,” she said. Bridget Wambua, the county director of education, called on parents to ensure that they send their children back to school as soon as they reopen. Acknowledging the tough financial times, Wambua said "children have already lost a lot due to the pandemic and any fees issues should be discussed with the school’s administration while the children are learning.” Wambua said the government has the interest of the children at heart and would only give directives for reopening of the schools once it is safe to do so. Edited by Henry Makori