The government has formed a multi-agency team to resolve the perennial land disputes in Eastern Mau. Under a Presidential directive, the team has been directed to make sure that the dispute that has left hundreds dead and others injured is resolved within 11 weeks. The move comes barely a week after affected communities clashed leaving one dead and 12 injured in Marishoni and Nessuit areaa of Njoro. Since 1994, members of the Tugen, Kipsigis and Ogiek have clashed over land ownership in Eastern Mau, leaving several dead. But in a meeting chaired by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i on Monday, the communities agreed to give the multi-agency team time to resolve the problem within the two months. Others in attendance during the meeting held in Naivasha were Faridah Karoney (Lands), Charles Keter (Energy) and Tobiko Keriako (Environment). Addressing the press after the closed door meeting, Matiang’i said that the President had issued directives that the affected communities be resettled as one way seeking a lasting solution. “These clashes have been going on for the last two decades and we have orders from the President to resolve this crisis before the next Jamhuri Day,” he said. Under the agreement, the Ogieks as per a court order will be allocated one block of the land while members of the other two communities will get individual title deeds. The CS admitted that some government officers mainly from his office and that of lands had contributed to the current impasse in the area. “To address all the emerging issues, we have formed a multi-agency-team and we shall take drastic actions on all those government officers who have contributed to this problem,” he said. While thanking the leaders of the three communities, Matiang’i said that the bulk of the work would be conducted by the Ministry of Lands in terms of survey and sub-division. “This problem started back in 1994 and the clashes have been a major concern to the government but we are committed to permanently solving this,” he said. Reverend Ibrahim Mutai from Kipsigis termed the move to resettle them timely adding that this would help end the clashes that had left many dead. “We thank the President for intervening and making sure that this problem has been resettled as we have lived in fear and anxiety for years,” he said. Joseph Miringa from the Ogiek community said that they would continue to push for individual titles and that of the community. “We fully support the ongoing process and we hope that we shall get the community and individual title deeds before December,” he said.