 The Legio Maria's Got Kalvari shrine has been closed to allow the government to investigate fracas that left eight people dead a week ago. The decision was reached following a meeting of the Legio Maria Church's Emergency Apostolic Council in Kisumu on Friday. Different factions of the church clashed at the shrine in Suna West, Migori county when they converged to commemorate the 28th anniversary of the death of the church's founder Melkio Ondetto. Several other faithful were injured. The council met at St Peter Manyatta church in Kisumu and resolved to have the holy grounds closed. “We wish to extend our condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the fracas caused by goons who invaded our most holy and sacred site, where the founder and spiritual leader Baba Messiah is buried,” Cardinal Nahashon Ondieki Nyakondo told reporters in Kisumu on Saturday. He said the families of the victims were seeking justice hence the matter should be thoroughly investigated. “We want to give the government time to investigate the matter and we urge authorities to apprehend those who organised and executed the fracas that resulted in the loss of lives and injuries,” Nyakondo said. Pope Raphael Adika was present. The church's secretariat said they were looking for an amicable solution and have extended an olive branch to their brothers. “The main issue for the division in the church is the schism that was brought about by the late Cardinal Romanus Ongombe. At the passing of the cardinal, the matter was laid to rest by the High Court order which declared the matter to be dead,” Nyakondo said. The church is now blaming politicians for fuelling the divisions. "From the public pronouncements, we are seeing politics behind these hardline positions taken by our brothers. This is purely a church matter, not politics,” he said. Reverend Timothy Abwao said the other faction had decided not to follow the agreement reached between them in 2019 even after the court's decision and the passing of Ongombe. “The Christians who reside at the church are our brothers and sisters, they are not our enemies and we urge them to respect the court verdict and the church constitution,” Abwao said. He said Got Kalvari is the church's registered headquarters and holy shrine hence all members have a right to access it for pilgrimage and prayers.  Edited by P.O