The UN Environment Programme has been urged to oppose plans to send US plastic garbage to Kenya. The call comes following revelations that oil and chemical companies plan to use the United States-Kenya trade deal to remove limits on plastic waste entering African countries. Plastic is already the US’ biggest export to Kenya, with sales totalling Sh5.8 billion in 2019, according to the US Congressional Research Service. The Washington DC-based Center for International Environmental Law said such a deal would undo environmental and public health regulations that have made Kenya a global leader in the fight against plastic pollution. “If this is happening in Kenya, it can happen anywhere. Kenya is the seat of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and a global leader in the fight against single-use plastic,” said Jane Patton, senior campaigner at CIEL, in a statement sent to the Star. Patton said Kenyans deserve to choose their own level of safety with regard to chemicals and plastics, and according to its Constitution. Kenya announced a ban on the use, manufacture and import of all plastic bags in 2017, supporting the UN’s Clean Seas Initiative. "Kenya has a duty to eliminate activities that are likely to endanger the environment. The chemical and plastic industries’ attempts to turn other nations into the United States’ dumping ground is the height of a colonialist mentality.” Nikki Reisch, the director of the Climate and Energy Programme at the CIEL, said the documents expose a new frontier in the industry’s efforts to derail regulations that protect human health and the environment from plastics and hazardous chemicals. “The industry’s efforts to use the Kenya-US Free Trade Agreement to smuggle in rollbacks of democratically enacted environmental and public safety protections is, frankly, outrageous,” he said. The documents were obtained by the New York Times and Unearthed, both US-based publications. The Gigiri-based UNEP had yet to comment on the issue. On Tuesday, Trade Cabinet Secretary Betty Maina said Kenya would not accept any proposal that goes against environmental laws in its trade negotiations with the US. "No such proposal has been brought to the negotiating table. Claims in the story are neither here nor there. We will negotiate with the US, guided by Kenyan laws," Maina said, adding that talks were still ongoing and that no agreement had been arrived at yet. The NYT article quoted Ed Brzytwa, the director of international trade for the American Chemistry Council, as saying that plastic makers are looking well beyond Kenya’s borders.