 A legislator wants NG-CDF money allocated for bursaries to be spent on improving infrastructure in schools. Limuru member of Parliament Peter Mwathi on Monday said bursary funds have not been spent this year because students are at home due to the coronavirus pandemic. Mwathi, who spoke in Rironi where he opened a social hall, said MPs should be allowed to divert NG-CDF bursary money to infrastructural development in learning institutions. He also asked the Education ministry to release capitation funds to schools. "We know we might have excess money for bursary since there is a lot of money that was not given out. There are also capitation and development funds given to schools yet to be released which can be used as back-up to the CDF funds we already have," Mwathi said. The funds should be used to build classrooms and buy desks for learners to promote social distancing when schools reopen. "We do not want schools to be reopened with two or three pupils and students sharing a desk. We want them to be well-spaced, even if it will call for building more classrooms." Mwathi, who is the chair of the National Assembly's Labour and Social Welfare Committee, said he and his team would push for the release of the funds when they meet Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha. He said there was a need for more classrooms, restoration of dilapidated ones and assurance of high standards of hygiene. "This is an issue we had discussed in Parliament since we want all stakeholders to be ready after the coronavirus is controlled," he said. Also at the function was assistant Kiambu county commissioner Mary Njuguna. Residents are concerned how their children will be socialising and interacting in schools when learning resumes. "We know little has been done to add more classrooms, desks and ensure there is running water in schools," Jane Wanja said. She said parents expect the Ministry of Education to be at the forefront in ensuring schools observe Covid-19 mitigation measures issued by the Health ministry.   Edited by P.O