The number of Kenyans who have succumbed to Covid-19 hit 581 after four more deaths were recorded by the Health ministry on Wednesday. In a statement, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe noted that 238 more patients had recovered from the disease, 187 from home-based care while 51 from various health facilities. The number of recoveries in the country now stands at 20,449. “We thank our healthcare workers for the good work they are doing,” Kagwe said. Kericho county recorded the second highest cases after registering 24 new cases. The government expressed concern over the increasing spread of infections in counties and in rural areas. “While our determination to manage the spread of this pandemic in cities like Nairobi and Mombasa has started to pay dividends, the crisis has however begun to percolate to the counties,” President Uhuru Kenyatta said in his last address to the nation. Uhuru noted that there is a need to increase the pace at which expansion of health infrastructure in the counties is being done to meet up with the gradual shift of the virus to counties. “Whereas there is no doubt, notable expansion of the health sector infrastructure has taken place in the counties, more needs to be done.” Nairobi county still leads with 48 new infections. The cumulative caseload in the country stands at 34,493 after 178 new cases were confirmed. The new cases were from a sample size of 3,474, with the cumulative tests since the first case was recorded in the country on March 13 standing at 459,562. The new cases comprised 110 men and 68 women aged between three and 77 years. All except five were Kenyans. Other counties that recorded new cases include Busia with 22, Garissa with 12, Kisii with 10, Kisumu with nine, Uasin Gishu with eight, Nakuru with seven, Embu six, Bomet four, and Mombasa three cases. Kitui, Machakos and Narok each recorded two new cases while Laikipia, Meru, Siaya, Isiolo, Makueni, Murang’a and Nyeri recorded one new infection. Four of the cases in Garissa were from the Dadaab refugee camps with the remaining eight being from Garissa town. In Nairobi, Lang’ata recorded nine cases, Dagoretti North and Westlands seven cases each, Starehe five, Embakasi East four, Madaraka three, Embakasi Central, Embakasi West, Kasarani, Roysambu and Ruaraka had two cases each while Dagoretti South, Embakasi North and Kamukunji had one case each. Edited by R.Wamochie