A Kid, mounted upon a high rock, bestowed all manner of abuse upon a Lion on the ground below. The Lion, looking up, replied, “Do not think, vain creature, that you annoy me. I regard the ill language as coming not from you, but from the place upon which you stand.” Last week, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and his Emurua Dikirr counterpart Johana Ngeno made some unfortunate comments towards the President and his family. Other MPs decided to join the bandwagon with insults directed at the Head of State in the name of ‘political anger’. It is not surprising that the comments have elicited condemnation from Kenyans of all walks of life. This is because such comments do not belong to this day and age, even if our political opponents anger us. There is no way that a leader such as Sudi can get the courage to openly attack his party leader and his mother without the support of his benefactor. Furthermore, this is not an isolated incident as we have seen various MPs allied to Tangatanga attacking the first family. Every time they gather for political engagement, they always find a way to attack President Uhuru Kenyatta for one thing or the other. Some have even dismissed his development and peacebuilding agenda. Sometime in May, Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri told Uhuru he might end up at The Hague as a suspect of crimes against humanity if he continues to humiliate Ruto. Ngunjiri claimed the President was sending people to insult the DP and warned that he would be held responsible if skirmishes erupt. Around the same time, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, another ally of Ruto, posted on Facebook that they will be pushing to know how a few families own half of Kenya – an attack seen to be directed at Uhuru’s family. He is among those who have been pushing the dynasties narrative as an attack on the President. There are numerous more examples that we have seen in the media over the recent past. But one wonders when we got to the point where a politician can openly attack the President’s mother without any repercussions. Yes to freedom of speech and expression but there seems to be nothing out of bounds to Sudi and his ilk. The unfortunate part is that these attacks will only become uglier as politicians seek to outdo their last attacks in their display of brainless sycophancy. Sudi and the rest should focus on speaking more in Parliament or delivering to the people that sent them to Parliament and no, they are not the President’s equals. People may be entertained by such theatrics but seeking to push this country to the brink amuses no one. Kenya is a country that has for years known and seen internal conflict, which most of the times is instigated by political leaders. For instance, other than insults on the founding First Lady, Ngeno also made comments that can lead to conflict between the Maasai and Kalenjin over the Mau Forest. Comments like a particular community does not belong somewhere or that certain politicians do not deserve to be leaders not only cause tension but could easily lead to violence. Insults directed at the President are also aimed at creating animosity and should not be allowed. Politicians have failed to deliver and have instead opted for premature reelection campaigns, while we cheer them on. Tribal animosity is at an all-time high; with Kenyans retreating to their tribal cocoons and one is now evaluated based on ethnic stereotypes. At a time when Kenyans are trying to recover from the negative effects of Covid-19, the country’s leaders should be focused on the economy and its revival. Kenyans are looking at how to make ends meet and not the politics of who will be on the ballot in 2022 or not. Sudi and his colleagues should tell Kenyans what they have done for their constituents instead of petty politics and insults.