Ukweli Party welcomes the advisory of Chief Justice David Maraga handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the 12th Parliament for failure to enact the required legislation to ensure Parliament complies with the two-thirds gender rule. We call on President Uhuru Kenyatta to live up to his oath of office to uphold and defend the Constitution of Kenya by implementing the advisory as issued. It is in the public record that our Parliament has willfully failed in the discharge of its Constitutional duties to the Republic of Kenya on the matter of formulating legislation to ensure its own compliance to the two-thirds gender rule. Despite numerous public appeals, several court orders and extensions of timelines within which the required legislation was to be enacted, Parliament has proved itself enormously contemptuous of the Constitution of Kenya. Respect for the Constitution of Kenya is not a matter of discretion for those on whom public trust is bestowed like Members of Parliament. Upholding the constitution is a cardinal obligation of all arms of government from which there is neither escape nor choice. Ukweli Party believes that it is a foregone conclusion that our Members of Parliament are conclusively incapable of fulfilling their constitutional obligation of formulating legislation to ensure gender justice and parity. For what is clearly a combination of self-destructive incompetence, arrogance, contempt for the Constitution of Kenya, misogyny and sexism - our elected and nominated representatives have danced themselves into an unconstitutional assembly of letdowns. Members of the 12th Parliament have no one to blame but themselves for wasting numerous, historical opportunities to stand up for gender justice, parity and non-discrimination. Ukweli Party rallies with the advisory of Chief Justice David Maraga. We stand with the millions of Kenyans calling on and expecting President Uhuru Kenyatta to heed the advisory and fulfil his constitutional duty to dissolve an unconstitutional and unlawfully constituted Parliament. 