 When the Star visited Samson Ochieng at his four-acre farm in Migori's God Jope village, the farmer was tending to passion fruits on an acre. Armed with sanitised secateurs, Ochieng’ was busy pruning neat rows of passion fruits at his farm which is also used as a demonstration farm for over 70 farmers under the Manywa Self Help Group. Ochieng said the group came together after the collapse of tobacco farming in the county and malnutrition caused by large tracks of land under sugarcane plantations. “We were trained by Anglican Development Services on benefits of passion fruit farming, my farm was used for demonstration. Our first attempt was a disaster as pests like aphids and diseases like wilt whipped off plants,” he said. A new boost started early this year when Covid-19 caused lockdowns that have been positive, he said. When planting passion fruit for commercial purpose, Ochieng says first the land has to be cleared of weed and shrubs, and tilled at least twice to ensure the soil is soft and ready for transplanting seedlings. “We have two types of passion fruit, the purple species we are planting but it is grafted on top of the yellow species for better yields,” he said. The yellow species, Passiflora flavicarpa, is yellow when ripe, oval and less aromatic but "has the advantage of being disease resistant, deeper roots and takes longer to produce fruits". He adds that the purple variety, Passiflora edulis, is purple when ripe “and is tastier and best when blended as juice because of its strong aroma and faster fruit maturity”. A grafted seedling costs Sh7 and takes six to seven months to start flowering, before harvesting starts on a weekly basis for nine months every year for three years. “The seedlings are planted six metres apart and two metres between rows. We use nine-foot treated eucalyptus poles against termites and rot, which are placed after every two plants and propped at the end for support,” he said. The top of the poles are strewn with galvanised barbed wires which will be used as runners for passion trees. “Since it is a climber, a sisal rope is used to ensure the plant reaches the top of the wire. Once it reaches, the tip is pruned to give two sub-branches which are directed in opposite directions,” Ochieng said. He added that when the tips of two runners meet from different branches they are pruned to allow branches to sprout along the line called ‘lateral’ which will be producing fruits. “Afterwards, we constantly prune the laterals against tendrils which are coiling arms used as climbers to avoid them being bushy which cuts off sunlight and reduces productivity, and helps them to grow downwards,” he explained. The end product is a straight line of a passion fruit orchard with branches facing downwards, laden with fruits and pruned further when they reach about four centimetres from the ground to avoid fruit infection. When this management is followed, a lateral can produce about 26 fruits weighing two kilos while a single plant can have 24 laterals, producing 620 fruits or 48 kilos. “In a season of three months, an acre can produce 400-500 kilos in the first year. Afterwards, in the second and third year, it peaks up to 2,000 kilos per season,” he said. With a kilo of fruit fetching Sh80, a season can give the farmer Sh40,000 in the first three months and Sh160,000 in a season. Annually, in three season harvests a year, a farmer is assured of Sh480,000. “We intercrop passion fruits with legumes like beans, soya and cow peas which take three months to mature. They help fix nitrogen and reduce the use of fertilisers for organic produce,” Ochieng said. The legumes also fetch farmers the much-needed sale when harvested to help maintain the farm, apart from being a crop cover to help retain soil humidity. “We also have bio-safety natural fruit fly catchers placed after every 10 plants to avoid using pesticides. We also use cow dung as fertilisers as passion fruit doesn’t require so much input. We might only use foliar sprays during flowering to boost yields." While there is a ready market for produce in local markets in Migori which still export vegetables and fruits from other counties, Ochieng says the advantage of going organic is that they may get international markets in Europe. “The biggest advantage of passion fruit, apart from the ready market and weekly production is that after three years when the tree grows old, we simply cut it about four centimetres from the ground and it sprouts again for another three-year round,” Ochieng said.  Edited by R.Wamochie