The government is progressively working round the clock to position Kajiado County as an attractive investment destination for local and foreign investors and improve its appeal as one of the best cosmopolitan settlements in the country. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i affirmed that the security agencies will not rest easy until the tensions and inter-communal conflicts in some areas along the county’s borders are conclusively addressed. The CS was speaking during a security meeting with government administrators from the county on Thursday. Matiang’i described the county as one of Kenya’s microcosms and directed the security teams to step up collaboration with other stakeholders. “Kajiado is among the few counties that are completely cosmopolitan and we have Kenyans from every corner of our country. There have been some incidents along the border with Kiambu and Makueni, but I assure residents that we, in the security sector, will do everything humanly possible to ensure this place remains peaceful and stable,” he said. He also said that the government will hold a special consultative meeting with the county government of Kajiado to tackle the underlying challenges in anticipation of potential inflows of investment. The Interior CS also declared the operationalisation of Oloililai sub-county as part of the government’s efforts to decentralise security and citizen services. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, who accompanied Matiang’i, commended NGAOs for their sustained support in the war against Covid-19 in the county, in which the first case of the disease in the country was reported. On his part, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko lauded the administrators for their efforts in environmental management in the Rift Valley, which he said is the most threatened by forest encroachment through the felling of trees and charcoal burning. Kajiado Governor Joseph Ole Lenku said during the meeting that the two levels of government are working on modalities to conclude the relocation of the Ngong dumping site to the proposed alternative landfill. Kajiado has been grappling with challenges in solid management. The team later conducted an inspection tour of priority infrastructure projects in the county. They were accompanied by the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and several elected leaders from the county.