The Mulembe Youth Movement has dismissed reports by ODM secretary general that the lobby group plans to replace Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala as its spokesman. Secretary general Nickson Sakwa said Sifuna is not a member of the movement and has no authority to institute any change in it. "Mulembe Youth Movement is a registered organisation with structures and Senator [Malala] remains our spokesman. Sifuna's attempts to turn it into an ODM appendage will fail terribly," Sakwa said. He added that the movement was not an ODM arm or a lobby for the handshake as claimed by Sifuna. The ODM secretary general had on Sunday said the movement was planning to replace Malala with Saboti MP Caleb Amisi as its spokesperson, noting that recent actions by Malala did not augur well with the Mulembe Youth Movement agenda. Sifuna said the outfit that supports ODM leader Raila Odinga and the handshake needs to be strengthened. "You have seen him going back to his party leader Musalia Mudavadi and has also been embroiled in many issues that put the outfit into much scrutiny," Sifuna said. A fortnight ago, Malala, who had rebelled against ANC leader Mudavadi, rejoined him and sought his blessings before beginning the journey of uniting the youth in Western region. Malala on Monday declined to respond to Sifuna's claims only saying, "I have no comment on that one". The developments risks triggering disintegration of the outfit, which is struggling to get traction on the ground. Sakwa said Sifuna was invited to be a member of the movement but declined to follow membership procedures. “Sifuna should mobilise youth and form an ODM or handshake movement and stop daydreaming that he can hijack Mulembe movement to further his devious agenda in Western. We will not allow Sifuna to shrink the movement to a Bungoma affair," Sakwa said. The outfit was formed in Kakamega early this year to champion the inclusion of the youth in leadership at all levels of government and Malala was named its spokesperson.  Edited by EKibii