President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday made an in-person inspection of a Sh1.9 billion school furniture project in Nairobi. The project that will see jua kali artisans supply 650,000 locally assembled desks. Accompanied by Education CS George Magoha, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and PS Karanja Kibicho, the president made a surprise visit to a workshop in Umoja commissioned to craft desks, lockers, and chairs for public primary and secondary schools. The workshop is owned by a youth, Dean Achesa who is among thousands of local artisans contracted by the government for production. In the 2020-21 budget, education sector grabbed the lion’s share with primary and secondary schools getting Sh2.1 billion from which Sh1.9 billion was allocated to buy 250,000 locally fabricated desks. Another Sh300 million was put aside for capitation and improvement of infrastructure in low-cost boarding schools. Besides equipping secondary and primary schools, the project which is part of the Government's post-Covid-19 economic stimulus program is aimed at boosting the jua kali sector. Speaking during the launch of the furniture workshop in Umoja estate, the President said the project is modelled on the ongoing Kazi Mtaani youth employment initiative. “After Kazi Mtaani program, we have said instead of school desks being made by big companies, we give our youth the opportunity to exercise their skills. “We believe in individuals earning from their sweat and hence we decided to give our skilled youth the opportunity to earn decent livelihoods,” the President said. “After Kazi Mtaani program, we have said instead of school desks being made by big companies, we give our youth the opportunity to exercise their skills. “We believe in individuals earning from their sweat and hence we decided to give our skilled youth the opportunity to earn decent livelihoods,” the President said. The Head of State reiterated his commitment to continue improving the lives of all Kenyans by creating an enabling environment for hard-working citizens to thrive. “I don’t want to engage in empty politics of name calling. Rather, I am working hard to ensure all Kenyans work and enjoy the fruits of their labour,” he said. He challenged local artisans to ensure they assemble and supply desks that meet the highest quality standards and advised project beneficiaries to form saving societies to grow their earnings from the project. “Once you start this work encourage all young people to form SACCO’s where they can be putting their savings. You should not utilise every coin, it is wise for you to save for the future,” the President said. Matiang'i said the project has opened opportunities for local artisans, and the President's visit is a strong statement that high quality of the furniture is non-negotiable. On his part, PS Kibicho said, "This young man, Dean Achesa, is a reflection of the potential of the Kenyan youth. He's among the local artisans contracted by GoK to supply desks to public schools and his workshop in Umoja is now a beehive of activity."