After parting ways with Harambee Stars midfielder Duke Abuya following the expiry of his  six month-long contract, Zambian champions Nkana FC are seeking to acquire his services for another one and half years. Abuya joined the Kitwe-based club in January from Kariobangi Sharks and despite his inexperience in the competition, he established himself as a starter and helped the club win the title last month. The creative midfielder, who gained fame after netting against Everton in a friendly match played last year at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani, revealed that when he joined the club, he was initially offered a two-year contract but was revised down to six months. He said the new management of the club is promising a better package and a lengthy contract in the negotiations courtesy of his stellar performance in the second half of  the past season. Abuya said coach Manfred Chabinga was keen to retain him going forward. Chabinga has been dealt a massive blow  ahead of the new season after a handful of senior players who played a crucial role in delivering the 13th title exited, citing delayed salaries. According to one of the players who sought anonymity, the playing unit has gone for two months without pay. "The new management wants me to sign one and half year contract after the previous one expired at the end of the past campaign. The coach told me I was in his plans for the new season. If they meet my demands, then I am likely to extend my stay," said the former GFE 105 player. Apart from Nkana, who are also home to the Kenyan duo of Harun Shakava and Duncan Otieno, Abuya disclosed that two clubs which feature in the Zambian league were also interested in signing him. He further said that a local club which nearly beat Nkana to his signature in January had also reignited talks taking his offers to four. "There are two other Zambian clubs who have approached my agent while a local club is also in the race to sign me. "I am carefully going through the four offers with my agent and I will make a decision over my future soon. "The Zambian league is way above KPL due to the exposure by Supersport and the government policy which demands corporates to support sports as part of the social responsibility," he said