Former Siaya county secretary Kepha Marube and two others have been found guilty of malpractices in procurement and forgery which led to a loss of Sh14.9 million. The others are Zakayo Ojuok (head of procurement) and Tobias Oloo, (director supply chain). The three were charged alongside three other county officials namely Thomas Mboya, Collins Owino and Amos Okello and were listed as the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th accused. In March last year, they were charged with seven counts including abuse of office, forgery among others before the Ethics and Anti-Corruption court in Kisumu. However on Tuesday, senior principal magistrate Robinson Ondiek in his ruling said the State has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt in counts one and five against Marube, Ojuok and Oloo In count one, Marube and Oloo were charged with failing to ensure that prescribed procurement procedures were followed in the tender and purchasing, supply and installation of assorted sports equipment. In count five, Ojuok was charged with forgery where he is said to have, between May 1 2014 and November 30 within Siaya county, made a false document to witness the minutes of the county tender committee award purportedly held on  May 16, 2014. The meeting that never happened lead to a contract award to M/s Samco Traders Limited for  purchase, supply and installation of assorted facilities at Sh14.9 million. “I convict the 1st , 2nd and 3rd accused persons under section 215 of the CPC,” stated Magistrate Ondieki. The court however acquitted the other accused persons in the matter. “In respect to the seventh account, the court makes a finding that the state has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the fifth and sixth accused persons. I therefore acquit them under section 215 of the CPC,”he ruled. In the case, the prosecution summoned 20 witnesses in their quest to prove the charges. In March 2019, the suspect were arrested by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officers and later charged before the commission's court in Kiusmu where they were released on Sh2 million bond each with an alternative of Sh500,000 cash bail.