Mathare United CEO Jecton Obure has voiced his concerns over the decision by some topflight rivals resuming full training before the government gives final guidelines on resumption of football and other contact sports. A couple of clubs have resumed pre season training including reigning champions Gor Mahia and Kariobangi Sharks with official clarifying that they have done so but with strict adherence to the Ministry of Health directives on public health. Obure, however, feels the clubs should have been more patient and awaited for directives by the government. "It's unfortunate that some clubs are operating like there was no coronavirus. There were some guidelines that were given by the Ministry of Sports as recently as two weeks ago regarding football activities but some people are taking them for granted which is clearly putting the players at risk," a worried Obure said. "Players come from different areas and further what are they training for? Are they undergoing testing or we are assuming they are all safe? However, Obure understood the thinking behind Gor's early resumption pointing to their desire to be up to speed just like their continental opponents some of whom have resumed training. "For Gor, maybe they have one eye on the continental competitions but I believe the government is aware of the importance of football resuming safely. The President (Uhuru Kenyatta) opened Nyayo Stadium and will give his monthly guidelines soon and I am sure he is equally eager to see sports resume given that our East African neighbours are all back in action," he noted. "There is no need for teams to make their players train while in some sort of hiding. Personally, I am aware that our coaches have given individuals their training guidelines which they are adhering while still at home." Having seen Mathare lose two first team players in the shape of Roy Okal and Kevin Kimani, Obure was keen to assure the Slum Boys faithful that they are hard at work in strengthening the squad. "For Okal and Kimani, their contracts ended but they preferred to seek new challenges. The technical management is finalising the list of players they are considering. We are in touch with several players, some experienced and some young ones but we will surprise many when we finally confirm our new acquisitions," he concluded.