Wiper Democratic Movement Leader Kalonzo Musyoka is the latest politician to weigh in on CJ David Maraga's dissolution advisory. Kalonzo on Thursday said the advisory by the Chief Justice to the President to dissolve Parliament needs serious interrogation. He said that this is due to the fact that the Chief Justice did not pronounce himself from the bench. In an advisory dated September 21, Maraga said he was responding following six petitions seeking his advice on the matter. The court, however, halted the implementation of the advisory pending the hearing and determination of a petition filed by two Kenyans. Kalonzo said the advisory puts President Uhuru Kenyatta in a position where he will be forced to say no, whose implications will be a constitutional crisis. "I understand the issues being discussed are of great importance, as a political movement we believe in 50-50 gender because women make excellent leaders. "But the question now is, given the pandemic, given the environment, the reality of the situation in this country, a dysfunctional IEBC, is it really thinkable the country can go to an election on account of this advisory," Kalonzo said The Wiper leader said Kenya's situation at the moment cannot allow the country to conduct an election given the devastation brought about by the COVID 19 Pandemic, a crippled IEBC among other major challenges. As he drummed support for the change of the Constitution, Kalonzo said the law should not talk on absolute terms as he urged the Senate to expedite the two-third Bill presently on the second reading to try and rectify the looming crisis. "The constitution as a living document should have the ability to allow the country to breathe but not suffocate it and thus urging a change of the constitution to avoid constitutional suffocation in future. The Wiper Leader made the remarks while distributing food to people living with disability, widows, and orphanages from Dagoretti and Kibera at the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation (KMF) offices. He was accompanied by Kitui West MP Edith Nyenze.