As the country continues to battle the pandemic close to six months on, the most unfortunate moment has been reporting the number of people who have succumbed to the virus. The virus struck the country on March 13 and the first death was reported 14 days later. As more men continue to be more affected by the virus, the equal trend has also spilled over in the number of deaths according to the distribution of case fatalities from the Ministry of Health. On March 26, the government through the Ministry of Health confirmed the first case of death of a person infected with the virus. The patient was a 66-year-old Kenyan man who had recently returned from a business trip in Eswatini and had transited via South Africa. There have been Covid-19 deaths in the country every day since March 26 up to date, except for two days. Acting Health Director-General Dr. Patrick Amoth shared on Thursday during a weekly Twitter segment #AskDG the number of deaths with the ages as well as gender. Out of 577 deaths (1.7 per cent) reported in the country as, by Thursday, 432 (75 per cent) are males while 145 (25 per cent) are females. The graph also shows that 264 of the deaths are from individuals who are 60-years-old and above. Also, 137 deaths are from 50-59 age bracket where 104 (18%) are males while 33 (6%) are females. It also indicates that 93 deaths are in the 40-49 age bracket, the male figure being 70 (12%) while females are 23(4%). The country did not report any death case on August 28, even as the number of new positive cases rose by 241. The country also ushered in the new month of September with zero cases of death, reporting 114 new cases of the virus. The country is slowly flattening the curve of the virus, with the ministry saying that its guidelines have started to yield. As the country continues to put more efforts to further flatten the curve, they have been asked to do so with caution by the World Health Organisation. In a statement on Monday, WHO cautioned against an interpretation that the decline meant that Kenya is flattening the curve. "For now we would warn against premature relaxation of the effective measures put in place by the Kenyan government," WHO said.