Deputy President William Ruto is laying ground to launch his 2022 presidential bid, putting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy at risk. Aspirants of other political seats are also readying themselves for the next general election.With two years to go, presidential aspirants, sitting governors, MPs and MCAs are rushing against time to set up their campaign agenda amidst the Covid-19 pandemic disruption. Coronavirus cases have dropped from a high of 900 cases to an average of 200 a day, pointing to resumption of political activities in the country. There are Cabinet secretaries, chief administrative secretaries and principal secretaries who have already started their campaigns, mostly for gubernatorial positions. They have been seen over the weekends dishing out government goodies which they have tailored for their specific areas of interests. While Deputy President Ruto has been meeting his grassroots networks at his residences in Nairobi and Sugoi since the Ministry of Health protocols were imposed, he kicked off his usual nationwide tours last weekend. The DP, who is keen to succeed Uhuru whose second and last term ends in August 2022, was in Mombasa county on Saturday where held a series of meetings with political and religious leaders from the six coastal counties. He was accompanied by MPs Mohamed Ali (Nyali), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Lydia Haika (Woman Rep, Taita Taveta), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Wangui Ngirici (Woman Rep, Kirinyaga) Gladys Sholei (Woman Rep, Uasin Gishu) and Kimani Ichungw'a (Kikuyu). On Sunday, he was back in Nairobi where he attended a church service in Nairobi’s Pipeline area and later addressed a roadside gathering that blocked his motorcade. “I want to tell you that in the days to come, we will not accept to be taken back to tribal politics, hatred. We should unite as one people. The most important thing is that it is not what the leaders want but what wananchi wants,” he told the crowd. “Kenyans want money in their pockets, they want job opportunities, they want their children to go to school, their livelihoods to proposer. You will go for what Kenyans want or that which some leaders want? Are you ready for what you want? If you are ready, I am also ready too,” he said, giving the clearest indication yet that he is ready to hit the ground running. On Friday he hosted community leaders from Nyandarua and Kajiado counties and on Sunday, he is expected to attend church services in Machakos county. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi on Friday said “the 2022 journey is here with us and unstoppable”.“All elected leaders are up and about in their constituencies. Time is no longer with us, this is just but warm up. If they will bring the so-called referendum, that will be the proper beginning for 2022 campaigns," Sudi, a Ruto ally, told the Star in an interview. He added that if there will be no referendum, then campaigns will start in January next year.Sudi noted that the morale of the MPs was affected by the “vindictive” Jubilee changes, which were orchestrated by Uhuru in Parliament. “MPs are trooping to their constituencies and counties. You will soon see Parliament having quorum challenges. MPs will only attend sittings when there are crucial bills such as those on election and the budget,” he said. The government has banned public rallies, funeral services and religious activities in bid to curb the spread of coronavirus, the three main avenues politicians have traditionally used to sell their agenda. Edited by EKibii