Kenya, like all other countries, is reeling from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is therefore not a surprise that the rate of joblessness has doubled in just a short time. Many business sectors such as hospitality, tourism and travel are devastated. The loss of jobs was beyond the control of government and the private sector. This, however, does not mean we sit back and shake our fist at the virus. We need to remain positive and find solutions to our economic and social challenges. To cushion the economy, implementation of the stimulus package should be fast-tracked. The banks have done well by giving customers relief on loans. However, businesses need more support, especially on taxes. It is time to rethink taxation of businesses, especially at the counties where there's duplication of levies. The government's plan to hire more than 200,000 youth under the National Hygiene Programme (Kazi Mtaani) is a commendable initiative. However, we need to look beyond this period and come up with sustainable programmes that will address youth unemployment. It is our responsibility as a country, both government and private sector, to create opportunities for future generations. Further, this is an opportune time for a greater focus on agricultural productivity and assessing our national competitiveness. Agriculture is crucial to our economy, contributing 26 per cent of Gross Domestic Product and another 27 per cent of GDP indirectly through linkages with other sectors. We need to grow this sector further with value addition and exporting finished products. This will help improve our balance of payment, which favours foreign countries we heavily import from compared to our exports. If we get it right, agriculture will expand employment opportunities from the current average 40 per cent of the total population, where 70 per cent are those in rural Kenya. We also need to seriously drive the 'Buy Kenya Build Kenya' initiative to support the growth of local companies. This will translate to more jobs as the economy recovers. The legal and regulatory environment also needs to be more predictable to attract investments. Finally, the government should consider boosting the capital markets through more listings, a move that will strengthen Kenya's position as a leading investment hub not only for the region but the continent.