A former county official in Western Kenya is blaming supremacy wars among politicians from the region for the revocation of his appointment to a government agency last month. The man was elated when President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) appointed him to the agency on August 7 through a Gazette notice and he immediately took to social media to express his gratitude. A little bird whispers to Corridors that the man made a grave mistake, however, because he thanked only one politician from the region. A rival politician who apparently got him the job is said to have been infuriated and went on to engineer the revocation of the appointment on grounds he is a pro-DP William Ruto Tangatanga sympathiser. *** Why would anyone gate-crash an event while clearly knowing the guests and the hosts may not be very friendly to them? Well, an MP in Embu found himself in trouble when he attended an event in his constituency despite his not being invited. A resident told Corridors of Power that constituents have been sending emissaries to tell the MP never to show up in the constituency because of his unfulfilled election pledges. The MP must have ignored those messages and attended the event, landing himself in hot soup. The legislator, who was recently ranked as one of the most silent lawmakers in the House, was forced to take to his heels to escape the wrath of his constituents. *** Well, sometimes politicians find out they are not the favourites among supporters the hard way. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei just found out that his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart has more supporters, despite both of them being key allies of Deputy President William Ruto. The two were on parallel television shows on Wednesday to discuss national issues after which the Nandi senator took to social media to thank Kenyans for watching his debate on the revenue sharing formula. Supporters of the Deputy President responded en masse, telling Cherargei that they did not watch his debate because they were tuned in to the other television station that featured Kipchumba Murkomen. *** A former MP from Nyanza region is celebrating landing a top government job recently after losing the election in 2017 and being out in the cold for three years now. The former MP is all over the constituency telling those who care to hear about his new job. The former lawmaker has been the talk of town in his constituency over the years  over claims that he did not administer public resources prudently during his tenure as a lawmaker. Some think he should be subjected to investigations by the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission. 