Kilole residents in Kwale county have deplored increasing gang crime and demanded that police step up security. Speaking to Star on Thursday, residents said gangs of youths under 18 years are engaging in theft, robbery and violence, increasing fear among villagers. Led by Hassan Mwasadaka, they said the once-peaceful area has turned into a den of thieves. “This place used to be cool but nowadays the group moves around breaking into people’s houses, stealing livestock and money,” he said. Residents want the government to intervene, put up a police booth and deploy officers to regularly patrol the area before the situation escalates. The crime wave has been going on for two years and efforts to stop the gangs have proved futile, Mwasadaka said. They said when the culprits are taken to court, they get lenient bond and short jail terms. Then they are back to hunt down those who turned them in and testified against them. He said ever since the Covid-19 pandemic, reported thefts and break-ins have not been taken seriously by police. “I have reported several incidents of teenagers stealing hens and farm produce to police but because the government is dealing with the coronavirus the perpetrators find their way out easily,” he said. Village chairman elder Rumani Sego attributed increasing crime to drugs and unemployment. Most youths are idle and spend their time on drinking sprees when they are recruited into gangs, Sego said. He said the area is marginalised and police officers rarely patrol it. Lack of security has hampered freedom and development, Sego said. The chairman said residents who depend on farming have reported frequent and major losses as the gangs ransack their farms. “We are unemployed and the farms are our only source of livelihoods. If all the cassava and coconuts that you’ve sweated hard to grow are stolen, what do you remain with if not hunger and poverty?” he asked. If the government won't protect them, their lives are in danger, he said. Some peope have already received death threats and are living in fear and uncertainty, the elder said. He said similar problems arose in Mabokoni and Mbuani in Kwale and later "children" started killing old people, linking them to witchcraft. Rocksam and Ulingo wa Moto areas are considered the most dangerous. Resident Rukia Hamisi said the government should provide more jobs to Kilole youth to end their suffering. She said many government projects have a lot of requirements for skills that many youth do not have. (Edited by V. Graham) Most youths are idle and spend their time on drinking sprees when they are recruited into gangs, Sego said. He said the area is marginalised and police officers rarely patrol it. Lack of security has hampered freedom and development, Sego said. The chairman said residents who depend on farming have reported frequent and major losses as the gangs ransack their farms. “We are unemployed and the farms are our only source of livelihoods. If all the cassava and coconuts that you’ve sweated hard to prepare are stolen, what do you remain with if not hunger and poverty?” he asked. If the government won't protect them, their lives are in danger, he said. Some peope have already received death threats and are living in fear and uncertainty, the elder said. He said similar problems arose inMabokoni and Mbuani n Kwale and later "children" started killing old people, linking them to witchcraft. Rocksam and Ulingo wa Moto areas are considered the most dangerous. Resident Rukia Hamisi said the government should provide more jobs to Kilole youth to end their suffering. She said many government projects have a lot of requirements for skills that many youth do not have. (Edited by V. Graham)