Senators want West Pokot MCAs to impeach Deputy Governor Nicholas Atudonyang who has been practicing medicine in Texas since 2018. In a drastic recommendation, the Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations Committee said on Wednesday that impeachment is the last resort to "deal with the situation". “We want to urge the county assembly [of West Pokot] to institute an impeachment process as provided for in law,” committee chairman Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay) said. The committee made the recommendation after Governor John Lonyangapuo wrote to the county assembly, and copied the Senate, seeking their intervention on his absentee deputy. The committee said there is no provision in law to deal with a deputy governor who has absconded duties, other than impeachment. According to the Constitution, the office of a deputy governor shall become vacant if the holder of the office dies, resigns in writing to the governor or ceases to be eligible to be elected. The office shall also become vacant if the holder is convicted of an offence punishable by imprisonment for at least 12 months, or is impeached. Atudonyang has reportedly not been in the county since he was sworn into office with reports indicating that he has a full-time job in America. However, he has continued to draw salary from the public coffers as deputy governor. Atudonyang is a family medicine practitioner in Allen, Texas. Other reports said he was a neurosurgeon. Others said he was sourcing medical equipment for West Pokot in America while there were also claims he would work without pay. Last year, Lonyangapuo defended his deputy before a Senate committee, saying he was away on medical grounds and was looking after his premature baby. He said Atudonyang has been unable to come back to take up his role as deputy governor because he was still nursing his immediate “sick family”. The deputy governor had last visited Kenya in December 2018, Lonyangapuo had told the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee. He added, “However, he has a personal challenge because his kid who was born prematurely and he is the one taking care of her.” Meanwhile, the Kajwang-led committee has written to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to give a status update on the appointment of a deputy. Sonko has been running the city without a deputy since January 2018 following the resignation of Polycarp Igathe. He appointed exiled lawyer Miguna Miguna following a Supreme Court advisory, but the county assembly rejected him. In January, Sonko nominated Anne Kananu as his deputy. However, the nominee was never vetted by the county assembly after a case was filed in court, challenging her appointment. (Edited by V. Graham)