Vihiga United head coach Sammy Okoth is worried of the fitness levels of his players ahead of the Kenya Premier League/Football Kenya Federation playoff against Kisumu All Stars. The first leg is slated for  October 7 while the second leg will be played on  October 11 .The winner on aggregate will seal a place in the 2020/21 FKF Premier League. A draw is set to be held, in accordance with Art. 2.9.2 of the FKF Rules and Regulations governing Kenyan Football, to determine which team kicks off the tie at home. Vihiga finished third in the National Super League's past season while All Stars were placed third from bottom in the KPL. Ahead of the ties, Okoth said his players, whom he recalled on Wednesday for light training, had gained weight, thanks to the more than five months, which they have been out of action. The former Zoo FC tactician said he will seek to put the players under intense training before embarking on imparting tactics which he believes will edge All Stars. “I met the players yesterday and I noted most of them had gained weight and this is a huge concern for me. I am, however, optimistic that there is time to have them fit and get positive results,” said the retired Kenyan international Okoth, who believes that the club was poised for automatic qualification to the top flight had it not been for coronavirus, cautioned his players against underrating All Stars. He said their opponents are under pressure from their fans to remain in the top flight and carry the hopes of the region alongside Western Stima. “All Stars want to remain in the top flight by all costs. We have to put our best feet forward if we are to beat them. They will definitely enjoy support from the region and have good players too,” he added Meanwhile All Stars chief executive officer, Nicholas Ochieng confirmed that Andrew Oroka will be in charge for the two matches. The club advertised positions of the entire technical bench last month. “We are yet to hire a new bench but Aroka will handle the team during the playoff. He has been with the team for long and is among the host of tacticians who have applied for the job,” he said 