Farmers in 12 counties have taken up herbs and spices growing to boost earnings. A new initiative is supporting the farmers to produce export-oriented basil, coriander, dill, sage and mint among other herbs and spices. The farmers are drawn from Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Taita Taveta, Machakos, Kajiado, Busia, Embu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Uasin Gishu and Makueni. The Market Access Upgrade Programme (MARKUP) project implemented by United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) seeks to support farmers to make more money. A kilo of thyme, for instance, fetches Sh504 while the same amount of chives goes at Sh840. This is a massive rise in income compared to maize which goes for up to Sh50 per kilo. In Nakuru, the five-year project funded by the European Union is focusing on value chains of snow peas. MARKUP was unveiled virtually by UNIDO chief technical advisor Stefano Sedola and officials from the national and county governments. The project will help connect farmers to the market, improve food security, train selected farmers on good agricultural practices for the local and international market and reach up to 500 extension officers across the country. Ruth Wambui, a farmer in Subukia subcounty has dumped maize and beans production for basil, thyme and chives for export. “I am happy that through the help of MARKUP which was launched in October last year, there is a ready market for my herbs. We harvest, package and load them onto a waiting van ready for transport to the airport,” she said. Wambui said the thyme is destined for the United Kingdom, while the chives would be exported to the Netherlands. Farmers and other people in the value chain are hopeful that MARKUP will improve access to markets. MARKUP national coordinator Maina Karuiru said farmers from the 12 counties should expect more market linkages locally, regionally and internationally. He said the project will emphasise empowering the youth and rural women. "We are looking forward to making a great impact not only to the 12 counties but indirectly to the country at large," Maina said.