Short rains are unlikely to begin in October, as they traditionally do in many parts of Kenya. A new forecast shows the rains will reach the coast and most parts of Eastern and Northeastern Kenya in November. October traditionally marks the onset of the short rains across Kenya, but they have only started in Western Kenya and most parts of the Rift Valley. Parts of Central Kenya will also receive short rains in October. The monthly forecast, provided by the Dagoretti-based Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, divides Kenya right in the middle. Western Kenya is expected to continue receiving heavy rains through December. But the entire season will be disappointing for the eastern half of Kenya, which will receive below-average rains. Still, the country is unlikely to suffer food shortages as the Rift Valley breadbasket falls in the western half expected to receive adequate rainfall between now and December. "A drier than usual season continues to be expected in most parts of the region, including Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, most of Uganda, Kenya, southern, central and north-western Somalia and southern Ethiopia," Icpac said in a statement. Kenya Meteorological Department is expected to issue a downscaled version of the monthly forecast. UK climate scientist Dr Richard Graham last month explained what might be behind the dry weather. "There is an expectation for continued negative Indian Ocean Dipole as well as 65 per cent chance of La Niña, favouring dry conditions," he said. Last year, the country experienced heavy rains between October and December, triggered by a strong positive Indian Ocean Dipole, which dumped heavy rains along the East African coast. The unusually heavy rains killed at least 237 people, according to Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. Weather experts said although this year will be drier, occasional floods cannot be ruled out. "It is likely that episodic rainfall events leading to flash floods might occur even in areas with an increased likelihood of near and below normal rainfall," Icpac said. "Also, dry spells may occur in areas with an increased likelihood of above and near-normal rainfall." Historically, the short rainy season is unpredictable and the rains are not guaranteed to fall widely every year. Most parts of Kenya experience two rainy seasons: March to May’s 'long rains' and October to December’s 'short rains'. June to August are mainly cool and dry over most parts of the country except for some parts in the western region that report some rains. 