The matatu industry and politicians are hampering efforts to fight coronavirus, the Health ministry has said. Health CAS Rashid Aman said matatus and buses are overloading passengers, putting them at risk of catching or spreading the virus. “I want to make a passionate appeal to our people in the public transport sector to cooperate with the government and not allow their matatus and buses to be the weak link in this fight against the virus,” Aman said. He urged the transport industry to enforce social distancing, wearing of face masks at all times and provide sanitiser to passengers. On the other hand, politicians are holding rallies that attract huge crowds, hence creating an ideal condition for mass transmission of the virus. For the public, overcrowding in public spaces, especially market places, has become common. Most people do not observe social and physical distancing. These challenges are rolling back the gains made since the fight against the pandemic began, Aman said. “The same case applies to those going shopping in our markets. We know it is important for our people to shop for their foodstuffs and other things but let us not lose sight of the containment measures,” Aman said. Aman also noted that mandatory wearing of face masks in public places is not being adhered to in many parts of the country. This means the gains made in the fight against the pandemic could be reversed unless precaution is taken, he said. The ministry noted that despite appeals to the public to integrate recovered patients to society, levels of stigma and discrimination are still rife. People who have either been discharged from isolation or quarantine facilities have faced some form of discrimination. The CAS said that stigma drives the disease underground and defeats efforts to contain the spread of the virus. At the Wednesday briefing, the ministry reported 607 new cases, raising the total positive tests to 35,458.  The new cases were from 2,285 samples and are aged between one year and 75 years. Kenya has tested 481,982 since the first case. Some 74 more people recovered from the virus; 41 were from home-based care while 33 were discharged from hospitals. Recoveries are now 21,557. Eight more patients died from Covid-19 complications. The death toll is currently 607. Nairobi recorded the highest number of cases with 18, Mombasa 16, Kisumu 13, Embu and Laikipia 11 cases each, Murang’a six, Narok and Kericho four, Kiambu, Nakuru, Meru and Machakos three cases each. Taita Taveta and Uasin Gishu recorded two cases each while Bomet, Kajiado, Kwale, Lamu and Vihiga one case each.  