Ever wondered why some matatus along the Mau Summit-Londiani-Kericho road are defying Covid-19 rules by carrying excess passengers? Well, blame it on a senior traffic police officer in the area. We're informed the cop receives weekly bribes from two saccos so that they are allowed to operate without regard to the law. Our spy tells us that junior officers have been prohibited from impounding or taking any action against the drivers of the matatus in the saccos. Concerned members of the public want Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to take action against the cop. A county secretary in Nyanza is in panic in the wake of Governor Okoth Obado's arraignment to face corruption charges. The fellow has made frantic calls to a senior DCI officer at Mazingira House to save him from a looming arrest over graft allegations, also involving his boss and top officials of the county. The man whose county brags of overnight millionaires in the last seven years has been on the radar of investigative agencies. The notorious secretary, who is also seeking to succeed his boss, has been duped countless times by a Nairobi-based broker, losing millions with a promise to be saved from the jaws of anti-graft detectives. A governor in western is confused on what to do to an executive committee member, who for the second time in a row was unable to answer basic accounting questions asked by auditors. The governor is said to have been so embarrassed and admitted to his team having let him down and the need to do a reshuffle immediately. Problem is the executive comes from the same clan as him, and carries many of their dirty secrets. Sources close to the county chief say he may have slumped into depression, torn between keeping the incompetent executive and sacking him. Residents along the Kerio Valley in Marakwet East are an unhappy lot. Reason, a top police officer, who had been tasked with resolving a land dispute between two clans, made some careless remarks. The officer allegedly told members of the two warring clans to fight to the death so that those who would remain alive could take over the disputed land. Residents are now wondering what the officer’s work is, if not to restore law and order. They want the authorities to transfer the officer and give them someone they can run to during times of crisis.