Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua yesterday announced he will run for President in 2022, promising to fight corruption and give the country a fresh start. His administration will use resources wisely and have graft cases concluded within six months, he told the press at Athi River. “We need a country where we do not borrow to steal,” the governor said. “Kenya is a great country and God loves us, but our style of politics and the way we choose leaders have made us continue to suffer. We have become a country of a few billionaires and millions of poor, struggling, unemployed and desperate people.” Mutua joins a growing list of candidates seeking to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. This includes Deputy President William Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana. Mutua, who is serving his second term, made the announcement a few kilometres from a venue where Ruto was conducting a church harambee. The Machakos county boss launched his presidential candidacy at the Alfred Mutua 2022 Campaign Logistics Centre in Athi Business Park, Machakos county. “I have agonised about the pain and the political circus going in our country. I have listened to the voices of Kenyans who have met me and prayed to God for a way to bring back hope to you and all Kenyans,” he said. “I, therefore, declare that in the General Election of 2022, I will vie to be the next President of the Republic of Kenya to return Kenya to the railway tracks of where we were meant to be after Independence.” Mutua’s bid will, however, face strong headwinds from Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who has over the years managed to control the Kamba vote. But speaking yesterday, Mutua indirectly hit out at the former Vice President, saying, “The old is gone and the new has come.” He will also face Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, who is emerging as a force to reckon with. On campaign financing, the former government spokesman acknowledged it will be a challenge. However, he will rely on his network of friends and his own pocket to fund his campaigns, which he estimated will cost Sh1.6 billion. “Campaigns are very expensive. We will have over 35,000 polling stations and for you to have at least two agents per station on election day, then we need Sh600 million on that day alone and Sh1 billion to do campaigns,” he said. “We have done the math and it is adding up.” He said his focus will be visiting all corners of the country as he sells his candidature to Kenyans ahead of 2022. The governor also said he is open to any coalition building with like-minded leaders, saying he is already in talks with some political players.