 Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said the Coast region is ready to produce a president. Speaking at Wild Waters Complex in Mombasa on Saturday, Joho said the BBI has the instruments to ensure even minority communities ascend to State House. "There have been Coastal natives in the ballot before. The likes of Chibule wa Tsuma. I have said it and I know by the grace of God there is a day I will be president of this country," Joho said. And for the region to realise such a dream, building alliances and partnerships are essential, the governor said. He said there must be policies and structures put in place to ensure these alliances and policies work. "And that is why it is important today we have a meaningful conversation for our contribution towards the Building Bridges Initiative so that even those from minority communities can be president," he said. Joho speaking during a meeting of Mombasa leaders where ODM chief Raila Odinga was the chief guest. Joho said the region will be more aggressive so as to be at the national negotiation table. "Some of us will not wait to be given positions. We will go and get those positions ourselves," Joho said. Raila said the long chat he had with President Uhuru Kenyatta that led to the birth of the BBI was precipitated by the problems that Kenyans have and need to be solved. He however said there are people in government who are busy opposing the same government they are claiming to serve. "Uhuru Kenyatta himself has acknowledged there are problems in the country and that is why he has agreed to have the BBI," Raila said. "Those in government have been there for eight years and now pretend they did not know youth had no jobs, the women are suffering and Kenyans are crying. Now, with two years left, you start bringing bicycles, motorbikes, wheelbarrows. Where were you for all those seven years?" Raila said in a thinly veiled attack at Deputy President William Ruto. He said the BBI is a serious initiative devoid of 'jokes' about dishing out water tanks, lessos and other items to groups. "That does not solve the problems affecting Kenya. What affects Kenya is deeper than those items and need a serious plan," he said. He said giving the hungry fish is not helping them long-term. "Teach them how to fish and give them fishing tools." The Opposition chief denied claims the BBI is a scheme to create executive positions for some people. "With BBI the Prime Minister will be from Parliament. They will be paid from Parliament and only get allowances for holding the PM position. Just like I used to when I was PM," Raila said. He said the BBI will bring a solution to solve the two-thirds gender rule. Parliament's attempt to pass the bill has flopped on three previous occasions. "There is a solution for that in BBI. Rwanda has done it," Raila said. On the revenue sharing formula,Raila said MPs have failed to solve an issue that is like a drop in the ocean. He said the Sh316 billon for counties is a small token compared to the Sh3 trillion budget that Kenya has. "What they are wrangling about is like 10 per cent," he said. Raila who drummed up support for the BBI said the initiative will raise the shareable income for the counties to 35 per cent of the country's total revenue. The national cake, he said, is small given everyone wants a piece. "We want to expand the cake so that all Kenyans can eat and get satisfied," Raila said.  Edited by P.O