The curve has shown proof of early reduction of new confirmed Covid-19 cases, Health Director General Patrick Amoth has said. On the state of positive cases reported in the country, Amoth said that it is true that the positivity rate for Covid-19 has declined. "But all the preventive and surveillance measures are supposed to continually be enhanced to sustain the gains made," he said. He added that strict adherence to curfew is one of the measures which has yielded great results and led to reduced transmission of the virus. This is combination with other infection prevention measures such as wearing masks, keeping social and physical distance and washing hands. "The positivity rate has gradually declined from a high of 13 per cent in July to the current seven per cent," he said. However, he said that it doesn’t mean preventive measures should be relaxed and that the pandemic is still active. During his weekly Twitter segment #AskDG, a follower stated that he was concerned about the reopening of schools. The DG replied and said the Ministry of Education is working closely with MoH and other stakeholders to make appropriate decisions based the evolution of the pandemic. "The decision will be made once appropriate preventative and precautionary measures have been put in place," the DG said. On the issue of the status of the drug/vaccine trials being under taken in Kenya, he said that all these are in process at various stages, but nothing conclusive yet. "We have also joined the (Covax Facility) Covid-19 facility under WHO and GAVI to ensure that we are able to access any vaccines that may result from all the current trials," he replied. In the case of Covid-19 being airborne, the DG said that it is important to stay or work in spaces that are well ventilated. "Whereas there is no cogent proof of Covid-19 being airborne, it is advisable to have working and living spaces well ventilated and strictly adhere to physical and social distance to reduce the risk of transmission," he advised. Amoth also said that there are ongoing studies to investigate why Africa has generally had a low Case Fatality Rate and is hoping to benefit from the studies once concluded and published. When asked if it is a must for every person to undergo major or minor surgery to have a Covid-19 negative certificate, he explained that for elective (planned) surgical procedures, it is advisable to take a Covid-19 test beforehand. However the certificate does not preclude infection precautionary measures.