The former National Youth Service Miritini barracks in Mombasa is being transformed into a state-of-the-art drug users rehabilitation centre. The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (Nacada) on Friday unveiled a Sh1 billon plan for the 13-acre parcel of land. The Miritini NYS Barracks was launched in December 29, 2009 by former Cabinet Minister Hellen Sambili. However, in 2016 President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a directive that the centre be transformed into a drugs rehabilitation and treatment centre. Nacada chief executive officer Victor Okioma said the new centre will have a hospital, a resource centre, multi-purpose hall, training workshops and hostels. It will have 150 beds for critically ill drug users and serve over 1,000 outpatient clients. The outpatient services have already begun for some 250 drug users who have been enrolled in the medically assisted therapy (MAT) programme. In MAT programme, heroine addicts are given methadone, which is a powerful drug used for pain relief and treatment of drug addiction. It gives the same feeling as heroine. In the next six months, Okioma said, they will renovate the current structures in the centre to begin operations. A contractor, Portland Builder and General Supplies, won the Sh13.5 million renovation tender for the areas. “We are first starting with the renovation of the blocks that are in this centre. The contractor has been given six months to finish the work so that the centre is operationalised officially,” Okioma said. He said the other major facilities - the hospital, workshops, additional hostels and resource centres - will come at a later stage. “Eventually, this will be a centre of excellence. An excess of Sh1 billion will have been spent when the project is complete,” he said. Nacada chair Prof Mabel Imbunga said currently the cost of drug rehabilitation in the country is very high. “In Kenya, we have very few public drug rehabilitation centres. We have Kenyatta National Hospital for outpatient services, Mathare for inpatients, Moi Teaching for inpatients and the upcoming Miritini centre will be for both inpatients and outpatients,” she said. Kenya Ports Authority has given Sh1 million support towards the development of the Miritini rehabilitation centre. Imbuga said they are targeting other public and private partners to support the project. Edited by Henry Makori