Strathmore Gladiators attacking midfielder Brian Ogenche has set his eyes on winning the Premier League title with the team. The Meshack Senge-coached Gladiators last savoured title victory in 2016. The 19-year-old debuted in the league last season and is set for a crucial role after scoring thrice and adding more than six assists to his name. Ogenche won two national and one East Africa trophies with St. Anthony Boys , Kitale between 2015-2018 before joining the three-time league champions last year. He was the top scorer for the Kenya team with seven goals in the Youth Olympic Games in Buenos, Argentina 2018. "Last year was tough for the team with inexperience taking its toll but we have moved on from there. We lost talisman Festus Onyango to Butali but still the quality in the team is intact and we can dream of winning the title once more," he posed. "I learnt a lot from Onyango and I will try to fill the huge gap he left though all the attacking players are up to the task. A 10-goal tally won't be a bad return either." Reflecting on his experience last season he said, "Some games were quite a task considering Butali and Kenya Police are more experienced. The mode of playing tactically at Strathmore is different from what I was trained in high school. Tactics in the Premier League are complicated with different forms of attacking." The player who idolises former English Premier League champions Manchester City attacking midfielder Kevin De Bruyne, is upbeat and raring to go. De Bruyne was this week feted as the Professional Footballers' Association men's Player of the Year after a record 20 assists and 13 goals. Though De Bruyne creates with his leg, Ogenche hopes to use his stick to gain stardom. "With the stick and cork, I can be the De Bruyne of Strathmore. The 29-year old is one of the creative players in world football and is a joy to watch. I am brimming with confidence after encountering tough teams in Argentina and I hope to take my game to the next level."