The elusive two-thirds gender rule could shape the 2022 presidential battle with political bigwigs setting the stage for a showdown in the scramble for the votes. Before then, the push to amend the Constitution - which critics say largely snubs the gender rule - is expected to offer a dress rehearsal that could shape the 2022 contest. Deputy President William Ruto has already lifted the lid on the looming confrontation with rivals after he rallied behind the two-thirds gender rule as a priority for Kenyans than a referendum. His remarks appeared to be a deliberate strategy aimed at swaying women against the push to amend the Constitution if the two-thirds gender principle is not part of the agenda. “If there is one conversation, debate or issue that must be of priority because it is not only a social, economic or human rights issue but also a constitutional right, then it is that of gender parity,” the DP said in Mombasa on Saturday. Women accuse the Jubilee administration of lack of goodwill to implement Article 81(b) that guides on the two-thirds gender rule. “Not more than two-thirds of the members of elective public bodies shall be of the same gender,” the Article reads. With Ruto already sidelined in the executive following the camaraderie between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, the DP appears to be firing up women against the government. The Building Bridges Initiative report that was unveiled last December at Bomas of Kenya did not propose measures to address the gender agenda in both appointive and elective positions. This was despite women strongly putting up a strong case before the BBI task force when they submitted their proposals. For instance, women proposed that presidential and governor candidates ensure that running mates are of the opposite gender during general elections. Now, with the Constitution amendment push gathering pace with women on the periphery, political analysts and politicians observe that the gender agenda will stir up the 2022 presidential contest. Previously, like in the 2017 polls, presidential candidates - including President Kenyatta and Raila - focused on winning over the youth vote bloc. According to the 2017 Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission poll register, there were 9.4 million registered women voters, representing 47 per cent of the electorate. The 2019 population census shows that about 2.6 million girls aged between 15 and 19 by 2019 will join their women counterparts as eligible voters in 2022. Up to nine million fall between the age of 15-34, meaning that women will still form the bulk of 2022 voters as more girls join the majority age. The figures demonstrate why presidential candidates will not overlook the women bloc as they strategise for the 2022 presidential contest. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has rallied women to stand up and defend their space, saying they must reject leaders who shun the women agenda. “Gender discrimination has become normal that women cease to notice it,” the Narc-Kenya party leader said and urged women to boldly fight for inclusion. She faulted the President for failing to make sure his cabinet complies with the two-thirds gender rule. Former MP Catherine Nyamato urged women to be focused and to continue to fighting hard against male chauvinism. “Women of Kenya have come a long way. It is not done yet and they must keep fighting,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie