Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto's Chama cha Mashinani will back any amendment to the Constitution that seeks to stop a ‘winner-takes-all’ situation in presidential elections. The CCM party leader said the only way to cure recurrent tribal conflicts after every general election is to ensure fair sharing of positions between the winner and the losers. Rutto, who spoke at his Bomet residence on Monday when he hosted party members, said most of the communities do not feel represented in the Executive hence the need for change. Among those who attended were CCM secretary general Buzeki Kiprop and Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny. “We need a mixed system of governance so that all communities in the country can feel represented and also feel part of the government…" "This idea of winner-takes-all is not good as it leads to shedding of blood by those defeated in the presidential election,” he said. The Building Bridges Initiative, he said, was the only way out, and thus urged the proponents to involve all leaders from various parts of the country. Rutto further said CCM would support any proposal aimed at “entrenching devolution and right sharing of revenue between the national and county governments.” He said the success of devolution will only be realised through fair sharing of resources. CCM, he added, was re-energising itself and in the next one month, it will embark on countrywide tours to educate Kenyans on the need to have the Constitution changes. The visit by Buzeki and Kutuny who flew into Rutto's residence on Monday afternoon comes after their meeting with ODM leader Raila Odinga a week ago. Buzeki castigated politicians perpetuating hate messages in the country, saying such causes hatred and breach of peace among communities at a time the country is headed towards an electioneering period. “We would like to dissociate ourselves from such statements and remind those in elective positions of the promise made by President Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto that no amount of political competition should cause spilling of blood…It is now sad that those making pronouncements bordering on hate speech are members of that Jubilee party,” he noted. He said CCM and leaders from the community will continue uniting the country ahead of the 2022 polls. Kutuny said time was ripe to amend the 2010 Constitution to address challenges facing Kenyans. He said they want Cabinet Secretaries to be appointed from elected legislators and not technocrats. Edited by EKibii