Barely a day after Environment CS Keriako Tobiko called Deputy President William Ruto a clerk, the second in command has now gone all out to own the tag. Tobiko on Friday blasted Ruto, calling him a ‘mere' clerk. “The Deputy President should be the clerk of the President,...and the way I respect the President as his clerk, even the deputy president and (Elgeyo Marakwet Senator and Ruto ally Kipchumba) Murkomen should respect the President,” he said. Tobiko’s stinging attack arose from a tweet by Murkomen who referred to Tobiko as a mere clerk who needed to respect the President. “Tobiko you are a mere clerk in Jubilee government. You forget so fast that you became a CS because the President was trying to get rid of you from the office of DPP….” The tweet read. But all this name calling provided an opportunity for the Deputy President to own the tag. During his tour in Athi River on Sunday, Ruto wore a cap Written ‘the hustlers clerk’. The black cap had the yellow text imprinted on it. Even though the Ministry of Health has put preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 that include social distancing, the Deputy President, who did not put on a mask, was seen engaging the crowd, with his cap intact. During the tour, the DP told senior civil servants spoiling for a fight with him to think twice. “The only person whom I respect is (President) Uhuru Kenyatta and not the others. I am quiet because I just don’t want many issues,” he stated. He said that CS Tobiko is just like any other person that the Jubilee administration gave work to do. Ruto maintained that he will still receive delegations at his home, adding those are the people who have employed him. “They are the ones who have employed me and not the clerk who is asking questions. Clerks should do the work they have been given and respect the people,” he added. The Deputy President said he will neither be intimidated by senior government officials who are against him nor by scheming for his downfall. “I will not be intimidated by these people. If they are going to vie, then I will be waiting for them at the ballot,” he said in reference to meetings by his competitors.