The Kenya Revenue Authority has won a tax suit filed by Highlands Mineral Water Company Limited challenging a tax demand of Sh155.4 million. The amount includes interest and penalties. The Tax Appeals Tribunal dismissed with costs the company’s appeal against KRA. The dispute emanated from the KRA’s decision of disallowing the water company’s input VAT claimed on self-assessment. The company faulted KRA’s position that input tax is only deductible when VAT returns are filed in accordance with Section 17 (2) of the VAT Act. KRA’s position was that Section 44 (1) of the VAT Act requires every registered person to submit a return in the prescribed form and manner in respect of each tax period not later than the 2oth day after the end of that period. The company had filed its input tax claim late and was disallowed by KRA. The tribunal reaffirmed KRA’s position that it is not in dispute that the only avenue for reclaiming deduction of input is through filing of a VAT return. Section 44 (1) of the VAT Act requires that the VAT return in respect of each tax period should be filed by a registered taxpayer not later than the 20th day after the end of that period unless a taxpayer has sought and obtained an approval for extension of time. It follows that where a taxpayer has filed VAT returns late, then input VAT will only be allowed for deductibility to the extent that it is within six months at the time of filing. The six -month period limit would only cease to apply where the taxpayer had sought and obtained approval to submit a late return. The wording of Section 17(2), in the tribunal’s view, is clear and unambiguous and cannot be interpreted to have any other meaning. The tribunal therefore disagreed with the appellant’s contention that six months cut-off period should apply to the period VAT return relates to irrespective of the date of submission of the return. “On the basis of the foregoing, the tribunal finds that KRA was in order to disallow the water company’s claim,” the tribunal ruled. The company appealed the decision at the High Court and was on April 29, 2020 granted reprieve to give a bank guarantee of Sh10 million to KRA pending hearing and determination of the appeal.  Edited by Henry Makori