Workers at the Mtwapa health centre in Kilifi South are in panic after six employees tested positive for the coronavirus in the line of duty. The six, mostly nurses, were confirmed positive on Thursday and Friday last week after their samples were taken on Tuesday. “We are currently disturbed because our seniors do not want to address us on this matter. The matter is being kept a secret. The hospital was fumigated on Friday and we were asked to go on with our work without proper containment measures,” said a health worker, who did not want to be named. By Wednesday, six more workers had gone into self-isolation. Efforts to get further information were unsuccessful. Kilifi Health executive Charles Dadu neither picked calls nor replied to text messages. Kilifi county chief officer for health Bilal Mazoya said he was in a meeting and would respond later. By the time of going to press, he had yet to respond. Last week, a staffer at the physiotherapy department at the facility turned positive for the virus, prompting targeted testing of the rest of the staff. Of the four nurses working at the triage, three turned positive. “At first, 30 staff were tested and three turned positive, then 25 were tested and two tested positive. We highly suspect the virus was spread by the first case,” the employee said. "The environment here is very conducive to the spread of the virus. If you look at the triage area, it is very small and there are four people working there. It is very hard to observe social distancing. The other issue is the only protective gear we have is a mask and sanitiser. The triage is the first area where patients pass.” The Ad Hoc Committee of the Senate on Covid-19 is expected to visit Kilifi on Tuesday to assess its preparedness to tackle the pandemic. Last Tuesday, residents who had gone to the facility to get medical certificates to enable them to work in restaurants were turned away as the service has temporarily been suspended owing to the inadequate staff. Another staff member said most patients seeking services at the facility have no masks or wear those that are worn out. “When you ask them why they do not have masks they tell you that they do not have money to buy masks. The staff here always wear their masks and they have sanitiser and water for handwashing but it is hard to keep social distance,” the workers said in confidence.