Deputy President William Ruto has called upon leaders in the country including politicians to preach peace among Kenyans even as they serve them. Ruto said leaders should be at the forefront forging for cohesion in the country and urged the country to resist attempts by some leaders to take Kenya back to the old ways of doing politics. “We are past the politics of ethnicity and hate. Ours is development-leaning politics that will transform our country,” Ruto said. The DP was speaking to residents of Kitengela in Kajiado on Sunday after prayer services at the Free Pentecostal Baraka Church and Kitengela Methodist Church. He said that Kenyans will decide who will be their next president come 2022 and that Kenya has a maturing democracy whose people can freely make their voting decisions. “Do not bow down to intimidations and coercion. The so-called deep state and system is hot air. It is a cocktail of criminals,” he said. Ruto who was accompanied by 25 Mps said that insisted that the country is not ready for a referendum, arguing that people are still struggling to make ends meet. “Coronavirus has resulted in a lot of suffering as the economy is ailing. What is important now is to focus on alleviating the sticky challenges of poverty and unemployment.” Among the MPs who accompanied him include George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Gitonga Murugara (Tharaka), Victor Munyaka (Machakos), George Theuri (Embakasi West), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), and Rahab Mukami (Woman Rep, Nyeri). Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Kubai Iringo (Igembe Central), Mathias Robi (Kuria West), Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri) and Patrick Munene (Chuka/Igembe Ngombe). Others were Lydia Haika (Woman Rep, Taita Taveta), Beatrice Nkatha (Woman Rep, Tharaka Nithi), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), John Mutunga (Tigania West), George Kariuki (Ndia), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Korir Nixon (Lang’ata) and Jayne Kihara (Naivasha). Alice Wahome said the only system recognised in Kenya was the one that was anchored in the law. “The use of the police to push for a certain line of political thought is past time. We would not be shaken by that,” she said. Kandara MP added that Mt Kenya was fully behind the DP as the candidate to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. Ichung’wa said the change of the constitution was not a priority.