Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Tuesday broke his silence saying he is concentrating on helping residents regain their lost economic stability, not on political shenanigans. Joho, who was with British High Commissioner Jane Marriot in his office, said he cannot "waste time responding to every political incident happening in the country". The governor appeared to be directing his sentiments at Deputy President William Ruto who was in the county two weeks ago. “We need a shift in our minds. There is a time for everything. Right now we are still dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. I cannot waste my time on political sideshows and shenanigans,” Joho said. Joho has been silent on political matters leading to speculation he might be having new political strategies. The flamboyant politician has been an ardent defender of his boss, ODM chief Raila Odinga, whenever salvos are fired at him. However, this time he has been quiet, and did not speak of the DP’s visit to Mombasa where his foot soldiers, including Nyali MP Mohammed Ali and former Senator Hassan Omar, hit out at him over his administration. “I cannot respond to everyone who comes to Mombasa. We can’t play politics every day. We are at an infection rate of 5.4 per cent for Covid-19. My politics is now about water, education, bringing dignity back to my people…I must say I’m very lucky to be in the headlines for not responding to one William Ruto,” Joho said. In a thinly veiled jibe at the DP, Joho said it is unacceptable to hold political rallies in the county where the virus curve is yet to be flattened after being a hotspot for long. “How do you hold a political rally in Mombasa? Politics will have its time in 2022,” he said. He said he is not apologetic for being silent over the political goings-on in the country. His sentiments came minutes after his political ally Likoni MP Mishi Mboko tore into Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and his Emurua Dikirr counterpart Johanna Ng’eno over slurs at President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mboko, who was accompanied by women leaders and activists outside Joho’s office, said Uhuru is a gentleman and will not respond to Sudi or Ng’eno. “They will get responses from us who are at their level. Uhuru is not at their level,” Mboko said. The Likoni MP and nominated MCA Fatma Kushe said Sudi and Ng'eno ought to respect Uhuru and former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta. “Uhuru is busy trying to unite the country together with Raila, but some men are busy yapping like women, trying to create tension and divide the people,” Mboko said. The two women leaders in Mombasa said women are known for speaking a lot, questioning the political bickering that Sudi and Ng’eno have been engaging in. “We will now dress the two men in deras so they can continue yapping like women,” Mboko said. Deras are loose dresses made in Coastal styles worn by women. Edited by R.Wamochie