City residents will get more hours of water running in their taps after the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company upgraded its equitable distribution programme. In the new line up, taps in city estates will get an uninterrupted flow of water on specific days of the week with some lasting more than 12 hours. However, water rationing will still continue as usual on some days. The programme was announced last week on Friday and is expected to last until Saturday this week. City residents have been urged to have enough storage to last until the next supply. “Report supply failure immediately for swift resolutions,” the notice says. Eastlands being the largest occupied side in the city has been divided into three corridors for the distribution programme. Corridor One covers Imara Daima estate, Mukuru and Embakasi Village all of which will get water from Tuesday 8am to Wednesday 3pm. North Airport Road is also in the same corridor and will get supply from Sunday 8am to Monday 8am. Corridor Two includes estates along Outering Road such as Nyayo Embakasi (Wednesday 8am to 4pm), sections of Umoja One (Wednesday 8am to Thursday 8am), Old and New Donholm (Monday 8am to Tuesday 8am), Tassia (Thursday 8am to Friday 6pm) among others. Estates along Kangundo and Kayole Spine Road have been listed in Corridor Three. They include Umoja II, Nasra, Jacaranda, Greenspan, Greenspan Mall, Sossian Estate, Upper Nyama Villa and Kayole Soweto. They will all get water supply on Tuesdays from 8am to Wednesday 8am. Komarock Phase Two and Three, Lower Matopeni and Sabasaba will get water every Thursday 5pm to Friday 6pm. Residents in the North and Northeast part of the city will also get additional hours of water supply. Kariobagi South and North, Buruburu 1, 2, Outering, Pioneer, Phase 5 extension will get the water supply from Monday 9am to Wednesday 7am. Baba dogo, Ngomongo, Dandora Phase 1 and Korogocho estates will get their supply from Thursday 5pm to Monday 5pm. However, places around learning institutions, hospitals, leading industries and top hotels have been exempted from the programme and will receive a 24-hour water supply everyday. They include the University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University, Lower Kabete Campus and environs, Matter, Kenyatta, Mathari and Nairobi hospitals. Others are the SGR terminus, Coca-Cola (Embakasi), General Service Unit, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Kamiti prison, Windsor Hotel, Kenya Breweries, UNEP headquarters and the US Embassy, Kahawa Barracks, Parts of Babadogo Light Industries, Utalii College, KPLC Training and Traffic headquarters. In the Southern region, estates in Riverside will get water on Wednesday from noon to midnight. Kileleshwa on Sunday from 9am, Lavington (Thursday 9am to Friday noon), Kilimani (Thursday 9am to Monday 9am), Karen (Thursday 8am to Thursday 7am), Langata (Wednesday 6pm to Thursday 7am and Ngong Road from Wednesday 9am to Thursday 9am. In the Central region, South B will get water from Monday 6pm to Tuesday 6am, the City Centre from Monday 8am to Thursday 8am, South C from Wednesday 4pm to Thursday 8am and Ngara from Monday 9am to Thursday 11am. Residents of Kyuna, Kibagare, Spring Valley, New Muthaiga, Nyari and environs, parts of Lower Kabete Road will get water from Thursday 2pm to Sunday 4pm. Mountain View, Kangemi, Water Front and Loresho Springs estates are scheduled to receive their supply from Tuesday 11am to Thursday 6pm. The city's water crisis worsened in 2017, forcing NCWSC to revise its rationing programme in the capital.  Edited by P.O