 Ruiru MP Simon King’ara has called on boda boda riders to work closely with security agents to curb crime. He said the riders play a crucial role in combating criminal activities given their wide network of clients at the grassroots level and being well informed of activities going on in villages. King’ara spoke in Ruiru town while presenting a Sh100,000 cheque to Ruiru Boda Boda Association through his Ng’ang’a King’ara Foundation. He said cooperation between the operators and security officers in the vast subcounty will help in weeding out criminals. "We must weed out all criminal elements who are turning residents against the boda boda business by terrorising them. We must agree to work together with security officers by providing them with crucial information that will lead to the arrest of these criminals. This way, sanity will be restored in this industry that has employed thousands of our youths,” King’ara said. He urged riders to put in place proper systems, including registration of groups, for easy identification of members and their motorbikes to ward off aliens. King’ara said that besides enhancing security, the operators will be assured of their security while at work. He said that in recent months, cases of operators being robbed of their motorbikes and murdered have increased. The lawmaker said the NG-CDF office is constructing new police posts in Mutuya area within Mwihoko ward and Gatong’ora area to beef up security. He said the Githurai-Mwiki police post is already complete and that 20 police officers have been deployed. “We have heard incidents of boda boda operators losing their lives while at work and having their motorbikes stolen. We are working with security personnel to ensure such incidents are eradicated and that our youth who are in the business are assured of their safety,” he said. King’ara said the foundation has embarked on an ambitious programme to empower the operators economically. He said it will support boda boda groups with viable projects financially to boost their income and empower them economically. “Operators who have registered their groups and are undertaking viable projects that can generate them extra income as well as create jobs will receive financial support from the foundation,” he said. Ruiru Town Boda boda Association chairman Peter Kariuki said they already have a cordial working relationship with security officers and have been at the forefront of combating crime. “Also all boda bodas operating in Ruiru are registered in saccos and each sacco has their code, therefore, making it easy to identify aliens,” he said. He also noted that they have initiated other income-generating activities like car wash businesses in Ruiru town where they expect extra earnings. “The cash that we have received today will go a long way in boosting our venture. We'll purchase more pressure machines and be able to employ more youths at our car wash. "We have a plan of investing even in the housing sector. We are optimistic that in a few years, we will have bought a piece of land within Ruiru and started constructing a rental house,” Kariuki said.