President Uhuru Kenyatta has said global geopolitics has taken center stage in the fight against Coronavirus. Uhuru said the politics and competition between global powers have complicated and severely undermined the global response to the COVID19 pandemic. He said they have caused severe anxiety and undermined coordinated responses to an economic and social character that would have left governments in a stronger position as a global collective. Uhuru was making his presentation during the 75th Session of the UN General Assembly. "As President in Office of the Organisation of African, Pacific and Caribbean States, an organization comprising 97 countries, some of whom are most vulnerable and poorest, I have become acutely aware of global geopolitics and competition that is not focused on helping us better build, a stronger, safer, healthier and more prosperous world," he said. Uhuru said what is equally important is that even after addressing the acute phase of the pandemic, governments across the world must all remain collectively committed to global recovery. He said developing countries are seeking to have the existing debt moratorium refined and extended to December 2021, and an early replenishment of the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT) and the World Bank International Development Association (IDA) as well as an early decision on the Special Drawing Rights. As a result, Uhuru said there is an urgent need to improve readiness in the area of global crisis management. Uhuru's sentiments come a day after the US and China accused each other following the pandemic that has left millions of people infected. While US President Donald Trump said China should be held accountable for unleashing the plague to the world, Chinese President Xi Jinping dismissed the claims terming them baseless. Jinping said currently the world is at a crossroad and needs more solidarity and cooperation and not confrontation. He said China will continue to demand transparency in the ongoing investigations. But Uhuru said time has come for governments to effectively take urgent, coordinated and collective measures to build resilience that would insulate societies and economies against the adverse effects of such pandemic and crisis. Uhuru said the COVID-19 pandemic should give the UN Member states a fresh impetus to their collective efforts to strengthen international cooperation. "This global pandemic has deepened unfortunately existing inequalities, hitting the poorest and most vulnerable communities the hardest. It has created an unprecedented synergy of challenges and demonstrated the limits of our institutions," he said. The head of State said mankind is confronted by complex, multifaceted and gravely serious challenges. "Across the world, we are witnessing constant disruptions that are generating great anxiety, uncertainty and unpredictability. The COVID-19 pandemic best defines the challenges of our time; a challenge that affects us all, a challenge that we can only overcome if each of us succeeds," Uhuru said. He added, "The COVID19 pandemic and other contemporary challenges including the climate and biodiversity crisis that we face, our growing geostrategic tensions, social as well as economic inequalities, the crisis of legitimacy and governance as well as the vulnerabilities of our digital world have, indeed, redefined the imperative for multilateral action". Uhuru said Kenya believes strongly that if governments remain anchored in multilateralism and with unity of purpose,  agile in embracing change and positive transformations, rooted in a rule-based international system and act innovatively and selflessly, they can transcend the challenges and secure lasting peace and prosperity for all. "On this occasion of the 75th Anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, “We the People of the United Nations” must rekindle the Idealism, Will and Spirit of the San Francisco conference that founded our great organization," he said. Uhuru said Kenya had to undertake special and targeted efforts by setting up a national multi-agency team on COVID-19 to ensure such appropriate interventions. "We have revamped and expanded our national and county health care systems. The interventions that we have taken have targeted the old and the vulnerable, the unemployed and our youth and specific programmes to keep them healthy and productively engaged. We have also recognized that this pandemic has in itself produced the challenges of gender inequality and more so gender violence," he said. He said his administration has introduced financial and tax interventions to keep the economy and businesses viable and solvent. And like everyone else, introduced social health measures including cessation of travel, social distancing, the wearing of masks and improved hygiene for all. And this has been achieved to the best of our abilities within an environment of constitutional civil liberties and rights to prosperity and development of all our citizenry,"Uhuru said. He added, "What we have learnt in the past six months is that no country and I repeat again no country can manage a crisis of this magnitude on its own. We have had to work collectively in order to build back better". Uhuru said the global community should enhance cooperation and assistance to developing countries in vulnerable situations so as to bolster their economies and health care systems; and to achieve Universal Health Coverage as envisioned in the 2019 UHC political declaration.