Some bishops and pastors in North Rift have supported Deputy President William Ruto's close relationship with churches, his cash donations and handouts, saying they need his help. Clergymen led by Bishop Simon Kemei said any money or handouts given to the church was cleansed and sanctified regardless of its source. Kimei on Tuesday dismissed those opposed to Ruto's generosity and asked the DP to extend the same helping hand to all churches, including those in his home region of North Rift. Ruto is also giving liberally in cash and employment tools to women, youth and others, enabling them to generate income. “As clergy, we are very happy with what the DP is doing for churches because we believe he has been touched by the hand of God to see the need of the church and use the resources available to him so he can intervene and help," Kemei said. He spoke in Eldoret after a weeklong prayer meeting by clergy. Churches have needs and the DP has helped them in many areas, Kemei said. “If the DP will come to my church, I will be very happy and receive him wholeheartedly. As a leader of the congregation, I know we do not have musical instruments, we don’t have seats and we have many other needs that we know the DP can aid us in filling,” Kemei said. His sentiments were echoed by Bishop John Korir and Pastor Joseph Too. They said those accusing the DP of engaging in graft have no capacity to judge anyone and should instead join hands in supporting God's work. Some pastors have gone through hard times because of Covid-19 restrictions on gatherings and widespread economic hardship. Many parishioners have not been able to give to support their pastors. Churches were closed for more than three months to prevent spread of the virus. Chairman of the region's clergy Bishop Wilson Kurui separately said the recent reopening of churches had helped religious leaders pray for God's intervention to help victims of the pandemic and make the disease subside. "God always answers prayers and we believe he will wipe out the Covid-19 disease," Kurui said on Tuesday. Last month Bishop Kurui revealed that more than 40 pastors in Eldoret were suffering acute deprivation in the pandemic and could not afford even food and meet their families' basic needs. With the reopening of churches, they are now recovering and receiving donations, he said. Kurui said churches were adhering to measures to control the spread of the Covid-19 as required by the government. "We also urge all Kenyans to continue observing the measures like social distancing, hand washing and wearing face masks until  we completely deal with the disease with assistance from God," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)