 Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma's property will be auctioned for his failure to settle Sh3.8 million cost of an election petition. The order to auction the property follows a ruling on the same by Justice Thrispisa Cherere in Kisumu. Subsequently, on September 1, court deputy registrar Linah Akoth issued a warrant of the sale. The auction will be conducted by Victoria Blue Auctioneer Services. Ranguma had filed a petition against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, county returning officer and Anyang' Nyong'o, the winner of the lakeside county gubernatorial seat in 2017. Justice David Majanja, sitting in Kisumu, had on January 3, dismissed the petition with costs for lack of evidence. The IEBC thereafter sought to have Ranguma compelled to settle the cost of the petition, hence this week's ruling in its favour by Cherere. Court documents show that Ranguma was ordered to pay the IEBC Sh3.5 million less Sh200,000 deposit. The balance of Sh3.3 million attracted Sh460,597 interest. Other costs were Sh950 and Sh1,500 collection fee, bringing the total to Sh3.8 million. The deputy registrar's warrant read in part: “Noted in the margin and whereas the sum now due and payable in respect of the said decree is Sh3.8 million. These are to command to attach the movable property of the said.” In his ruling, Majanja said the respondents could not be called upon to answer a case whose basis had not been pleaded or proved. Ranguma based his case on the relay and transmission of results, and alleged partiality, lack of neutrality, efficiency, accuracy and accountability. He further argued that voting was not done properly and that there was a lack of transparency in counting and tabulation of results. The petitioner claimed that on numerous instances, the IEBC selectively manipulated, engineered and deliberately distorted the votes cast and counted in the favour of his opponent. He also claimed that his agents were barred from inspecting and scrutinising ballot serial numbers. He further averred that his agents were denied access to polling stations and that voters were issued more than one ballot paper each.  - mwaniki fm