President Kenyatta's confidants have outwitted Deputy President William Ruto from forcing Jubilee into the Msambweni by-election, handing ODM a field day to retain the seat. The elaborate scheme hatched behind Ruto's back is yet another clear signal that the DP no longer has power in Jubilee in what may pose a tough political test to his 2022 presidential bid. The Star has established that the DP unsuccessfully tried to scuttle a press conference by Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and had for the second time to make a trip to Jubilee headquarters in Pangani. President Uhuru Kenyatta is caught between the rock and a hard place - he either upholds the law and dissolves Parliament or sacrifices constitutionalism at the altar of political expediency. Damned if you do, damned if you don't. Either way, the President's final decision on whether or not to dismiss the 12th Parliament - as advised by Chief Justice David Maraga - will have far-reaching constitutional, economic and political ramifications. ODM leader Raila Odinga has challenged governors to drive the country’s efforts in expanding the national cake so all Kenyans have a share. Raila noted that the national cake has been shrinking over the years. He warned that the country is staring at a disaster if nothing is done to increase the productivity in the country’s 47 counties. A Migori MCA was wrestled to the ground and her arm broken as ward reps exchanged blows in a row over Governor Okoth Obado’s impeachment motion. The sergeant-at-arms had to flee with the mace when MCAs began to throw water bottles at and go for each other’s coats and ties. Nominated MCA Mary Ogodo was rushed to St Joseph Mission Hospital in Migori to get treatment for her arm. The High Court on Wednesday  freed former Local Government PS Sammy Kirui after the prosecution failed to prove he abused his office in purchasing unsuitable land for a Nairobi cemetery in 2009. Justice John Onyiego quashed the three year sentence imposed on him by a lower court, saying the state failed to prove abuse of office beyond a reasonable doubt. The Sh283 million land was in Mavoko, Athi River.