Police are looking for a terror suspect who escaped during a raid in his Matuga house as his colleague was gunned down on Monday. Kassim Nassoro Shauti escaped El Chapo style.  (El Chapo is the alias of the infamous Mexican druglord Joaquim Guzman, who once pulled a jailbreak using a hole dug in his cell.) But just as the Mexican is now serving a life sentence in the US, Nassoro’s run is also expected to be short-lived. Detectives from Nairobi had raided his home in Gazore village where he had housed another suspect, Juma Athman Mwengo. Nassoro, 37, escaped through a rectangular hole in the wall of his mud house that an adult had to bend to pass through. His accomplice was trailed to a thatched bathroom and ordered to surrender but, according to the police, "he charged with a panga intending to harm one of the officers and in the process fatally injured”. Mwengo was shot in the right thigh, chest, near the heart and head. Police said he had in 2017 escaped a raid conducted in his house in Likoni's Shika Adabu where three military smoke jackets, two grenades, 10 rounds of 5.56 mm ammunition and binoculars were recovered. In October last year, he and two other suspects escaped during a raid at Dudus, Likoni. Three of their compatriots were shot dead. In the Matuga house, a black flag with Arabic writings similar to those used by terror groups, and five pangas embossed with 'KAFIR' in white ink were found. “The scene was visited by officers from DCI Matuga and Kwale police station where they noted that the gunned down terror suspect was recruiting and organising terror gangs in Msambweni, Likoni and Kisauni,” police said. During the Dudus raid, detectives recovered more than 1,000 bullets, a G3 rifle, 68 air rifle pellets, gun oil, a grenade, pistol magazines and a GPS. Nassoro was once charged with assaulting a police officer. A detective told the Star in confidence on Tuesday: “Nassoro is on the run for now. His friend had escaped many raids but he is dead now. Wherever Nassoro is, his days are numbered.” Mwengo is suspected to have sneaked into Majengo, Mombasa, a few days ago via Boni forest from where he travelled to Kwale. Police say the duo planned to attack a police station and steal weapons in preparation for renewed al-Shabaan terror attacks along the Kenyan coast. Nassoro's and Mwengo's associates are Rashid Mwatsu aka Mody, Salim Rashid Mohammed and Mkauma Ali Mbuiya. In May, police killed Suleiman Ali Kodza, who headed the Diani al-Shabaab  cell. He was killed a few days after another suspect, Kennedy Okaka, was gunned down in Likoni. Edited by R.Wamochie