An ally of Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) from Central Kenya is walking a politically tightrope over his 2022 game plan. The first-term lawmaker's re-election bid in the 2022 General Elections faces a litmus test from a newcomer allied to the Kieleweke wing of the faction supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta and the handshake. The fresh entrant is a wealthy businessman who residents say would give the Ruto ally a run for his money. The politician is already doing ground work ahead of the polls in what has triggered jitters in the incumbent's camp. *** Still in Central, a governor from the region could be headed for a collision with MCAs who accuse him of awarding tenders to companies owned by his close friends and associates. The ward reps say the governor has taken advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic to milk county coffers dry but the county chief is said to have sent an emissary with a message that he is not scared of an impeachment bid. The governor is said to brag about owning prime properties locally and abroad and he would not struggle financially if hounded out of office. He is said to have also fallen out with almost all the MPs from the county. *** Well, while police officers have the responsibility of enforcing the law, some of them within Kasarani area could be a law unto themselves. Officers on night swoops against bars selling alcohol within Sunton area could have made weird mistakes. They hounded dozens of revellers into their trucks but did not arrest the bar owner who was actually violating the law by selling alcohol and staying open beyond curfew hours. Interestingly, by dawn the following day, there was not a single suspect in the cells as all were mysteriously released under cover of darkness. With the opening of the bars, the officers should brace for dry taps going forward. *** An MP from Kiambu county who is eyeing the governorship is on the spot over his new tactics.  He is accused of spending most of his time engaging in politics. The legislator has attracted the wrath of locals who are complaining he has been busy donating foodstuffs instead of engaging in sustainable development. The locals are also perturbed that the MP has been donating food in wards that are far from his home town, despite the fact that his backyard has a large slum where the residents are in dire need of food. The residents have vowed to teach the MP a lesson for not only ignoring President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to focus on development as opposed to politics - but also for forgetting that “charity begins at home.”