The Court of Appeal has frozen the accounts of a firm and its directors who supplied goods to the National Youth Service at inflated prices six years ago. Justices Martha Koome, Gatembu Kairu and Jamilla Mohamed said Catherine Nkirote Maingi, John Kago and Qsetters Investments (respondents) will not withdraw or transfer the Sh29 million held at Equity and Cooperative Bank pending conclusion of an intended appeal by the anti-graft agency. “We are persuaded that the intended appeal is not frivolous. We think it is arguable,” the judges said. On April 8 this year, High Court Judge John Onyiego dismissed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) case and set aside orders preserving the accounts of the said entities. The commission's case was hinged on allegations of embezzlement of government funds through illegal and irregular contracts allegedly awarded to the respondents for the supply of goods and services to the NYS at inflated prices compared to the prevailing market prices then. But Judge Onyiego, in setting aside the preservation orders, said it is not tenable that the respondents were supposed to buy goods on behalf of the NYS at the exact market price, deliver and then on top of it pay tax from the purchase price without making a profit. Aggrieved, the EACC moved to the appellate court and argued that the learned judge failed to properly consider the claims of collusion by respondents as bidders. It also argued that if the current orders sought are not granted, the respondents will access the bank accounts and the amount in the said accounts will disappear. Catherine Ngari, an investigator with the EACC, argued that the respondents secured the supply of items to the NYS at inflated prices through collusive bidding and stage-managed competition. This resulted in fraudulent acquisition by the respondents of Sh45.5 million. But Nkirote and Kago argued that the claims of collusion are completely untrue as no evidence was adduced to show how and with whom they colluded in order to get the award of the impugned tenders. Kago said the tenders in question were voluntarily awarded to Qsetters  without any coercion and  through the assistance of Nkirote,  all the goods that were required under the tenders were supplied at a price of Sh45,517,241.40, including an element of profit.