A parliamentary committee on Wednesday sent away top Transport ministry officials, saying the team was unprepared to respond to its questions. The National Assembly Health Committee chaired by Sabina Chege said the Transport ministry officials who appeared before them were not adequately prepared. The Transport ministry was represented by Health CAS Chris Obure during the afternoon session. He appeared before the committee to explain the ministry's role in the clearing of Jack Ma Foundation donations. Obure had told the committee that all the donations were cleared exclusively by the government clearing agency. "The document before us from the ministry is not well prepared. We need to compare what was donated, what was received and what actually ended up in the warehouse," Chege said. The Health committee probing the loss of Covid-19 funds demanded written submissions. Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny said the ministry is not prepared to face them in regards to the questions they have. "...when we have people come here with half baked information, it causes tension," he said. "I will appeal that any institution invited here, if they are not prepared, they need to go back. I know you are experienced, you should not panic." Kutuny said the public should be fed with enough information on the investigations. "I want to appeal to the government that they fine tune their communication," he said. Chege asked Obure to go and prepare himself and come back with facts. "If we have this gaps you will keep Kenyans guessing. We will see you tomorrow at 9:30am on Thursday," she said. Obure said ground handling and storage services for donations was provided by Kenya Airways. "Consignment of COVID-19 detection kits arrived in the country on March 24, 2020 and was released on the same day to KEMRI," he said. "It was collected from the Kenya Airways warehouse by a senior official of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Isabella Ayaga." Obure said prior to the release of the goods to the consignees indicated, the consignee verified that the details and the quantity of the goods received were consistent with the details in the airway bills. He noted that the donations to Kenya were part of a larger donation to Africa that was originally received in Addis Ababa, from where it was distributed to other countries. "It was collected from the Kenya Airways warehouse through a senior official at the Ministry of Health, Dr Aisodola Aiyaga who was the designated officer and was carried away in car registration KAT 332X," he said. "The second consignment was in respect to medical supplies. That consignment arrived on the 15th of April and released on the same day to KEMRI through the same officer." Obure said part of this consignment was not delivered on that day but was subsequently delivered on 28th May 2020. He noted that Consignment three comprised laboratory supplies, kits, screening equipment, hospital care and IPC material. This consignment arrived on May 22 and was released on May 24, 2020. 