Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has once again urged the public to avoid social gatherings during this period where Covid-19 is still real. During a press briefing on the daily status of Covid-19 in the country, Mwangangi said that nobody is forced to attend gatherings. "MoH maintains that our protocol stands when you are in a gathering make sure you wear a mask on. But most importantly nobody forces to be in that gathering, nobody forces you to be able to congregate into a group," Mwangangi said. She added that the public should adhere to personal responsibility because staying safe starts with an individual. "Remember personal responsibility is absolutely crucial and so if you are going to be in a space where you feel social and physical distancing cannot be maintained, then you need to be masking and avoid greetings. She also pointed out that she has witnessed people hugging and not maintaining social distancing, one of the many ways one can get the virus. "I have seen people hugging and giving each other high fives and that is an easy way of transmission. Personal responsibility remains," the CAS said. Mwangangi added that MoH continues to maintain that nobody should be complacent, making it clear that Covid-19 is still very much an issue and a challenge globally and it is still an issue in the country. "We have made progress in terms of trying to make sure the curve is being flattened, we have made progress in terms of our intervention and what remains clear as day and night is that this progress will be undermined if we continue to gather, but most importantly if we continue to gather and not observe the measures that should be observed," she said. Kenya on Monday recorded one of the lowest figures in recent months after the Health ministry confirmed 48 new cases of Covid-19. This raised the country's total to 36,205 from a sample of 1,081 tested in the last 24 hours. Mwangangi confirmed that all were Kenyans with 31 being male and 17 females. Age-wise, the youngest was a 12 -year-old infant while the oldest was 75 years old. Mombasa leads in the daily positivity rate, recording 20 cases in the last 24 hours.