Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and tycoon Jimi  Wanjigi are battling in court over the businessman's guns. Wanjigi has gone to court demanding Kinoti be compelled to return the firearms seized from his house on October 16, 2017, 10 days before the repeat presidential election. He claims the raid was political. Kinoti says some of the weapons held by Wanjigi are high-precision military firearms that civilians are prohibited from having. He cites the Firearms Act Cap 114 Laws of Kenya. On the day of the raid, heavily armed police officers dramatically broke into Wanjigi's heavily fortified house in upmarket Muthaiga and recovered seven firearms and 688 rounds of ammunition. ODM leader Raila Odinga is faced with an uphill task of crafting a winning matrix for the 2022 General Elections. The former Prime Minister has tried as much as possible to avoid discussing 2022 succession politics in public. Instead, he insists his focus now is on delivering the Building Bridges Initiative arising from his March 9, 2018, handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Be that as it may, the planning activities by his party and the public statements by his close allies reveal that Raila is gearing up to face off with Deputy President William Ruto, among others seeking to succeed Uhuru. In Siasa this Friday, the Star looks at Odinga’s quest to have a national outlook. Nairobi, Nakuru, Kiambu and Turkana will get the lion’s share of Sh370 billion set to be allocated to the counties in the next financial year. After months of standoff characterised by arrests, claims of intimidation, bribery, blackmail and a record 10 adjournments, senators on Thursday struck a deal and voted to approve the third basis for sharing revenue among counties. All the 41 elected senators (delegations) present in the House voted unanimously to approve the formula in a session that saw factions that have been warring for months close ranks. None of the counties loses revenue in the approved third basis for revenue sharing. Read more: How counties will share Sh370bn after senators pass revenue formula Kenya is still hopeful to take part in the Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials when they resume. The clinical trials for Oxford and AstraZeneca’s ChAdOx1 vaccine had been suspended after one of the patients in the UK exhibited adverse reactions. The trials had been paused to allow for investigations into whether the side effects were linked to the vaccine. The vaccine has, however, been deemed safe for trials to continue. About 4,000 Kenyans will be enrolled for the trials. So far, there are more than 180 candidate vaccines on trial with five already in phase 2 and 3 where they are being tested. When a child wants protection, a mother is usually the first person to come through to take care of the child, show love and give a listening ear. However, drug addiction drives many women to the streets and takes attention away from their attention. Drug addiction not only affects a pregnant woman's unborn child but also parts of her body. Children born on the streets to mothers hooked to drugs are always neglected by their parents because they give their habit first priority. The Star explores the uphill battle of being a mother and a drug addict.