Kajiado county has an additional subcounty besides its previous six. Its creation is part of the government’s effort to decentralise security and services. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said Oloililai, the new regional administrative unit, will ease government services. He spoke on Thursday during its unveiling at Ng’atataek. The subcounty that borders Tanzania will serve residents of Ng'atataek, Maili Tisa, Torosei, and Namanga, among other areas. A new deputy county commissioner, Justine Maina, was also installed, with Matiang’i directing him to start work immediately. “I am here on the instructions of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who said the recommendation for the establishment of a new administrative unit was made by the late Interior CS, Joseph ole Nkaissery,” he said. Nkaissery served as Kajiado Central MP before his appointment to President Kenyatta's Cabinet. Matiang’i said new chiefs and their assistants will be recruited in all gazetted locations of the subcounty. He promised to also look at another recommendation that had been made by Nkaissery to have another subcounty hived off from Kajiado West. The county now has seven subcounties. Others are Mashuuru, Kajiado Central, Kajiado West, Kajiado North, Kajiado South and Isinya. Also present at the event were Cabinet secretaries Mutahi Kagwe (Health) and Keriako Tobiko (Environment), Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. Governor Joseph ole Lenku led other elected leaders to the event. They included MPs Peris Tobiko, George Sunkuyia, Joseph Manje, and Memusi Kanchory. The team also met regional administration officers, including chiefs, and later opinion leaders. They also inspected priority infrastructure projects that included the Kajiado-Mashuuru road. Matiang'i ordered national and county government officers to hold a joint meeting and chart the way forward on how to protect the road from destruction. The three Cabinet secretaries said Kajiado has become an important migration hub for the country, and therefore its leadership is critical in steering it to handle its unique cosmopolitan nature. Matiang’i lauded Lenku's networking with the national government, saying it was fast-tracking development. "We are happy you have a governor who knows the importance of respecting all Kenyans and is making Kajiado a home for all of us. I am actually a resident of Kajiado myself," he said. Kagwe said Kajiado had set the pace for other counties in Covid-19 preparedness and said he regularly consulted the governor on health matters. "Having recorded the first case of Covid-19 in Ongata Rongai, Kajiado has been on top of things and this is very encouraging," he said. CS Tobiko said a combination of President Kenyatta and Governor Lenku offers the best leadership for the county and called for support for both.  He castigated those engaging in early election campaigns, warning that it is time to work for the people.