Former Nairobi Mayor and Baba Dogo MCA Geoffrey Majiwa was on Tuesday afternoon sworn in as the third deputy speaker of Nairobi County Assembly. He was confirmed to the position by Speaker Benson Mutura during Tuesday's afternoon plenary session. The Speaker announced that there was no other candidate who presented their papers on time. Only Ngei MCA Redson Otieno had shown interest in the post but failed to submit his papers. The position had been left vacant following the resignation of former deputy speaker John Kamangu last week Thursday. “Only Geoffrey Majiwa and Redson Otieno had picked the nomination forms but only Majiwa returned his papers and after thorough vetting, he was found to be qualified for the Deputy Speaker's position,” Mutura said. As a result, the Speaker proceeded to swear in Majiwa as his deputy in line with the Nairobi County Assembly standing orders that state that if there is only one aspirant for the deputy speaker's position, and is found to have the prerequisite qualities then he or she will automatically be sworn in without the need for an election." In accordance with the law and there being no other contestant for the position, I declare Baba Dogo MCA Geoffrey Majiwa as the new Deputy Speaker, "Mutura said. ODM MCAs in the chambers chanted “handshake handshake” as Majiwa took his oath before the House. "I believe that he will bring new ideas in the assembly that will push the assembly forward,” Mutura added. ODM party had last month nominated Majiwa as its candidate after an agreement with the Jubilee Party that the position will be filled by the opposition. Addressing the media, Majiwa stated he was up to the task to take over from where Kamangu left. “I have a bigger responsibility and that is to ensure service is delivered to Nairobians. I’m up to the task and will ensure that the Speaker and I work together,” he said. The former Mayor said ODM party had nominated him due to his experience in the political field in Nairobi. “My party (ODM) knows the capability of each MCA in the assembly, and it was expected that a senior legislator would occupy that office,” Majiwa said. However, Waithaka MCA Anthony Kiragu condemned the process claiming that the law was not followed. He stated that the assembly’s Standing Order number 6(2) which gives a period of 48 hours for interested candidates to pick and submit their applications was violated. "I qualify for the position and so do other members but I was not given enough time to consult my electorate and my colleagues to know whether I can go for it," Kiragu explained. He expressed his disappointment with the assembly and further stated that he was not aware of any meeting that agreed that the position goes to an ODM candidate. Majiwa responding to Kiragu’s sentiments said everyone was entitled to their opinion. “Different people have different opinions and at the end of the day those who have the best ones sell,” he said.