Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said Taita Taveta county should benefit from revenues generated from tourism at the Tsavo East and Tsavo West national parks. Kalonzo said county residents should fully and directly benefit as they make over 60 per cent of the Taita Taveta land mass. “Taita Taveta county, just like all other counties bordered by national parks and reserves, should directly benefit from the revenues generated therein. It is not only the right thing to do, it is also the pragmatic thing to do to strengthen devolution,” the Wiper leader said on Tuesday. Addressing the County Assembly of Taita Taveta, Kalonzo expressed his support for Governor Granton Samboja, who has sued the state demanding a share of millions of revenue collected from tourists visiting the two parks. “I am aware of a pending petition by Governor Samboja before the High Court concerning this matter, so I will not delve into the details of the petition, lest I am accused of engaging in matters sub judice,” he said. The governor wants his administration to start collecting revenue from the two parks. He has argued that it is unfair for his people to continue suffering the constant human-wildlife conflict yet they don't draw any benefit from the parks. In a petition filed at the High Court in July 2019, Samboja wants a fair share of the revenues to be given to Taita Taveta for being the custodians of the national parks. Kalonzo urged MCAs not to abdicate their oversight role of ensuring county allocation is used for the budgeted for purpose. “There should be no room for pilferage of public funds, and wananchi must get value for their money. You all know that Wiper does not entertain corruption within its echelons,” he said. He added that the party will not defend anyone caught engaging in corruption, particularly concerning theft of county funds. “Anyone found culpable will have to carry his or her own cross,” he said. He added that Wiper, in its submissions to the BBI task force, pitched for the creation of Ward Development Fund to take development to the grassroots. “I am quite optimistic that the fund will be actualised with the passing of the BBI in the anticipated referendum,” he added. Edited by EKibii