Kisii County Governance Watch civil society organisation has supported Chief Justice David Maraga's advisory to President Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament. Secretary Rachael Otundo said on Tuesday that Maraga’s advisory is informed by the Constitution which requires Parliament to pass laws to effect the two-thirds gender rule. She said those blaming the CJ are not aware of what the Constitution says. The advisory is not Maraga's opinion, she said. “Matters Constitution should be taken seriously. The advisory by CJ Maraga to the President was purely based on law and not his own opinion,” Otundo told the press in her office. The activist said Parliament had enough time to pass the laws but MPs have been dragging their feet since the 2010 Constitution was promulgated. “I see the reason why the parliamentarians have been dragging their feet in passing the two-thirds gender rule because the same is provided for in the Constitution and not a creation of anyone,” she said. Otundo said that she suspected foul play in the National Assembly, saying failure by the President to dissolve both Houses would mean a breach of the Constitution which Kenyans passed 1o years ago. She said the financial implication of conducting by–elections in all the constituencies should not be a reason for not dissolving Parliament. “I am not only urging women from Kisii and Nyamira counties to stand in solidarity with CJ Maraga over his action but those from all corners of the nation,” the activist said. The action by Maraga, Otundo said, was timely and takes cognizance of the challenges that women have been facing and continue to face in their quest for inclusivity and equality. She said that Parliament’s refusal to pass the bill would have consequences beyond the struggle for gender equality. “It is the responsibility of each one of us to remain accountable to our Constitution and the rule of law,” she said. Otundo regretted that some leaders in the National Assembly have been misleading Kenyans with the false narrative that the gender rule was not part of Parliament's mandate.  Edited by Henry Makori