Top bosses at Kemsa might be prosecuted after a comprehensive audit report revealed the purchase of Covid-19 items was designed to siphon funds. The report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu was made public only hours before DPP Noordin Haji makes an announcement on Thursday about whether the officials will be charged. Gathungu revealed systematic flaws at Kemsa involving irregular Sh8.3 billion procurement. At least 25 million Kenyans need to gain immunity against the coronavirus to stop the disease from spreading and return to the pre-Covid-19 normalcy. Scientists say vaccines are the easiest route to achieve this immunity, noting that natural immunity gained through infection would leave too many people dead and others with life-long heath problems. Herd immunity refers to the point where enough people are sufficiently resistant to a disease that an infectious agent is unlikely to spread from person to person. National Assembly Budget committee chairman Kanini Kega has threatened to slash Deputy President William Ruto's office budget, saying he absconded his duties. Speaking on Tuesday at a funeral in Gatundu, Kiambu, the Kieni MP said the DP should not continue enjoying state resources if he cannot work for the people who elected him. The government will recruit 5,000 additional police officers in November after two years of dashed hopes for thousands of youths keen on joining the service. However, the number is still a far cry from the 10,000 the state has been hiring in past years, save for 2018 and 2019. The National Police Service Commission, the statutory body mandated to employ police officers, will hold a crucial meeting on Thursday to approve the recruitment. The number of borrowers defaulting on loan repayment is at a new decade high with the steep climb attributed to the impact of Covid-19 on incomes. Latest data by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) shows the the default rate grew to 13.6 per cent in August compared to 13.1 in June. This is  the highest since 2007 when the default rate was  14.1 per cent.