Mariakani in Kilifi county is the new frontier for the property market at the Coast, real estate experts say. For decades, the north of Mombasa - Nyali, Utange, Mtwapa, Kikamba and Vipingo - has been the centre of attraction for property developers. A plot of 50 by 100 feet with a ready title goes for Sh2 million and above in north of Mombasa, Mwiti  Mwiti, a lead consultant at Oligro Company, said “In the north, the land prices are very high. However, in Mariakani, the plots of 50 by 100 go for between Sh350,000 to half a million shillings,” Mwiti said. Despite the low prices of property, the area has not been favourable for many developers because of inaccessibility from Mombasa town. The region, which is only 36km west of Mombasa, is accessible through the Mombasa-Nairobi highway, which is prone to traffic snarl-ups from Makupa (Kibarani), Changamwe round-about, Miritini and Mariakani area. In 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the expansion of the roads around Mombasa west, connecting to Mariakani and the Dongo Kundu bypass. Phase II of Dongo Kundu bypass, which connects west of Mombasa to the south, without going through the Likoni crossing channel, has already began. The expansion of the road from Changamwe roundabout to Mariakani is underway. The Kenya National High Authority is working on the intersection at Changamwe round-about. Mwiti said in the next two years “Mariakani will be a hot cake.” Kilifi Physical Planning, Urban Development and Housing chief officer, Moses  Munga, said Mombasa's population is growing and the demand for housing has not been met. “This has led to a spillover of the housing supply to Kilifi county through Mtwapa and Mariakani areas,”Munga said. According to the county official, Mtwapa and Mariakani have integrated sustainable urban development plans, which have allowed for controlled development. They are both poised to be conferred municipal status. “Mariakani is growing as an industrial urban centre and with this, there is also high demand for housing,” Munga added. Edited by EKibii