World and Olympics 3,000m steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto starts favourite in Saturday's Kip Keino Classic World Athletics Continental Tour in the absence of Moroccan Soufiane El Bakkali . El Bakkali had earlier confirmed participation but meet director, Barnabas Korir confirmed that he will not make it for Saturday's event.  His absence no doubt makes it a Kenyan affair with Kipruto expected to mastermind a clean sweep for the  star-studded Kenyan team, according to the start-list released yesterday. The world champion will enjoy the company of reigning African champion Benjamin Kigen and former World U-18 champion Leonard Bett. Other Kenyans in the race include Davis Kiplangat, Emmanuel Kiprop, Amos Kirui, Lawrence Kipsang, Vincent Kipchumba, Wilberforce Kones and Geoffrey Kipkemboi. Outside threat if any, will come from Ugandan Abel Sikowo, Ethiopian Abraham Seme and Kenyan-born Turkish Hilal Yego. While Kenyans will be counting on Kipruto to deliver in the men's steeplechase, all eyes will be on world record holder and champion Beatrice Chepkoech and former World Champion Hyvin Kiyeng in the women's category. The pair came up against each other early this month in Berlin, where the latter defied odds to beat the former. Kiyeng, an Olympics silver medalist, had last beaten Chepkoech during the 2017 Doha leg of the Diamond League. Fresh from clocking a world leading time of 8:22.54 in the 3000m during the Doha meet last week, multiple World 5000m champion Hellen Obiri's dominance in the race will be put to test by a contingent of track stars. Ethiopian trio of Worku Fantu, Gebreselame Tsigie and Ketema Tigist and Ugandan Sarah Chelangat are not to be ruled out. Other Kenyans in the race are  world 10,000m bronze medalist Agnes Tirop, world silver medalist Margaret Kipkemboi, former African champion Sheila Chepkirui and reigning Kenya Defence Forces cross country champion Joyce Chepkemoi. In the absence of senior Ethiopian athletes who include World and silver Champions Muktar Edris and Selemon Barega, homeboy Nicholas Kimeli stands a chance to redeem Kenya's image in the men's 5,000m race. Kimeli, who represented Kenya in the past global championship, face familiar foes in Jacob Krop, an Africa Youth Championship silver medalist and newly-crowned Berlin 10km world race champion Daniel Simiu. World 1,500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot is almost a sure bet in the race, which has Kumari Taki and Charles Simotwo, among other Kenyan athletes.  In the ladies' category, world U-20 champion Edna Jebitok starts as favourite in the absence of Olympic champion Faith Kipyegon. However, the youngster will face competition from the experienced former African champion Winny Chebet and the Ethiopian duo of Halu Lemlem and Embaye Axumawit. Commonwealth champion Wycliffe Kinyamal and World bronze medallist Ferguson Rotich highlight the men's 800m while former World champion Eunice Sum is expected to carry the day in ladies' category.