Education CS George Magoha has directed a section of universities and colleges to reopen on October 5 as part of a progressive resumption of learning. The CS said those due to sit examinations in Teachers Training Colleges, as well as TVET institutions, will report on Monday next week. He said the boards of TTCs and TVETS will announce the resumption dates of in-person learning for other classes with priority being accorded to students who are undertaking practical courses. Final year students in all the universities and their constituents colleges will also report on Monday. The CS added that the respective university councils and their Senates will announce the date for resumption of in-person learning for students in other academic classes. He said the safe resumption of in-person learning in all Universities and Tertiary Institutions requires utmost fidelity to MoH's protocols and guidelines. MoH's protocols and guidelines Magoha said all learning institutions will be required to mandatorily enforce strict adherence to Covid-19 measures including monitoring of body temperatures. The universities and institutions that had earlier been designated as quarantine centers shall be fumigated under the supervision of MoH before reopening. All the universities and tertiary institutions have been directed to get linked to the health facility prior to reopening. Learners and staff will be provided with psychological and spiritual support as the targeted institutions are set to be reopened. The CS added that Councils/boards and Vice-Chancellors/principals shall ensure that the guidelines have been fully complied with. Also, education officials in conjunction with public health officials will continuously monitor and review the level of compliance. Magoha's directive comes a day after the president said that the country will only discuss on reopening schools once the safety of the learners has been assured. “Learning institutions should only be reopened when we have and can sufficiently guarantee the safety of all our children. Let us not focus on when schools will reopen but on how they will reopen." President Uhuru Kenyatta made his remarks on Monday during his 12th address to the nation since the virus struck the country on March 13, 2020.