Kenya's cash and jobs crisis has taken a turn for the worse following a government directive to freeze the hiring of new civil servants for  three years. “It is government policy to contain the wage bill to the medium-term targets,” Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani instructed accounting officers. The National Treasury has directed all ministries, state departments and agencies (MDAs) not to allocate resources for new recruitment. Pressure is mounting on Deputy President William Ruto to resign for allegedly absconding duty, with critics saying his prolonged stay will undermine the authority of President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Monday, Ruto snubbed the Covid-19 conference at KICC. The function was attended by national leaders including the President and ODM chief Raila Odinga. Politicians allied to the President and Raila dared Ruto to be bold enough and quit over “insubordination.” A political showdown looms in Mombasa after businessman Suleiman Shahbal made a surprise appearance at Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's function on Monday. Kalonzo, after opening the first Wiper office in the county at Gulshan, endorsed Shahbal for governor to the chagrin of Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo, who was elected on the party’s ticket in 2017. “There is another brother here whom you know. He won the governorship in 2013, (Shahbal) and will be governor unopposed this time,” Kalonzo declared. Four universities have been marked for failure to pay up to Sh34 billion in deductions to KRA, NHIF, NSSF and other agencies. A presentation by the Education ministry cites the University of Nairobi, Moi, Egerton and Technical University of Kenya top for notoriety in unremitting staff deductions. The presentation made by University Education PS Simon Nabukwesi before the National Assembly Education committee pinned the skipped deductions to financial challenges occasioned by the underfunding of the sector and reduced revenues. Kenya Airways CEO and chief human resource officer risk a six-month civil jail after being found guilty of contempt for recruiting 800 workers against a court order. Kenya Aviation Workers Union sued KQ management for contempt, accusing it of recruiting staff on short contracts and less pay against a court order. In a ruling by Justice Hellen Wasilwa on September 16, the court found that Kenya Airways CEO Allan Kilavuka and chief human resource officer Everlyn Munyoki were in contempt for ignoring her orders issued on February 26.