The late Catholic archbishop of Nairobi Cardinal Maurice Otunga is edging closer to sainthood as work on his biography progresses. Sr Esther Ichugu, secretary to Otunga’s beatification committee, said the biography is one of the three integral parts of the process. “The other parts are the summary of the witnesses and summary of the documents. This is why this process has taken a long time because each of these parts must be correlated,” Ichugu said. Fr Lawrence Njoroge, the vice postulator for the cause of beatification and canonisation, is  writing the biography. “He has been addressing a few points and gaps in the biography. We are certain that he will be through in a short time,” Ichugu said. She urged Catholics to remain patient as the Archdiocese of Nairobi works on ensuring that it mests all the conditions for beatification and eventual canonisation of the late cardinal. "His legacy is quiet evident and visible. Each one of us is longing for a time when he will be exalted on the altar and the obvious question is when," she said. Ichugu addressed congregants at the Holy Family Basilica, Nairobi, on Sunday morning during celebration of the 17th anniversary of Otunga's death. The mass was attended by John Cardinal Njue and presided over by Fr Njoroge. Reminiscing on the life of Otunga, Njoroge described him as a model human and Kenyan. "He was an example of how God wants us to live as human beings and as Kenyans. He touched everyone in a unique way," he said. He remembered how Cardinal Otunga trusted him so much that he appointed him as education secretary of the Archdiocese of Nairobi against his wishes. "He sent his secretary with a letter and strictly instructed him to give it to me. It was a three-sentence appointment letter with a promise to pray for my health," Njoroge said. Njoroge revealed that he had earlier turned down the appointment due to concerns over his health. Cardinal Otunga served as the head of the Archdiocese of Nairobi from 1971 to 1997 when he was succeeded by Ndingi Mwana a'Nzeki. Beatification is the third of four steps to attaining sainthood. To be beatified, a miracle must be attributed to the intercession of the candidate who will then be given the title blessed. However,  martyrs can be beatified without evidence of a miracle. Canonisation is the last step of sainthood and requires an additional miracle attributed to the candidate. Afterwards, the candidate is declared a saint by the Pope and exalted as an example of holiness that all Catholics can confidently emulate. Edited by Henry Makori