Holders of illegal firearms in Tiaty, Baringo county, have been urged to surrender their guns and live in peace with neighbouring communities. County Commissioner Henry Wafula attributed frequent banditry and cattle rustling to illegal possession of firearms. “Not all Pokots are criminals, there are only a few elements who are spoiling the name of Tiaty subcounty,” Wafula said. He was speaking during the launch of government operations in newly created Tiaty East subcounty in Tangulbei on Monday. New subcounty deputy commissioner Lawrence Ng'are and police boss Kobia Pario were installed. "The place shall soon be fully equipped with all national government departments; we shall install police cells to lock up criminals. All police recruitment and hiring of teachers will be done right here," Wafula said. Present were Tiaty MP William Kamket and County Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot. The region is inhabited by the warring Pokot, Turkana, Tugen and Ilchamus pastoral communities in volatile Baringo North, Tiaty and Baringo South subcounties. Wafula said 1,000 security officers have been deployed to carry out forced disarmament in the subcounty to flush out armed bandits. “But it is our prayer that instead of applying force, those possessing illegal firms should know the value of peace and surrender them willingly,” Wafula said. He said it is time the funds used to facilitate and arm officers on operation should be diverted towards meaningful development like building schools, health facilities and infrastructure. He said government is the only institution mandated to protect people’s lives and property, residents are wrong to think they need guns to protect themselves. The administrator attributed high illiteracy in Tiaty to backward practices such as banditry, cattle rustling, FGM and early forced marriages. “When schools open, probably early next year, all Pokot parents should consider buying books for their children and send them to learn," he said. The leaders urged warring pastoral communities to refrain from the backward practices and adopt peace and development. Kamket praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for allowing the division of larger Tiaty into two subcounties, noting that the land was too vast to govern efficiently. “By so doing, insecurity caused by by bandit attack cases in Tiaty will soon be a thing of the past and development shall prevail," Kamket said. The MP said Baringo county is 11,800 square kilometres (2.9 million acres) and Tiaty alone covers half the area. He said projects will soon come up and the successful Geothermal drilling in Silale and Korrossi will benefit the entire constituency. Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot called for tough punishment of those carrying out "rampant" FGM and forcing young girls to marry. She urged residents to shun backward practices. She called for rescue centres for girls to save them from FGM and forced marriages. (Edited by V. Graham)