Brookhouse School parents suffered a setback on Thursday as the High Court dismissed their case seeking a 30 per cent reduction in fees for online learning. A section of parents in April had challenged the school's decision to charge them full fees, though classes were online because schools were closed during the Covid-19 pandemic. The parents had argued activities such as swimming, library, physical education and other subjects  could not be provided virtually, so the school should not charge full fees. It offers about 15 extra-curricular activities. The parents had also argued that Brookhouse Kenya charges the highest fees compared with Brookhouse schools in other countries. Judge Weldon Korir said, however, he could not dictate how much schools should charge parents. Brookhouse International School, with slightly more than 750 learners, charges at least Sh90,000 to Sh900,000 a year, depending on the year. It is coeducational, pre-primary through Grade 13 and is both a boarding and day school. The school had offered a 15 per cent discount for higher grades, 30 per cent for lower grades for online learning. Many parents walked out. “The court cannot determine the prices of goods and services in the market. In any case, the court is ill-equipped to find that a reduction of schools fees by a particular percentage is appropriate and fair to all the parties,” he ruled. Concerning the issue of Brookhouse charging more, Korir said the school had explained the price of land in Kenya is exorbitant, so its levies are higher than those of sister schools in other countries. “Were the court to take on the responsibility of determining the discount that should have been offered by Brookhouse, it would be required to conduct extensive research outside the evidence placed before the court by the parties,” the court held. The judge said even when schools are of equivalent status, the facilities and teaching staff maybe different, determining how much parents pay. “Each school has its own budgets and traditions and that may explain why a parent will select one private school over another private school with similar facilities and output,” the court said. Judge Korir said one private school may provide the same quality of education with another but that does not mean the two schools should impose uniform fees. “It would be unjust for parents who willingly and voluntarily enrol their children in private schools to demand a reduction of school fees on the ground that the fees charged violate the constitutional right to free and basic education,” he ruled. The court also said Brookhouse had asked parents to collect unutilised exam fees from the school. “This gives the [wrong] impression that Brookhouse was reacting to the [fees] petition by asking the parents to go and collect the unused exam fees,” the court said. The court also dismissed the parents' argument the Ministry of Education  had failed to ensure Brookhouse provided a good curriculum. They claimed the school was offering a substandard curriculum in virtual classes compared to physical classes. “The petitioners have not demonstrated that they have reported to the Ministry of Education that the school is offering substandard curriculum. That being so, the Cabinet Secretary cannot be said to have failed in his duties, thereby requiring some nudging through a court order,” the court ruled. However, the parents got some satisfaction as the court granted their request for the formation of a Parent Teachers Association. They told the court the school had frustrated their attempts to form one. “In the circumstances, an order is issued compelling Brookhouse to forthwith, and not later than 120 days from the date of this judgment, establish a parents’ association which meets the requirements of the provisions of the Third Schedule of the Basic Education Act, 2013,” the court ordered. (Edited by V. Graham)  