National Assembly Transport committee chairman David Pkosing has dismissed claims that the planned nationalisation of Kenya Airways is a merger with Kenya Airports Authority. The Pokot South MP told the Star that it is not the intent of the National Aviation Management Bill 2020. He also dismissed claims that the Bill was rushed, saying the process started two years ago in November 2018. The MP said the Bill has not in any way introduced clashing roles for the two entities and each would continue with its current operations despite the transition to a nationalised regime. Pkosing said the articles creating the operating entities have defined clear roles for each and as such have no collision points. Article 24 of the Bill states that the new Kenya Airways will carry on business as carriers of air passengers and cargo. It will also be in the business of acquiring, sale, hire, and lease of aircraft and equipment as well as other transport-related services. Article 26 establishes KAA with functions to own, operate and maintain aerodromes and other related facilities. KAA will also construct, operate and maintain airports and airstrips at the request of any government department. “Where does the Bill say that the entities will be merged? There is no such thing. What we have is a holding company which will trade as Kenya Aviation Corporation.” Pkosing said the legislation, which has sparked a political storm, follows House resolutions on how to improve KQ. “This Bill was drawn from our recommendations on the matters that arose from the initial Privately Initiated Investment Proposal which was adjudged as impractical as KQ is a state asset,” the MP said. Pkosing further dismissed fears of job losses, saying KAA and KQ will simply transfer their services to the proposed entities. “A nationalised KQ cannot be compared with the PIIP proposal which said staff were to be moved from KAA to KQ,” he said. In the review of the PIIP, MPs resolved that the government establishes an aviation holding company with JKIA, KAA, KQ and an aviation college as subsidiaries. JKIA has since been put under KAA whereas the training aspect will be handled by the Aviation Investment Corporation – the third operating entity under KAC. Under its new mandate, MPs resolved that KAA maintains at least one serviceable airstrip in every county for security, health, and other emergencies. Edited by A.N