The government has rolled out an ambitious plan to reclaim all forestland currently encroached upon across the country. The exercise to be carried in about 10 gazetted forest areas will see thousands of people moved out of forests. Topping the list is Embobut forest, which Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko says has been encroached even by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Tobiko confirmed that Murkomen is living in a land marked as forestland and the sooner he starts vacating the land the better. He spoke on Friday while attending an event at the Loita Forest in Kajiado. According to the ministry’s records, Embobut measures approximately 54,198.86 acres. The government compensated 2,974 squatters who had illegally settled in the forest and were moved out. “However, some disgruntled individuals re-invaded the forest for cultivation, illegal grazing and settlement,” ministry records indicate. “KFS established operation camps under Kapyego and Chesoi forest stations to prevent re-entry and stop any illegal activities in the forest. Restoration efforts on-going, however, there is still a lot of pressure for re-invasion.” The restoration exercise being spearheaded by the Kenya Forest Service officers has reclaimed 11,000 hectares so far. The exercise is still ongoing. KFS has also reclaimed 5,930.5 acres of Olposimoru forest in Narok county within Mau Forest complex ecosystem which was illegally acquired. The documents from the ministry also indicate progress in the reclamation of the 114,355.4 acres of the Maasai Mau forest which is part of the larger Mau forest complex. The government started the restoration efforts in 2018 and the exercise has so far reclaimed 33,033.05 acres which was illegally occupied. “The forest was encroached by illegal settlers who destroyed trees to pave way for their settlement and cultivation. Some 3,112.54 acres have been planted with indigenous trees.” Also being restored is the Kirisia forest in Samburu county which had been vacated voluntarily by intruders after sensitisation conducted by KFS officers. Other gazetted forestlands that have been reclaimed include Makunga forest block in Trans Nzoia and Nyakweri in Narok. Repossession efforts are, however, ongoing in Gwassi in Homa Bay, Cheptais forest within Mt Elgon, Marmanet forest in Laikipia, Kiambu and Kamiti forest blocks and Ngong Hills in Kajiado. For Ngong Hills, Kiambu and Marmanet the reclamation efforts were suspended after court orders were issued stopping KFS from flushing people from the forest land. Edited by R.Wamochie