Tea factories managed by Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) will soon receive final payment, popularly known as “bonus” for their farmers. The agency's Management Services (KTDA MS) Managing Director Alfred Njagi said individual factories will consider the revenue generated from tea sales among other income in determining the final payment. "Individual factories consider the revenue generated from tea sales, other income including interest from investments, dividends from KTDA Holdings less the cost of operations, dividends payable to their shareholders and farmers and taxes to Government if any, for the year," he said. "This decision is made by the respective factories’ boards, which consist of elected farmers’ representatives from each tea growing electoral area.” The firm is anticipating an increased revenue in 2020 compared to 2019 due to increased volumes of tea sold at the Mombasa auction and favourable currency exchange. According to the statement, KTDA's turnover for 2020 is Sh79 billion an increase of 14 per cent compared to the last financial year. In the financial year 2018/19, the total turnover was Sh69 billion and farmers were paid a total of Sh46 billion for the green leaf delivered to the 69 tea factories managed by KTDA MS. In June, KTDA announced that tea farmers in Kenya will earn Sh649 million as their dividends for their full-year crop delivery. The agency defended the payout even as momentum for regulatory and management changes within the tea sector picks up. Smallholder tea farmers affiliated to KTDA’s 54 managed factories will receive the payments from their tea factories, being dividends received from KTDA Holdings Ltd and its subsidiaries for the financial year ending June 30, 2019, it said. KTDA dismissed claims that there has been no payment of dividends to farmers. "This year’s declarations come against the backdrop of increased green leaf production by KTDA-managed factories which grew by 29 per cent for the year ended June 30, to stand at 1.45 billion kilograms compared to 1.13 billion kilograms over a similar period last year. On average 4.5 kilograms of the green leaf make one kilogramme of made tea," the statement read in part. "Consequently, the average price for a kilo of sold tea fell by 8.1 per cent to an average twelve-year low of Sh258.16 per kilo compared to Sh280.94 per kilo in 2019."