Police in Murang'a are searching for a 23-year-old man who allegedly killed his father and and set his body on fire on Thursday in Muchungucha village. Witnesses said Michael Muchiri waylaid his father as he got home from work in the evening before hitting him with an object on the head. He then poured petrol on his body and set it on fire. Muchiri’s mother heard some noise, went to investigate and found that he had killed his father. The boda boda rider then fled the scene. Police arrived later and took the body to the mortuary. Murang'a county police commander Josephat Kinyua confirmed the incident. Kinyua said police have launched a manhunt for the suspect and will charge him with murder. He appealed to the public to supply any information that can lead to his arrest. Margaret Njeri, a neighbour, said the mother had earlier reported at the chief’s camp after Muchiri attempted to break into her house. At the time, she in the house with a gardener the suspect had earlier attacked. Njeri said no action had been taken against Muchiri despite his constant threats against his family. “For three weeks now, the family has not been leaving the house after dark due to fear,” she said. She further added that the suspect had supper at his mother’s house before leaving to waylay his father in a narrow footpath that leads to their home from the main road. Muchiri’s father, who worked at an eatery in Murang’a town was usually accompanied home by the gardener. But the gardener left after continued attacks by the suspect. “There have been numerous incidents of insecurity and security officers are doing nothing about it. If we die, it will be as we plead for help,” Njeri said. The man’s daughter Rebecca Wangari said they suspected that her brother had mental problems. “We had suggested a mental check-up and rehabilitation after his violent behaviour persisted but dad said he would talk to him,” she said. Her brother, she said, had grudges with many villagers and barely kept friends. “There is a day he spilt our food after a disagreement and in another instance, he threatened us with an axe,” Wangari said. William Mburu, resident, expressed shock over the incident but noted many youths in the area have been smoking bhang and causing problems. “Nobody can do such a thing to another human being let alone his own father unless he is on drugs. This year alone, we have seen three such incidences in the village which is very disturbing,” he said.  