The heightened political temperature in the country is a ploy by politicians to divert the public's attention from the theft of Covid-19 billions, Jomvu MP Badi Twalib has said. Twalib has called for hastened prosecution of all people involved in the theft through grand corruption, saying they have threatened the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans. “State agencies must not lose sight of the thieves. All those involved in stealing the funds must be prosecuted and jailed. You cannot play politics with the lives of people,” he said. He spoke on Friday at Miritini Secondary School where he issued 1,700 NHIF cards to elderly beneficiaries. Each card will ensure healthcare for both spouses and their children below 18 years, which means at least 8,500 people in Jomvu will have access to free healthcare. The Sh10 million programme was mooted months ago. The MP said since the elderly are at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus, they need to be specially catered for. “This is an ongoing project that will be renewed annually with more people being incorporated every year,” he said. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted jobs and businesses which has negatively impacted lives in the country. The lawmaker bought six sewing machines and employed six women who made 28,000 face masks which were distributed to residents for free. “It is thus sad to see that we are helping fight this pandemic and yet some rich people are stealing masks donated to us by well-wishers. It is discouraging. Corruption must be stopped in Kenya,” Twalib said. The MP’s sentiments come amid increased political bickering, with President Uhuru Kenyatta's and his deputy William Ruto's allies trading insults. MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Johanna Ng’eno (Emurua Dikirir) found themselves in trouble after their tirades against Uhuru and his mother former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta, which prompted Ng’eno’s arrests over incitement, and a response from Uhuru. "You are not Kenya and Kenya is nor Kenyatta's or Mama Ngina's land. This land belongs to 47 million Kenyans, you cannot run it as you wish," Ng'eno said. Uhuru responded, "These fools who are going around throwing insults, tell them to go insult their mothers and leave mine alone." On Friday, Twalib said there is no need to hurl insults at each other over politics. “Insults will not help. Leaders must ask themselves what they have done to their people to better their lives before resorting to other issues like insults." He called on all politicians to tone down on rhetoric which he said has risen the temperatures in the political scene thus putting the country in a campaign mood. The country has a long way to go before the 2022 general elections and raising political temperatures now will only serve to put the country on a dangerous path, the legislator said. “There will be a general election every five years. When that time comes, we will put on the political gloves and get into the political ring." He also warned his opponents in Jomvu to stop raising political heat in the constituency, adding that some of his opponents are so scared of him that they sing his name from dusk to dawn. “Even when they are at home, instead of calling their spouses sweet names like darling and sweetheart, they call them Badi,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie