She was charged with terror-related counts and later acquitted, but five years later, she has been blacklisted by the US and the Kenyan government. In 2019, Halima Adan was named by the US government as one of ISIS facilitators and described as leading “a financial facilitation network that operated in Europe, the Middle East, America and East Africa”. The US further slapped her with sanctions and froze any property or financial interests she had in the country or through any of its citizens. It alleged that Adan had received Sh15 million from various countries. And on Wednesday, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i named Halima as a facilitator and coordinator of Somali-based terror group al Shabaab. Halima is not new to the Kenyan authorities, especially the Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU). She has been in and out of courts over terror allegations, but she has been acquitted of some cases for lack of or insufficient evidence. One of the cases is still open at a Nairobi court. In 2015, Halima and three other girls were charged with being members of al Shabaab. She was accused of conspiring with others to carry out terror attacks in Kenya. Reports from the cybercrime unit indicated that she had links and contacts with people in Sri Lanka, Canada, the United Arab Emirates, the US, Sudan, Tanzania, Qatar, the United Kingdom, Turkey and Rwanda. The prosecution linked her to Westgate Mall and Garissa attacks where hundreds of people lost their lives. But three years later, Halima and the three girls were acquitted for lack of evidence. The court said the prosecution had failed to prove its case and failed to link the women to any of the charges. However, a former ATPU officer revealed that Kenya, especially the courts, underestimated Halima, despite insisting on its case. He said intelligence they had gathered pointed to Halima being the coordinator, facilitator and recruiter of educated girls who were to specifically provide professional services, such accountancy and doctors, in cells before they joined al Shabaab or Isis, which was their main target. “Her phone records showed constant communication between her and people from outside Kenya, especially Syria and Iraq. We also recovered messages from some key allies of terror group leaders," the ex-ATPU officer said. The officer further noted the woman was behind the Westgate Mall attack in 2013 and was accused of being the mastermind of the Garissa University attack. Former state counsel Eugene Wangila, who handled the criminal case against Halima and the others, said she was the brains behind the recruitment of the other three girls. He said confessions from some of her recruits pointed to her as the recruiter and the facilitator of major activities in al Shabaab and its minor cells. “We had enough intelligence connecting her to the terror groups but we could not introduce that in court due to the existing laws, which would have questioned on who and how the evidence was gathered and we could not risk revealing our footsoldiers,” Wangila said. Wangila said Halima acted as the link between the main financiers and the terror groups as she received funds before trickling them down to al Shabaab and its terror cells. “With funds coming through her, you can imagine how dangerous she was," he said.