A group of MPs has called for transparency in the identification and awarding of contracts to suppliers in the Sh1.9 billion school furniture project. The MPs told the Star on Monday they are concerned that the project launched last week by President Uhuru Kenyatta is "a scandal in waiting like the Kemsa" one. Dan Maanzo (Makueni), Geoffrey King’ang’i (Mbeere South), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Ayub Savula (Lurambi), Joshua Kutuny (Cherang’any) and Nelson Koech (Belgut) proposed that the Ministry of Education publishes the list of potential desk and locker assemblers and those who qualify to supply the furniture. They said the money should have been channelled through the National Government Constituency Development Fund. According to the legislators, only the NG-CDF offices know the needs of the schools and they have the structures to tender for the furniture. King’ang’i noted that the decision to use the provincial administration to lead the project was ill-informed and should be reversed to allow the stakeholders to take part. “At our CDF offices, we receive requests from both primary and secondary schools asking for chairs, desks, tables and lockers. It is at the constituency level that we have statistics on the needs of all the schools,” he told the Star by phone. “The method that has been adopted is not clear and it opens an avenue of corruption like it happened in the Kemsa procurement for Covid-19 supplies. The government should rethink this decision and involve all stakeholders." Maanzo said the desks and lockers should be standardised to meet Covid-19 protocols. “Headteachers  -who are the secretaries to the school boards - should be the ones making requisition on the number of desks and other furniture they need. It should not be the DC ordering on behalf of schools. They do not have facts,” he said. Koech said carpenters from each constituency should be awarded the contracts within their jurisdictions. This will ensure residents also benefit from the programme. “Locals should be given these contracts. We should not allow a situation in which only Nairobi will be the one to supply these desks in other counties. This is part of the post-Covid-19 economic stimulus programme,” he told the Star. Koech said the desk prototypes should be made available at the constituency level for local carpenters. Kositany, who doubles as Jubilee's education secretary-general, said the ministry should not be in hurry, saying it should first involve all stakeholders to identify the needs of each school. “The danger with the model that has been adopted is that the ministry might end up giving some schools what they do not require. There is no harm in sitting down with all the stakeholders to get the list of what they want,” he said. “Constituencies are best-placed to carry out this programme. After all, we have the provincial administration and community leaders sitting in the CDF committees." Kuttuny said the programme is likely to end up with cartels. “It should have been well thought out. Letters have already gone out to DCs directing them to identify contractors. This is a bit tricky. They do not have structures neither do they know the needs of each school and the local carpenters." Savula said the programme is “well thought out but it should be reserved for local youth” and called on carpenters to apply for the contracts. He asked the government to give them adequate time to fill the application forms. The President has directed Education and Interior ministries to ensure they benefit jua kali artisans. The Education ministry will purchase 622,357 lockers and chairs for 5,136 public primary schools and 5,254 secondary schools before the reopening of learning institutions. Primary schools will get 360,000 desks and secondary schools 263,157 lockers and chairs. The desks will cost Sh900 million while lockers and chairs will cost Sh1 billion. Each selected secondary school will get 50 chairs and lockers while primary schools will each receive 70 desks. The furniture should be in schools by October 19.