The government has admitted that some donations critical in the fight against Covid-19 from Chinese billionaire Jack Ma did not arrive in the country. Speaking during a meeting with National Assembly Health Committee on Thursday, Transport CAS Chris Obure disclosed that 21 packages of assorted medical supplies did not reach Nairobi from Ethiopia. He however said his office is not aware of the specific content of the donations. The CAS said the ministry realised that the 21 packages were missing after verifying with the parking documents from China. “We realized that 21 packages were short delivered, I assure you we will continue to pursue the matter with the Ministry of Health to ensure they are delivered,” Obure said. “Personally I did speak to top officials of the Ministry of Health and they confirmed to me that they are pursuing the matter.” Government Clearing Agency Director Felix Aten told the committee that he immediately raised the issue with the ministry after realising part of the consignment was missing.“We took the matter up with the ministry and they promised to follow up. I guess they are in the process of doing the same,” Aten said. Committee chairperson Sabina Chege took the CAS to task on whether the consignment disappeared after landing in Nairobi or while on transit.“The disappearance didn’t happen when they landed in Nairobi? And was there an attempt to divert Jack Ma donations to any other destination?” the Murang’a woman representative said. There have been allegations that Covid-19 donations, including from Ma, were misappropriated or diverted. On Wednesday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe appeared before the committee. He said it is his job to put people under pressure so that they can deliver results. "…It is, however, not my job to tell anybody to commit any crime...... And in the event that I told a CEO to do something that is against the law, the normal thing to do in government is to say - give me what you're telling me in writing," he said. But he noted that part of his job was to coordinate with other agencies to ensure that they serve Kenyans better. Kagwe's statement came after suspended Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari claimed that he was pressured by top Health ministry officials to procure Covid-19 supplies. Manjari last week alleged Kagwe and PS Susan Mochache made direct contact with him to influence procurement of the items. Kagwe said as Kenya stands, it does not have testing reagents. "We have a crisis because we don't have reagents. The American government has suspended the exportation of reagents for testing our people.It's my job to liaise with Kemsa to see how to salvage the situation," he said. "It is my job to communicate with the CEO of Kemsa, all the staff in the ministry  and other institutions to ensure we produce in the job as expected." Kagwe said the he gave direct policy on local production of PPEs, adding that he has never micromanaged anyone. "I did not influence any procurement process," he said.