President Uhuru Kenyatta has extended containment measures, including the 9 pm-4 am curfew, until September 29. In a statement on Monday, Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said the planned National COVID-19 Conference will be presided over by Uhuru on Monday next Monday, thereafter, he will make his 12th national address on the Covid-19 situation on Tuesday. Uhuru made the 11th national address on August 26, where he announced the extension of the curfew by 30 days among other measures to contain the spread of the virus. Other containment measures outlined by Uhuru on August 26 included an extension on the order closing bars. Uhuru also announced restaurants would be allowed to operate until 8pm. "Flattening the COVID-19 curve is a national endeavour that requires action at the individual, community, county, and national levels. Every one of us must play our part for Kenya to triumph over the disease," Kinyua said. Kinyua said to take stock of the efforts made in combatting the coronavirus Pandemic, the National Emergency Response on Coronavirus (NERC) has convened a conference to review the national and county Covid response and in consultation with all stakeholders, chart Kenya’s Post-Covid future. "The National COVID-19 Conference will be presided over by his excellency the President on Monday, 28th September 2020 and will feature participants from the entire spectrum of our national life. This pivotal conference is tipped to be a turning point in Kenya’s fight against the novel coronavirus Disease," he said. Kinyua said the conference is expected to chart a responsible path forward for Kenya as the nation establishes the new normal of adaption to living with COVID-19. The conference will also outline a strategy for building and sustaining momentum with regard to recovery and resilience in a manner that ensures that Kenya bounces back better and stronger. "The conference will showcase good practices which have strengthened economic resilience and self-reliance, including the strengthening of our capacity for local manufacturing; and honour various persons who have emerged as ‘COVID-19 Heroes’due to their exemplary and selfless service to Kenya during the pendency of this Pandemic," Kinyua said. He said the address by the Head of State will unveil the containment measures that shall guide Kenya into the new normal. "It is therefore notified for the General Information that His Excellency the President has extended the subsisting containment measures announced during the Eleventh Presidential Address up to Tuesday 29th September 2020," he said. He said meanwhile Kenyans should continue observing the guidelines and protocols issued by the Ministry of Health, including proper wearing of face masks, rigorous and frequent washing of hands, and strict observance of physical and social distancing.