Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has attracted heavy criticism from Kanu officials in Rift Valley who accuse him of disrespecting the President and abandoning the electorate in his area. More than 40 Kanu branch officials from counties in the region said in a statement that they were angered by Murkomen’s frequent public utterances against the President and other leaders. “We are telling Murkomen to stop playing arrogant and cheap politics which embarrass the people of Rift Valley and especially those who voted for him in Elgeyo Marakwet,” said county Kanu chairman Paul Kibet. Kibet said Murkomen was among those who had made DP Ruto unpopular in parts of the region. The sentiments were echoed by other Kanu officials including David Chepsirior of Uasin Gishu, Janet Melly of Trans Nzoia and Erastus Nakuleu of Turkana. “Murkomen has been displaying some arrogance, intimidating other leaders, outbursts and anger that make many people think about why he should behave in such a way in defense of Ruto,” Kibet said. The Kanu officials claimed Murkomen was bitter because President Kenyatta had cut off graft cartels through which some of those in the Tangatanga wing of Jubilee were benefiting. He claimed that Murkomen hardly visits Elgeyo Marakwet to address challenges which residents face. “Everyone knows why he is bitter and no wonder he no longer uses choppers to fly all over like was the case in the past,” Kibet said. Last week, Murkomen during a TV interview accused President Kenyatta of sidelining and frustrating DP Ruto who had helped form the Jubilee government. But the Kanu officials said Uhuru was elected by Kenyans and those in Jubilee had no agreement with anyone to engage in corruption and expect the President’s protection. “They should show us where they agreed with Uhuru that they will support each other in elections and engage in looting from Kenyans,” Melly said. KIbet accused Murkomen of making utterances aimed at inciting the people of Rift Valley. “We know some of the utterances are meant to incite our people but we are asking the government to be keen and ensure some of these leaders do not cause animosity because of their own selfish political interests,” he said. The Kanu officials said DP Ruto and all those interested in the presidency will face off in elections and none of them had the right to claim that Kenyans must elect him in 2022. Edited by Henry Makori