A high-flying political figure from a Nyanza county is angry at reports his gubernatorial ambitions have been nipped in the bud. The politician was hoping for a hand from ODM boss Raila Odinga (pictured) but it appears Raila might prefer a different ally to inherit the county's top seat. Bitter and frustrated, the politician is said to have reached out to one of the extended Odinga family members in hopes of bulldozing his way to the top, with a little boost. The awkward situation could be a thorn in the flesh of Raila's campaigns and could have divided the Odinga family down the middle. *** Disquiet has rocked President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet. A source in the know tells Corridors of Power a Cabinet Secretary recently shocked his colleagues when he told them in a meeting that Covid-19 infections had soared in certain areas because of political activities there. He singled out places visited by Deputy President William Ruto. It is said his colleagues wondered why he had not mentioned places visited by other leaders, including the President, ODM leader Raila Odinga and his Cabinet colleagues who also have been addressing huge crowds. Talk about double standards ... *** A newly posted senior traffic cop to a South Rift county is on the spot over his insatiable appetite for bribes. Our moles say he has been releasing vehicles impounded for traffic offences after owners part with the usual ‘kitu ya chai'. His love of bribes has escalated to a level that has caught the public eye. To make matters more offensive, he has even been chasing vehicles using his personal car.  In an ugly  twist of events in his pursuit of bribes, the officer nearly caused an accident as he raced after a Nissan matatu ferrying mourners to a funeral. Residents could be planning mass protests to push for the officer's transfer. *** A political aspirant could be living a lie after it emerged he could have pocketed some Sh2 million as a 'facilitation fee' to attend a national event. It is alleged that the politician was inspired by the perks. While at the event, he could not resist grabbing the mike to slam fellow politicos for flouting Covid-19 protocols. His  handlers were overheard saying they had gotten their way around the politician and they have now captured him. Corridors of Power understands the noise, political meetings and hard-hitting statements the man has been issuing were all sponsored, controlled and orchestrated by the powers that be. It’s a matter of time before the leader is captured and his ambitions wither away. 