The inaugural Simba Premier League earlier scheduled for next week in Nairobi has been postponed due to Covid-19 challenges. In a statement, the tournament spokesman Peter Ongondo said they have been forced to put off the event that had attracted a number of foreign players. “Due to the strict government protocol measures and the international travel logistical challenges that we are facing to bring in the foreign players, we have decided to reschedule the tournament to a later date,” he said. Players from as far as Pakistan, Sri Lanka and United Arab Emirates had been included to make up the six teams in the event that was to run between September 10-19. “We had been assured that all will be fine in as far as getting the foreign players in the country is concerned. However, with 14-day quarantine rule, we have been forced to change our plans,” Ongondo said. He said it will be difficult to accommodate the visitors for 14 days of no cricket while the main reason of having them here is to is to spice up the tournament. However, he said the decision gives the organisers the best possible opportunity of delivering a safe and successful tournament on a later date. “We are going to take this opportunity to try and make sure we put everything in order. I know a number of people were looking forward to get it going but it’s obvious there is nothing we can do with the current situation,” he said. The squads had been announced last week with a number of national team players spread across the six teams. The Serengeti Dezo Construction squad is loaded with seven international players and will be led by Elijah Otieno and the experienced Irfan Karim. The Samburu Prime Tanks team boasts three international captains and will be one of the favourites for the title. The team is led by Kenya team captain Shem Ngoche. Tsavo Glory Hotels, led by Nelson Odhiambo, on paper has one of the most entertaining batting line-ups on display including Rakep Patel. The Daman Ganga side will be led by one of the most experienced Kenyan cricketers Maurice Ouma, who will play alongside James Ngoche, Emmanuel Bundi and Sachin Bhudia.