Kisumu city manager Doris Ombara will proceed on terminal leave next month. Her term ended on August 14. She had been given a three-month extension to hand over major projects. “It is true my five-year contract ended on August 15, 2020,” Ombara said. She said the Kisumu Urban Project ends in March next year, while phase two of Kenya Urban Support Programme just got underway. “These are delicate projects that I started from scratch. We are keen to transition well,” Ombara said. “...Otherwise I’m leaving the city a happy and grateful lady. I feel fulfilled and grateful for the opportunity given to me to serve. “I will look back with pride and gratitude. I also need to take a rest. So I will proceed from October 1.” Kisumu Urban Project administrator Charles Omollo will take over as the acting city manager. He is also the Kenya Urban Support Programme coordinator. Ombara has survived many attempts to remove her from office. In 2016, she was involved in a legal battle with Ranguma, who had transferred her to another docket. Ombara had been moved from the powerful docket to the Lake Front Development Secretariat, then a new agency, in what Ranguma said was a promotion to reward her for transforming the county. However, she moved to court to fight what she said amounted to a demotion. She complained that she was being sent to head a nonexistent agency. Ombara later got her job back. On May 21, Ombara was on spotlight for still being in office despite the city board's decision to send her on terminal leave from May 15. Ombara was directed to immediately proceed on leave and was replaced by county assembly assistant clerk Peter Anditi. In a letter dated May 13, Ombara was directed to hand over to Anditi, who is also the secretary of the Kisumu city board, by May 15. “You will recall that you were appointed as a city manager for a period of five years beginning August 15, 2015,” read the letter signed by board chairman Elijah Adul. "The purpose of this letter is to remind you that your said contract of employment is set to elapse on August 14, 2020. You should, therefore, proceed on leave immediately from May 15, 2020.” According to the letter, the decision was arrived at following a board meeting on May 12. The board decided that Ombara should utilise the balance of her pending leave days. “We wish to take this opportunity to thank you for your service and wish you the very best in your future endeavours,” the letter reads. It was copied to Governor Anyang' Nyong’o, county secretary Godfrey Kigochi, county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro and County Public Service Board chairperson Babu Karan. The board said its decision was to give it ample time to find her successor. However, Ombara stayed put. This forced Anditi to head back to the assembly. But Ombara said she was advised by Kigochi to await further direction from Nyong'o, whom she refers to as the appointing authority. "I am the one who wrote to the county secretary on my term coming to an end. I also indicated to them that I would like an extension to see the completion of the ongoing mega projects such as Uhuru Business Park," she said. Ombara said her track record speaks for itself. "I have not refused to leave the office. I will leave when I am directed so by the appointing authority," she said. She said those pushing for her removal were fighting back because they wanted tenders given to their cronies. Ombara said she had not served for five years after she was forced out office for 18 months during Governor Jack Ranguma's tenure. In other changes, Roads chief officer Moses Ogeda has been appointed the city engineer. He replaces Kevin Ajuul. Ogeda has been replaced with Energy chief officer Daniel Okia. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya