Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has repeated that he will not be anyone's running mate, no more playing second fiddle - he's running for president. He said he and his party have enough experience, expertise and goodwill to lead Kenya. The Wiper leader said he is going all the way and will not be stepping aside for anyone. The former vice president on Monday told Mombasa residents to prepare to usher in a new dawn in 2022. "The journey has started and we are not looking back," he said after opening the party's Mombasa county offices at Gulshan on Jomo Kenyatta Avenue. Kalonzo has twice shelved his presidential ambitions for ODM leader Raila Odinga, being the opposition leader's running mate in 2013 under Cord and 2017 under Nasa. However, on Monday, he said enough is enough. "Ten years of helping Raila are enough. This time we are not playing second fiddle to anyone," he said. The Wiper boss was accompanied by a host of Wiper MPs, including Kisauni's Ali Mbogo, Irene Kasalu (Kitui county), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Julius Mawathe (Embakasi South), Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), Bernard Mulu (Kitui Central), Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi), and Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi West) and Gideon Mulyungi (Mwingi Central). Also present were deputy party leader Farah Maalim, secretary general Judith Sijeny, chairman Chirau Mwakwere, deputy chair Shakila Abdalla, CAS Wavinya Ndeti, former MP Kalembe Ndile, Mombasa county coordinator Alex Masha, Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlagui, the Young Wiper Democrats chair. Kalonzo said Wiper is building a strong team that will ensure Kenya is governed by "people of integrity", and  announced that Ndile has disbanded his Tip Tip party and joined Wiper. "We are not taking prisoners. Even if it is scorched earth policy, we are not taking prisoners,” Kalonzo declared. Wiper is rebranding as a party of integrity, hard work and fairness. The slogan has been changed to "Kazi Kazi Bila Wizi" from "Wiper All The Way". On Sunday, Kalonzo was in Msambweni, Kwale county, drumming up support for Wiper's candidate for the MP seat in the December 15 by-election. He said Kwale is now locked given the party’s chairman Mwakwere comes from the area. He said Mombasa will be one of the major beneficiaries of his administration should he succeed President Uhuru. “To boost the economy, Mombasa should be made a free port,” Kalonzo said. He said that in this way, Mombasa will once again become of Kenya’s main economic hubs. Edited by EKibii