Mombasa County leads with new infections of Covid-19 with 40 cases as the country recorded 148 cases on Friday. This is from a sample size of 2,438 tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of confirmed positive cases to 36,724. The cumulative tests now stand at 511,614. From the cases, all are Kenyans except three who are foreigners. Of the cases, 105 are males and 43 females. In terms of age, the youngest is a two-year-old infant, while the oldest is 75 years. In terms of recoveries, the country recorded 98 recoveries from the disease, 46 of whom are from the home-based care program while 52 were discharged from various hospitals. This now brings the total number of recoveries to 23,709. Unfortunately, the country lost four patients to the disease bringing the total number of fatalities to 646. According to the distribution of the cases by counties, after Mombasa, Nairobi is second with 32, Laikipia 15, Kiambu 11, Nakuru and Embu seven with Uasin Gishu and Kajiado with six cases each. Taita Taveta and Kisumu five cases each, Kitui four, Trans Nzoia three, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kwale, Machakos, Kericho, Makueni and Murang’a with one case each. In terms of sub-county distribution, the 40 cases in Mombasa are from Mvita (14), Kisauni (11), Likoni five, Nyali four, Changamwe and Jomvu with three cases each. In Nairobi, the 32 cases are from Westlands six, Embakasi East four, Langata and Starehe three cases each, Dagoretti North, Embakasi South, Embakasi West, Kasarani and Ruaraka two cases each, Others are Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi North, Kibra, Makadara and Roysambu with one case each. In Laikipia, the 15 cases are from Laikipia East nine, Laikipia North four and Laikipia West two. In Kiambu, the 11 cases are from Githunguri and Limuru three cases each, Gatundu North, Juja, Kiambu Town, Kikuyu and Thika one case each. In Nakuru, the seven cases are all from Naivasha, while the seven cases in Embu, are all from Runyenjes. In Uasin  Gishu, the six cases are from Ainabkoi three, Kesses two and Turbo one, while the six cases in Kajiado are from Kajiado North (five) and Kajiado East one. In Taita Taveta, the five cases are all from Taveta, while the five cases in Kisumu, are all from Kisumu  Central. In Kitui, all the four cases are from Kitui Central, and the threecases in Trans Nzoia are from Saboti two and Kiminini one. The case in Baringo is from Baringo Central, the case in Elgeyo Marakwet is from Keiyo South, the case in Kwale, is from Msambweni, the case in Machakos, is from Athi River, the case in Kericho, is from Ainamoi, the case in Makueni, is from the town, while the case in Murang’a, is from Gatanga.