More than 100 youths from Gatanga, Murang’a county, are undergoing a five-day training in music and film production. Area MP Nduati Ngugi said the training has been organised in line with the Studio Mashinani programme initiated by the national government to develop the local creative industry by enabling youths to tap into their inventiveness. Ngugi spoke while opening the training at Kirwara Boys' High School on Monday. He said a Sh25 million studio has been set up by the government and is only awaiting installation of equipment. Once complete, the studio will offer free production services to local youths. The project is sponsored by the Kenya Films Commission (KFC) in partnership with the NG-CDF office. It is meant to equip them with the skills to produce high-quality content. The lawmaker noted that the constituency is widely known for its vast musical talent but the unavailability of good studios and high production costs has created a gap between the renowned artistes most of whom are ageing and the up-and-coming ones. He confirmed that the Presidential Music Commission has dispatched several officials to train the beneficiaries. “They will also receive training on copyrighting and patenting their content and afterwards, each will receive a certificate,” Ngugi said. He, however, appealed to the youths to uphold high moral standards as they produce their content and desist from political affiliations. "Avoid political or immoral content. Hold the Gatanga flag high and continue with the legacy that has been set by your predecessors,” he advised. In 2017, Ngugi started Talanta Mashinani, a programme that helped identify and exposed, among others, dancing, singing and poetry talents. The best three contestants were given a chance to perform during the famous Gatanga Night alongside renowned artistes as a way of launching their careers. They were also assisted to nurture their talent and given the platform to network with older artistes. Ngugi said former MP Peter Kenneth, in partnership with the organisers of Gatanga Night event, had established a Sh3 million fully equipped talent centre at Kirwara market that had a studio to help budding artistes record their music. The studio was, however, underutilised and eventually vandalised when the former MP left the seat. The youths detailed the challenges they have been going through in their attempts to record music, saying the only available studios are in Kiambu and Nairobi. Kang’ethe C-man, a singer, said he recorded his music in a studio in Thika town but his work was rejected by radio stations for poor quality. “My music could not be played in any station even after the rigorous production work, but with the training, I will be able to make good music at no cost,” he noted. Martin Githinji, one of the KFC facilitators, appealed to the youth to stop relying on the conventional media and instead make use of social media to market their work. 