Barely 24 hours after the deadline for the nomination for Football Kenya Federation (FKF) presidency elapsed, a section of aspirants have come out strongly to rubbish the process, saying it’s a total sham They also called for the resignation of the FKF Electoral board led by Kentice Tikolo. The aspirants, who included Sam Nyamweya, Nicholas Musonye,Twaha Mbarak, Simon Mugo, Angeline Mwikali and Andrew Amukowa said they would not be arm-twisted to ratify a process that has been ‘choreographed for one candidate to win’. “We can’t break our own rules for the sake of one man’s ego. We can’t be manipulated to participate in an election that is flawed to sanitise it,”charged Musonye. Nyamweya alleged that the candidates who presented their papers to the board on Monday were mere projects meant to give the election a ‘competitive face’. “It’s well documented that the people who presented their papers are supporters of Nick Mwendwa and have gone publicly to show that. Do they have any moral authority to challenge him,” posed Nyamweya. The former FKF President added: “Kenyans are not fools and whatever they are engaging in is an illegality and will not be recognised by the government of Kenya.” The aspirants, who were later joined by former FKF vice President Sam Sholei challenged the Sports Cabinet Secretary, Ambassador Amina Mohamed to stamp her authority and ensure the laws of the land are adhered to. “The CS must come out  clearly. She has been wavering but it’s time for her to make her stand known. Let the ministry stop hiding behind the Sports Disputes Tribunal.They have the responsibility of streamlining football in this country. She can call for a roundtable meeting where a solution to this impasse can be found,” they urged. The aspirants warned that they were not short of options should their demands for a free and fair election are not met. “We have many options available to us. We can organise elections that are compliant and ensure that they are within the law but we have not reached that point,” said Twaha. “If the government is genuine about bringing sanity to football, they must act. We want a proper exercise so that the best candidate with the support of clubs and stakeholders takes the responsibility of managing football,” he added. The aspirants urged for the institution of a normalisation committee to organise elections as they lacked confidence in Tikolo’s board. They concluded by warning world governing body, Fifa against double standards when handling similar issues of member associations —calling for normalisation committee in others while giving a seal of approval to others.