The National Assembly is contemplating procuring a hi-tech internal system for supporting virtual House sittings and committee meetings. The system, which the House leadership said is better hosted internally for security reasons, would be acquired if the Covid-19 situation persists. This is likely to cost taxpayers more millions of shillings in addition to the massive ICT investment already supporting assembly business. In 2015, the Parliamentary Service Commission procured over 540 iPads for MPs at nearly Sh32 million. To implement the virtual sittings plan, the National Assembly leadership intends to procure and provide tablets for all members to enable them attend meetings. In a recent meeting led by Speaker Justin Muturi, the House reasoned that this will enable continuity of business amid the constraints posed by Covid-19. Lawmakers would use dedicated gadgets “instead of using mobile phones prone to interruptions.” “The devices should be programmed and dedicated exclusively for parliamentary work,” the leaders resolved during the third Leadership Retreat in Nairobi. The systems used for virtual or hybrid sittings would be customised to accommodate bills, motions and reports — for ease of reference. The leaders also agreed on the need to explicitly define the precincts of Parliament to address the question of privileges and immunity to members attending meetings from remote locations. For voting purposes, the MPs agreed on the cardinal principle that members attending meetings virtually must do so in their offices within the precincts. “This is to safeguard the constitutionality of attendance, legality of decisions made and for accountability,” the resolutions read. The Procedure and House Rules committee is expected to develop “a standardised process for conducting virtual and hybrid sittings”. The Parliamentary Broadcasting committee is expected to develop guidelines for media coverage of virtual meetings in line with requirements for public participation. House leaders also intend to upgrade Parliament’s internet facility “to provide dedicated internet to all buildings within the precincts of Parliament.” Offices and committee rooms occupied by the National Assembly will be connected "to support uninterrupted hosting of or participation in virtual meetings." The Procedure and House Rules committee chaired by Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North) had recommended that the system should not just be developed specifically for the Covid-19 pandemic. Among issues in consideration are about the quorums and a verifiable voting platform for the members. Edited by EKibii 