The Kiambu county assembly has been faulted for not approving a proposal by the Finance head to borrow money to pay striking health workers. Health workers have been on strike for the past six days over two months salary arrears. Finance executive Wilson Mburu on Wednesday said he had requested Family Bank to loan the county, but the proposal had yet to be approved by MCAs. He was addressing striking health workers who had assembled outside the county assembly precincts. “I wrote a letter to the banks which the county operates in and the first bank to agree was Family Bank. The governor agreed and consented for me to borrow money and we have to involve the assembly and the National Treasury to guarantee us to borrow. "I sent the same plea to the assembly but it needed more explanations as they wanted to know at what interest the bank will charge the loan." Mburu said the bank agreed on a 1% off interest and they are waiting for the assembly to deliberate on the matter before approval. He made the request in a letter. "We appreciate the positive consideration of our request to provide the sought solution on salary payment on behalf of the county government of Kiambu on behalf of our employees. "This letter serves to request you to make payment of total net salaries of Kiambu executive at a cost of Sh272,573,550. Total gross payroll of Sh49,902,175. The details of beneficiary banks and accounts details of total amounts of Sh322,475,676 are hereby attached," it reads. Mburu said the county government hopes that by Friday funds will be released by the National Treasury and the bank will deposit cash in the employee’s accounts as requested. He said the county assembly has been requested to make a policy that the county government bear the cost of deductions from employees by the bank over delayed salaries. “The employees should not be punished for penalties incurred over delays in their salaries by banks. The assembly should rule that the burden be borne by the county government since it is not their fault as they have worked, yet there is no pay,” Mburu said. A memo by chief health officer Patrick Nyaga to medical superintendents, subcounty and facility in-charges dated September 30, 2020, demanded reports be filed every Friday, noting that some health staff members were boycotting work. The Kenya National Union of Nurses Kiambu branch has since written to the county secretary, labour office, Kiambu assembly, county public service board and the county chief health officer over intimidation. Secretary-general John Njoroge said the health workers have received backlash from the chief health officer and threatened with dismissals if they continue with the strike "just like what happened in Kirinyaga county". “We have done our work and all we ask is to be paid and getting intimidations will not work on us. If there is no pay by Friday, the strike is on officially from 8th October,” Njoroge said. Mburu, however, urged the health workers to pray for those using intimidations amid the struggle and hardship they are going through.