Nakuru town centre was a no-go zone for the better part of Monday as protesting public service vehicle operators engaged anti-riot police in running battles. Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria was arrested at around 2pm in connection with the violent street demonstrations, Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said. He was questioned at the Nakuru Central police station. Business came to a standstill for more than seven hours as the matatu operators protested their lockout from the central business district since March when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the country. The operators were joined by their crews and supporters. They lit bonfires and barricaded roads to push the county government to allow them back into the main terminus in the CBD. Chanting slogans and throwing stones at the officers, the operators claimed that the new termini in three locations were in deplorable condition and lacked vital amenities like sanitation and security lights. They accused Governor Lee Kinyanjui of duping them that they would stay outside the CBD for only three months as the country grappled with the virus, only to later decide that the move was permanent. The operators further accused Kinyanjui of denying them audience whenever they wanted to discuss the matter. They questioned why the county government had allowed business back into the busy Wakulima Market at the heart of the town while locking them out. “President Uhuru Kenyatta has opened business everywhere. Why is Governor Kinyanjui denying us the opportunity to comfortably eke out a living from the areas we used to operate from?" a protestor shouted. This was the third major protest by the matatu operators since July, with several others called off at the last minute. The protestors were met with the full force of the law as armed police officers dispersed them with teargas from as early as 6.30am. They also fired in the air. In some instances, the protestors threw teargas canisters back at the officers as others pelted the law enforcers with stones. Kinyanjui, in a press statement on his Facebook page, called for calm, urging the operators to be patient as his administration was in the process of building a station with modern amenities. "The County Government of Nakuru has good intentions whose full implementation will lead to an expanded modern and vibrant town," read the statement posted at 6am. He said the county government was procuring a contractor to start the building of a modern transport centre that will include all amenities. "We are aware of plans by a section of public transport operators to demonstrate in Nakuru town over the relocation of stages outside the CBD," he said. He maintained that his administration considered the transport sector a critical enabler in unlocking the development of the county's economy.