The coronavirus has ruined many small businesses which deserve support from the government, Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said on Tuesday. The former National Assembly Majority leader urged the Ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Enterprise Development to intervene. He spoke while distributing Sh6.8 million Uwezo Fund cheques to 34 women's groups at his home. He said the fund has played an integral role in uplifting small businesses, but many deserving cases are left out due to limited resources. On Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta lifted the ban on the sale of alcohol in bars and restaurants, to the delight of bar owners who had complained that the long closure had left their businesses in ruins. And to continue cushioning micro, small and medium enterprises, he instructed the National Treasury to maintain the reduction of the turnover tax rate from three to one per cent. This is intended to benefit small traders and businesses like barbershops, eateries and pubs and others in the informal sector, which accounts for the bulk of jobs in the country. Duale said the President's speech was "timely and full of positive things" and urged relevant ministries to move to the grassroots, identify businesses and offer them revival grants. “Kenyans, in general, are a resilient and a hardworking lot. This can be seen in how they toil on a day-to-day basis to put food on the table. With little support, their lives can change for the better. "Let the government and leaders walk with them during these trying times. They require support now more than ever,” he said. He in particular called for the support of women-owned small businesses. "Helping women achieve their full potential is one of the most powerful ways to fight poverty. Investing in opportunities for women could have a tremendous economic and social impact." Garissa Township constituency Uwezo Fund chairman Paul Chege said they had begun refinancing groups that had repaid the amount they got in the first round. “We are happy to note that these groups involved in various income-generating activities are very disciplined with repaying. Our appeal is that others follow suit and we will definitely support them,” he said. Edited by F'Orieny