The Reproductive Health Bill, 2019 will offer teenagers information, sex education, life skills, vocational training and guidance and mentorship, not promote abortions, an expert has said. Reproductive justice expert and human rights lawyer Stephanie Musho said the Bill will not make teenagers promiscuous but instead protect them. "The fact is, they are already having sex. Data shows 11 per cent of children are having sex before they turn 15 and one in every five girls between the ages 15-19 has had a live birth or is pregnant in Kenya," she said. According to a 2017 study by African Population and Health Research Centre, one in four secondary students in Nairobi, Mombasa, and Homa Bay counties think using a condom during sex is a sign of mistrust. "Look at the figures of teens having sex on one hand and the lack of information on the other. This Bill is giving them access to reproductive health services and that prevents pregnancies which result in abortions," she said. During an interview with the Star, Musho said when the Bill was first presented for a vote in 2014, it failed to be adopted because there was misinformation and lack of political will around it. "Did you know that you can call, write or tweet your senator requesting them to vote for the Reproductive Health Bill? As citizens, after we have read the bill, our responsibility is to reach out to our representatives and let them know whether we agree or disagree with the Bill, and urge them to vote for it or against it," she said. Musho added the Bill is once again being dismissed on grounds of promoting abortion yet the goal is to protect and advance the reproductive health rights of every Kenyan. "The Bill covers so much more than abortion and the way it talks about abortion is in no stronger terms than in the Constitution," she said. Another element in the Bill is the provision of safe childbirth in hospitals and assisted reproduction which she says is currently operating in a vacuum. "We also live in a patriarchal society where if you don't have a child you are seen to be less of a woman, and assisted reproduction is accessible only to the rich because of how expensive it is," she said. "The average Kenyan woman cannot afford to get intervention to conceive. Some 4.2 million Kenyans need help to conceive." Musho added that the Bill also seeks to provide clear legislation on assisted reproduction services. "In surrogacy, the mother of the child is the one who gives birth to the child. So what happens now is the commissioning parents have to adopt the child," she said. There is also no legal framework on what happens if the surrogate decides they do not want to keep the pregnancy any more. The Bill also talks about sterilisation because in the past, women living with HIV have been forcefully sterilised due to the assumption that they will transmit the disease to their unborn children. "Yet we know that women living with HIV are able to carry children to full term and not infect them. So the bill promotes consent because sterilisation is not a bad thing, because it is a method of family planning but it requires consent," she said. The Bill requires medical professionals to have to explain to women the pros and cons of sterilisation, and need written consent from the women. Edited by R.Wamochie