The two suspects in the murder of businessman Kevin Omwenga are set to be arraigned in court on today morning to answer murder charges. This comes even as a new CCTV footage that could send investigators back to the drawing board emerged. High court Judge James Wakiaga last Friday ordered that the two, businessman Chris Obure and his bodyguard Robert Bodo be produced in court mid-morning Monday to answer to murder charges. Obure and Bodo were arrested two weeks ago in connection with the murder of Omwenga who was shot in his house at Galana Apartments on August 21. According to the charge sheet seen by the Star, it is alleged that on August 21 at Galana Suites in Kilimani Sub County within Nairobi County Obure and Bodo jointly murdered Kevin Ombati Omwenga. According to investigations, Bodo, a prime suspect believed to have pulled the trigger, used Obure’s pistol to shoot Omwenga. Obure is the chairman of the MG Meriton Group, East African Region whose offices are located on North Airport Road. At the weekend, a CCTV footage showing how Bodo accessed Obure’s elaborate office and picked a gun that is believed to have been used to kill the slain businessman surfaced. In the clip obtained by the Star, Bodo is seen entering the office at around 06.26 am on August 21, 2020. Omwenga was killed at around 11.30 pm on Friday, August 21, 2020. In a blueish jacket and holding a radio call on his left hand, Obodo walks to the main desk. He bends and appears to be dialing some digits to open a safe. He is alone in the office. He picks what looks a key and walks to the other side of the desk, opens a closet and picks a pistol. He hides the gun in his waist and walks back to return the key. He walks into the room for some minutes, touching screens before walking out. At 11.42 pm, he walks back, this time in a white T-shirt and sleeveless jacket. He picks the key, opens the closest and appears to be reloading bullets on the gun. Appearing disturbed, he returns the key and walks out. In the video, Bodo who is Obure’s PA and head of security appears to be knowing every corner of the office. However, it was not clear whether Bodo had been instructed by his boss, Obure, to pick the gun. Bodo had told DCI officers probing the murder that he shot Omwenga but said the act was accidental. But, Obure has reportedly told DCI officers probing the case that he was in a daylong meeting on the fateful day and has denied instructing Bodo to pick the gun. Last Friday, Obure and Bodo were presented before Senior Principal Magistrate Derrick Kuto for the closing of their miscellaneous file where the court had granted the police 12 days to complete investigations before they are charged. After the file was closed, the appeared virtually via zoom before high court Judge James Wakiaga to take a plea of murder. However, the prosecution asked the court for seven days to be able to carry out a mental assessment on the two suspects before they formally plead to the murder charge. Justice Wakiaga declined to give the state 7 days and instead directed them to conduct the mental exam on the two within two days and present them before him at 11.30 am on Monday (today) for plea taking. They will appear via zoom this morning before Justice Wakiaga.