The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has appointed a team of prosecutors to review a file submitted by the anti-graft agency into the Sh7.8 billion Kenya Medical Supplies Agency scandal. Haji received the file from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) on Friday and subsequently “appointed a team of senior experienced prosecutors to undertake an independent and comprehensive review” of the documents. “The team will submit their findings to me, after which I will make a decision and inform the public of the progress within the next 14 days,” he added. EACC has been conducting an inquiry into allegations of irregular procurement and fraudulent payments in relation to the purchase and supply of Covid-19 emergency commodities that led to the irregular expenditure of Sh7.8 billion at Kemsa. President Uhuru Kenyatta had asked government agencies to expedite investigations into the alleged theft of funds at Kemsa. "Given the public interest the relevant agencies should expedite investigations and conclude the same within 21 days," Uhuru said on August 26. The President assured that all persons found to be culpable would be brought to book their social status or political affiliations notwithstanding. While conducting its inquiry, EACC detectives raided Kemsa on September 9 and collected computers and other documents that may link the agency to the corruption allegations levelled against it. On August 14, Kemsa suspended three top officials including the agency’s Chief Executive Officer Jonah Manjari to pave way for a probe on COVID-19 supplies procurement. Manjari, Eliud Muriithi (Commercial Director) and Charles Juma (Procurement Director) were also investigated by EACC. The board appointed Edward Njoroge Njuguna as the acting CEO while Edward Buluma and George Walukana will assume the roles of procurement and commercial directors respectively. The Senates Health Committee and Ad Hoc Committee on Covid-19 Situation in Kenya and the National Assembly’s Health Committee are also probing the scandal. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is also investigations allegations of fraud at the agency. The DCI is investigating the possibility that some senior Kemsa officials used fake documents to award a contract that exposed the agency to possible loss of Sh840 million.