Maseno School’s former rugby players have launched an initiative to maintain the school’s sterling rugby performance both in the country and regionally. According to one of them Kelvin Wilson, they have started by having home and away kits for the team. Replicas will also be available for sale at Sh5, 000 and part of the proceeds will be used to support the school’s rugby team. “We want Maseno rugby teams, popularly known as ‘Jambazi’ to maintain their status in the country as rugby giants. As of now, we want to give the team all the required equipment to help achieve these aspirations,” Wilson said. He said they plan to engage former basketball and hockey players to also give back to the school. Another former student Kevin Gisore said they are also thinking of upgrading the gym. “This is something we want to continue doing. Our group consists of players from early 90’s to last year,” he said in a telephone interview. Maseno has been featuring regularly at the nationals since 2010 and have won the 7’s title twice but have not been lucky in 15’s losing in the finals four times. In the year 2014, Maseno lifted the East Africa;s 15’s title. Former Kenya 7’s coach Benjamin Ayimba and National 7’s player Bill Odhiambo are alumnus of the school. The school has also produced several players currently featuring in the Kenya Cup. The school’s rugby head coach Paul Nyamita welcomed the initiative. “It’s a sign of a bright future. The current players will be motivated if they know that their seniors are expecting results from them,” said Nyamita. He added they were eyeing a return to the East Africa games this year but the dream was cut short following the closure of schools and suspension of sports activities due to the coronavirus pandemic. Maseno’s old boys have picked the cue from their St Mary's Yala  School counterparts who have started fundraising for the construction of a gym at the school. The former Yala students will also improve sports activities at the institution. 