The construction of  Phase Two of the iconic Bukhungu Stadium which commenced a few months ago is on course. Kakamega County are seeking to elevate Bukhungu to the level of Nyayo Stadium  and Moi International Sports Centre (MISC),  Kasarani. While touring the stadium to check on the progress, Kakamega governor, Wycliffe Oparanya expressed satisfaction with the construction works currently being undertaken by Wilkoma Construction Company. “In my manifesto, I pledged and promised that I would put up a stadium here that would attract even international sports activities leading to sports tourism. "My people have a passion for football and other sporting disciplines and this project will give my administration great legacy. “In the first phase, we spent over Sh500 million and we want to add another Sh2.5 billion for phases two and three that will see the facility being transformed into an international stadium,” said Oparanya. The facility, whose construction begun in 2017, saw the venue host Confederation of East and Central Africa Football Association (Cecafa) championship and remains home to the Kenya Premier League side, Kakamega Homeboyz. “Governor Oparanya also added that his administration is focused on improving other sporting facilities within all the 12 sub-counties as one way of cushioning players from serious injuries. “Having once served in top management with AFC Leopards, I understand well the problems our players go through and realise the need to come up with this project that will in the near future see Kakamega County become a great force and dominant in all the sporting disciplines," he said. “This is a home to many soccer stars like the late Jonathan Niva, Josephat Murila, Patrick Shilasi, Nick Yakhama and Mark Sirengo among others. We have many more players coming up  and we need to  motivate them to further their careers,” Oparanya added. Wilkom Construction Company is targeting to spend over 170 weeks to complete phase two works and this will see Bukhungu furnished with modern seats, Media centre and administration centre. 