A lawmaker has sought to expunge the name of Kenya Bureau of Standards MD Bernard Njiraini from a report recommending he takes personal liability for litigations that may arise from a contentious tender. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma wants the probe report by the Public Investments Committee (PIC) on the contentious pre-export verification tender amended to remove the clause prescribing the punishments. He argues that Parliament may be acting in vain should it proceed to adopt the recommendations made by the watchdog committee. Kaluma – a lawyer - warns that the report, if passed with the recommendations as drawn, will be easily stayed and overturned by the courts. The PIC chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir wants Njiraini held personally liable for any claims or litigations that may arise from the tender award. The committee asked the DCI, EACC and DPP to probe the circumstances under which Kebs engaged blacklisted firms - EAA and ATJ - in its bid to have more firms inspect vehicles being imported into the country. In the report which is due for debate at the chamber, the PIC recommended that Njiraini be also punished for failing to seek Attorney General’s nod on the tender and for ignoring a PIC report that had flagged the said firms. While listing charges against the managing director, the PIC also recommended to the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority to initiate debarment proceedings against the two firms. The committee cited contravention of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015 for using questionable documents while bidding for the expanded inspection tender. But Kaluma holds that the recommendations - if adopted - would amount to retrospective application of laws as the debarment regulations are yet to be gazetted. “It would mean that the regulations would be applied against acts undertaken before they are made,” the MP said. “As crafted, the committee has in effect predetermined the debarment of the two companies leaving no consideration or independent determination on the part of the authority.” Kaluma said as a requirement of due process, the PPRA would be required to hear the two companies on the debarment before proceeding to do so. He argues that by insisting that the PVOC tender cannot be opened further for more players, there is a risk of establishing a monopoly in the pre-export verification of motor vehicles. He said it is for the courts, not Parliament, to resolve disputes by purporting to determine civil liability and apportion the extent liability. “Purporting to prescribe for courts the potential areas of litigation is also a breach of judicial independence,” Kaluma said. The MP wants the recommendation to the investigative agencies reworded to remove references to the DPP. “The Director of Public Prosecutions does not investigate and lacks the tools to investigate. The DPP only prosecutes following investigations by other agencies of government.” He added, "The DPP is not subject to the directions of anybody in the exercise of the state prosecutorial powers, under Articles 157 of the Constitution.” Kaluma said the case was the same for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, being an independent agency established under Chapter 6 of the Constitution. “It is also necessary that the recommendation is directed at one agency for clear obligation and follow up by Parliament.” The lawmaker said the recommendation as worded “purports to dictate the findings the agencies it directs to investigate should reach at the end of their probe.” “My amendment will obligate that the investigating agency reports to Parliament to enable Parliament to firmly follow the matter,” he said. He wants recommendations prescribing punishment for Njiraini deleted and that "the DCI and EACC investigate the matter and report their findings to the National Assembly." 