Kenyan ladies aged between 16 to 21 now have an opportunity to acquire pivotal skills in self-awareness, leadership and other vital self-development expertise. Through a programme scheduled to commence in January 2021, enrolled young women will undergo extensive virtual training on how to develop their ideas, confidence and voice. The EveryonesWorld Leadership Foundation program (ELF) is an upcoming global initiative meant to help the girl child grow into her full potential. ELF founder, Yene Assegid is an Ethiopian-born Transformative Leadership Coach with a long-held goal to create a leadership program entirely for young women. She has been coaching for more than two decades. At only eight years, Yene and her family left the country at the beginning of the Ethiopian Civil War and settled in Belgium where she was raised. Speaking to the Star, Yene says it was difficult to make sense of her life due to the inevitable challenges that come with relocation including culture shock. She completed all her University studies in the United States where she earned her MBA from the University of Maryland and her PhD in Transformational Leadership and Human System from the California Institute of Integral studies. At a young age, Yene worked with women who survived prostitution which initiated the dream to create a platform where people can transform their lives. "I thought if I had a place where people can talk freely in a free space. Just women who are passionate about creating an impact on the world," Yene told the Star in a phone interview. That is how the ELF program came about- a drive to make a difference in the world. "ELF will provide young women with a space where they can learn, share, exchange, evolve and transform into their potential along with peers from around the world," she said. According to Yene, the three-month program is more about the interaction of individuals from diverse backgrounds feeling included and cared for through the spirit of sisterhood. "Successful coaches from multiple professions and vocations will train these developing adults how to master leadership basics, learn about Emotional Intelligence as well as understand Feminist Leadership," Yene said. She said this is a perfect opportunity for a Kenyan girl to join a global community of like-minded women who will learn to follow their dreams and gain insights into social responsibility. Yene also noted that the program is particularly pertinent to young women who are at the verge of completing their high school or are in college with fresh minds and in need of essential tools to navigate the unknown world. "You know, at that young age, we do not realize how small the world is. Our dreams are all over. We do not even know why we want to do what we want to do." "ELF will help open their minds to that." Enrollment for the first session which commences on January 9 is currently ongoing until September 15. Virtual classes will be held every two weeks with assignments and literature takeaway in between. Time management being one of the skills to be instilled in the trainees, they will learn how to be accountable and responsible. Yene is enthusiastic to create a pleasurable and wonderful experience for all the girls that will ensure they "not only leave equipped with leadership skills but also feeling appreciated, cared for and known by someone miles from where they are". She is also a published author with three books including Butterflies Over Africa and Forget not the Sparrows. "My intention is to make this program well supported by industries that when the girls who graduate from it apply for jobs with people of similar qualifications, they are recognised as assets," Yene said. Trainees must be fluent in English, own a smart device or a laptop and have access to WIFI. The limited number of scholarships are available for the first course which is open for 100 intakes. "To qualify for a scholarship, one must be fully admitted to the program after which a second application will be made and eligible trainees will be considered."