Over 60 per cent of Kenyan youth do not trust Facebook or WhatsApp as a source of news., according to a survey released by a South African-based organisation. Ichikowitz Family Foundation indicates that some 53 per cent of  African youth don’t trust the two platforms. This is despite the two being perceived as the world’s fastest-growing online marketplace. This, the report attributes to the negative effects of “fake news” breaking out across the continent. The report dubbed ‘The African Youth Survey’ indicates that 50 per cent of those polled across the study also deem WhatsApp as the most untrustworthy. “Over half believe WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, to be less than trustworthy in South Africa (52%), Nigeria (56%) and Kenya (66%), with more than one-third reporting similarly in Ghana (35%),” the report quotes in part. According to the survey,  seven in 10 (67%) of the over 4,200 18-24-year-old African youth polled across 14 Sub Saharan African nations suggest that fake news affects their ability to stay informed. Some 37 per cent believe fake news affects them a “great deal.” Another 54 per cent of the respondents claim social media is their main source of news, with only broadcast television serving as the medium for which 72 per cent consumed their information. According to the survey, a recent UNESCO report shows that while African nations continue to implement social distancing and travel restriction measures to avoid the further spread of the deadly COVID-19 (coronavirus) disease, false information [regarding unproven remedies] spread on social media channels such as Facebook has some commentators now referring to the new avalanche of ‘fake news’ that has accompanied the outbreak as a ‘disinfodemic’. The foundation's  Director of Communications  Nico De Klerk in a statement said in addition to concerns from public bodies over the rampant and uncontrolled spread of misinformation regarding COVID-19, the respondents said they continue to be susceptible to the dangers of fake news, which has long been a purveyor of often hate speech and even xenophobic violence. “These youth are already experiencing the negative impact of social media-driven ‘fake news’. 25 per cent of them know someone or have personally been the victims of online bullying,” De Klerk said. He added, “When asked, 22 percent of the respondents thought the world would be better off without social media entirely”. De Klerk said 59% of the respondents reported using their smartphones for three or more hours every day, with social media being the most important app-type for 89% of them. “This is an indication that one in three of these youth spend more than four hours a day online. While 53 per cent indicated they use their smartphones, 54 per cent of them said they specifically rely on social media, to read and share news. According to the survey, smartphone use was the most popular method of news consumption in Gabon and Senegal with 79% and 73%, respectively. “89 per cent of the respondents suggested that social media applications, primary hubs for the spread of misinformation, often veiled as ‘citizen journalism’, including Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat, are the most important on their smartphone,” De Klerk said. He said ‘News’ apps were deemed most important by only 21% of the population surveyed. Ivor Ichikowitz, the foundations’ Chairman said the survey’s results are alarming and reveal that the Africa’s youth are particularly vulnerable to a growing fake news disinfodemic. “Africa’s youth are relying on social media as a top source of news, despite being aware that fake news is rampant and impacting their ability to stay informed. Facebook and WhatsApp are failing in their duty to protect its users and in Africa it’s clear that social media companies have a much greater responsibility to act against fake news and those spreading hatred and racial discourse. Failing in taking the required action could lead to instability, that has the potential to shake the fabric of our societies, and test the strength of our democracies and our continent’s leadership,” the chairman said. According to the chairman, the current Covid-19 has  provided a great opportunity for the purveyors of fake news. “As we tackle the COVID-19 pandemic we must also strengthen our fight back against the disinfodemic. While Facebook must act fast and aggressively against the perpetrators of hate, we all must learn to be thoughtful, patient, and question the source of news and verify its validity, before acting on it or sharing it,” he said.