Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu has warned of schemes to sabotage devolution and cause its collapse through inadequatefunding and lack of support from the national government. Mandago said governors had been reduced to always begging for funding from the Treasury and budgeted projects were continually disrupted, undermining devolution. The county boss spoke in Eldoret on Friday after he hosted the parliamentary committee on Health that was probing the use of funds disbursed for the fight against Covid-19. He said his county's Sh120 million was well spent and accounted for. The governor said the recent stalemate in the Senate over the revenue sharing formula had  been deliberately caused by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani and Attorney General Kihara. He accused them of disrespecting and defying fcourt rulings to release 50 per cent of their annual funding to counties. “We have wasted so much valuable time arguing over something that would have been sorted out easily had the Treasury respected court orders to release 50 per cent of funding as we waited for the Senate to sort out the formula issue," the governor said. He said Kenyans will not accept having devolution fail because of schemes by individuals seeking centralised power and money. Since its inception, devolution has faced serious problems due to lack of funding, he said. The Health committee was  led by vice chairman Joshua Kutony. Uasin Gishu received Sh120 million and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital receied Sh400 million. Kutuny said the committee would swiftly probe the alleged misuse of Covid-19 funds at Kemsa, noting the EACC already is investigating.  He aid the committee's probe would be in-depth and cover the spending of more than Sh5 billion sent to the counties. The EACC has already handed its probe files to the DPP but Kutuny says the committee will give its own independent report to Parliament. “We want to assure the public that we will do everything possible to get to the bottom of the Kemsa matter and the use of all funds disbursed for Covid-19," he said. Kutuny said counties have been asked to produce clear and detained documentation of how they spent the money. Mandago reminded Kenyans not to abandon Covid-19 control measures as the disease is still spreading in all counties. He said though the number of cases appears to be declining, there's danger of a serious resurgence because Kenyans are abandoning precautions. (Edited by V. Graham) 