Contact tracers in Kenya are overwhelmed with useless data that may not tell the direction Covid-19 is taking, despite the testing of nearly 440,000 samples so far. In some counties, including Nairobi, the process has largely collapsed and the teams are only tracing confirmed Covid-19 cases. The Ministry of Health says this is normal when community transmission sets in and the number of potential contacts rises exponentially. Tracers told the Star the process became ineffective late June when the infection spread rapidly and test results began taking two or more weeks. For contact tracing to be effective, test results need to be delivered within a day of a person developing symptoms, according to a study published in The Lancet Public Health journal. Kenya's lengthy testing turnaround time means tracing the contacts of positive people was useless because the virus had already spread. To be successful, contact tracing must keep the rate of transmission of the virus below one, which means the average number of people who will be infected by a single infected person must be less than one. “There has been a challenge in contact tracing, especially in specific localities in some of the hotspots like Nairobi county,” Health CAS Rashid Aman admitted on Thursday. “As the numbers started growing in the country, and you begin to pick up more and more cases, then the network of contacts becomes almost an exponential number and this poses challenges in terms of being able to follow up, identify, trace and test each contact.” On Monday, the World Health Organization said without widespread testing and effective contact tracing, it is difficult to tell if Kenya is flattening the infection curve. A doctor in Kakamega told the Star that testing and contact tracing collapsed there a long time ago. "What we're doing now is just justifying expenditures already incurred and nothing else," he said. County public health boss Paul Manyasi could not confirm whether contact tracing was in progress, instead denying knowledge of an active case within the county government. "Contact tracing is like stopped. Sometimes we have a challenge just going for sample collection in the event of suspected cases because of lacking PPE. It takes long before visiting the scene and in the event the case is positive, they continue mingling with others," said another medic in Busia. According to the WHO, Kenya needs to register a decline of at least 50 per cent over a three-week period since the latest peak. "Such a decline can be accurately assessed on the basis of contact lists linked to known clusters," says WHO Kenya office in its advisory. In Nairobi, the tracking and tracing team is now only picking confirmed cases. The symptomatic individuals who cannot self-isolate are taken to chosen hospitals or the Kenyatta University Referral Hospital. "We take asymptomatic individuals to KMTC, St George's School, and Moi Girls' Nairobi," said a nurse attached to the Nairobi team. In Kisii, Governor James Ongwae says contact tracing has become hard in the face of relaxed movements by the government. He now says the virus is penetrating into the villages and inflating infection further. "It has reached a point where contact tracing has got problematic," Ongwae said. Currently, the region has an upward of more than 100 Covid-19 cases. Kuria West MP Mathias Robi said contact tracing and treatment is hard as most citizens' collective bargain to fight the virus failed. “We used to hear of people escaping from treatment and holding centres, not any more. A holding centre I went to was empty and the principal insisted that stalled NG-CDF projects should go on,” he said. Nyamira Health executive Douglas Bosire said they are adhering to the guidelines given by the Ministry of Health in curbing the spread of the disease. “We send samples to Kisumu and wait for the results to ascertain the state of the patient," Bosire said. Global public health expert Bernard Muia agreed with the WHO that Kenya has yet to flatten the curve. "By Sunday, the positivist rate was seven per cent. It remains as high as it was three weeks ago. The crude fatality rate remains 1.6 per cent. There is not much change," he told the Star. Dr Muia, a former Nairobi Health executive, said falling numbers were not as important as the rates in interpreting the direction an epidemic is taking. "The rates don't lie, but the numbers might," he said. "However, our situation would be clearer with better testing and contact tracing. So our sample might still be biased." He urged Kenyans to adhere to MoH guidelines, saying experience in other countries shows infection can rise when people drop guard. "Look at what is happening in Hong Kong, South Korea and Australia, people are now worried about the second wave," he said.