Gatundu North deputy county commissioner Buxton Mayabi has warned Makwa residents against selling illicit brews. His remarks followed the lifting of the ban on the sale of alcohol in bars and restaurants. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the change at the national Covid-19 conference on Monday during which he also extended curfew hours — from 11pm to 4am. On Tuesday, Mayabi led Makwa youth in an operation to clear bushes used as hideouts by illicit brew traders along River Chania. He reminded residents that the President only allowed the sale of legal brews. “I want the residents of Makwa to get informed that the President did not legalise the selling of chang’aa,” Mayabi said, adding that his team will mop up the last pockets of illicit brew dens. “There has been a drop in the sale of chang’aa since the curfew directives by the President begun, but we still have a few individuals who have refused to adhere to the rules.” He said the crime rate has declined and added that his team had established that brewers have turned to the bush on riverbanks for manufacturing, then transport their brews to Gatanga and Gatundu. Hence, clearing the bushes will ensure there is no place to hide. Mayabi expressed concern that Makwa residents are not forthcoming with information that would lead security agents to deal with culprits. "Residents of Makwa do not want to provide my team with information related to those selling chang’aa. The major problem is that the majority of these people are related, hence exposing family members becomes a challenge.” The hilly and rocky terrain is another major hindrance to security operations, as many brewers are able to run and hide, with others having to swim into the river at the sight of the police. He urged the youth, who are behind most crimes in the area, to make good use of their time, now that the President Uhuru has extended curfew hours. “I know these petty crimes are happening due to lack of jobs and food. You now have more time to find something to do before the day ends,” Mayabi said. Mayabi said Makwa youths were not considered for the Kazi Mtaani programme because the programme majorly targeted youths from the informal settlements, which Makwa does not have.