Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked the government to critically review and define fault lines in the war against Coronavirus. Mudavadi on Monday said through tremendous efforts have been put in place to eradicate the disease that has left almost 40,000 people infected, there is a need to look at all the efforts with a specific approach. “Your Excellencey, we must clearly define the fault lines and decide on how to cut them. Are the fault lines we as politicians, are they institutions like the parliament and county assemblies,” Mudavadi posed. He said there must be a public debate on who has been at the forefront in breaching the containment protocols put in place. Mudavadi said there is also a great need to review the national policy development with regards to the functions of national and county governments. “The pandemic has taught us that the fear that we have certain functions that should not be devolved can be overcome through concerted efforts,” he said. Mudavadi further appealed to the government to review the tax regime to be more friendly to the business community. He said as a result of the pandemic, many institutions have gone under and its pressure is immense especially on small-scale businesses. The review he said will enable a rapid revival of the economy as the country heads to the post-covid period. Mudavadi’s sentiments come just a day after an association of doctors raised concerns over political gatherings. The doctors said a time has come for the government to cut down on these political activities as they pose a great risk to a spike in the numbers. The association's president Dr. Were Onyino on Sunday said the oft-repeated measures of hand hygiene with soap and water, wearing masks, observing social distance and avoiding crowded public places and unnecessary travel remain the cornerstone of COVID19 mitigation. Onyino said the recent political gatherings held in disregard of COVID-19 prevention measures sends the wrong messages to the public who will follow suit and relax their observance of COVID19 measures. "There is absolutely no benefit of risking a preventable spike in the number of COVID19 infections at the altar of politicking. Any spike in COVID19 cases will affect the health workers disproportionately more than any other group of Kenyans," Onyino said. He said with the medics on the lead, the country has done well in COVID19 mitigation. "Politicians should not reverse this gain. The Ministry of Health should enhance risk communication to the public," he said.