Residents of Lari constituency in Kiambu will in this week start collecting signatures to recall their MP Jonah Mburu after he was arrested by EACC detectives on Friday on allegations of corruption. Led by Edwin Kigumo, the residents say they have lost trust in the MP. "We shall go to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to get instructions since we do not need such people as leaders," he said. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission arrested Mburu after DPP Noordin Haji approved charges against the MP and five CDF officials and suppliers over misuse of Sh27.2 million. The MP is expected to be arraigned in Millimani law courts on Monday morning together with Ayaan Mahadhi who is the accounts manager of CDF, fund chairman Peter Mwangi and the clerk of works at the constituency office Francis Kimuyu. The MP and the CDF officials are accused of conflict of interest by letting their companies trade with the constituency fund. Kigumo asked the Constituency Development Fund committee to dissolve itself, revealing that they will visit the National Government CDF board to compel it to dissolve the committee. "We shall shame them. Their tenure is now gone. We demand the CDF committee dissolve itself before they are forcefully removed by the board," he said. Kigumo, Destiny Gitau and John Karumba lodged the complain with the EACC in March, demanding an investigation of Lari CDF. But on Sunday, MP Mburu defended himself, saying neither he nor the officials were were involved in loss of CDF money. He said the officials were not employees and only received a sitting allowance. He said he did not find a good reason to bar their companies from applyin g for tenders. "These people are not employees of the government or the Parliamentary Service Commission. No one is salaried. These companies are like any other business," he said. Ondoa Panya Movement national coordinator John Wamagata said once the MP is charged, they will move to court to seeking orders to stop the Parliamentary Service Commission from paying the legislator his salaries and allowances. "How can he trusted by the people of Lari? And instead of being an honest patron, he kept quiet while conflict of interest taking place?" Wamagata said. Wamagata said his movement will support the people of Lari, until the MP is removed from office and the CDF committee disbanded. Edited by Henry Makori