The Kenya Bureau of Standards has confiscated 154 substandard imported portable socket outlets in Nairobi, Mombasa, Thika, and Hola. In a statement released on Monday, Managing Director, Kebs Bernard Njiraini said the seized socket outlets pose a great danger of electrocution to consumers as they do not have shutters, contrary to requirements of Kenya Standard KS EAS 495-2: 2008 – Specification for switched and unswitched socket outlets. “It has come to our attention that dishonest economic operators including online traders are stocking and selling these substandard portable socket outlets. The use of substandard socket outlets can be fatal for consumers, especially children, who may poke objects into the exposed live parts. "We, therefore, urge consumers to avoid purchasing or using portable socket-outlets without shutters,” Njiraini said. He added that traders should also be warned that the sale of products that do not comply with Kenyan standards is prohibited by the Laws of Kenya under the Standards Act Chapter 496 with penalties including prosecution. The seized goods will be destroyed at the owners’ expense. He also emphasized that it is the responsibility of the manufacturer/importer to ensure continued product compliance to set standards. Processing, manufacturing, stocking, and/or offering for sale of substandard goods or products that do not comply with set Standards is prohibited by the Laws of Kenya under the Standards Act Chapter 496. As part of the product certification scheme, Kebs certifies and issues a Standardization Mark (SM) permit or Diamond Mark of Quality (DM) once the product complies with the relevant Kenya Standard. Imports are also issued with a Unique Consignment Reference (UCR) number. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of subsections of the Standards Act, Cap 496, of the Laws of Kenya mentioned above or fails to comply with any conditions in a permit, shall be guilty of an offense. The general public has also been encouraged to “Wajibika Na Kebs” and be on the lookout for products suspected to be substandard and officers suspected to lack integrity. Wajibika Na Kebs is a program that allows the public to report cases about substandard products and a hindrance to service provision by any Kebs official.