Investigations into the death of a minor on Thursday following an air compressor explosion in Athi River have taken a new twist. This follows new revelations that the compressor belonging to a motorcycle mechanic could be homemade. Jian Muendo, 10, a pupil at St Joseph Academy in Athi River, had taken his bicycle to the mechanic for pressure when the explosion occurred. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Athi River Medical Services Hospital. A police source confided to the Star that the air compressor was homemade hence could have been faulty. “We have obtained the air compressor with an intention of verifying the claims. The mechanic had recorded his statement on the incident and investigations on top gear,” the source told the Star on Sunday. The officer requested for anonymity since he isn’t authorised to speak to the press. Athi River Chief Cecilia Nzyoka confirmed witnessing the 5pm incident. “I was at Athi River Medical Hospital where I had taken one of my sons for medication when I heard an explosion. I thought it was a transformer but, all of a sudden, I saw a child being rushed into the facility,” Nzyoka said. “When I went to check on the boy, he had fatally been injured.” He was cut on the head by the cylinder’s lid. The boy’s mother Everline Mutie narrated how she was shocked when she learned of her second born son’s death. The mother of three collapsed at the hospital when she saw his body. “I was told that the lid of the air compressor’s cylinder hit him on the head cutting both his face and head following the explosion,” Mutie told reporters at her house in Sofia Estate on Sunday. Mutie said she was at her salon approximately 800 metres from the scene. Her husband Domnic Mutie, a taxi driver, was approximately 10 metres from the scene but didn’t know it was his son until he saw the boy being rushed to the hospital by well-wishers. The body was removed to Montenzuma Mortuary in Machakos town as the family makes arrangements for his burial at their rural village in Tumba village, Mutituni. Edited by R.Wamochie