What we have seen in the recent weeks where Cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries are exchanging barbs in public with the Deputy President is a matter of concern. President Uhuru Kenyatta should also be concerned. If I was his adviser, I would tell him to clean up his house and bring on board a fresh but experienced team. Not people who are coming to learn the ropes. President Kenyatta is running out of time and he needs to change his team and appoint people who can deliver quickly. The President is racing against time to consolidate his legacy and to do this, he needs dedicated people who have no competing political ambitions. Civil servants should try as much as possible to resist the temptation of getting involved in politics and those who wish to, should do the honourable thing and quit. I am concerned with what is happening. Things are on what I can term as free fall. The President appears to have lost trust, completely, in Ruto. With that situation playing out in public, their respective attack dogs are coming out in defence of their two leaders. They are either reading from the signal that has emerged from the two or they have direct instructions. Some of these people are trading accusations and counter accusations on behalf of their bosses. The same situation is likely to get worse in the coming days and months. This is something that is dangerous and should be tamed as soon as possible before it boils down to members of the public. It will only end if the President and the Deputy President will call a ceasefire. The two leaders need to re-unite for the good of our country. There coming together will cool down the political temperature. The bad blood between top government officials is not good for our bad economy, which has already been negatively affected by the economy. Markets will slam down further and potential foreign investors who could be eying Kenya will have to withdraw their desired investments. These are some of the tough consequences we have got to content with. The former Roads minister spoke to the Star