An Employment court in Nyeri has ordered a shipping company to pay nine former employees Sh4,715,614. Hezron Zero, Shirley Wangui, Alice Mendi, Hassan Vigodi, Mwangangi Muthami, Mwinyi Hamisi, Reuben Osiako, Samson Gor and Amina Projera had filed a suit in October 2018 against Three Ways Shipping Company claiming it had stopped their pay from January 2017. They also wanted the company to pay their accrued leave days, bank penalties and interests occasioned by default in their loan obligation to various banks. Originally, there were 18 claimants in the dispute but in October 2018, half of them withdrew from the case. The court heard that the remaining nine later handed their resignation letters and moved to court to be helped recover their arrears. In November 2017, the court directed the labour office in Mombasa to investigate if the claimants were owed, how much and for how long. The labour officer filed a report on December 2017 stating that the company did not supply the information needed as the directors who had custody of employees’ records were domiciled in Kampala, Uganda. However, the operations manager informed the officer that the employees had not been paid for some time. In a ruling on July 11, 2018, the court directed that the claim is heard in full. It, however, noted that some of the employees may have compromised their dispute with the respondent while others resigned. The company denied the claims but conceded a cash flow problem in its business. According to the court documents, the advocates representing Three Ways pulled out of the case and during the main hearing, did not appear in court. On August 28, Justice James Rika said the claimants were owed saying the respondent failed to give employment records or other evidence to discount the evidence by the claimants. He, however, dismissed the payment claim of pending annual leave days, bank loans interest and penalties as there was no bank loan agreement where the respondent stood as a guarantor. Edited by R.Wamochie