Hardly a week after Enoch Agwanda refuted claims that he had quietly sneaked out of the country to seal a deal in the Zambian league, his Kenyan employers KCB yesterday confirmed that the striker jetted out on Monday to negotiate a deal in Lusaka. Agwanda was said to have left the country last week but in a rebuttal, the former Gor Mahia striker said he had not received any offers both locally and beyond and was not leaving KCB any time soon. However, the bankers assistant coach Godfrey Oduor revealed that Agwanda in a company of a renowned football agent,  flew out on Monday to work out on a deal with a Lusaka-based club which he declined to mention. "He was around last week but I can confirm he left on Monday alongside his agent for negotiations. He sought our permission before leaving. However,  he did not provide finer details of the club which is interested in his services," he said. At the same time,the club's team manager Bramwel Simiyu confirmed that the duo of Michael Mutinda and Baraka Badi had renewed their contracts and will be attached to the club for the next one year. With the club likely to lose Agwanda, who was their top scorer in the past season, Oduor said his replacement should he leave and new players who will strengthen the weak areas, will be unveiled  once the government gives the way forward on the resumption of sporting activities. The Ruaraka-based club booted eight players last month and Oduor says negotiations between them and their replacements are over and it is just a matter of time before they are incorporated in the Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno-coached team. Notable players who were affected by the purge are former 'Golden Boot' winner Steven Waruru, former Gor and Kariobangi Sharks defender Pascal Ogweno, Gabriel Mugabo and Bolton Omwenga. "We had identified areas which needed fresh blood from our assessment when football was stopped and we consequently negotiated with our targets. We will unleash them to the public once the government lifts the ban on sporting activities," said the former Kibera Black Stars coach. Meanwhile, Oduor disclosed that Gor centre half Charles Momanyi headlines the players targeted to replace their departed skipper Michael Kibwage. The latter was confirmed on a two-year deal at Sofapaka on Tuesday moments after agreeing personal terms with them. "We have been talking to Momanyi and other central defenders for quite some time but we are yet to agree on anything," he added.