A section of Kenyan leaders have now called upon their counterparts to refrain from insults and abusive language irrespective of their political sides ahead of the 2022 elections. This comes after Emurua Dikirir MP Johanna Ng’eno and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi were recorded uttering unsavoury remarks against President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ng'eno was later arrested on Monday evening by police officers over claims of incitement. He is accused of inciting constituents and making statements against the President and his family during a visit to Kiminnet in Transmara on Sunday. Deputy President William Ruto later on Monday night distanced himself from the utterances made by the two leaders saying that “no amount of anger justifies the use of offensive insulting language” to the president. He urged leaders should exercise restraint and avoid insults and bad language against other Kenyans. Wading in into the verbal attacks, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo on Tuesday called upon the top leaders to come together and unite Kenyans. Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV, Kabogo challenged Uhuru, Ruto and ODM party leader Raila Odinga to put their 'foot soldiers’ in check to avoid raising political temperatures in the country. “No one is talking about Kenyans dying, the interest is now on scandals and 2022. They need to sit down and pull back their dogs into their kennels,” Kabogo said. “This country can move on without them. Let them not think this country belongs to any of them.” His sentiments were echoed by Nairobi's Ziwani MCA Millicent Mugadi who said politicians should not be allowed to use vulgar and insults. “It is a big shame and lack of respect for having leaders publicly abusing each other and their families. The President should put these leaders on check because, at this rate, there is so much hate being fuelled around,” she said. “Mama Ngina is the President’s mother and also the founding mother of the nation. She deserves some respect,” Mugadi added. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said all Kenyans deserve respect including the institution of the Presidency. "Utterances that smirk of ultimatums, insults and possible drumbeats of ethnic violence must be rejected and condemned by all Kenyans," he tweeted. "Politics of hatred and insults is the last thing Kenyans want. We all know the consequences of irresponsible remarks from leaders. It is so unfortunate that we are degenerating to levels where pressing issues like unemployment and poverty are not being addressed." Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga asked Deputy President William Ruto to apologise on behalf of MPs Sudi and Ngeno. “The assumption being made by leaders who support DP Ruto is that they have been sent. There has to be an apology from Oscar Sudi and Johanna Ngeno done by the Deputy President. There is no way we are going to be elected by insulting people,”she said. Adding her voice in the matter, Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei stated that leaders must exercise restraint and not get to a place of insults. She however, fingered Wanga for having no moral authority to talk about insults, claiming the woman representative had once insulted the President in unprintable words and should first apologise. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said that he was also angered by the Environment CS Keriako Tobiko's remarks where he referred to the DP as a clerk. However, Murkomen said after reading the Bible he had a change of heart. “I was angry but I have read James 1:2-4 “Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature & complete, not lacking anything” he tweeted. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said Kenya is greater than all individual aspirations and ambitions. "Leaders must tone down their Rhetoric and public display of disaffection. This is not an OPTION," he said. "Abusing someone’s mother is another level all together. Hiyo siyo siasa it’s daring someone to a fight regardless of whoever it is. This must stop. Address the real issues afflicting you .. unpersonalized!" Busia woman representative Florence Mutua tweeted.