The Media Council has strongly criticised governors for threatening to stop advertising with the Nation Media Group after it published a graft story that adversely named their colleagues. The Daily Nation on Tuesday led with a report 'Eight governors on graft hit list' which claimed the ethics agency was probing eight counties. The Nation quoted EACC boss Twalib Mbarak as saying he had flagged procurement irregularities, embezzlement, illegal employment of workers among other crimes. The story provoked the ire of the Council of Governors, with chairman Wycliffe Oparanya saying the Nation Media Group was on a smear campaign against the county bosses. Oparanya said counties would stop advertising with the NMG until further notice. He said in a statement that the council had followed up on the "sensational reporting and found that it lacked merit". "The only reason we note that the media seems to be carrying out this smear campaign is only known to themselves," he said. But the Media Council of Kenya said the governor's statement was in bad faith and a threat to media freedom. The MCK said it respects the CoG’s right to express its views and opinions on the media, but added it is co-regulated by the government and media. "Any complaint against any journalist or media enterprise is to be channeled to the Media Complaints Commission operating under the auspices of the Media Council of Kenya for determination and appropriate action," it said. The council also said it will hold CoG responsible for any attacks that may be directed at journalists doing their work. The Media Owners Association said in a separate statement that the “unilateral and hurried move” by the governors would set a bad precedent for engagement between the media and public institutions. Signed by the association chair Wachira Waruru, the media bosses asked the CoG to channel complaints to editors through the MCK. “The attempt by CoG to use commercial leverage to influence editorial outcomes is therefore not only unacceptable but also ill-advised in a constitutional dispensation that encourages freedom of media and transparency in public institutions,” Waruru said. They asked the governors to rescind their decision.