Kirinyaga rice farmers are set to receive seed donation from the government. This will be delivered to the county government through the State Department of Crops Development and Agriculture Research. Addressing MCAs and farmers' representatives in Sagana after receiving the consignment, Governor Anne Waiguru thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for the donation, which will benefit 1,000 rice farmers. Identification of beneficiaries was done in consultation with the county department of agriculture, the Mwea Irrigation Water Users' Association and farmers across rice-growing wards in Mwea. “Kirinyaga county is thankful to the President for this donation and we will ensure these seeds are distributed immediately to the farmers to enable them to plant on time,” Waiguru said. Rice has been one of the priority value chains that support the Big Four Agenda pillar on food security and nutrition. The initiative will complement efforts by the county government in the promotion of rice production, which include coordination of water provision and improvement of the road network within the Mwea Irrigation Scheme. The donation includes 10,000 kilogrammes of Basmati variety seeds and 3,000 kilogrammes of hybrid variety to be planted on about 1,000 acres. Waiguru said the county government will continue extension and advisory services to farmers, to promote good agricultural practices for increased production. “We will continue working with other stakeholders to support our farmers to ensure improved production and marketing of rice,” she said. The governor noted widespread outcries over cheap imported rice that has disadvantaged farmers. “We have good quality rice that is still in the factory for lack of market, and when farmers sell they are forced to do so at throwaway prices,” Waiguru said. She added that county leaders have planned a meeting with Cabinet secretaries Betty Maina (Trade) and Peter Munya (Agriculture) to find a lasting solution to rice marketing problems. Kirinyaga is the largest rice-growing county in Kenya, with Mwea Irrigation Scheme having 26,000 acres under rice and about 7,000 farmers. The total annual rice production in the scheme is estimated at 113,000 tonnes and there exists the potential for enhanced production.