Deputy President William Ruto has rubbished claims from a section of his critics who have accused him of failing to execute his duties as the principal assistant to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking on Wednesday at his Karen residential home during a women's empowerment, Ruto said at no point had he failed to serve the country as the principal assistant of the President. “No work has been given to me and I failed to execute,” Ruto said. The DP came under criticism after skipping the national Covid-19 conference on Monday. The DP during a meeting with a delegation of women in business from Nairobi County, said that every work and responsibilities given to him by the president had been discharged with distinction. Ruto said those purporting to supervise him should focus on their own work of serving the people. “Who are they to complain about my work? Who made them my supervisors?” The DP said he knows his work, “and my boss has not complained about my performance”. He said the government would continue supporting women in starting and running their own businesses as part of the grand plan to empowering them. “This is how we would exploit women’s unlimited potential,” he added. The DP was accompanied by Senators Millicent Omanga (nominated), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), MPs Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and George Theuri (Embakasi West). Others were Johana Ng'eno (Emurua Dikirr), Justus Murunga (Matungu) John Muchiri (Manyatta), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. Senator Kihika said it was time Parliament was dissolved as advised by the Chief Justice. “Let us go back to the polls so that we can have more women in leadership. More women in power mean a faster transformation of our country,” Kihika said. Omanga said the support directed at women in businesses would go a long way toward taming unemployment and poverty in the country.