The government on Friday destroyed illegal fishing nets worth Sh4 million in Kisumu. The gears were burnt by Kenya Coast Guard Service at the Kisumu port. The 45 nets were impounded in Siaya, Homa Bay and Kisumu counties waters on Lake Victoria. Kenya Coast Guard Service Director-General Loonena Naisho said the illegal gears seized included monofilament, undersized gill nets, mosquito sein and beach sein. Naisho said the increased war on illegal fishing gears has seen more than 100 prosecutions. He pledged to continue patrols to enforce the law and ensure that prohibited fishing gears and methods are not exacerbated. Naisho commended KCGS personnel for eradicating illegal fishing on the lake. He cautioned some beach management units (BMU) officials to stop taking law unto themselves by destroying boats and nets of others without following due process of law. He noted that the multi-agency that was established in 2018 is mandated to strengthen inter-agency coordination and enhance domain awareness to detect, deter and prevent and interdiction individuals and organisations engaged in illegal activities within their jurisdiction. Naisho urged BMU networks and units to collaborate with KCG in sensitising fisher folk in adapting the sustainable mode of fishing. The DG said Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing has far-reaching consequences for the long term sustainable management of capture fisheries. "When illegal fishing goes unchecked the system upon which fisheries management decision is based becomes flawed," Naisho said. He noted that in the extreme illegal fishing the exercise can lead to the collapse of fisheries or seriously affects the efforts to rebuild fish stock that has already been depleted. "Online sources report that overfishing by an organised crime syndicate in Lake Victoria could drive 76 per cent of fish species extinction," Naisho said. The illegal fishing in the lake is further posing severe threats to the survival of fish species in the second-largest freshwater bodies in the world. The director-general announced that they continuously receive complaints of harassment of fishermen by neighbouring security agencies often arising from the same use of wrong fishing gears. Kisumu Central Deputy County Commissioner John Cheruiyot called for concerted effort in eradicating the use of wrong gears on the lake. Cheruiyot, who represented Nyanza regional Coordinator Magu Mutindika, warned fishermen to use right gears in their fishing activities. "We need to conserve the lake and fish species. It is one of the major livelihoods for thousands of people that we should not destroy,"  he said.