Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to be humble and desist from calling each others names. Ruto who did not mention names said the leaders who were voted in by Kenyans should work towards development. Speaking in Athi River during a church service on Sunday, Ruto said leaders should practice humility. "We were given the blessing of leading different sectors. I implore you to use that opportunity to look for ways of uniting Kenyans while steering Kenya towards development," he said. "Let us come together without thinking about our respective parties. Mostly, those leaders under Jubilee, let us come together and work on our manifesto on big four agenda." Ruto said Jubilee administration promised to deliver Kenyans and that is what leaders should work towards. "We all got a chance to lead, let us be humble and let us stop shouting and calling each other names so that we reach our goal," he said. The deputy asked the priests to continue praying for Kenya and the leaders. "Priorities right now is business. the youths have lost jobs, business have stalled. Please let us ensure that out priorities is to revive the economy so that we can unify Kenyans," he said. His remarks comes at a time when Environment Cabinet secretary Keriako Tobiko and Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen are calling each other names ahead of 2022. Via Twitter on Saturday, Murkomen claimed that Tobiko had not contributed anything to the union between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. "Tobiko, you contributed nothing to UhuRuto. In both Ilpolosat and Mashuri polling stations NASA won.Your MCAs both in Imaroro and Kaputiei wards are NASA. No one knows you in your village, which you only visit for funerals. In Embobut, Uhuru won all votes. You can’t defend him better than me," he said. This was after Tobiko said it was unfortunate that Murkomen thinks he is the only one who can insult and bad mouth everyone around including the President. "Murkomen must have some manners..... He has become so vocal insulting other leaders including the president. He must be told to man up and have some manners. Even his boss who happens to be deputy president is the clerk to the president," he said. The row that has been simmering in the Jubilee Party erupted into full-scale political combat after the two attacked each other publicly. The UhuRuto marriage that blossomed in 2013 started plummeting at the beginning of their second term in office in 2018. It worsened with the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga in March of the same year. UhuRuto's relationship is now characterised by hard-hitting attacks targeted at each other. The one-time unified Jubilee is in a shambles and the Cabinet deeply divided.