Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has hit out at Deputy President William Ruto's allies over the 'new low' they have stooped to as 2022 politics hot up. Tuju said he spoke to Ruto about the behaviour of some of his allies, including Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi and Emurua Dikirr's Johanna Ng'eno who had uttered insults at President Uhuru Kenyatta and former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta. In an interview with Citizen tv on Wednesday night, Tuju said that he tried to convince the DP to come out and clear the air regarding the matter. “I called Deputy President this afternoon and we had a discussion on it and I did make my position very clear that because some of the things are being done on his name or using his name, he has to come out and express himself,” Tuju said. Tuju said Ruto's defence that he had spoken out against the legislators' action on Twitter did not fly, adding Kenyans would not be satisfied with tweets. He went on to say that Ruto also mentioned how he had been targeted by Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe, who had linked him to the Kemsa saga as well as painting him as a corrupt individual unworthy of holding the country's top seat. "The issue of Mama Ngina cannot be compared to that of Murathe... she is nobody's peer," Tuju said. He added that the issue of Murathe's utterances would be addressed. The secretary general added that there is no way that the party can accept the slur language directed to Mama Ngina. The DP's tweet on Tuesday had urged leaders to restraint and avoid insults and bad language against other Kenyans. "Unsavoury words against mothers and Head of State is a NO, NO. No amount of anger justifies the use of offensive insulting language. There exist decent ways to communicate however one feels." Tuju's remarks come as more leaders continue to call upon their counterparts to refrain from insults and abusive language irrespective of their political sides ahead of the 2022 elections. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has weighed in on the matter of desisting from utterances that could fuel hatred and violence. In a statement on Tuesday, Kalonzo condemned the recent utterances made by MPs Johanna Ng'eno (Emurrua Dikir) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret). "It is quite shocking that the two legislators, in their zeal to score political points, chose to go for the former First Lady's jugular," he said. Ng’eno and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi were recorded uttering unsavoury remarks against Uhuru.