 The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has asked Foreign Affairs ministry staff operating illegal bank accounts abroad to comply with the law or face legal action. The anti-graft agency says 191 employees of the ministry are operating illegal bank accounts outside the country. In a letter to the Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau, EACC gave the officers up to end of October to comply with the law. Article 76(2)(a) of the Constitution prohibits public officers from operating bank accounts outside the country without EACC’s approval. Such account holders are further required to submit annual bank statements to the commission not later that January 31 of each year. EACC chief executive Twalib Mbarak in a letter to Kamau said an audit of accounts held by public officers outside Kenya reveals that up to 191 officers serving under Foreign ministry are illegally operating accounts outside Kenya. All the 191 employees are in active foreign service. Another 58 employees sought approval but defaulted on yearly submission of bank statements to the commission as required by the law. “An audit of bank accounts held by public officers outside Kenya has established that 191 officers serving under your ministry, currently in active foreign service, are illegally operating bank accounts outside Kenya, having not declared their operation to the commission,” Mbarak’s letter reads. “The commission has further identified 58 officers in foreign service who despite  approval for their bank accounts outside Kenya, have violated the law in respect to submission of annual bank accounts. This renders them liable to the appropriate sanctions.” Mbarak now wants the affected employees to regularise their accounts before October 31 or face action. “Consequently, in accordance with Section 4(4) of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, the commission hereby requires the ministry to bring this compliance notice to the attention of all suspects whose names are listed.” “The commission is considering legal action, including initiation of criminal proceedings to hold the non-compliant officers to account for their respective violations of the law.” 