President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned political leaders against dividing Kenyans into tribal and political grounds. Uhuru who has been at the Coast inspecting various government projects on Monday said leaders who are always inciting Kenyans have no interest of the people but pushing for their personal gains. The head of state told the leaders to stop complaining all the time but instead expedite in the mandate given to them the Kenyans. ''Do not accept to be divided on different grounds like this political party, religion, or tribe or colour, reject such moves and tell that person to sell politics of policies and development that will uplift standards of living and not hatred,'' he said. Uhuru said those aspiring for political positions should go slow and seek votes in a polite manner not by force as they will loose. He was accompanied by Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, and hosted by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi together with Kilifi woman rep Gertrude Mbeyu and Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia. He toured Sh4.2 billion Malindi Salagate road and the Sh 2.3 billion  Baricho Bridge in Malindi sub-county of Kilifi county. He likened politics to the normal life of a boy seducing a girl saying it requires one to humble himself instead of going rough. ''The votes are with wananchi who will decide whether to give you or not, so ensure that you keep peace and unity,'' he said. The President said currently he was walking with Governor Kingi, Joho, and others who were in ODM for the sake of Kenyans. ''When you see leaders hurling insults at each other it's not because of wananchi but for themselves,'' he said. He said there are more projects lined up to be set up in the Coast region in addition to the grand projects which are already going on. Governor Joho on his part praised president Uhuru's regime for implementing many projects in the Coast region. He said since the Jubilee administration came to power there has been a commitment to do mega projects which are transforming the region. The Mombasa Governor said the region is supporting the handshake between the president and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Governor Kingi dismissed claims that the Coast region is not supporting the handshake and promised to continue working with the president to push for the agenda of the Coast region. He said previously they would insult the president in funerals and barazas because they were not meeting eye to eye since the doors to meet were closed until the handshake brought them together. The Kilifi Governor said currently there was room for a talk with the president which has led to the developments.