@ppcheti The Lamu Council of Elders has opposed the push by the government to reopen schools next month. They say it is unwise for the government to reopen schools before fully enforcing infrastructural changes to accommodate all Covid-19 prevention protocols Chairperson Shariff Kambaa accused the government of wanting to use children as specimen to test whether the pandemic is contained. “There will be casualties because we believe our government isn’t prepared; neither are these schools. We have heard talk of increasing amenities like desks but our major concern is on the sizes of the structures, in this case, classrooms and dormitories. We haven’t heard government allocating money to increase them,” Kambaa said. The elders have warned the government against giving in to pressure from cartels to reopen schools just so some people can make money while others die. “Even the President knows that January would have been the best time. It would give time for schools to expand their infrastructure to allow for social distancing. Giving our kids masks and desks is not enough to claim the country is ready to re-open schools." Council secretary-general Mohamed Athman said many parents are still not convinced that the pandemic has been overcome. He said so far, the government hasn’t done anything tangible to prove that schools are in the right condition for all Covid-19 regulations, adding that it is wrong to force Kenyans to take their children back to school in October. “It's like sending your child to the slaughterhouse. We don’t know what the CS is thinking but what we are sure about is that schools haven’t done anything to guarantee the safety of learners. Let us resist the temptation of having cartels rush affairs and kill our children. Let the pandemic be contained first," Athman said. Elder Mohamed Mbwana urged parents to hold onto their children and only release them to school when absolutely sure they will be safe. “You are better off with a child who is alive at home that a dead one at school. Parents have the authority to only release their children when schools have put in place all safety measures,” Mbwana said. Edited by R.Wamochie