Iten town in Elgeyo Marakwet will receive Sh400 million for economic development from the British government. The town, famous as a global athletics training destination, is one of 12 Kenyan towns and municipalities to benefit from the UKAID Sustainable Urban Econommic Development programme. It is the capital and largest town in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The announcement of the aid was made on Monday. The money will fund infrastructure development and value chains in agriculture and livestock, trade and investment, sports and tourism. The programme will build capacity of the Iten Municipal Board and staff so they are better able to institute and implement initiatives under the project. Consultants led by Ayub Odinda met Governor Alex Tolgos and said Iten had been identified as a high-potential municipality due to its international status as a world athletics training destination. “The selection of Iten was also informed by the political goodwill of the county leadership," Odinda said. “We will work closely with the county administration to ensure all the lined-up activities succeed to benefit the people of Iten," Odinda said. Tolgos said the county was committed to ensuring Iten becomes a fully fledged municipality to tap its potential to attract trade and investment. “We have already achieved a lot in improving the town's infrastructure to make it attractive for business. The funding will be a boost as we position our county as a top investment destination," Tolgos said. The project is a £70 million (Sh10.2 billion), five-year programme in Kenya. It is supported by the UK's Department for International Development (DFID).  The funding is channelled through seed funding and technical assistance. Seed funding represents as much as 50 per cent of the programme's total funding to support infrastructure and value-chain projects. It will be based on projects identified in urban plans. Iten municipality manager Raymond Omonei, CEC member Abraham Barsosio and chief officer Josephat Tanui were present at the announcement of UK aid. (Edited by V. Graham)