Pressure is mounting on President Uhuru Kenyatta to deliver this year’s State of the Nation Address. The President has in the past given the address between March and May. However, this has not happened this year so far due to the Covid-19 crisis. Standing Order 22 of the National Assembly says the President shall address Parliament once every year. Article 132 of the Constitution obligates the President to address a joint sitting of the Houses on a matter that touches on national values. Kikuyu Member of Parliament Kimani Ichung’wa on Tuesday said President Kenyatta should urgently speak on the state of the country’s economy. The close ally of Deputy President William Ruto wants the President to unveil to Kenyans his plans for the restoration of the economy. Ichung’wa said it was prudent for Kenyans to know government plans for sustainable development owing to the devastating effects of coronavirus. He said the address would help Kenyans to know how the country will steer clear of the humanitarian crisis posed by Covid-19. “We are eager to listen and hear what President Kenyatta has in terms of realigning his agenda and priority of the nation in line with ensuring sustainable development and economic recovery,” the MP said. He said there was no excuse for State House to fail to arrange a way of having the President address the nation on economic recovery. Ichung’wa proposed that a mega tent be erected either at KICC, Parliament Gardens, Bomas of Kenya or Kasarani if MPs cannot be accommodated in chamber for the President to deliver the address. He said the disclosure that 1.6 million Kenyans have lost jobs is more the reason for the urgency for the address. “It is imperative President addresses the nation and unveil our new plans going forward with this new normal,” the MP added. President Kenyatta should also report to Parliament the measures taken to achieve national values, progress in fulfillment of international obligations, and state of security. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said consultations were at advanced stages to have the address. “It is a matter we have been discussing since the outbreak (of Covid-19). There is consultation between the leadership of the two Houses on how that will happen,” Muturi told members. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo said there is still time for the President to deliver the State of Nation address. “The question on default only comes if at the end of the year the address has not happened,” the lawmaker said, adding that Parliament is not the initiator of the event. “Words in Standing Order 22 are that ‘when the Speaker is informed’. It is the Speaker to be informed,” Amollo said. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo said arrangements can equally be made for the Head of State to address the two Houses virtually. In his last address, President Kenyatta said the nation was strong, a message that bordered on his central call for cohesion - owing to his Handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. He acknowledged having heard the cries of the people and that there was no turning back on the promises of government reforms, Building Bridges Initiative, and the Big Four agenda. The President promised there would be no turning back on the war against corruption as a path to a better Kenya. He also said there would be no turning back on devolution it was the answer to unequal development. The President said the economy was strong, but this has certainly changed due to the adverse effects of the virus on trade. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani said his ministry is working on a post-Covid-19 recovery strategy. The report is in the final stages. This may largely inform the President’s address.  - mwaniki fm