A FORMER LAWMAKER is now a worried man after an explosive video of him castigating his party leader emerged online months after landing a plum government job. In the video, the ex-MP is seen telling off his party, which he accused of undermining a leader from the region. The former lawmaker accused those criticising the man, saying no one is clean. It is this statement that is now being used by rivals of the ex-MP to push for his ouster from the plum job he recently landed as a result of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. (pictured) A popular county chief was left blue after a botched mission to persuade MCAs into a treacherous political path. The governor is said to have received calls "from above" to whip up MCAs culminating into a press conference announcing unanimous decision to go in a certain political tangent. The county chief was railroaded and gaslighted by infuriated ward reps who accused him of pocketing big bucks and dictating their political ideologies. Corridors has learnt that the county chief who is serving his second term has been avoiding his callers who are equally worried on what happened to their mission in the area. A former parliamentary aspirant from Nyanza who doctored a will of his parents and changed the ownership of Sh250 million property in Nairobi’s Riverside to his name was heard bragging that he now has a war chest for the 2022 General Election battle and telling whoever cared to listen how he would stage a campaign both on air and land to win the seat that he narrowly lost in the last election. The politico has also ignored pleas from his siblings who have claimed a share of the posh property left behind by their late dad.  But even as he goes chest-thumping, Corridors has learnt that the man is not off the hook yet, as sleuths from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and Directorate of Criminal Investigations are pursuing the fraudulent sale of the said property after complaints from the family. A principal secretary who has been benefitting from a parastatal has gone rogue and changed locks of the office of the parastatal, which is housed a floor above her office. Corridors has learnt that members of staff who were away due to Covid-19 restrictions at the government agency arrived at their office on Friday morning to learn that they have been locked out of the government office. The staff are now operating from the corridors and cafeterias without recourse.