@alalmaurice A civil society organisation has demanded the transfer of traffic police officers who have overstayed in Nyanza and allegedly set up businesses in the region. Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative executive director George Owuor said some traffic base commanders and junior officers have been in the region for five years. Owuor said some of the officers are running side businesses, thereby hindering effective service delivery. “We demand that Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai swiftly transfers these officers to help reduce corruption and restore sanity on our roads,” he said. A senior police officer in the region said most traffic officers across the ranks have worked in Kisumu for more than seven years. She said the recommended period is three years. “When that happens the officer becomes used to locals, making it difficult to enforce the law and instead push for personal interest,” she said. Owuor on Thursday said Kisumu traffic base commander Jane Mbevi has worked in Kisumu for close to 10 years. On the Kisumu-Kakamega highway, matatu operators recklessly ignore the yellow line on the dual carriageway, posing a risk to other road users. A similar situation is at Ahero Mowuok on the Kisumu-Ahero road where double parking by matatus and tuk-tuk operators is rampant. “This is unacceptable. Mbevi should move to another station to pave the way for a competent officer. Matatus are operating recklessly in Kisumu town,” Owuor said. He added most of the officers are running taxi, tuk-tuk, and other businesses. Owuor said the biggest mistake is transferring the county and regional police bosses while junior officers who have overstayed and are allegedly abetting crime are left. They are the ones collecting bribes, he added. Nyanza Regional police commander Lydia Ligame said the matter has already been addressed. On Monday, Nyanza regional coordinator Magu Mutindika denied claims of numerous police roadblocks in the region are meant for extortion. He said only four roadblocks at the borders of Migori, Busia, Kericho and Kakamega are gazetted to control the movement of people and goods.  Magu said the four are recognised by Mutyambai. There has been a public uproar that police have mounted many roadblocks in Kisumu, Nyamira, Migori, Siaya, Homa Bay, and Kisii counties, thereby hindering movement. Human rights groups, motorists and residents lamented that the roadblocks on the highways had been turned into money-minting toll stations.