 Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has accused senators of blackmailing county chiefs and summoning them for questioning in a false pursuit for accountability. In an interview with K24 TV, Mutua claimed some senators were behind the impeachment bids against governors with the aim of clipping the powers of the regional bosses. But nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura who was with Mutua during the interview dismissed the claims, saying the governor was making false allegations. “The majority of senators wish that they were governors and this is weakening devolution,” Mutua said. The governor said the Senate did not have to take too long to agree on a revenue-sharing formula. Senators took three months to pass the Bill starving counties of funds for operations. Mutua said that many governors who have been summoned by the Senate, fail to appear for allegedly being asked for bribes by some the lawmakers. “There is so much corruption at the Senate. Some senators ask for bribes to shake and swindle us,” Mutua said. But Mwaura dismissed the bribery allegations and asked the governor to provide proof. Mutua said governors have no problem being audited but registered his disgruntlement with Senate meetings. “Let the auditor general do her work and we all wait for her report,” Mutua said. Mwaura said the row between governors and senators may not end because the county chiefs have failed to respect the Senate and its role. He said governors misappropriating county funds must be brought to book and that the Senate will continue to undertake its oversight role. Mutua also faulted Chief Justice David Maraga for calling for the dissolution of Parliament, saying it was unnecessary. Maraga on Monday advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the bicameral House, citing failure to meet the two-thirds gender rule. “There is already confusion in the country with BBI, handshake and now dissolving Parliament. Children are almost going to school and I think this is not the right time,” Mutua said.  Edited by P.O