Women in the transport industry in Nairobi have been hit hard by Covid-19, with their daily earnings dropping by 83 per cent. They make as little as Sh100 to Sh200 a day down from between Sh600 to Sh1,200 before the pandemic. This dip in earnings is detailed in a Flone Initiative report on the impacts of Covid-19 on women professionals in public transport released last week. The report assessed women professionals (drivers, conductors, booking clerks and mechanics) working in public service vehicles in the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. The assessment was conducted in April when 30 women were surveyed through telephone interviews. According to the report, 52 per cent of women in the transport industry have lost their jobs largely because their employment is informal and does not come with job security. "Those women still working in public transport fear contracting Covid-19 since their job entails interacting with customers and handling money. However, for many women, staying indoors is not an option since they rely on the money they make every day to buy food supplies," the report says. The report found that the majority are worried they will not be able to provide for their families and keep their children in school with meagre or no earnings. Some who are servicing loans from Saccos are likely to default. "As a mitigation measure, they are considering moving to cheaper housing, skipping meals, and suspending their monthly savings. The respondents further noted that some of their male colleagues take advantage of the situation and ask for sexual favours in exchange for jobs," the report says. The respondents said that some passengers are reluctant to use the sanitiser provided as they board matatus, saying they are fake and ineffective. "Ninety-seven per cent of the respondents cited lack of food as their primary concern. Uncontrolled fluctuation in the cost of basic foods and commodities had further shrunk the wage earned by workers, making it difficult to access affordable food," the report says. Edited by Henry Makori