The age of streaming has caught up with us. Gone are the days when one would wait to view football on Set top of boxes only, they can now go to apps that can help them stream their favourite matches and movies. Netflix has been one of the popular streaming applications giving you access to your favourite TV Shows and Movies. One of the features that it has that I have come to love is the top ten list that it has recently introduced. This top ten trending content is for a particular country. When users see what other people from the same country are watching they are highly likely to watch the same content. This app also has a smart detection for 4K content. If you have a device that supports 4K and HDR, you will be able to access this content. This is great for those who want to enjoy high-resolution content easily on their devices. It also has the subtitles that are used to being permanently at the bottom of the video. Netflix has the dynamic subtitles that change position every time, which is so cool. They still appear at the bottom of the screen but also tend to occupy space that is not important for the scene. Kodi is another streaming application that is known for its amazing selection of add-ons, support for lots of devices, and endless customizable thanks to open source roots. Users can customise virtually every aspect of Kodi thanks to its open-source roots giving them more freedom to pick and choose not only what to watch but also how. It runs in full screen by default and this is an indication that its designed to be used on a dedicated set-top box. Once you are used to how things work, it will be much easier and better when using a remote rather than a keyboard and mouse. Most of the Virtual Private Networks are Kodi compatible meaning all the user needs to do is connect to a VPN location in the area where you want to stream. A user should bear in mind that VPN helps to secure their devices so that they can watch, listen and download without having to worry about someone snooping on a network. This application can be used like a DVR if your PC has a TV card but the software really comes into its own when you dive into the world of add-ons. It is designed to be hooked up on the TV or large monitor but you can also run it on the laptop or any other device. With these streaming apps, you will be able to enjoy the content that you are watching because they give you the latest content all over the world.