Presenters of a vernacular station were overheard bragging how they have bought cars and houses after duping unsuspecting listeners. The presenters have been running a betting campaign unlawfully and under the nose of the Betting Control and Licensing Board. Concerned listeners tell Corridors of Power that it is puzzling for a scheme to be allowed to go on, exploiting poor Kenyans and fleecing them of their hard-earned cash. They wonder whatever became of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i’s famous statement sometime back - "Kenya is not going back to betting and gambling and even President Uhuru Kenyatta knows that.” The CS vowed to end the betting business in the country, saying those operating gambling businesses would have to close shop. Well they say, first remove the beam from your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. When a vocal unionist first admonished ODM and its leader Raila Odinga (pictured) over the mess at Kemsa, other union members kept quiet. But when he went on to demand the resignation of Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, some members thought he had gone too far. Their argument is that their union itself is embroiled in wrangles that he should first resolve and he's the last man to call for Kagwe to quit. A female lawmaker from Nyanza region has become the talk of her constituents after postponing an important function in her locality, with the excuse that she would be attending an important event organised by a leading political family. The constituents were shocked to learn the lawmaker’s name was missing from a widely shared list of participants at the evening event in Nairobi. The residents are now wondering if the MP is taking them for fools and why she had to reschedule an event planned before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country in March. It took courage for some 10 female police officers in Eastlands area in Nairobi to complain to authorities about their boss whom they accused of sexual misconduct. The internal affairs unit - which promotes uniform standards of discipline and good order in the service - and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority took over the matter. For a moment it seemed that justice was on the way.  However, one of the victims of the alleged sex predator tells Corridors of Power the senior officer has since been transferred, dimming any hope that action would be taken against him. She is now concerned that  junior female staff will not be safe with him at his new post.