Senators have renewed their push for the establishment of a Sh2 billion fund to be spent in oversighting county governments. The legislators have been pushing for the cash since 2013 to oversight the billions of shillings sent to the counties and tame corruption. However, their bids have been unsuccessful after the National Assembly, which is mandated to allocate funds to state agencies in the budget, argued that such a fund would violate the Public Finance Management Act. In their latest push, the senators urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to back their bid, saying his goodwill will unlock the funds. “You have done very well in giving this (additional Sh53.5 billion) money to go to the counties, but there is a serious deficit of accountability in the counties,” Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said. Wetang'ula said the establishment of the fund was urgent, noting that the usage of the billions channelled to the devolved units needs to be checked. “Enable this House to carry out a better oversight role, over and above carrying out postmortems on expenditure, to go back to the counties and do budget tracking to ensure that whatever budgets are passed by the assemblies, are spent in the manner they were budgeted for. “Otherwise, we will continue as we have always done. We pass budgets, send money and what we are doing this evening is we have created an increased list of billionaires in Kenya,” the senator said. He urged the Directorate of Public Prosecutions, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Controller of Budget, the Auditor-General, the Senate and county assemblies to be steadfast in checking the county expenditures. “People who do not want accountability will always look for excuses to escape. Do your work, do not wait to be cheered or praised. Let us make every shilling going to the county worthwhile for our being here,” he said, adding that the biggest threat to devolution today are some governors. “There are some who are good - we cannot lump all of them together. Nonetheless, the majority are not walking the narrow path. They preach water and drink wine and loathe accountability.” Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said the next time senators summon governors to account for funds given to them, “they must run here”. “We cannot be sitting here, burning the midnight oil to get them more money and when we call them here for accountability, they drag their feet," Kihika said. Isiolo's Fatuma Dullo said the passage of the third basis for revenue sharing among counties is a signal to county chiefs that when they are summoned, they should prepare and be accountable "for every shilling senators have worked for today". Senate Minority leader James Orengo asked governors to take seriously the issue of accountability, just as revenue allocation. “I have CPAIC reports about governors in volumes. Every time they do not get some little money, they run to the Senate, but when we want them for accountability, they say they cannot come,” Orengo said. Edited by R.Wamochie