Kenya on Saturday recorded 105 new positive cases of Covid-19, bringing the total to number of infections to 36,829. This is from a sample size of 2,868 tested in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tests now stand at 514,482. From the cases, all are Kenyans except two who are foreigners. 83 are males and 22 are females. The youngest is a two-year old child, while the oldest is 95. As of recoveries, 68 people have recovered from the disease, 38 from the Home-Based Care Program and 30 have been discharged from various hospitals. The total number of recoveries now stands at 23,777. On a good note, today the country has not recorded any deaths. Distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi 33, Busia 15, Mombasa nine, Bungoma eight, Kiambu four, Nakuru six, Bomet, Garissa and Taita Taveta four, Kajiado, Kakamega and Kisumu 3, Machakos, Meru, Kitui and Trans Nzoia two, Murang'a, Nyeri and Laikipia with one case each. In terms of sub county distribution, the 33 cases in Nairobi, are from Roysambu six, Westlands four, Dagoretti North, Embakasi East, Kasarani and Makadara three cases each, Kamukunji, Lang'ata and Starehe two cases each, Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi West, Kibra and Ruaraka with one case each. In Busia, the 15 cases are from Matayos 14 and Teso North one case. In Mombasa, the nine cases are all from Jomvu, while the eight cases in Bungoma, are all from Kanduyi. The four cases in Kiambu are from Kiambu Town two, Gatundu South and Ruiru one case each, the four cases in Nakuru are from Nakuru East and Nakuru West two cases each. The four cases in Bomet are all from Bomet Central, the four cases in Garissa, are all from Dadaab, the four cases in Taita Taveta are all from Voi. In Kajiado, the three cases are from Loitokitok two and Kajiado North one and the three cases in Kakamega are all from Malava, while the three cases in Kisumu are from Kisumu Central two and Kisumu East one. The two cases in Machakos are all from Athi Rver, the two cases in Meru are from Igembe South and Imenti South one case each. The two cases in Kitui are from Kitui South and Mwingi Central one case each, while the two cases in Trans Nzoia, are from Cherang’any and Kwanza one case each. The case in Murang’a is from Gatanga, the case in Nyeri is from Nyeri Central, and the case in Laikipia, is from Laikipia North.