ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has started consolidating support ahead of the 2022 elections as his ties with President Uhuru Kenyatta grow warm again. Mudavadi has lined up a series of meetings across the country as he prepares to take a second stab at the presidency. “I supported Uhuru in 2002, 2007 and 2017. I supported ODM leader Raila Odinga after shelving my personal and political interests. This shows I am not selfish. It is time for them to support me,” he told the Star. The Star has established that Mudavadi has been meeting leaders from North Eastern and Coast regions at Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi in readiness for a tour of the two areas. Over the weekend, Mudavadi was in Maparashi Hills in Kajiado for a traditional Maasai ceremony during which the area leadership advised him to work closely with the President. Governor Joseph Lenku said Mudavadi was a true friend of the Maa community as he initiated projects in the area when he served as Local Government minister. “I am close to the President and I know the two of you are good friends. I know you can go far together,” he stated. He said the two (the President and Mudavadi) had been invited for the ceremony but the Head-of State had other commitments. “I want to advise you as a friend, remain close to us and things will go well,” the governor added. Present at the meeting were MPs Elijah Memusi (Kajiado Central), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Petronilla Were (Nominated Senator). Mudavadi called on the larger Maa community to support his bid as he promised to will focus on reviving the economy of the country. He re-affirmed his support for Uhuru in the fight against corruption lauding the recently forwarded Kemsa file by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to the Office of the Director of Public prosecutions for scrutiny. Savula asked Uhuru to support Mudavadi in 2022 since the ANC leader supported by him before. “I heard Lenku speak to the President on phone and I know what they said,” he stated. Mudavadi has been endorsed by his party to go for the top seat during the next polls. On September 17, Mudavadi was in Nyaribo Village in Nyeri Town constituency where he drummed up support for his candidature. It was his second time in the larger Mt Kenya region in a span of two weeks after another in Murang'a county. On his part, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga said his people were yet decide together with their leadership on whom they will back for the presidency. He assured the ANC leader that he was welcome to visit Nyeri to talk to the people and seek their blessing and support. In August, Mudavadi met various groups including current and former leaders from the larger Mt Kenya region at the Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi. He used the meetings to position himself as "Mt Kenya's safest pair of hands" to succeed Uhuru. “I want to assure Mt Kenya people that I have no business of revenge in my heart. In my leadership there should be no fear." Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua also paid a courtesy call to Mudavadi on May 29 at a city hotel which was also attended by former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Sally Kosgey, who served as head of Public Service during former President Daniel Moi's regime. After meeting Mudavadi, Karua hinted at a possible alliance bringing together her Narc Kenya, ANC and other parties ahead of 2022. Edited by R.Wamochie