Anxiety has gripped the Geothermal Development Company's top management over the pending lapse of the terms of seven general managers. Intense lobbying for term extensions is underway and a request has divided the GDC board of directors. Sources told the Star that a meeting convened on Tuesday to discuss extensions ended in disarray. The current team had submitted a request through CEO Jared Othieno that their terms be extended by two years, making the terms five years. They also requested that term renewal be automatic if the person wishes to continue working. “The matter has already divided the Board of Directors. There are those who consider term extensions an illegality and have vowed to shoot down such efforts,” an insider told the Star. Othieno was appointed in April, replacing Johnson Ole Nchoe  who had held the position for four years. In October 2019, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission halted the recruitment of 11 top managers over allegations of irregularities and nepotism. Although the company advertised for the positions as required, the process was said to have been flawed. The company was put on spot after it emerged that most of those recruited were from one community. Some employees complained that those hired were given hefty perks and privileges, including interest-free car loans, mortgages and international travel. With fresh recruitment halted and current team's terms coming to an end, office holders are fighting for their jobs. In response to a query, communications manager Wanjiru Kangara told the Star,  "Geothermal Development company has a recruitment policy guided by the company's Human Resources Policies and Procedures which is adhered to whenever staff related matters are under consideration." Insiders told the Star the state corporation under the Energy ministry has been experiencing internal disputes over how major geothermal projects are being implemented. Some top officials are said to have clashed over reports that the opinions of qualified scientists and other geothermal experts in the company were being disregarded in project design and implementation. Some have said failure to incorporate expert opinion in the projects had resulted in delays in projects that already had consumed large sums. (Edited by V. Graham)