The government has denied involvement in the demolition of a mosque in Nyali that reportedly stands on disputed land. The mosque was being constructed on public land amid claims its Turkish donor had given Sh70 million for the purchase of land and construction. MP Mohammed Ali insists the land has been earmarked for the construction of a chief’s office, a social hall and the office of the assistant county commissioner. However, in a statement that seems to throw MP Ali under the bus, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata told the Star on the phone that the government has no interest in disputed land. “We put up government offices in places where there are no controversies,” he said. On Thursday, Ali visited the site where he announced he is ready to help construct a mosque in another location with no dispute. However, the MP questioned Elungata, saying the county commissioner himself gave the order to stop the construction of the mosque. “Elungata is contradicting himself. He seems not to know anything about the case. I never stopped the project. It was him, after a petition from the residents,” the lawmaker said. He said Parliament is an arm of the government. The NGCDF will construct the government offices, Ali said. Yet again, he distanced himself from the demolition of the mosque. “We have been looking for the donor and now we have found him. We have talked to him through his representatives and he told us he did not know the land was public and meant for other projects,” Ali said. The MP said the demolition took place two days before he arrived at the scene for a consultative meeting with the residents over the matter. “Religion is being used by machine gun preachers against me. They have been looking for me in many ways and now they want to paint an evil picture of me,” the MP said. He said he will only allow construction of projects that residents have agreed to. On Thursday, residents claimed they were not consulted over the project. The residents, including Muslim clerics, said there are enough mosques in the area and there is no need for another one. “Islam says no mosque should be built on any land that has dispute. There is a dispute over this land. Those insisting that this mosque should go on, I don’t know what Islam they are practising,” resident Suleiman Shehan said. They contradicted the project supporters, including Sheikh Juma Ngao, who said there was an agreement between 600 residents and the Turkish donor for the construction of the mosque. Ngao, however, said they have talked to state officials who have denied they are planning to put up government offices on the land. He insisted that Ali was behind the demolition of the mosque. The Sheikh said they will continue to conduct their Friday prayers at the demolished mosque, a matter MP Ali said he is aware of and "which amounts to incitement". Elungata said the government does not want to be entangled in matters of land. “We have no interest in that place. Talk to religious leaders,” Elungata said. Ali reiterated that he is being persecuted by his political opponents over his stand on political matters. The MP insists there are powerful people behind the project who want to use the mosque as an excuse to grab the land. “I am better off dying while defending the resources that belong to the people of Nyali,” he said. He said another meeting between the donor, the residents and his office has been planned for Monday next week. “We are going to give him land to build the mosque. We are always ready so long as everyone involved. The matter is sealed,” Ali said. Edited by R.Wamochie