MPs allied to Deputy President Willliam Ruto have called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament as advised by Chief Justice David Maraga. Speaking during an interdenominational fundraiser for pentecostal churches in Bumula, the MPs said they were ready for elections and asked President Kenyatta to follow the law. DP Ruto was present. “The President swore to protect the Constitution of Kenya and Maraga has told him to heed what the Constitution stipulates on the two-thirds gender rule,” Hamisi MP Charles Gemose said. The lawmaker said Maraga’s advisory was the correct interpretation of law and the President has no option but dissolve Parliament. Kuria West MP Robi Nyamabe said the President should dissolve both the Senate and the National Assembly and even go further to dissolve his government. “As the hustler nation, we are ready to go to the people and we are inviting the President to dissolve even his government so that he sees how important the Deputy President was in helping him to win elections,” he said. He said that even regions like Nyanza, perceived to be anti-Ruto, would vote Ruto in 2022. Gatundu MP Moses Kuria said the next government would comprise of the low-class people. “We have decided and we are ready to deliver a hustler government and so don’t be left out,” he said. The MPs further faulted Interior PS Karanja Kibicho for asking for a second rollout of Huduma Namba, saying the move was meant to rig the elections. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said that they have information that some foreigners with criminal record were holed up in Nairobi’s Runda estate to take advantage of Huduma Namba. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali said Kenyans need to be told what happened to the initial rollout. “We will mobilise our people to ensure that our people reject that exercise because it has sinister motive,” he said. The MP said he was surprised that even before the government tells Kenyans the status of the first registration, they were planning for a second one. Ruto, who donated Sh2 million, gave the subject a wide berth, only saying the next government will be led by touts and mama mbogas. “We are telling those who are making noise that the next government will be made up of hustlers,” said Ruto.