Three armed presidential security men were found at the home of Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi during a raid by police sent to arrest the legislator over alleged crimes of hate speech and incitement. It's not clear what the three officers attached to President Kenyatta's security unit were doing at Sudi's home. Police Commander in Uasin Gishu Johnstone Ipara who led the operation at Sudi’s home has confirmed. Ipara said that they gained entry into the home of the MP searching for him but did not find him during the operation. In an incident report Reference  OB No. 21 of September 12, 2020 filed at the Langas Police Station in Eldoret, Ipara says that on the eleventh day of September 2020 at around 1900hrs, a team of police officers under his commander and the County DCI chief for the area conducted a raid at the residence of Sudi. He said a standoff ensued whereby the occupants of the residence refused to open the gate prompting the officers to gain entry through the fence of the compound. Ipara said that immediately they gained entry, shots were fired from inside the compound. A GSU officer John Muiruri was injured with a panga on his right-hand thumb in the process of gaining entry. Ipara said a search was conducted in the residence but unfortunately, the MP had already fled. “On further search within the compound and the parking lot, a spent cartridge of 9mm, one for 7.62mm and a panga were recovered”, he said. He said three officers who were later confirmed to be working with the presidential escort unit were found inside the compound. They included Simon Siengo who was in possession of a Ceska pistol with 2 magazines of 15 rounds of ammunition,  Issack Dida, who was in possession of a Jericho with a magazine of 15 rounds of ammunition and C.I Ekiru who is suspected to have fled the compound alongside the MP. The presidential escort men had come in the compound with a motor vehicle registration No KBU 893 V,  a Toyota Prado. Another firearm Gilbua with a magazine of 30 rounds of ammunition was recovered inside the vehicle used by the three. They also had another motor vehicle registration No KBR 257 S, Toyota Allion where a Ceska pistol with a magazine of 11 rounds of ammunition was found. Ipara said some civilians were also arrested for interrogation, including  Victor K. Kibitok, Stephen Chege,  James Kemboi Kemei, Jonathan Maritim Kosgei, and David Birich Kipyego . “The team left the residence at around 0630hrs in pursue of the MP at his Elgon View Estate home and he was also not found. The injured officer was treated and discharged while the civilian was rushed to the hospital and in stable condition”, said Ipara. Added that the operation to search for the MP was still going on. However, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkonen said the MP was safe and was on his way to Nairobi. “We shall prepare him tomorrow and present him before the NCIC on Monday”, said Murkomen through a tweet.