Kenya has been listed as one of the nine countries that anyone can travel to globally according to a Forbes list. Forbes indicated that the entry requirements to get into Kenya is only a proof of negative test. The test must have been conducted within 96 hours of arrival. "Otherwise, Kenya is currently fairly relaxed at the border, and travel around the country is not restricted," Forbes noted. The current virus trend is also fairly good since the numbers keep on moving down since August. After a spike in July and August, daily case numbers have fallen and deaths remain relatively low. Kenya restarted international flights to and from the country on August 1 and since then case numbers have steadily decreased. Kenya has had 34,493 cases in total, with  581 deaths . In July, Kenya was awarded the World Travel and Tourism Council.   Safe Travel Stamp after adopting the global health and hygiene protocols dubbed ‘Safe  Travels. Tourism cabinet secretary Najib Balala said the recognition was timely as the country prepares to reopen the tourism and hospitality industry after months of closure. Kenya, in line with global reopening of tourism and travel protocols made its submission drafted by National Tourism and Hospitality Protocols Taskforce to the World Travel and Tourism Council and the World Tourism Organization for validation. In the Forbes list, Mexico, Turkey , French Polynesia, Maldives, Dubai, Albania, North Macedonia and Serbia were also listed. Mexico was listed since there is no entry requirement to the country. Forbes noted that it is still possible to fly into various Mexican cities from anywhere that has a flight operating. No testing or quarantine requirements are currently in place. In Turkey, there are no entry requirements. No virus test or quarantine is necessary for visitors. However incoming passengers will likely be checked for symptoms, and those who seem ill may be given a test on arrival which is a normal procedure. For you to travel to  French Polynesia you will need a proof of negative test.  The test should be taken at most three days prior to arrival. Visitors then must administer a self-test four days after arrival. No quarantine is required. In Maldives you need negative Covid-19 test otherwise, no special rules apply – though only certain islands and resorts are open. The country has recorded just 29 deaths. In Dubai you need the negative test but you might be tested on arrival as well. Later you will be required to self quarantine at your hotel or other residence for around 24 hours until results come back. Arriving passengers must also download a special Covid-19 app. At the moment many nationalities can obtain a visa on arrival but only when arriving in Dubai. For Albania, North Macedonia and Serbia , you just need a negative test. Otherwise just about everyone is free to enter with no testing or quarantine requirements. 