Agnes Musenya, a 23-year-old mother of one, has lived with a congenital disability. She narrates how hard it has been for her to survive since the country started battling Covid-19. Musenya depends on her mother, Nzambi Munyoki, for food and other necessities. Nzambi says it is difficult to put food on the table, let alone acquire other necessities, as she was relieved of her menial work after the government ordered people to stay at home to combat the spread of Covid-19. This was one month after Musenya gave birth. Besides Musenya, she has five children. “I used to do laundry jobs but after I was rendered jobless, times have been tough for us as even putting food on the table for my six children and grandchild has proved challenging,” Nzambi says. Musenya hopes she can get a job to support herself and the family and assuage their suffering and fears. “Being a mother, unemployed and not benefitting from any government cash transfer programme, life has proved difficult. I depend on my aged mother to feed the baby and myself,” she says. She acknowledged the government’s support for the disabled but added that it has not been enough. Last month, she was one of the beneficiaries of the Sh331.4 million released by the government through the National Council for Persons Living with Disabilities (NCPWD) to cushion members against economic fallout of the virus. Musenya received Sh6,000 through M-Pesa and has been grateful to the NCPWD. Nzambi said she went to Mwingi town, five kilometres away, to shop for Musenya soon after she got the money. She now has some basic necessities to take care of the baby. It’s better than nothing. Nzambi said her daughter has knowledge of computer, hairdressing and tailoring and can work hard to care for her needs and those of her baby should she get a job. She appealed to well-wishers to help her daughter secure a job. NCPWD chairperson Peter Muchiri, in an interview with a local media station, said Sh500 million was released by the government to cushion 520,000 people living with disabilities, and Sh200 million shillings channelled to 33,333 persons with disabilities who are not benefitting from any government cash transfer programme. Persons with severe disabilities receive Sh2,000 every month. “People living with disabilities are the most vulnerable in society, thus need more support, especially during this period of Covid-19,” Muchiri said.