ODM National chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi has said they are confident of getting enough numbers in the assembly to impeach Governor Okoth Obado. Mbadi said that 31 ODM MCAs have already thrown their weight behind the motion sponsored by the party. “We have resolved unequivocally that Obado will have to leave office, and this impeachment motion has the blessing of Raila unlike what others have been saying,” Mbadi said. The motion to impeach the embattled Migori governor will be tabled next week. Mbadi was speaking at Maranatha grounds in Migori town, where the party organised a meeting of over 600 delegates, elected, and opinion leaders to drum up support for the motion. “The motion is about people of Migori, we have MCAs from other parties and independent ticket who are supporting the motion while we still have ODM MCAs afraid of their own shadows,” Mbadi said. The delegates meeting was also attended by Migori senator Ochillo Ayacko, Nyatike MP Tom Odege, Rongo MP Paul Abuor, Nominated MP Dennitah Ghati, and Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, and several MCAs. While the meeting was going on,  Obado chose to have special prayers at the Lwanda Rapogi church in his area. Mbadi said the impeachment motion on ODM governors charged with corruption and barred from the office will start in Migori and roll over in other counties. He said Obado’s counter, Busia’a Sospeter Ojaamong was not barred from office as the only other governor charged with corruption. Ayacko said Bukira East MCA Mathews Chacha and Deputy Speaker and South Sakwa MCA Kevin Ouma and Majority Leader will lead the tabling and ensuring the motion passes through. Ayacko said since devolution started in Migori, the county has received over Sh42bilion which is still hard to locate. “This impeachment motion will be to help MCAs stand up among residents and point out where delayed bursaries, local projects and employment opportunities they have been missing are,” Ayacko said. Odege said the governor have been vindictive against other leaders in Migori county. “When given an opportunity to eat, please respect people who have given you the opportunity instead of vomiting all over their shoes and leading your entire family in plunder and insulting residents,” Odege said. Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, led seven out of eight MCAs from the constituency which is the backyard of Obado at the meeting to vow they will stand by the party. “When the party gives us a direction we are obliged to follow since a Catholic priest will never offer mass in Anglican Church. Our church is ODM and our leader have given a direction which we will follow,” Nyamita vowed. Ends