Deputy President William Ruto on Monday snubbed a key national Covid-19  conference where President Uhuru Kenyatta slammed the brakes on the much-awaited schools reopening. Ruto's no-show at the crucial meeting convened by his boss to chart the post-Covid way forward further increased the already-high tension in the Jubilee government. The conference rogramme had indicated Ruto would invite the President to open and close the conference, evidence that his attendance had been confirmed earlier. In his absence, the ceremonial welcoming of President Kenyatta was delegated to influential Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. The Star established that Ruto spent a quiet day at his official residence in Karen, without hosting any delegations or frenetic campaigning. Ruto has previously launched scathing attacks on the handling of Covid-19 funds, calling for immediate prosecution of influential personalities mentioned in the Kemsa scandal. His allies had also railed at the President's coronavirus containment measures, which they said were being relaxed for pro-Building Bridges politicians - but severely enforced on them. On Monday, a source within Ruto's camp told the Star the DP deliberately declined to attend the conference at KICC to maintain "his distance from the Covid-related messes. "The Deputy President has been clear that he has not been happy with the way the coronavirus situation has been handled. He could not show up to sanitise what has become the mess that we have seen,” the source said. The move to give the crucial event a wide berth further exposes UhuRuto's collapsing marriage, as the DP is charting his own path ahead of the 2022 General Election. Uncharacteristically for him, the DP kept off his social media platforms where he has previously thrown punches at his critics, while  his main opponents joined Uhuru for the conference. The meeting during which the President indefinitely postponed the reopening of schools was also attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga. The former PM praised Uhuru for excellent handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi also attended, as did Chief Justice David Maraga and Speakers Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Kenneth Lusaka (Senate). Uhuru extended the night curfew for an additional 60 days. The curfew time was, however, altered from 9pm to 11pm. It is to take effect on Tuesday, September 29. “The daily dusk-to-dawn curfew will therefore run from 11pm to 4am in the morning,” Uhuru said. The ban on bars and the prohibition against the sale of alcoholic drinks by ordinary restaurants and eateries was also lifted effective on Tuesday “Mnaweza kukunywa pombe, sawa (You can now consume alcohol),” Uhuru said. On July 27, he banned the sale of alcoholic drinks in all restaurants across the country and directed that all bars remain closed indefinitely to curb spread of the coronavirus. On Monday, the President allowed restaurants and bars to close later, at 10pm instead of 8pm. They should operate in strict adherence to Covid-19 containment measures. Places of worship will be required to adhere to all health guidelines, with only a third of worshippers to attend at any one time. The number of people attending ceremonies such as funerals and weddings was reviewed upwards from 100 people to 200. The country's Covid-19 positivity rate has fallen from 13 per cent in June and seven per cent in August and it now stands at 4.4 per cent in September, Uhuru said. "With these figures, we can be tempted to celebrate, more so because we are now below the five per cent positivity rate recommended by the World Health Organization  for re-opening," he added. The President said the resumption of in-person learning must be predicated on strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Health  ministry. "In that regard, I, therefore, direct and order the Cabinet Secretary for Education to issue the calendar for the resumption of the 2020 Academic calendar, strictly bearing the foregoing in mind," he said. As part of the government measures to cushion Kenyans from effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, Uhuru urged the Treasury to retain the income tax rate at 25 per cent until January 1, 2021, and VAT at 14 per cent until January next year. Tax reductions were announced on March 2 to protect jobs and reassure  employers. Uhuru had also ordered 100 per cent tax relief for persons earning a gross income of Sh24,000 as well. Pay As You Earn (PAYE) is to be reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. Both of these measures, which also include reduction of the corporation tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent, will be extended to December 31. "We might not know everything about the pandemic, but we do know more than we did in March," President Kenyatta said. Edited by EKibii