The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has begun probes into several public land parcels whose ownership is disputed by private developers in Kwale county. The new development comes after the county government and residents raised the alarm over wanton land-grabbing. The team is expected to end protracted land disputes between investors and the local communities. One of those targeted is the Kaya Tiwi Forest land, which is about 25 acres. On Wednesday, Lower Coast EACC boss Mutembei Nyaga said they will investigate to confirm whether the land ownership transfer process was legal. “The documents we have clearly indicate that this land was gazetted as a national monument but if the developer owns it, we will see how it was obtained," he said in Tiwi, Matuga. Kaya Tiwi Forest was declared a national monument by the National Museums of Kenya in 1992. Between 1992 and 1998, however, some changes were made when Shariff Nassir, who has since died, served as minister for Home Affairs, National Heritage, Culture and Social Services. According to Nyaga, it is not yet clearly known if the land was sold to private individuals when the changes took place. "During that period, this area was being denoted as public forest. It then got gazetted again but the last thing we know we still have a Gazette notice dated 1998 that this area belongs to Kaya,” he said. They gave a directive that no further development should continue on the parcel until the truth comes out and lawbreakers brought to book. Last month, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and some delegates from the national government moved to stop construction works at Kaya Tiwi Forest. He later launched a land survey to establish and recover all grabbed public land. The EACC will also investigate the Golini settlement scheme where more than 2,000 families fear being evicted after a private developer claimed its ownership. Also targetted are Waa/Ng’ombeni block 9, 10, 13 and 14 where 3,000 families are affected by the disputes and Kaya Waa, Tiwi and Diani forests land which has become an eye-catcher attracting businesspeople. The officers warned land-grabbers to surrender before things get worse, saying they will spare no culprit. Nyaga said land-grabbing is taking root at the Coast and must be stopped and perpetrators prosecuted. He has, however, urged residents to remain calm as the EACC and other stakeholders conduct investigations so justice can be served.