Gender equality has been a major challenge in Kenya. Women have always been disadvantaged compared to men when it comes to leadership positions. On August 27, 2010, Kenya promulgated a new Constitution. One of its prominent features is the extensive Bill of Rights. It provides for the right to equality and freedom from discrimination. In an attempt to cure gender inequality, Article 27 states that every person is equal before the law and has a right to equal protection and equal benefit of the law. It goes further to specify that women and men have a right to equal treatment, including the right to equal opportunities in political, economic, cultural and social spheres. Article 27 (8) requires the state to take legislative and other measures to implement the principle that not more than two thirds of members of appointive and elective bodies shall be of the same gender. Article 81 (b) goes on to state that not more than two thirds of members of elective public bodies shall be of the same gender. Article 97 requires that the National Assembly consist of 47 women, each elected by the registered voters of the counties. Article 98 provides that the Senate will have 16 women nominated by political parties to ensure the gender rule is achieved. Article 177 (b) provides for special seats to ensure that no more than two thirds of the members of the county assemblies are of the same gender. Article 100 (a) requires Parliament to enact legislation to promote representation of women in the House. It is clear that the law has done more than enough to ensure that there are equal opportunities for men and women. However, Parliament has failed and/or refused to enact legislation that gives life to the provisions of the Constitution. In 2012 when the Attorney General sought the advisory opinion of the Supreme Court on whether the provisions on the gender rule should be enacted immediately or progressively, the Supreme Court gave Parliament until August 27, 2015. Despite the order, Parliament failed to enact legislation. The House has failed to pass the Gender Bill a number of times for lack of quorum. In March 2017, the High Court ruled that Parliament had failed to enact legislation on the gender rule and gave it 60 days to do so. Article 261 (7) mandates the Chief Justice to advise the President to dissolve Parliament where it fails to enact legislation, which he has rightfully done according to the law. Parliament has failed in its mandate and allowed gender stereotypes and chauvinism to deny brilliant female minds a chance to make this nation better.