An archbishop claims Deputy President William Ruto has promised Kenyans will never fight again after elections. African Brotherhood Church Archbishop Rev Timothy Ndambuki says he met the deputy president to establish the cause of the increased political bickering. Ndambuki also chairs the lower eastern region National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK). “I personally visited the DP on seeing that we are headed to the wrong direction with leaders publicly insulting each other in toxic tones likely to invite chaos, but he assured me there will never be any other conflict in Kenya,” he said. He spoke on Saturday during the burial of Pastor Zipporah Mutuku in Mbooni, Makueni County. Ndambuki urged politicians to stop loose and divisive rhetoric that, he said, is stirring disunity and hatred. Ndambuki said Kenyans should learn from what they experienced after the 2007 polls and embrace peace for the sake of national unity. He said the ongoing political conflicts threaten the Kofi Annan-led 2008 national accord signed between retired President Mwai Kibaki and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. He called on aspirants to tame their tongues, noting that ethnic utterances could split the country along tribal lines. On Sunday, Kaseret MP Oscar Sudi was arrested over alleged hate speech , six days after the arrest of Emurua Dikkir MP Johana Ng'eno, who was arrested for incitement. “As Kenyans we must fight for peace and that is why there is no room for leaders to insults each other, let us respect one another even during the campaigns, the final decision is with the electorate,” said Ndambuki. His sentiments were echoed by MPs Daniel Maanzo (Makueni) and Joshua Kimilu Kaiti. They spoke in Kaiti Constituency during the burial of former Kaiti/Kilome MP Gervis Maingi, who died last Sunday at the age of 75. Maanzo took on Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng'eno for allegedly insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s mother saying it was against African traditions and the English jurisprudence, where Kenya has borrowed its legal system. “Women deserve respect, whether young or elderly and in African tradition you do not abuse a mother,” said Maanzo. He called of Kenyans to reject leaders who lack respect for others when election times comes. Kaiti MP Joshua Kimilu said elected leaders should be the epitome of elegance in the society. He said leaders publicly insulting each other have failed Kenyans and the young generation, some of who saw them as role models.