The National Environment Management Authority has threatened to close down several hotels in Isiolo over the discharge of raw sewerage. The authority on Thursday said it would take serious actions against the hotels if they do not comply. Chairman John Konchellah spoke when he paid a courtesy call to Isiolo County Commissioner, Herman Shambi. "We are deeply concerned with hotels discharging untreated effluent to the environment. We are going to close them down if they don't comply," Konchellah said. Saala Hotel Limited, Isiolo landmark hotel, Bomen Hotel, Grande Hotel, Northern Galaxy Hotels and Silver Bells Hotel are among the top hotels found within the Isiolo town. Konchellah also said the authority has enhanced crackdown on those using banned plastic bags. In December last year, the authority in a similar move summoned nine flat owners in Kitengela town, Kajiado county, for discharging raw sewage to the road. The authority said the summons came after inspection led by acting director-general Mamo B Mamo established that the nine flats along Balozi Road were discharging raw sewage into the road. The authority in August threatened to prosecute the acting Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company managing director for discharging untreated sewage into the Nairobi River. Nahashon Muguna narrowly escaped arrest for failing to comply with an order to repair the sewer lines said to emit the discharge. But he dismissed the summons, saying some Nema orders had already been addressed. "The problem facing Nairobi is much bigger and cannot be addressed by one agency", Muguna said. Dagoretti and Kiamaiko slaughterhouses were closed last year for discharging untreated waste into the Nairobi River. Some five factories in Nairobi's Industrial Area were also shut down for discharging dangerous effluent to the environment. During the crackdown, five people whose premises were discharging raw sewage to the environment were arrested. The authority has been undertaking inspections on the illegal discharge of raw sewage into the environment. The exercise is meant to weed out companies discharging untreated wastewater into sewer lines or the environment that mainly ends in rivers.