Top current and former Health ministry officials might be prosecuted for bungling the Sh63 billion medical kits project. The officials include former Cabinet Secretaries James Macharia (now in Transport), Sicily Kariuki (Water and Sanitation) and Cleophas Mailu (now ambassador and permanent representative to the UN, Geneva) and their Principal Secretaries. A damning report by the Senate Ad Hoc committee has implicated them in the ambitious Medical Equipment Service (MES) programme that has since turned into a scandal. The Star on Thursday has details of how top current and former Health ministry officials risk prosecution. Pressure is mounting on President Uhuru Kenyatta to deliver this year’s State of the Nation Address. The President has in the past given the address between March and May. However, this has not happened this year so far due to the Covid-19 crisis. Standing Order 22 of the National Assembly says the President shall address Parliament once every year. Article 132 of the Constitution obligates the President to address a joint sitting of the Houses on a matter that touches on national values. The Star on Thursday examines what expectations exist as Kenyans await the address. A Senate committee wants the Parliamentary Service Commission to establish a security liaison office to handle all issues regarding MPs and security agencies to eradicate inhumane arrest of members. This was recommended by the Senate National Security Committee that investigated the recent dramatic arrest of three senators. In a report tabled on the floor on Tuesday, the committee chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji said the team would handle all security matters pertaining to members of Parliament including summons to appear before law enforcement agencies. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Tuesday broke his silence saying he is concentrating on helping residents regain their lost economic stability, not on political shenanigans. Joho, who was with British High Commissioner Jane Marriot in his office, said he cannot "waste time responding to every political incident happening in the country". The governor appeared to be directing his sentiments at Deputy President William Ruto who was in the county two weeks ago. Details have emerged of how county governments get a raw deal on their rightful share of revenue annually. The devolved units are the biggest victims of the pressure on the exchequer to meet loan obligations - debt and interest repayments. Their share of revenue has shrunk over the years from 3.9 per cent (2014-15) to this year’s 2.8 per cent of nominal GDP – going by the current prices.