Infinix has launched its new X1 smart TV. With Android TV, the high-quality viewing experience, and the AIoT technology, the new smart TV will develop the new business line for the company. The Infinix X1 Android TV makes it easier to get more from your TV. Access 400,000+ movies and shows, play music and games, cast from any device onto your TV and add the apps you use most - all with Android TV. The brand has a precise insight into African users' love for music, so X1 is pre-loaded with Boomplay Music, the most popular music app in Africa. While enjoying a massive library of music, they can also project the music videos of their idols on the big screen of X1 to turn their living room into the scene of a live show. The company adopts a frameless design, which represents a global trend for high-end TVs in 2020, for the X1 smart TV. A frameless design substantially increases the screen-to-body ratio. A larger screen provides better visual enjoyment for viewers and delivers a bigger visual impact for them. Meanwhile, the frameless design of X1 enables it to be perfected integrated into home design. As the back panel of X1 is made of metal, the TV looks not just thinner and slimmer, but also more beautiful and more rugged. To create an immersive home theatre experience, X1 also comes with the 24W high-quality speakers (for 43-inch and 55-inch products) and supports Dolby Audio and AAC sound effects. Combined with Boomplay, based on big data of music to conduct professional voice calibration, allowing you to lie down on the couch and watch your favourite movie in the most comfortable manner immersed in a home theatre created by the new brand. You can also invite some friends to watch a movie together. Yes, you may enjoy popcorn, beer and soda, but the brand of TVs will definitely play the leading role at the party. The Infinix X1 will retail at a relatively affordable price of SH 31,990 for the 43-inch and SH19,490 for the 32-inch which will be covered by a guarantee policy of up to 24 months. 