More than 20,000 children in charitable children's institutions have been reunited with their families since the onset of Covid-19. According to the State Department for Child Services, the move was to decongest the institutions in the wake of Covid-19 and foster alternative family-based care. Speaking at Mama Fatuma Goodwill home in Eastleigh on Tuesday, department secretary Shem Nyakutu said street and lost children and those in conflict areas have also been reunited with their families. Nyakutu was speaking during the handing over of 10 solar water heating panels and a purification machine by the Israeli Embassy to the institution that hosts 85 vulnerable children and orphans from informal settlements in the Muslim community. "In the wake of the pandemic, the government gave a directive that we reduce the number of children in CICs through alternative family care initiatives. We did not want a situation where Covid-19 hit our institutions," Nyakutu said. He added that support for children in family-based care options remains the most suitable, with the appropriate outcomes. Where children have families, all efforts should be made to strengthen the families to take in their children. "Institutional care providers should ensure that other family-based care options are first explored before a child is placed in an institution. It should be a last resort," he said. The department is currently taking a pilot in the implementation of guidelines for alternative family care for children in Kisumu, Nyamira, Kiambu and Kilifi. Currently, the country has at least 2.5 million orphans and vulnerable children including street children, refugees and those residing in areas of conflict. To counter poverty as a growing cause for increased street and lost children, the department is directly supporting parents through a stipend. "We are reaching 353,000 households through the Inua Jamii cash transfers," Nyakutu added. Countrywide, there are 854 CCIs and about 45,000 children who have had to receive care in such institutions. In a bid to streamline operations of the Child Welfare Society of Kenya and those of children's homes in the country, other vulnerable children are receiving family-based care. This is through placement in alternative family care initiatives of foster care, guardianship and adoption. Edited by R.Wamochie