The government will only pay BoM teachers who are registered with the Teachers Service Commission, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has said. The CS said it will amount to a breach of law if the ministry goes ahead to pay people contracted by BoMs and who have no TSC numbers. The CS was speaking on Wednesday when he appeared before the Education Committee of the National Assembly. He noted that the government has already disbursed money to 27,000 BoM teachers and those who were omitted will get their payments soon. “There are teachers who do not have TSC numbers. They only put IDs numbers. We will pay only those with TSC numbers,” Magoha said. “When we get lists from bona fide head teachers, the first thing we look for is the TSC numbers. Going forward we shall only pay teachers with TSC numbers.” Magoha was accompanied by Education CS Belio Kipsang during the afternoon session. “What we paid for BoM teachers was an intervention. We were to use Sh700 per child and that amount was shared among the teachers,” Belio said on how they arrived at Sh10,000. Meanwhile, Magoha said secondary school heads who make commitments to suppliers outside their budgets will soon face disciplinary action. Magoha said he will soon issue a circular to all public secondary schools with an advice to commit within their respective budgets. He said any school head who will defy the directive will face disciplinary actions.“Disciplinary action will be taken on any Principal/Accounting Officer who incurs beyond the school budget,” Magoha said. “Boards of Management will also be expected to come up with a plan of how they will clear the outstanding debts owed to the suppliers.” Magoha said most secondary schools should have cleared their bills as they had received 50 percent capitation to public secondary schools before the schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Public Secondary Boarding schools had also collected boarding fees from parents. It is expected that most of the school supplies consist of tuition and boarding items whose fees schools had received and collected,” he said. “Schools therefore ought to have paid for supplied commodities.” “In our opinion no school should be owing any supplier because the resources have been availed to them,” added Kipsang.