Senators have accused Attorney General Kihara Kariuki of giving improper legal advice to President Uhuru Kenyatta on collapsing three state corporations. The President’s directive collapsed rail, pipeline and port operations under the purview of the soon-to-be established Kenya Transport and Logistics Network. KTLN, according to the Executive Order No. 5, will be coordinated by the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation. In effect, the Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya Pipeline Company and the Kenya Ports Authority will be merged. Their assets and financial budget allocations will also be combined. The lawmakers said the President's order was made in disregard of statutory laws that established ICDC, KRC, KPC and KPA. “It is not that the President did it, but that he is not getting proper legal advice," Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said. “How do you wake up and put all these parastatals under one board and one super management without coming to Parliament?" Wetang'ula asked, terming the President’s move a serious violation of the law. He added, “How do you take a giant parastatal like KPA and put it under a dying ICDC?" The legislator said the ICDC was there during Independence - harnessing resources for Africanisation, but it is no longer functional and only exits by name. “How many times do you hear of ICDC anywhere? How do you now wake up and say railways, with a massive debt on standard gauge railway,will merge with KPA? Is KPA  going to service the debt of KRC under the SGR?” the senator asked. The lawmaker tasked a joint House committee on Roads, Finance and Budget to coalesce and summon the AG to question him on the Executive Order. “Call the Attorney General to inform this House whether he is actually giving proper legal advice to the Head of State. The President is not a lawyer; he will do what he thinks is convenient for the government." The AG, Wetang'ula said, is there as the principal legal adviser of the government on the do's and don'ts within the law and the Constitution. “Obviously, they are not doing this. As a House, we summon the relevant Cabinet Secretaries (CSs) and above all, the Attorney-General, to tell us how this Executive Order was drafted and executed in total violation of existing law.” Narok Senator Ledama Olekina asked why the government was taking control of public entities established under Acts of Parliament and consolidating them all into one. “We have an AG who is supposed to guide the President. We talk about having democracy in this country, but it is now a pure dictatorship,” Olekina said. He added: “It is a shame that a legal brain that we have in the Attorney-General, a former judge of the Court of Appeal, can sit there and see this happening." The legislators were reacting to Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki’s statement in which he said the Executive Order vested the administration and portfolios of KPA, KRC, KPC in the National Treasury, contrary to the provisions of part of legislation that establishes each of these agencies. “Any alteration in administration has to be done through amendment of the relevant laws. The Executive Order is in essence transfer of the functions of various entities without parliamentary approval,” Faki said. “That the order renders all the three parent Acts impotent without any recourse to Parliament which has a constitutional legislative mandate,” he added. Edited by R.Wamochie