Members of Parliament on Thursday protested over what they termed Kenya's weak diplomatic muscles. The legislators said it is unfortunate that Kenya, despite being a leading regional hub in the region, has allowed its neighbours to regard it as a weakling. The MPs were protesting against a report tabled by the House Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations. They had demanded to know the fate of journalist Yassin Juma, who was arrested in Ethiopia and detained for 46 days before he was released. Eldas MP Aden Keynan said Juma's arrest was malicious and offensive because the entire country has been left guessing what his offence was. "Mr Speaker we have institutions like the IGAD and the AU which can mediate in case of diplomatic misunderstandings but they have closed their eyes as our neighbours mistreat us," he said. Keynan said up to now, the government has not been furnished with details of why Juma was arrested. "We cannot celebrate his release,  we must be told the offences or get an apology from Ethiopian authorities. This, Mr Speaker, will play a key role in holding Juma to account if ever he committed any offence," he said. The legislator said there are reports that Juma was infected with COVID-19 but it does not clarify whether he was attended to and his basic rights were violated. He said such gaps are leading to mistreatment of many Kenyans in other countries. His Ugunja counterpart Opiyo Wandayi said despite Kenya being a sovereign state, it has failed to rise to the occasion and prove itself as one. Wandayi said a time has come for Kenya to demonstrate that it has the diplomatic energy to serve the interests of its people. "Other countries leave everything else and pursue the rights of their citizens because to them they are valued. We must get a categorical statement from the state as to why Juma was illegally detained," he said. Leisamis MP  Malimo Marselino in his sentiments said Juma's case came to the limelight because media highlighted it. "How many citizens are in custody and their plight not highlighted. Our fishermen are being arrested every time at Migingo Island by the Uganda Army but the government has remained silent about their fate," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Taita Taveta Woman Rep Haiuka Munebe who said the government must compel Ethiopia's mission in the country to compensate Juma. He said such a move will send a signal to other states fond of illegally detaining Kenyans. "This is a matter of national concern that has put the country so low in the region. We are a serious regional block but our foreign affairs is asleep on the job. We have fallen ranks on the international scene because they don't want to speak," Tinderet MP Julius Melly said. Suna's Peter Masara said nothing short should come from the government apart from demanding that Juma be compensated. Cyprian Ringo said it is unfortunate that many Kenyans who are underage are being held in detention for years. But Katoo Ole Metito while defending the government said Juma had been taken through Ethiopia's judicial process before he was released. Metito who is the chairperson of the committee said Juma was arrested alongside four Ethiopians. "Mr Speaker Juma was taken through the judicial process and released on bail after he was presented before the Federal First Instant Court. The following day, the court established that they did not have a case to answer and ordered their release," Metito said. He said, unfortunately, by then Juma had contracted the coronavirus and was taken for 14-day quarantine in a police cell. Metito said Juma was represented by 11 volunteer lawyers. "Mr Speaker our Standing orders forbid the house on discussing other friendly neighbours so I beg to rest the matter as we cannot continue to adversely mention our neighbours," he said.