Is Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi building or breaking Deputy President William Ruto in his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022? Well, some of the close allies of the DP are of the opinion that the lawmaker means no good to his presidential bid. Corridors on Wednesday overheard a conversation among some of Ruto’s close allies castigating Sudi’s ‘loose mouth’. They claimed the vocal lawmaker has become more of a liability to Ruto. The allies now want the DP to 'decongest' the space around him and send packing the likes of Sudi or else he will have a hard time ascending to the country’s top job. ** Is a senior ODM official putting up a multimillion-shilling 2022 presidential campaign secretariat in Nairobi? A little bird whispered to Corridors that the man is keen on running for President in 2022 as his boss remains unclear on his quest. Whether he will put up a spirited fight for the party's ticket or whether he is just his boss's stooge will be known in due course. However, other people think he could be positioning himself to be a running mate of another senior politician who has already been putting his best foot forward for the big seat in the next election. ** Police officers in one of the stations in Nairobi's Eastlands are still grappling with the new norm. This follows the recent launch of a digital occurrence book (OB) that ensures that all entries made are a permanent record that cannot be edited, thereby guaranteeing transparency and accountability in police operations at the station level. The officers are struggling to adapt to the new way of booking suspects under the new system. Some were overheard complaining about the new system, saying it had disrupted their earnings and are, therefore, organising how to beat the system or else "njaa itatuua (hunger will kill us)". ** A governor from one of the counties in the coastal region is said to have fallen out with his county secretary over the handling of a graft matter in the devolved unit. Word has it that the county secretary handed confidential documents to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission sleuths. The detectives have been investigating claims of fraud in the county. The county secretary is said to have made the move without informing his boss, a matter that got on the governor’s nerves. The county boss is said to have completely sidelined the county secretary and is not giving him any assignments of late. A source told Corridors that the governor cannot sack the county secretary because the man has too much information on the way the devolved unit has been operating. Sacking him would come with consequences that are better imagined than experienced.