Nyeri county has initiated a youth empowerment programme that could cost the county about Sh60 million annually. The money is part of Sh30 million ward development fund allocated to each of the 30 wards. The initiative involves the distribution of equipment to groups to enable them to start income-generating activities for self-reliance. Last Thursday, Governor Mutahi Kahiga distributed Sh1.5 million equipment to 14 youth groups with a membership of 260 people in Othaya Stadium. The first batch of the items benefitted youths from Iria-ini ward in Othaya. They received car wash machines, salon and barbershop equipment, music mixers, table tennis items, tents, chairs and public address systems. The programme will be replicated in 29 other wards. County government officials will hold public participation forums where the youth will give their input so the drive meets their needs. The county chief said businesses have been ruined by the Covid-19 crisis, hence the youth need a boost to enable them to revive theirs or start new ones. "We found it ideal to give our young people fishing rods, instead of giving them fish. They are about 70 per cent of our population and, as government, we should support them,” he said, calling on the beneficiaries to use the equipment wisely. Iria-ini MCA John Theuri said the equipment was his election campaign pledge. “I have distributed such items in the past and they greatly helped in uplifting the living standards of the youth and that is why I promised that I will look for more equipment in future if elected,” he said. The items will keep the youth busy so they avoid idling or loitering in towns and shopping centres, he added. Other than the equipment, the youth also received sports costumes for football and volleyball teams. Theuri urged the county government to consider increasing the amount to Sh2 million so they can help more young people. Samuel Gichuki said the equipment will reduce idling and alcoholism among the youth. Susan Waithira, whose group got mixers, said they will be hiring them out during events for a fee to help them uplift their living standards. “We will open a savings account where we shall be saving the earning and use the money to uplift the living standards of our members,” she said.