Kenya on Wednesday recorded 92 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 36,393. This is from a sample size of 2,985 tested in the last 24 hours. This pushes the cumulative tests to 504,988. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi during the daily briefing at Afya House confirmed that all were Kenyans apart from four who were foreigners. Of the cases, 64 are male and 28 females. Mwangangi said age-wise, the youngest was a two-year-old while the oldest was 75 years old. Another 165 patients have recovered from the disease. A total of 105 of those discharged were from the hospital, while 60 were from the home-based programme. Unfortunately, the number of fatalities rose to 637 after three more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Nairobi and Mombasa continue to lead with 25 cases and 20 cases respectively. The distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi 25, Mombasa 20, Nakuru eight, Garissa seven, Uasin Gishu six, Kisumu five, Turkana and Kiambu four, Kakamega three, Machakos, Kajiado and Busia two, Nyeri, Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Tana River with one case each. In terms of sub county distribution, the 25 cases in Nairobi, are from Westlands five, Dagoretti North, Embakasi South, Kamukunji, Langata, Makadara, Roysambu and Ruaraka with two cases each, Embakasi Central, Embakasi East, Embakasi West, Kasarani, Kibra and Starehe one case each. In Mombasa, the 20 cases are from Mvita 15, Kisauni, Nyali two cases each and Jomvu one case. In Nakuru, the eight cases are from Nakuru West six, Naivasha and Nakuru East one case each. In Garissa, the seven cases are from Dadaab five and Garissa Town two, while the six cases in Uasin Gishu, are from Ainabkoi and Kesses two cases each. Eldoret and Kasperet have one case each and  in Kisumu, all the five cases are from Kisumu Central. The four cases in Turkana are all from Turkana West, while the six cases in Kiambu, are from Kiambu town and Kikuyu one case. In Kakamega, the three cases are from Malava two and Lurambi one. The two cases in Machakos are from Athi River and Machakos Town with one case each and the two cases in Kajiado are from Kajiado East and Kajiado North one case each. The two cases in Busia are all from Teso North. The case in Nyeri is from Tetu, the case in Kilifi is from Malindi, the case in Taita Taveta is from Taveta and the case in Tana River is from Bura.