Dispensaries in terror-prone areas around Boni Forest that were vandalised by al Shabaab militants in Lamu are yet to be reopened, seven years later. All the five dispensaries located in villages in Basuba ward in Lamu East were looted and wrecked by terrorists on various dates between 2014 and 2017. Doctors and nurses fled, never to return. Milimani, Basuba and Mararani dispensaries have remained closed while attempts at reopening of the Kiangwe and Mangai dispensaries have failed due to lack of doctors and nurses. Many are still unwilling to work there owing to the stereotype that the areas are easy targets of Shabaab. Attempts by the county government to recruit medical staff into the dispensaries have been futile, even with a promise of attractive remuneration. The facilities now stand desolate with some surrounded by overgrown thickets and bushes. Milimani community leader Fatma Shinzu said residents have no medical help and just "depend on God". “The buildings are there, some need repairs as they were torched. But what we need is renovations and staff here so that we can access medical care especially during this period of Covid-19,” Shinzu said. Last year in September, the county government rebuilt and reopened the Kiangwe dispensary at Sh7 million to serve the over 3,000 residents from across all the Boni villages. However, since the facility lacks drugs and staff, residents still have to travel to the King Fahad hospital in Lamu Island for treatment, over 200 kilometres away. “The new dispensary isn’t much help as there is only one nurse plus there are no drugs. People have to incur the extra cost and travel to the main hospital on Lamu island. When we are lucky enough, the Safari Doctors come to our aid but that’s once in a while,” the community leader said. The dispensary at Mangai has also been reopened but faces similar challenges of insufficient supplies, drugs and personnel. The Boni communities feel vulnerable especially owing to the pandemic. Community advocacy leader Shee Dizo said residents have had to turn to herbalists and sorcerers for treatment. Women continue to bear the brunt as many die at childbirth in the hands of unskilled attendants while the number of newborn deaths continues to rise. “Women here carry pregnancies to term without attending a single clinic as there are no hospitals or dispensaries. The lucky ones are able to pull through childbirth while many others along with their babies, do not make it. Some die on their way to the other hospitals located hundreds of kilometres away,” Dizo said. The community is appealing for the restoration of their health sector to enable them to cope. Edited by R.Wamochie