Kenya’s co-working space Nairobi Garage and entrepreneurial club METTĀ have combined services to create the country’s largest innovation community, offering flexible access to all their workspaces and networks. Nairobi Garage is home to over 150 companies across its four premises, giving members total flexibility when it comes to the office space they need, as well as offering a range of add-on business development, collaboration, and networking opportunities. METTĀ  on other hand is a club for the entrepreneurial community to connect, share knowledge and bring ideas to life. It has  370 members in Nairobi and over 15,000 members in its digital community By joining forces, METTĀ and Nairobi Garage members will have access to both organisation's workspaces throughout Nairobi - with drop-in and private office options available in Westlands, Riverside Drive, Karen and Kilimani -, as well as to all the complimentary business support services provided across the two communities. All members will benefit from exclusive corporate collaborations and partnerships - such as discounts, programmes, and first dibs on funding and training opportunities. The organizations have also combined their entrepreneurship events and will launch an online event series offering thought leadership, innovation, and practical business advice. The series involves six monthly events, including panel discussions, networking e-meetups, and podcasts. According to Hannah Clifford, director of Nairobi Garage, African businesses are facing a disrupted marketplace due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with day-to-day operations and the economic outlook for businesses of all sizes feeling the impact. She said that there is a renewed demand for flexible workspace arrangements, allowing companies to remain responsive to the market and keep their teams productive without tying up much-needed working capital. “We are confident in the resilience and capacity of Kenyan entrepreneurs to come back from this pandemic stronger than ever. We want to support them in doing just that, and this merging of forces is a demonstration of our belief in the strength of both our communities,'' Clifford said. “We have always believed that Innovation doesn’t happen in isolation”. Outstanding innovation breakthroughs occur when the right people collaborate,'' METTĀ GM Esther Mwikali said.