ODM leader Raila Odinga has said Kenya is more than a hustler nation. Speaking in Kisumu on Sunday, the former Prime Minister dismissed the hustler and dynasties politics terming it baseless. "The founding Father Jomo Kenyatta was a meter reader. The late Daniel Moi was from a humble beginning and was a teacher and rose to become the second president. "Mwai Kibaki was also a son of a peasant who rose to become the fourth President. Jaramogi was also from a peasant father and became the first vice president," Raila said. He said President Uhuru and himself are focused on development of the country and unifying the country. He cited the revival of Nakuru-Kisumu Railway,  Kisumu port, Northern corridor. Meter gauge railway before standard gauge railway. Kisumu to Butere line will also be revamped. He also accused Deputy President William Ruto of amassing wealth through corruption then pretending to be giving support to Kenyans. Ruto has been distributing motorbikes, wheelbarrows and sewing machines among others to women and youth groups across the country. He has also been fundraising for various churches as he popularize his 2022 presidency bid. Raila said Ruto is in government and should focus on empowering Kenyans while in government. "You are in government, do the things in the government and let the government do the other things. Raila can be giving token outside because he is not in government. But if you are in government, concentrate on providing services to the people," the ODM Leader said. Raila added, "He should stop divisive and hustler politics. Those are useless. What are we doing with President Uhuru are fundamental to the country than those baseless politics." Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong'o supported BBI saying it will help revamp the country's  governance system and at the county level. The initiative, he said, will also see increased allocation of funds to devolved units. Nyong'o noted that currently they have handshake dividends within Kisumu county, because previously, there were many projects pending as early as 1951 and within a very short period of time they are moving. "This nation needs to have a national democratic and development state because without unity, nationalism and democracy, the country can't have development." He said Raila and Uhuru were struggling so hard to ensure the country has a national democratic front to lead the nation as Narc did in 2002. However on ODM, the county party officials cautioned there members against going astray telling them to remain loyal, faithful and fidelity as party members.