Former Youth and Gender Affairs PS Lillian Omollo has challenged a decision by the High Court that she forfeits Sh33 million to the state. Omollo and three of her children further want the court to withdraw all existing freezing orders against their bank  accounts pending the hearing of her appeal. She says they never got a fair hearing in the High Court ruling. “The judge failed to notify parties or grant them an opportunity to be heard on the admissibility and relevance of the press release introduced, thereby defeating their constitutional right to a fair hearing,” the application reads. They also fault the judge for ignoring the evidence on record and deciding the matter based on extraneous, irrelevant and unproven considerations by predetermining their guilt without any evidence of loss of public funds. “The judge ignored and failed to consider the fact that Omollo was not a destitute and the funds in the accounts originated from income from her employment in NEPAD, bank loans and other commercial ventures dating from before her engagement as a PS,” they argue. The judge, the say, erred in fact and law and perpetuated judicial bias and prejudice by not ordering a site visit to her farm in Uyoma, Siaya county. The judge allegedly also ignored and failed to consider their proved economic income derived from their Uyoma farm and did not exempt Sh390,000 proven as legitimate farm income from the forfeiture. According to court papers, the court erred by purporting to waive the ARA legal obligation to prove through evidence that their money targeted for forfeiture indeed constituted proceeds of crime. “The learned judged erred in law by relying on the extraneous and inapplicable press release which in itself constitutes mere conjecture and does not demonstrate any link to the funds held by the appellants to the required evidentiary standard, as ground for forfeiture under POCAMLA,” they argue. Omollo was charged in 2018 with several counts of fraud in relation to loss of funds at the NYS. In the case, the Asset Recovery made an application for forfeiture of Sh33 million to the state arguing that the money was from proceeds of crime. Edited by Henry Makori