Lucy Auma, 30, says she is lucky to be alive. She has lived in an abusive ‘marriage’ at Kidogo Basi slum in Nyali for 12 years but she cannot take it anymore. Her husband, Boniface Onyango, who brews chang’aa in Mshomoroni for a living, has been battering her whenever he comes home drunk, which is almost daily. “The last time, which made me run away from the house, he strangled our three-month-old baby, Purity. She almost died,” Auma said. Onyango has also been beating their children, two boys aged 10 and two, for flimsy reasons such as failing to greet him when he comes home or wetting the bed. Auma was so desperate that she became suicidal. “I am the one who has been providing food, medication and rent. My husband just drinks all his money away with other women in bars. He does not provide for us,” she said. Auma had been sleeping in the cold for three days when she met Fatma Kushe, a nominated MCA, who took her in. “I saw her outside the gate for two consecutive days. On the third day, I approached her and asked her what her problem was and she told me her horror story,” Kushe said. The MCA said gender-based violence in Mombasa has increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many people have lost their jobs. Cash has become an issue and stress levels have gone up,” Kushe said. She urged the Mombasa government to speed up plans to establish rescue centres in Likoni and Kisauni. “Already, we as the assembly have approved the establishment of these two rescue centres so that our women can have a place to run to,” Kushe said. Beryl Adhiambo, Auma’s neighbour, said according to Luo culture Auma cannot go back to her home until rituals are performed. “The husband threw clothes at her, beat her with a cooking stick and sufuria. That is taboo and she cannot go back to that house until elders are consulted for special rituals to cleanse the house and her,” said Adhiambo. Auma said she has not been getting her conjugal rights and that she and Onyango had been sleeping facing away from each other, a taboo in the Luo culture. The mother of three said she fears for her life and those of her other two children. “I had taken them to stay with a friend when things got worse but he went and took them. Now I fear for them because he is an abusive father,” she said. Auma reported her abusive husband at Nyali police station under OB 32/30/08/2020 but she says police have not been helpful. But Nyali deputy police boss Dafalla Dafalla said they are looking for Onyango. Police sources told the Star Onyango has not been seen at his home or workplace. “He may have gone into hiding,” said a police officer. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya