Outspoken Jubilee vice chairperson David Murathe wants Deputy President William Ruto investigated in the ongoing probe into the Kemsa saga. Murathe on Friday maintained that Ruto should be summoned to give evidence on the actions of his close partners whom he alleged were involved in Kemsa tenders through a company called Kilig. The former Gatanga MP was speaking after spending close to four hours with officers from EACC who are investigating procurement irregularities at Kemsa. Murathe also wants the anti-graft body to summon former senators Boni Khalwale (Kakamega), Johnston Muthama (Machakos), blogger Robbert Alai and former television host Tony Gachoka  to shed light on what they now about the alleged Kemsa fraud. He said he was summoned to provide more information on the basis of his recent assertions during an interview with Citizen TV where he dragged  Ruto's name into the tender scandal. Ruto has however dismissed the allegations. “In that interview I said I have certain evidence of persons associated with DP who were linked with this famous company called Kilig. I know Wilbroad who is a partner in Kilig with Mr. Zu a Chinese partner and I know at some point when they were unable to secure financing for importation of the kits and they transferred there shareholding to persons who are known partners to Deputy President,” Murathe said. “So I came here to present that evidence today and I am expecting very soon that they are also will be calling the DP to make his statement in regards to what he knows  about the association with his partners with Kilig.” He maintained that he has solid evidence indicating that Wilbrod transferred shares to known Ruto allies. The former Gatanga MP arrived at Madison House at exactly 2.03 pm where he was being grilled by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commision’s officers. Murathe was claimed to be a bank signatory of Kilig Limited, he however disowned the firm during a television interview with a local station. During the interview, Murathe admitted that one of the company’s director Willbroad Gatei Gachoka, is indeed his longtime friend and business associate. “We are consultants. We do a lot of consultancy services. We have consulted for various international companies. We are setting up a lot of businesses in the free and special economic zones and we also consult for construction companies in the country,” Murathe said. He however denied ever participating in any of the multibillion-shilling Kemsa tenders. Kilig was registered in January this year and within months was awarded tenders worth Sh 4 billion to supply 450,000 personal protective equipment at Sh 9000. But on Friday, Murathe said the company’s tender award was cancelled and it did not receive any payment from Kemsa. EACC’s letter to Murathe, indicated that the Jubilee vice chairman was being investigated after Kilig was adversely mentioned in the multi-billion procurement  at Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa). “The commission is investigating allegations of procurement irregularities in relation to the Covid-19 emergency supplies at Kemsa where Kilig Limited, a company you are a signatory to its bank account, is featured,” EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak said in his letter summoning Murathe.