Mwamba RFC are seeking to switch their home ground to Ngong Racecourse after they were evicted from Railway Club a week ago. Club chairman, George Mbaye, said they had opened preliminary negotiations with Nondies on how to share the new facility at Race Course for the 2020/2021 season. “It's something we are looking at but the negotiations are still at an early stage. In the next few weeks or so, we will know the position,” he added. Mbaye said the club has no option but to move to a new venue and the sooner they do it the better.  “We do have lots of memories from the Railway Club but what happened last week was out of our jurisdiction. Once the new season starts and we get the green-light from government to resume, we need to have a venue,” he noted. Mbaye has asked government to also help find a new ground for the long term. "We are pleading with the government to also help us find a new venue for the future matches," he said. The club that has been putting up at the Nairobi Railway Club since its formation in 1977, will be vacating the venue to create room for a bus terminus and the intended Expressway from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to Westlands. The venue has also hosted the George Kabeberi Sevens for several years. The government, through the Ministry of Transport, acquired the land from the Kenya Railways Staff Pension Benefit Scheme in 2006 with Mwamba as tenants. Mwamba have produced some of the country's top players who have played at the famous grounds including Legends Edward Rombo, Collins Injera , Humphrey Kayange and Mwangi Muthee among others. The club won the Kenya Cup in 1983 and the Enterprise Cup in 2013. They have also won the National Sevens circuit five times. On resumption of rugby, Mbaye said it was highly unlikely rugby will be played this year due to the Covid-19 restrictions. “We have been termed as high-risk sport and  when you factor the cost implications, the earliest we could resume could be in January next year,” noted Mbaye.