Two University students on Wednesday landed themselves internship offers during Huawei's 'Seeds for the future' seventh edition graduation ceremony. Alexander Mutua from Kisii University and Jacqline Kamau from JKUAT walked away with opportunities to intern on the multinational technology company. For the first time in its history Huawei’s Flagship program was held virtually providing a five day intensive training with more than 20 mandatory and elective courses. Selected courses offered 60 participants from around the country training in technology fields, including 5G, Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Cloud Computing. The program seeks to empower students understand the latest technology trends to equip them in today’s job market. During the virtual ceremony, prizes were awarded to the best team, essay, and creativity. At the event, University Education and Research PS Simon Nabukwesi commended Huawei for the highly relevant content, contribution to developing ICT talent and supporting the development of Kenya’s Digital Economy. “The CS is very much aware of the contribution Huawei is making towards the acquisition of Information Communications Technology (ICT) skills for many Kenyan young people.” Nakuwesi said. He further noted how: "The University education and research sector encouraged institutions to engage students through online learning. This would not have been possible just a few years ago. We thank companies like Huawei for providing opportunities to make this happen and more thanks for the great progress we have made in building our technology infrastructure." Mabel Karani, a student at JKUAT University in telecommunication and information engineering shared her experiences of the program terming it the best experience. “One of the best experiences was working with a team. We were more than just a team, we became a family. We learnt about cutting edge technologies like 5G which is the next generation of mobile networks, Artificial Intelligence, cloud computing and HMS Core.