Kenya on Sunday recorded 152 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number to 36,981. This is out of 2,224 samples tested in the last 24 hours. Cumulatively, the country has tested 516,706. From the cases, 135 are Kenyans and 17 foreigners. In terms of gender, 84 are males and 68 females. Age-wise, the youngest is a three- year old child, while the oldest is 89. The country has also recorded 110 recoveries from the disease, with 39 from the Home-Based Care Program and 71 have been discharged from various hospitals. Total recoveries now stands at 23,887. Sadly, two patients have succumbed to the disease bringing the fatalities to 648. The distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nairobi 34, Mombasa 24, Kisii 20, Kiambu and Kisumu 19, Nakuru 10, Turkana eight, Kajiado three, Kakamega, Meru and Embu with two cases each. Kericho, Marsabit, Nyamira, Samburu, Siaya, Uasin Gishu, Taita Taveta, Machakos and Murang’a have one case each. In terms of sub-county distribution, the 34 cases in Nairobi are from Dagoretti North eight, Embakasi East, Lang’ata and Starehe four cases each, Embakasi West three, Dagoretti South, Embakasi South and Westlands two cases each. Embakasi Central, Kasarani, Kibra Roysambu and Ruaraka have one case each. In Mombasa, the 24 cases are from Mvita eight, Jomvu seven, Changamwe four, Kisauni three and Nyali two. In Kisii, the 20 cases are from Kitutu Chache South 19 and Bomachoge Borabu one case. In Kiambu, the 19 cases are from Thika nine, Ruiru five, Limuru three, Juja and Kiambu Town one case each. In Kisumu, the 19 cases are from Kisumu Central 14, Nyakach four and Kisumu East one case. In Nakuru, the 10 cases are from Naivasha four, Nakuru East three, Nakuru West two and Rongai one, while in Turkana, all the eight cases are from Turkana West. In Kajiado, the three cases are from Kajiado East, Kajiado North and Loitokitok one case each. The two cases in Kakamega are from Lurambi, the two cases in Meru are from Imenti North and Imenti South one case each and the 2 cases in Embu are all from Runyenjes. The case in Kericho is from Ainamoi, the case in Marsabit is from Saku, the case in Nyamira is from the town, the case in Samburu is from Samburu Central, the case in Siaya is from Alego Usonga. The case in Uasin Gishu is from Kapseret, the case in Taita Taveta is from Taveta, the case in Machakos is from Athi River, and the case in Murang’a is from Maragua.