Jared Nyakie stands pensively at his private gold mining site in Mikeyi, Migori county, waiting for his workers to haul ore from the belly of the earth. He walks towards an electric pulley that brings two miners 80 feet up with sacks of gold-rich ore in 50kg cement bags. “They have to wear face masks when working in the mines. While I can have up to six people in the mine, I have only two at a time,” Nyakie, a head teacher at a local primary school, says. Through a local association, miners agreed to enforce social distancing. “We reduced non-essential workers in working areas and placed hand washing machines in each mine,” Nyakie said. While governments in gold mining areas in Western Kenya placed measures to combat the spread of Covid-19, gold mines were closed. A spot check by the Star in mines in the Western belt of Migori, Homa Bay, Narok, Siaya and Kakamega counties showed orders have been placed to close down mines. While private miners have been taking measures in their capacity, in communal mining centres and towns, collective measures have been elusive. Oboke centre in Suna West is a month old in gold rush after a high school student hit a fortune of Sh1.2 million when he sold a nugget. Tension hangs over the site. The Star visited to check if Covid-19 rules are being followed. Miners fled when a vehicle made its way through a maize plantation. They thought it was police on patrol. PRESSURE TO OPEN Kakamega South DCC Julius Marindatt, who covers Ikolomani mines, said the mines were closed and will remain so as the country grapples with flattening the curve. “We have had pressure to open the mines, especially through miners' associations, local politicians and sector stakeholders. But we are yet to order any venture or measures put out to officially be followed,” Marindatt said. His counterpart in Nyatike, Nyatike DCC Solomen Komen, said they recently arrested two miners for illegal mining and breaking Covid-19 rules. “We know artisanal miners have lost their livelihoods, but mines have been the main attraction of Tanzanians and a hotspot for the spread of the virus,” Komen said. He said while communal mines have been closed and are easier to control, individual miners have been told to liaise with administrators and Ministry of Health officials to curb the spread of the virus. At Osiri Matanda centre in Nyatike subcounty, empty mabati shanties lay desolate, with dust settling. It remains closed, with little or no traffic among the once busy, dusty streets. More than 30 per cent of the workforce were Tanzanians, who were forced to go back, says Peter Onyango, secretary of Osiri Matanda Mining Cooperative, which runs the town. Non-essential workers were told to close shop. STRUGGLE TO REGULATE Onyango says they closed all routes to the mine except one. They also hired Community Health Volunteers to take temperatures, trace contacts, ensure face masks are on and social distance is maintained. “Those who own mines have a strict number of miners to be employed. They have to buy face masks and place hand washing machines and sanitisers,” Onyango says. They have forced some 150 members to undergo forced quarantine at government facilities for breaching protocol and having Tanzanians cross over to the mines. Before Covid-19, Osiri Matanda mines had a population of over 4,000, but “we have reduced the number significantly to less than 500,” Onyango says. While Covid 19 rules are good, pressure to make a living has been on. The Star spoke to Simon Ochogo, chairman of the Logorien Artisanal Miners Association, and Hudson Vumuliva, a gold trader and miner from Ikolomani. “We recently had churches being opened with rules and regulations, but we are afraid that no rule or regulation will come to this sector, which the government has been unable to regulate in the first place,” Ochogo said. Speaking in Migori town on July 21, Migori Governor Okoth Obado said the county's burden of Covid-19 is high, with 224 recorded positive cases by that day. He said measures placed by the county will be enforced strictly, including closure of markets, mines and limiting public gatherings to 15. "Our action to adhere to these rules will save many lives as the virus is highly infectious and can spread exponentially,” Obado said. PUSHED BY PRICES But across the Western Kenya gold mines, gold miners said it was easier to keep off mines in the first weeks of closure, but gold prices have pushed them back. Before Covid-19, a gram of gold used to sell for Sh3,500-4,500 at the mines and Sh5,000-5,500 by traders and dealers. Felix Okwanyo from the Macalder Copper Hill Mines said when international borders were closed and cessation of movement ordered, a gram of gold dropped to below Sh2,000 per gram and below Sh4,000 for traders and dealers. But world prices started to pick as international investors turned to gold as a secure mode of long-term investment instead of stock market bonds and property, whose prices dipped sharply. “Suddenly investors rushed to buy gold in anticipation of the world market being opened. Prices jumped higher than what we used to have before corona,” Okwanyo said. Currently at the mines, a gram of gold goes for Sh4,500-5,500 across the region, with traders and dealers who export outside the country selling for Sh6,500-7,200 per gram. “Everybody wants to buy gold. The prices are at the highest level and pressure to make a hit is on. We only try to self-regulate to prevent the spread of the virus,” Okwanyo said. Edited by T Jalio