Four North Rift deputy governors have stepped up their political activities as they prepare to succeed their bosses who will complete their second and final terms in 2022. The deputy governors have been taking a back seat in most activities, playing fewer roles, mostly limited to representing county chiefs at secondary events. Many deputy governors countrywide have complained they don't have enough work to do. As succession politics heats up nationally and in the counties, the deputies are trying to emerge from the shadows and and sell themselves as politicians who can deliver to their constituents. In Uasin Gishu, Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno is now considered a possible successor to Governor Jackson Mandago. Chemno has served for two terms. “We are working hard to complete the projects we had lined up as we look forward to a better future," Chemno said when he toured Ziwa subcounty hospital expansion project. The seasoned and well-known politician has not declared that he will run but he has been stepping up his activities. Chemno emphasises that he is a devout Christian; he usually preaches and quotes the Bible at events. In Trans Nzoia, Governor Patrick Khaemba is also completing his two terms with Deputy Governor Stanley Tarus who has already said he wants to succeed his boss. Tarus has increased his networking and has been criss-crossing the county to attend many activities either with boss or representing him. He is an assertive and outgoing deputy with a keen interest in developing agriculture. “We cannot talk about 2022 at the moment because we are still busy delivering on our mandate," Tarus said. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Governor Alex Tolgos dropped Deputy Governor Gabriel Lamaon and picked youthful Wisley Kiptoo as his current deputy. Initially considered a greenhorn, Kitpoo has emerged as a viable  candidate. He is a down-to-earth politician considered likely to go for the county's top seat. In Turkana, Governor Josphat Nanok also changed deputies after his first term, choosing Peter Lotethiro for his second term. Lotethiro has been more active but has yet to declare interest. Most of the deputy governors have been relatively colourless and will have a daunting task to face seasoned and monied aspirants in 2022. (Edited by V. Graham) 