Residents of Lari in Kiambu have praised immediate former deputy county commissioner for strategies that have led to a decline in crime and alcoholism. They said on Friday deputy county commissioner (DCC) Aaron Koros has been a good listener and responded swiftly to problems. Mwenda Wanene, a resident, said that some years back, cases of carjackings were common at Kijabe and Kinale, donkeys were being stolen at night and their meat was taken to unknown markets and butcheries. "All these cases are all gone. Your strategies, your quick response, your morale and a good heart made you reduce these cases," Mwenda said. He spoke at Kimende educational hall as they bade farewell to Koros, who will now take charge of Rachuonyo subcounty in Homa Bay. Koros was replaced with Agnes Kaloki, who was transferred from Maragua in a reshuffle conducted by the Interior ministry last month. Also present were area MP Jonah Mburu, Kijabe assistant county commissioner Geraldine Barasa and her Lari Kirenga counterpart Caroline Chepkemoi. Others were chiefs, assistant chiefs, clerics and traders. Traders' chairman Paul Ngugi said if he had powers, he would have retained Koros in the area, saying his character and style of leadership has inspired many who worked closely with him. Kijabe chief Njoroge Mungai said Koros ensured all assigned work was completed as per government instructions. Koros, for his part, thanked residents for their support, which he said enabled him to deliver on his mandate. He urged them to give similar support to incoming deputy county commissioner Kaloki. "I was brought to this place in 2015, the day President Uhuru Kenyatta declared the destruction of all illicit and dangerous brews. We went to the field to do that job, even before entering the office," he said. "However, I have to go knowing that the crime rate is reduced, there is no illicit brew, chang'aa and I acknowledge your support. Please, support your DCC. That is the only way you can be safe, help her to help you."