Organizers of the AG Van Damme Memorial Brussels leg of the World Athletics Diamond League are optimistic the presence of a limited number of fans for the Kip Keino Classic Continental Tour Gold meet at the refurbished Nyayo Stadium on Saturday will inspire world records. Dimitri Stroobants and Lennert Aldehof were part of a contingent of five officials who arrived in the country from Europe for the historic event. The duo arrived in the country on Monday night alongside Belgium duo of Marc Corstjens and Marek Plwago and Eddy Stevens of Poland. They join their counterparts from German, Steffi Brachmann and Armin Reepschlager, who arrived in the country last week. Bob Verbeeck of Belgium is expected in the country today. “In Brussels, we had extra sound in an empty stadium. We hoped that in that way we made a feeling of a full stadium and I think we did that because we had four world records. Hopefully with the number of fans we can make enough noise for the athletes,” said Lennert. On his part, Dimitri voiced his pleasure at the level of preparations done by the Local Organising Committee despite their relative lack of experience in staging big senior events. “The information we have received is very good. We are here to support the local team to stage a successful event because we are experienced in track and field events. It’s a perfect opportunity for athletics Kenya to stage a magnificent event on Saturday so that we can grow with the event. It’s a really nice opportunity for Kenyan athletics,” he remarked. After paying a courtesy call to Kip Keino Classic meet director, Barnaba Korir at Riadha House yesterday the officials thereafter toured the refurbished Nyayo Stadium which will host the one-day meet. Stroobants, who specialises in stadium management further said he is expecting a lively contest with the 30,000-seater facility cleared to open its doors to some 6000 fans. Kip Keino Classic is the seventh and the final leg of the inaugural World Athletics Continental Tour series and is also the only leg set to be held on African soil.