President Uhuru Kenyatta's wing of the troubled Jubilee Party is crafting an expanded leadership structure to further cut down to size the already isolated Deputy President William Ruto. The plan being mooted by the President's close confidants will create four deputy party leader positions to dilute the DP's influence and box him out of the party succession matrix. The scheme is seen as part of elaborate Machiavellian tactics being employed by the President's men to influence his succession in the ruling party. ODM leader Raila Odinga has said the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) is the only way Kenyans can solve all historical injustices. He said the report shall address problems occasioned by bad governance and build lasting unity. "This report is addressing nine key problems that the country has faced for years," he said. The meeting comes about a week after Deputy President William Ruto toured the area, where he dismissed the BBI as a tool for certain individuals to get positions of power in government. Hiring a sex pest or any person with history of committing a sexual offence will cost you a fine of Sh1 million or three years in jail as an employer. The proposed stiff penalties are contained in the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Bill, 2020 sponsored by Kiambu Woman MP Gathoni Wamuchomba. The law would apply to teachers, social workers, health workers, prisons officers or any other persons whose jobs involve caring for other persons, handling children or any vulnerable person. The Kenya-US trade deal is lopsided and will  only benefit the latter, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) undersecretary Mukhisa Kituyi has said. In an exclusive interview with the Star, the UNCTAD head, said the US market is already open for Kenyan products under the Africa Growth Opportunity Act (AGOA) that expires in 2025. Kituyi wondered what market Kenya is set to create in the US under the planed Free Trade Agreement, considering it is yet to exhaust existing market openings under AGOA. Senators are likely to approve the House Finance and Budget committee's proposal on the third basis of revenue sharing among the 47 counties when they assemble on Tuesday. This follows the endorsement of the proposal by the Senate leadership comprising allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga. A policy brief seen by the Star recommends that the formula be implemented in a phased manner to avoid disrupting county plans and budgets and recommends a two-year moratorium.