To the President, Following Chief Justice David Maraga’s advisory, Ford Asili wishes to say this to you Sir: Chief Justice Maraga’s advisory to you is an opportunity for the country as it accords the citizens a challenge to reflect on our freedom and democratic achievements. It is not possible to claim freedom and democracy unless constitutionalism and the rule of law are held in high respect. Therefore, the advisory should be celebrated, and hold in contempt all those naysayers whose only vision is about their self-wellbeing as they capitalize either on their proximity to you or their current association with your government. Whatever the reason anybody may wish to advance, the unprecedented landmark and bold advisory by Chief Justice David Maraga on dissolving Parliament is based on its own failure to respond to the constitutional requirement. In fact, you can now see Parliament at work post the advisory as in, ‘..flock without a Shepherd...’ as Jesus put it. You can remove this constitutional barricade even at this hour Sir, as we call on you, without undue delay, to dissolve Parliament not just because the Chief Justice has advised you to, but because also it is an opportunity for you to appreciate that the citizens are weary, and so that you may defend the Constitution which you actually swore to do. Our Party stands in solidarity with the women of Kenya who have waited for a decade since 2010, betrayed by the lawmakers. It is important to be reminded that the 2019 population census shows that Women make up 50.5%, which should be reflected in our institutions, elected or appointed both in public and private sector Our continued existence and prosperity as a country is predicated on the rule of law. Although we have wasted a decade, we should avoid wasting more time on abstract arguments. You have the power and the authority bestowed on you by Kenyans who today look up to you to respect the advisory from one of the check mate’s balancing act. We look forward to witnessing a momentous action and a great contribution to your legacy. Secretary general, Ford Asili