Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has appointed Florence Omundi the deputy commissioner general of prisons. In a notice from Commissioner General Wycliffe Ogallo, the appointment of Omundi takes effect from September 16. "The Commissioner General of Prisons wishes to inform the general public the decision by the Public Service Commission through Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, appointing Florence Kerubo Omundi as the Deputy Commissioner General of Prisons with effect from 16th September 2020," the notice read. According to the Commissioner-General, Omundi was enlisted in the Kenya Prisons Service in 1987 as a graduate Cadet in the Rank of Chief Inspector and has served in different stations in various capacities rising through the ranks. "Until her appointment, she was the acting Deputy Commissioner-General following the retirement of Benjamin O. Njoga," Ogallo said. Omundi was named as deputy commissioner of prisons in an acting capacity in July this year. Some of her duties will be to guide the enforcement and interpretation of the Prisons Act and all laws relating to the prison service, ensure compliance with government policies and advise the commissioner general of prisons on operational matters. Other duties are to guide the formulation and implementation of department policies, rules, regulations and standing orders. She holds a Master's degree in Social Development Planning and management from Swansea University, UK and a Bachelor of arts in Sociology from United States International University Africa (USIU). She has a wide global and national exposure and well versed in correctional management and credited for advocating for equal opportunities for the disabled, marginalized and vulnerable during her tenure as the Director Gender NGOs and Sports at the Prisons Headquarters. Ogallo said currently, the service is divided into ten directorates including Administration and Personnel, Operations, Legal Affairs Research/Statistics, Planning and Development, Rehabilitation and Welfare and Prisons Enterprises. Others are Prison Health Services, Gender, NGO Coordination and Sports, Compliance and  Standards and Prisons Staff Training College. "We are happy to note that half of these directorates are under the charge of our female officers. This is in line with the Constitution of Kenya 2010 which requires compliance with the principle of affirmative action and states that no more than two-thirds of all appointments shall be of the same gender,"Ogallo said.