Kisii Governor James Ongwae has condemned the chaos that rocked the town hours before Deputy President William Ruto arrived in the county on Thursday. A group opposed to the DP’s visit lit bonfires in the streets leading to the main venue of the event causing tension in the town. However, the Ruto arrived in Kisii and held two successful meetings in Kisii town and Nyamarambe in South Mugirango. Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika and police boss Lydia Ligame had to intervene to secure the DP’s convoy. Ongwae accused of the leaders who took part in the protests of engaging in unnecessary provocative politics and inciting residents to cause chaos. “It is my appeal to political leaders both from within and without the county to respect our history of political stability and refrain from evil strategies aimed at disrupting normal life, causing unnecessary pain, upheaval and suffering to innocent citizens,” Ongwae said. Unnecessary attention-seeking political posturing that can cause commotion and loss of life must be avoided, he added. But Kisii Central MCA Kepher Mogaka condemned the DP’s visit to Kisii. “We are shocked that the DP is always associated with chaos every time he is coming to Kisii. He must know that we are not happy about the habitual disruptions associated with his visits,” Mogaka said. He warned Ruto and his allies against disrespecting the President, Governor Ongwae and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i. “We are warning Mr Ruto to tell his henchman that insulting our President, governor and our son Dr Matiang'i will not take him to State House,” he said. Kisii boda boda official Mike Moses accused the organisers of the event of failing to involve the local riders' leadership. “We were shocked to see so many people imported from neighbouring counties making speeches here claiming to be members of the Kisii boda boda teams,” he said. He told Ruto to be wary of political cons targeting his resources in the guise of supporting local boda boda operators. 