Elders from Bungoma county have endorsed United Nations Conference on Trade and Development secretary general Mukhisa Kituyi for president in 2022. They urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and Western region presidential candidates Musalia Mudavadi of ANC and Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya to support Kituyi. They want Mudavadi and Wetang'ula to drop their ambitions and support Kituyi as the only presidential candidate from the region. Addressing the press in Kimilili town on Friday, Captain (Rtd) Charles Masinde, the group's spokesperson, said Kenya needs a shrewd leader to take the country to the next level. He said Kituyi has the experience, knowledge, education and connections to steer the country to great heights. Masinde said the country needs someone who can attract international investors, unite the country, and fast-track the economic recovery after the Covid-19 pandemic. “We want to give the country the best bet that will be supported by other regions and Kituyi has displayed those qualities,” the spokesman said. He said Kimilili, where Kituyi comes from, is also the cradle of the community’s leadership. “There is no doubt that he fits the bill. He has been part of the struggle for liberation of our country from bad governance,” the spokesman said. James Lunani, a member of the Bukusu Council of Elders, called on other leaders from Bungoma county and the Western region at large to rally behind Kituyi. “It is time for the region to offer the country the next leader to complete the journey started by Masinde Muliro and Kijana Wamalwa,” he said. Emily Nyongesa, who was representing women, called on Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to support Kituyi as the only presidential candidate from the Luhya community. “He has the backing of all regions and would be a good leader if elected. He also has the backing of the international community,” she said. Samwel Njasi, a member of the Bukusu Council of Elders, said Kituyi is a man of ideas who will rescue the country from jaws of corruption and negative ethnicity. “With barely two years until the next election, we are today asking Kituyi to prepare accordingly because his country needs him more. He has no choice,” he added. Edited by A.N