The Kiambu government on Thursday ordered that some Covid-19 isolation and treatment units at Tigoni and Wangige hospitals be reverted to general wards. Governor James Nyoro said in Kiambu town that the cases being reported were fewer, hence the need to open up the units for use by patients with other ailments. However, a wing each will still be set aside for Covid-19 patients at both hospitals. Nyoro said there are only five Covid-19 patients at Tigoni hospital, which is the main treatment centre for those infected with the coronavirus. “Since we have no Covid-19 patients in other level 4 and 5 hospitals which put up isolation areas, we have directed that the rooms be used by ordinary patients. We are however conscious of the fact that we are not yet out of the woods and we have decided to have a minimum of 100 samples tested every day,” Nyoro said. He thanked healthcare workers for a great job in serving patients and slowing infection rates. The county chief said his administration has partnered with the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) for testing of samples. Results will be delivered in 24 hours and be relayed to the Ministry of Health's Covid-19 response centre. “We have noted that people are not coming out voluntarily for testing, and we are going to make sure those coming to our facilities are asked to get tested so they do not infect our health workers,” Nyoro said. He said the health team will ensure that those serving in eateries and restaurants are regularly tested for free per the county's memorandum of understanding with ILRI. The county chief worried that there can be an upsurge of infections because a lot of political gatherings are taking place. The health team is prepared for any eventuality, he said. Meanwhile, the Kiambu Covid-19 Advisory Council has been asked to develop a strategy paper for improvement of universal health care. The focus should be on how to ensure that drugs, including those for non-communicable disease area availed and equipment supplied to level 4 and 5 facilities. “On 19th October we will be receiving a complete 100-bed health facility which Mabati Rolling Mills and Kiambu Covid-19 Advisory council have been putting up in Tigoni. "Ruiru facility is 45 per cent complete and we expect by 23rd October the facility will be complete. We signed an MoU with Kenyatta University Teaching, Research and Referral hospital to ensure that Igegania level 4 becomes a level 5 hospital,” Nyoro said. He said from September 1, the county government declared that all the health facilities will be cashless. About 80 per cent of the facilities have implemented the cashless system. Revenue has increased by 20 per cent in the period. “We have two systems which are *419# which is the USSD that we have been using, but in each hospital has a paybill number. We have requested the health facilities to allow and facilitate an M-Pesa agent at the entrance of the hospital so that the patients coming in can use them for payments.”