Sixteen healthcare workers have died of Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic in March. A further 945 have been infected with the virus, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. The cases were recorded in 35 counties. "Health workers countrywide have shown they can be true heroes and heroines for standing up to be counted during this period of the pandemic,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. She made the announcement of health worker deaths and infections during the  daily Covid-19 briefing as Kenya joined the rest of the world in observing World Patient Safety Day. The theme was 'Health Workers' Safety: A Priority for Patient Safety’. Mwangangi said health workers have many challenges, including infection, assault and violence, stigma, psychological and emotional disturbances and death. They also have been exposed to hepatitis B, HIV and tuberculosis. Health director general Patrick Amoth said there is no specific pharmaceutical intervention  to cure Covid-19, saying containment measures in place should be adhered to at all times. “However, significant progress has been made in trying to use a combination of various pharmaceutical agents to reduce the chance of death and also the morbidity,” Amoth said. One of them is Dexamethasone, which showed a significant results especially for those in critical care by reducing mortality by about 30 per cent, he said. “Our doctors are also using other antiviral agents [such as] Remdesivir to reduce the chances of death for critical care and reduce average stay either in the ICU or a hospital setting,” Amoth noted. The country recorded 183 cases on Thursday, bringing the caseload to 36,576. The new cases were from 4,188 samples tested in a day. On a positive note, 82 people recovered from the virus, 33 from home-based car, while 49 were discharged from hospitals. This brings the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 23,611. The new cases are between seven months old and 80 years, comprising 131 males and 62 females. All except 14 are Kenyans. Five more patients succumbed to the virus, raising the death toll to 642. “Without the invaluable support of our health workers, who are our frontline soldiers, we could not have managed to deal with this virus in the manner in which we have so far done,” Mwangangi said. Nairobi recorded 54 new cases, followed by Kisumu with 26, Mombasa with 20, Trans Nzoia with 16, Kericho with 11, Nakuru 10, Kisii seven, Machakos six, Meru and Turkana five cases each. Lamu, Nyeri and Siaya had three new cases each. Kiambu, Kajiado, Busia, Homa Bay, Kilifi and Samburu had two each, while Kakamega and Embu recorded one new infection. (Edited by V. Graham)