 Some 15 million treated mosquito nets will be disributed to persons at risk of contracting malaria across the country, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has said. Kagwe on Monday acknowledged that despite Kenya, like other countries, witnessing a reduction of malaria after various interventions, progress has stalled. As a result, many people continue to die, the CS told the first global summit of UNITE members of Parliament. Ninety per cent of malaria cases and deaths are in sub-Saharan Africa. Kagwe represented President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is the chairman of the African Leaders Malaria Alliance. Data from the World Malaria Report indicates that more than 200 million people contracted malaria in 2018, with the disease claiming 380,000 lives. Malaria is a leading killer of children younger than five years in Kenya. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there are an estimated 3.5 million new clinical cases and 10,700 deaths annually. The disease is transmitted by the female anopheles mosquito. The symptoms include chills, fever and sweating, usually occurring within 10 days to four weeks after being bitten. Other people may experience fatigue, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, fast heart rate, headache, mental confusion or pale skin and if not treated urgently can be fatal. Counties with the highest malaria prevalence include Homa Bay, Kilifi, Mombasa, Lamu, Taita Taveta, Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Vihiga, Kakamega and Bungoma. “There are many public health challenges afflicting the African continent, but malaria, which is not only treatable but also preventable, remains one of the most deadly,” Kagwe said. “The deadly effects of malaria lead to devastating consequences on families, health systems and the economy.” The CS said President Kenyatta is committed to implementing health systems reforms to accelerate universal health coverage as a means of ensuring access to preventable and curative services of infectious diseases. Covid-19 is the newest threat to communities and countries, including Kenya. “It puts more pressure on our fragile health systems and disrupts routine health services, including immunisation, treatment of life-threatening illnesses such as malaria, diarrhoea and pneumonia, among others,” Kagwe said. He challenged countries to learn from the recent disruptions in supply chain due to Covid-19 to build capacity for local manufacturing of life-saving supplies. He said Kenya is committed to providing essential life-saving interventions while responding to the pandemic. “There is need to invest in research and learn from countries that have been able to eliminate malaria such as Cuba, Italy and Japan. In Africa, Algeria joined the list of these countries,” the CS said. Eight counties were on September 13 last year selected for the introduction of a malaria vaccine. The RTS vaccine is now available to children from six months of age in selected areas of the country in a phased pilot introduction. It is the first and only vaccine to significantly reduce malaria in children, including life-threatening malaria. Meanwhile, county health departments in malaria transmission areas at the Coast, Lake Region and western Rift have been urged to be vigilant and closely monitor malaria trends to ensure there is no outbreak, which may further strain health services in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Apart from reduced funding, mosquitoes have built resistance to some commonly used insecticides. Edited by EKibii