On February 19, 2013, Deputy President William Ruto made a passionate case why Kenyans needed to give the Jubilee Coalition a chance to lead Kenya. Donned in a white shirt, yellow necktie —his United Republican Party (URP) colours — and a light blue suit, Ruto told a packed auditorium at Kasarani that he and President Uhuru Kenyatta would “change Kenya forever”. “Youth empowerment would become the fuel to drive the Jubilee Coalition agenda in our country… 92 per cent of young people who have no jobs have no skills. A Jubilee government will set up an institute of technology in every ward in this country,” Ruto promised the nation. Travel and other restrictions imposed to contain coronavirus and austerity measures on nonessentials saved taxpayers Sh12.8 billion in the last financial year, a new report has shown. The 2019-20 budget implementation review report by the Controller of Budget shows that expenditures on non-core activities including travel, hospitality and conference dropped significantly during the year. According to the report, expenditures by government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) on local and domestic travels dropped by 15 per cent, from Sh17.2 billion in 2018-19 to Sh14.6 billion last year. Health PS Susan Mochache has demanded an apology from a public procurement watchdog over a statement linking her to the mess at the troubled Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. In a letter to Public Procurement Regularity Authority (PPRA) board chairman Andrew Musangi, Mochache protested the authority’s assertions that she was involved in the Sh7.8 billion scandal at Kemsa. Suppliers and contractors owed by the Nairobi government will have to wait longer to be paid their dues. This comes as the county assembly puts Governor Mike Sonko’s administration on the spot over the delay in payment of Sh76.5 billion pending bills to suppliers and contractors. Majority Whip Paul Kados raised the alarm through a request for statement, questioning that despite President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive on pending bills and the National Treasury's release of billions to the county for clearing them, the county is yet to pay. Motorists and pedestrians should brace themselves for more inconveniences as work on Sh62 billion Nairobi Expressway gains pace. A weekend announcement from the Kenya National Highway Authority said the normal traffic flow on some sections of Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway and Waiyaki Way will be interrupted for the next seven months. Kenha director general Peter Mundinia said on Saturday the St Mark’s footbridge will, for instance, be pulled down.  As a result, traffic will be diverted.