The Emergency Plus Medical Services (E-Plus) has received a donation of five portable isolation chambers from the government of Switzerland. The donation approximated to be worth of Sh7.4 million is meant to boost E-Plus efforts to support the safe evacuation of all infectious patients at this time of coronavirus. While receiving the donation, E-Plus Managing Director Susan Ng’ong’a said the donation will increase the options available to E-Plus in supporting government efforts against the spread of the virus as well as other highly infectious diseases. “This donation could not have come at the ideal time like now. Our main priority lies in ensuring safety for our patients during evacuations as well as keeping our first responders safe from Covid-19 infections,” Susan said. She added that the adoption of the isolation chambers will mitigate and reduce the risk of contamination and infection. Kenya Red Cross Society deputy secretary general, Dr. Idris Ahmed said the contribution arrives in time to allow E-Plus to provide effective and the most efficient way of evacuating patients of communicable diseases other infectious diseases. “Ambulance services are most crucial in ensuring safe evacuation and transportation of patients free of contamination, Dr. Ahmed said. Switzerland Ambassador to Kenya Valentin Zellweger lauded E-Plus for their meticulous work in the pandemic response. While handing over the donation, the ambassador said that the units will play a critical role in reducing contamination since they work in both negative and positive pressures. “The government of Switzerland is glad to continue its partnership with Kenyans through today’s donation of the five portable isolation chambers to the Emergency Plus Medical Services," ” Amb. Valentin Zellweger said. He continued that "Through this, the government of Switzerland is emphasising the crucial role that the health workers and paramedics are playing in the fight against COVID-19." He added that “these units are designed to function in both negative and positive pressures, hence ideal to reduce the rate of contamination to both the ambulance crew and other people.” The ambassador also lauded the work done by the Kenya Red Cross and E-Plus towards the reduction of mortality and morbidity rates in the country while emphasising the need for continuous cooperation. The handover session was witnessed by E-Plus members of the board led by the E-Plus Chairman, Dr. Abbas Gullet.