At Silibwet Trading Center in Bomet, a scenic 40-kilometre tarmac road cuts through the expansive Mau Forest to Nakuru county. It was completed two years ago after residents and leaders clamoured for it to be paved to make travel and goods transport easier. Its completion was celebrated as a blessing. However, the road benefits not only many legitimate travellers and traders but also murderers who appreciate its silence and lack of security. They drive into the forest, kill their victims and dump the bodies near the side of the road or in the woods, or they kill them elsewhere and dump them. The recovery of the naked body of a middle-aged man on Sunday at Mugango area  at the forest edge raises to 22 the number of bodies dumped in the area since the road was built. The body, which was not identified, was found a few metres from where another body was recovered two weeks ago. None of the bodies has been identified. Residents are now fretful and there's frequent talk of who's involved, anyone local? They worry about the safety of the new road, fear highway robberies and want police to arrest the culprits. Leaders want the government to put up a police post. Mugango chief Richard Cheruiyot said murders increased soon after the road opened and called for security patrols along the 50-minute-long drive. Police are intensifying patrols. None of the victims has been identified as coming from the area. None has been found with identification documents. “There must be a gang that executes people elsewhere and brings the bodies here at night when they won't be detected," he told the Star. Singorwet MCA Alfred Langat said, "The culprits are having a field day since the nights are silent along the route. Anyone can commit a crime without being found out." If a police post is built, "those behind these heinous acts will have their days shortened," he said. County police commander Naomi Ichami said officers are partnering with the Kenya Forest Service and residents to try and identify the attackers. She said as most of the bodies are dumped at night, it's difficult to establish who's involved but police will continue to intensify patrols. (Edited by V. Graham)