A lawmaker seeks to know the circumstances under which the Kenya Meat Commission was transferred to the Defence ministry. Wajir East MP Rashid Amin wants Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya invited to the House to shed light on the matter. He questions what informed the reorganisation and transfer of the roles of KMC to the KDF. He also wants the CS to address concerns over measures put in place to ensure business continuity. “Could the CS inform this House of what measures are in place to ensure that livestock farmers are not affected by the said reorganisation?” he asked on Tuesday. Rashid has also called for clarity from Munya on whether the transfer was subject to public participation. He said the transfer of roles does not comply with the Kenya Meat Commission Act and is not in tandem with the State Corporations Act. “Further, the transfer was not subjected to public participation, especially livestock farmers who are the main stakeholders,” he said. “This transfer will have a negative effect, especially to livestock farmers, leading to loss of livelihoods.” Munya is expected to respond to the questions before the Agriculture and Livestock committee chaired by Moiben MP Silas Tiren. KMC roles were on September 7 transferred to the KDF following an Executive Order by President Uhuru Kenyatta and executed by Munya. KMC was formed in 1950 through an act of Parliament to provide ready market for livestock farmers. It was also to provide high quality meat and meat products to consumers and is among the most experienced meat processors in Africa. The entity has over the years been struggling with a cash-flow crisis that hampered its operations and threatened its survival. It has been operating below capacity in the face of unreliable supply of raw material — beef — and obsolete machinery. KMC managing commissioner James ole Seriani has until next Tuesday to submit a report on the progress made in the transfer. At the height of concerns around the transfer, Munya said the Defence ministry is the biggest customer of the meat processor. He told journalists that the cash situation at the parastatal has not enabled it to add value to livestock farmers.