Pressure is mounting on Deputy President William Ruto to resign for allegedly absconding duty, with critics saying his prolonged stay will undermine the authority of President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Monday, Ruto snubbed the Covid-19 conference at KICC. The function was attended by national leaders including the President and ODM chief Raila Odinga. Politicians allied to the President and Raila dared Ruto to be bold enough and quit over “insubordination.” They argued the DP's deliberate decisions to skip key state events amounts to absconding duty as the President's principal assistant mandated under the Constitution to deputise the head of state. Over the past six months, Ruto has been conspicuously absent during major state functions presided over by the President. National Assembly Security Committee chairperson and Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange warned Ruto to put national interest first. “The country should always come first. My plea to the DP is simple. If you fundamentally disagree with government policies just ship out,” Koinange said. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka said it would not be tenable for the DP to continue serving in a government which he doesn't care about and is uncomfortable with. He said if the DP was invited and failed to attend, then the matter amounted to “high-level insubordination.” “It is clear the marriage is irreversibly broken down. The DP must decide whether he will walk out or stay on with the situation likely to deteriorate and become cantankerous,” Onyonka said. On April 9, the DP addressed the Covid-19 pandemic from his Karen residence, a move that sparked a political storm after senior government officials kept off the brief. Since then, he has stayed away from the President's national addresses on the pandemic while his participation in the National Security Council has been doubtful. In July, Ruto skipped a virtual meeting the President held with all CSs, PSs and CASs. He was also out of action on September 15 when Uhuru and Raila hosted the Senate leadership at State House over the revenue-sharing formula stalemate. The last time Uhuru shared a podium with his deputy was on September 10 during a brief Cabinet meeting in State House before he flew out for rallies in Kisii. “The Deputy President's dishonesty is undermining the authority of the President,” nominated MP Geoffrey Osotsi said. Osotsi said it was crystal clear that the DP had irreconcilably fallen out with his boss. “The most bold action he can take is to resign as DP and give the President the space to work with whoever he wants to work with,” the MP said. However, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, a Ruto ally, insisted that the DP had not been invited to the Covid-19 conference. Nyoro alleged a plot by political mandarins whom he said deliberately sidelined the DP from state events but place his chair next to the President's to show that he skips functions. “That’s exactly what they did when senators were invited to State House. They put a chair with his name next to the President’s to show Kenyans that he is the one who failed to attend yet he had not been informed,” he claimed. “I can confirm nobody had invited the Deputy President to yesterday’s event. Let them show us proof that the Deputy President was aware of the event.” The DP's seat had been placed next to the President's and a programme circulated indicated that he was supposed to invite Uhuru to make his address. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, a key ally of the DP, sent out a sarcastic tweet which appeared to confirm that the DP's no-show could have been designed. “If William Ruto had made a mistake of attending the Covid millionaires conference, I would have grabbed the mantle and vied for presidency. (Hatutaki ubumbafu),” Sudi said. Allies of the President and Raila want Ruto to resign like the country's first Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. In 1966, Jaramogi resigned from government accusing President Jomo Kenyatta of sidelining him and failing to recognise him as his assistant on state matters. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo told the Star that Ruto should now bite the bullet and quit instead of undermining the President. “What Ruto is now doing is undermining the President. On principle he should resign just like Jaramogi did,” the MP said. Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were said the Covid-19 conference was a crucial meeting which DP Ruto ought to have attended. “Since the President cannot sack him because he’s protected by the Constitution, the honourable thing he can do is to resign. DP Ruto has red carded himself by failure to heed his boss's directives,” he said. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga said it was evident that Ruto's heart was no longer in government. “The DP sends his troops to continuously delegitimise government programmes like the Huduma Namba,” she said. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari said Ruto should explain to his boss why he is not attending state events if he had been invited. Edited by Henry Makori