Gor Mahia assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo says their ambition to punch above their weights in the Caf Champions League has triggered the decision to resume training. Gor quietly began their pre-season campaign on Friday last week at Camp Toyoyo, way before the much awaited government's announcement on the resumption of sporting activities. Odhiambo, however, maintains that all safety precautions issued by the government on the spread of coronavirus were observed to the letter. The soft-spoken tactician said the early kick off was in line with their determination to break their persistent group stages jinx. Gor have come close in the previous seasons but have fallen short and consequently have had to slump to the Caf Confederations Cup. Odhiambo said out of the more than ten new players,only four failed to show up for the sessions which was overseen by coach Steven Polack before flying home for a 10-day holiday. “We have recruited heavily and it is only prudent to start early so that the players can gel well. We have been blowing hot and cold in the Champions League and this time round we are determined to make a difference. We trained while at the same time observing all the health protocols set out by the government and we hope  we will be allowed back so as to adequately prepare for the next assignments,” he said Odhiambo, who joined Gor at the start of the past season as a replacement to Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno, noted that a large chunk of the players had not been affected fitness-wise despite being out of action for more tan four months. “Majority of the players were sharp and seemed fit.Only a few have gained weights but we will ensure they are at par with the rest before we start playing our competitive matches,” said the former Chemelil Sugar gaffer Meanwhile, Odhiambo rubbished reports suggesting that his boss Polack would not return to the club. The former Sony Sugar coach revealed that he was in constant communication with the Briton who also joined the club last season, filling in the void left by Hassan Oktay. Former Simba coach and Belgian Patrick Aussems and Jose 'Ze Maria' Marcelo Ferreira have been linked with a move to Gor. “He has assured that he will be back and continue with his job. He has been in touch with me daily and shares the training program which he wants  us to follow in training before he comes back,” he added