After prolonged hue and cry from stakeholders, Football Kenya Federation has finally succumbed to pressure and reversed their resolve to give the Caf Confederations Cup a wide berth in the new season. The federation had initially maintained that there will be no a Kenyan representative in the tournament after failing to conclude Shield Cup matches. The winner of the Shield has always represented the country in the continental matches. The matches were adjourned after the first case of coronavirus was reported in the country in March. While announcing that Gor Mahia had retained the ticket to represent the country in the Caf Champions League courtesy of winning the league which was determined by the first leg standings,the federation cited lack of law within their constitution to ascertain which team would be picked for the Confederations Cup. The federation confirmed that the new season will be curtain raised by the remaining bit of the Shield Cup matches. The trio of Kariobangi Sharks, AFC Leopards and Ulinzi Stars had already booked a place in the quarter finals while five matches did not kick off for fear of players and members of the technical bench contracting the virus. Defending champions Bandari were to play Sofapaka at Mbaraki but despite the latter traveling to Mombasa, the duel did not serve off as the hosts failed to show up. Gor were supposed to take on Posta Rangers while encounter pitting KCB and Wazito did not start as the bankers failed to travel to Afraha Stadium. Bidco United were to tackle Fortune Sacco while Kisumu All Stars were scheduled to host Keroka Technical at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. “I can confirm that the new season will be opened by Shield Cup matches. We intend to have the tournament completed before the league starts and put this whole debate on who will play in the confederations to rest. Ultimately, we will present a name since the deadline for the submission is not as soon as that for Champions League. There are few rounds remaining and the matches can be completed in three weeks then we usher in the league,” said a senior source at Kandanda House. The source confirmed that the tournament's sponsors Betway were also willing to bankroll the remaining bit of competition. “The sponsor is okay with us picking from where we left and they are willing to play their part till the finals.,” he added Besides the Shield Cup being the preliminary for the league,the source further revealed that the new sponsor Betking is keen to introduce a small tournament which he noted will boost the fitness levels of the players who have been out of action for almost six months. “The new league sponsor wants us to organise a small tournament before the league starts and we are working to come up with the best way to execute this considering the  limited time,” he added.