ThirdWay Alliance wants the High Court to determine the timeline within which the President is bound to dissolve Parliament. The party says the Constitution has not specified the timeline within which the President shall dissolve the Legislature on the advisory by the Chief Justice. "There is a need for the court to interpret the consequence of the advisory by the CJ if the President shall upon such advisory dissolve Parliament," the party says. Chief Justice David Maraga on September 21 advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve to dissolve Parliament over its failure to implement the two-thirds gender rule. The party, through lawyer Elias Mutuma, says the Maraga advisory has attracted concerns from the public, hence the need for the court's urgent pronouncement on the matter. Mutuma says in the event the President complies with the advisory, there is apprehension the country shall be plunged into a constitutional crisis and alteration of the basic system of governance. Thirdway Alliance wants the court to certify its case as urgent and the matter referred to the Chief Justice to appoint a bench of uneven number of judges — not less than three — to hear and determine the matter. The two-thirds gender issue has haunted the last three parliaments, which have all failed to pass the resolution four times. In light of the loophole under Article 261 (7) — which does not stipulate the timeframe within which the President is bound to dissolve Parliament —  the party wants the court to determine if the circumstances justify the concept of a  reasonable time and what the reasonable timeframe is. Another issue it wants the bench to determine is whether the advisory opinion is a mere recommendation to the President (with an option of being disregarded) or a constitutional command to dissolve Parliament. Also to be determined is whether the House stands dissolved upon the lapse of the "reasonable timeframe", notwithstanding the President's non-compliance and whether the impugned dissolution will trigger by-elections or a general election. "The speedy resolution of these crucial questions is essential to emphasise and establish the stated principles to relieve any supposed doubts as to the clarity of the Constitution. The question calls for debate on alternative views by an expanded bench," the party says. According to court documents, the party says it stands to suffer irreparably if the President proceeds to dissolve Parliament without proper interpretation of the Constitution. It, however, says that the powers and functions of the National Assembly can be transferred to the Senate for the period it will be dissolved. "As such, the will of the people and the sovereign power remains protected." The party has sued the Speakers of the National Assembly and the Senate and the Attorney General. Edited by EKibii