Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has urged ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi to stop being a lone ranger. Osotsi said Mudavadi is one of the formidable presidential candidates but he cannot win the top seat as a lone ranger, hence the need to join the Handshake team led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to craft a winning formula ahead of the 2022 election. The lawmaker told his party boss to ignore those pushing him to go it alone "just as you did to those pushing you to join the Tangatanga team". “Mudavadi should avoid those persistently lying to him that he can achieve his presidential ambition by going it alone,” the lawmaker said. “Lone-ranger tactics will not work in the current political dispensation in Kenya.” He said countries are in the era of political coalitions and no presidential candidate can win the presidency without the backup of other leaders. Osotsi told Mudavadi to take seriously the advice by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli that he needs to team up with others for enhance his chances of rising to be the country's chief executive. "Mudavadi can never walk alone and deliver the presidency...the only option he has is joining hands with the Handshake team to craft a winning formula," he reiterated. Osotsi argued Mudavadi not to ignore Atwoli's advise while at KIMA mission during the burial of the late Archbishop Byrum Makokha.". Osotsi said that Mudavadi should stick to his word and avoid political distractions from some people keen to drive a wedge between him and Raila Odinga. The lawmaker said the BBI is on the way and leaders in the region will support it. “It will be politically unstrategic for Mudavadi to join the opposers or take a peripheral role in it. That is why his latest stand is timely and I fully support it. I hope he will hold onto it and actualise it,” he said. His sentiments came a few days after his colleagu  Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala rejoined Mudavadi after political challenges emanating from the impasse over the revenue-sharing formula in the Senate and differences with Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Osotsi told the cheering congregation that he does not have personal differences with Mudavadi but he differs with his post-2017 election political ideologies and strategic thinking. He said Malala’s move was to avoid political isolation but for him he had not committed any political crime against anybody that warranted his apology.