DCI George Kinoti has said they are ready to carry out an ID parade to identify men who are allegedly trying to kill Senator Cleophas Malala. Appearing before the Senate on Monday, Kinoti said he had received a picture from Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala of the alleged 'policemen'. "The senator sent me a picture of five men who purportedly want to kill him. If they are existing ..we are ready to do an ID parade," he said. ".. let this matter be subjected to independent investigations. We are ready to submit ourselves and accord any assistance to these investigations because we are the accused." An ID parade of police lineup is a process by which a crime victim or witness's putative identification of a suspect is confirmed to a level that can count as evidence in a trial. Kinoti further said he was utterly shocked by the allegations leveled against his office by Malala. “Why would be allocate all those resources to assassinate you for a Covid-19 offence. It does not make any sense at all,” he maintained. Malala however insisted that some five officers from the DCI had been assigned to eliminate him. The Kakamega senator went on to produce a photo of the would be assassins, showed them to Kinoti but the DCI boss swore that he had never seen such people. Malala broke down in tears on Monday as he narrated to two Senate Committees how five police officers had allegedly been assigned to eliminate him. In an emotional presentation to the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, Malala said the five officers were from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI). “I am a husband and a young father. The most painful thing is that I am being accused of stage-managing my arrest on August 17,” he said while holding back tears. The senator was overcome with emotion as he narrated his frustration in having his security beefed up. "I humbly request this committee and the Inspector General of Police to take action. I have written many letters and called many offices seeking help but they have not taken any action".