Flood victims in Nyando, Kisumu county, are still suffering and need urgent support, a businessman has said. Owino Ogendo called on the county and national governments to support the families who are languishing in poverty. Speaking to the press in Kisumu on Monday, Ogendo said the families lack food, bedding and proper medication. Hundreds of families were affected by floods and rising Lake Victoria waters in March and April. “It is very unfortunate that these families continue to suffer and nobody is helping them. We should speedily put resources together to rescue them,” Ogendo said. Ogendo, who wants to unseat Nyando MP Jared Okello, said the Department of Disaster has failed to support the flood victims. He said the flood victims are living in deplorable conditions and require proper medication, food and shelter. The politician said children are living in the cold since the makeshift camps are not adequate for the families who deserted their homes due to the floods. Ogendo said the floods ruined farms, destroying hundreds of acres under crops and exposing locals to hunger. “The authorities should move fast to cushion the affected families from danger,” he added. Ogendo called for sufficient distribution of sanitary towels to schoolgirls to protect them from engaging in illicit sexual activities. "I urge well wishers to join me in supporting our children to keep them in schools when learning resumes." The politician has been distributing sanitary towels to schoolgirls in Nyando and food supplies to hungry families. Ogendo asked Okello to prudently use CDF money to renovate schools that were affected by floods. “A number of schools were destroyed with some being used as evacuation centres,” he said. He revisited a farm in Muhoroni that was set aside during the Jomo Kenyatta tenure courtesy of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga to help in resettling families affected by floods. He noted that most of the affected families have been urged to move to the land in the neighbouring constituency but they have refused. Ogendo said many families from Nyando were resettled in the area during Jaramogi’s time and a huge chunk was still remaining to help in further resettlement. Edited by Henry Makori