Time limitation on funerals has been reviewed to two hours with graveside rites limited to 50 persons. Inter-faith Council chairman Archbishop Anthony Muheria who issued the guidelines said the number of those attending funerals has been raised to 200. "...with 50 allowed at the graveside the duration of funerals must not exceed two hours," he said in a statement on Tuesday. Muheria said there will be no food in funerals, adding that the body will be transferred straight to the place of the service. Muheria said the limit on the duration of worship sessions will now also be two hours. "We will now welcome the elderly of over 65 years and young ones under 6 years to the worship," he said. However, the vulnerable and the sick will continue worshipping at home to avoid infection. Group meetings and special services for youths and special groups will also be allowed provided they follow the other criteria of social spacing and duration. Muheria reiterated President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive on the number attending weddings at 200 and added that food is only to be served to the extended family. Earlier, the Inter-faith Council urged politicians to suspend political gatherings, despite the loosening of restrictions announced by Uhuru on Monday. Muheria said it was imprudent for politicians to hold rallies yet Kenyans attend without observing social distancing rules and many do not wear masks. Uhuru noted that the country's positivity rate has fallen from 13 per cent in June to seven in August and now stands at 4.4. During his address on Monday,  Uhuru announced that church services, weddings and funerals can have a maximum of 200 people, up from 100. The President, however, said schools will not yet reopen until it is established it's safe to do so. Uhuru said for the past six months, the country has been in a season of paradoxes. He said as a result, it became necessary to shut in order to save it. "As we head into a new normal, we are even faced with a greater paradox as to whether the curve is flattening or not," he said.