Only three per cent of refugee children attain higher education, a new report commissioned by the United Nations refugee agency suggests. Titled Refugee students in higher education, the report attributes the low enrollment levels to pressure on families to contribute to household finances instead of secondary and tertiary education. This is in addition to a low number of higher education institutions for refugees and a low number of students, particularly girls, graduating from secondary schools. Kenya, which is among the top refugees' host countries in Africa, currently has about 489,000 refugees and 18,500 stateless persons. Out of every two refugees, one is a child of school age (four-18 years) yet more than 48 per cent miss school. About 50 per cent of refugees reside in the Dadaab refugee camp in Garissa county, 40 per cent in Kakuma in Turkana and 16 per cent in urban areas, mainly Nairobi. Before Covid-19, only a third of refugees in Kenya had access to secondary education and less than one-sixth had access to tertiary education, including technical and vocational education and training. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the learning situation has been worsened by Covid-19 as most refugee learners cannot access remote learning. “With some affected by school closures, remote learning is not always available and even if so, mobile phones, tablets, laptops, TV and radio sets as well as internet connectivity are often not accessible to those displaced,” UNHCR spokesperson Shabia Mantoo said. Mantoo added that the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic not only constrain opportunities but also may force displaced and destitute students to drop out of school and into work, begging and early marriages to try and support their families. The UNHCR has urged the government and donors to help bridge critical gaps by ensuring the inclusion of refugee students in national education systems. It has also asked the government to work on ensuring the continuity of tertiary education programmes as well as offering more places for refugees. “Despite significant gains in enrolment at all levels, almost half of school-age refugees are still out of school. The gap in enrolment widens with progression through the levels,” the agency said. The majority of refugee and asylum-seeking learners are enrolled in pre-primary, primary, secondary schools and tertiary institutions located in Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps and Kalobeyei settlement. “A small number acquire places to study in public and private universities across Kenya and abroad each year,” the agency said. In 2017, only one per cent of refugees were enrolled in higher education. Since the end of 2018, the figure has increased to three per cent, largely owing to greater recognition on the part of states, education institutions and partner organizations on the importance of tertiary education for refugees. Without states taking action, countless futures will be jeopardized, Mantoo said. Edited by Henry Makori