Wiper Party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka has lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for his fight against corruption adding Kenyans want to see more Governors go to jail over graft charges. Musyoka who spoke on Saturday at Maseki village in Kyuso sub-county, Kitui during the burial of Rose Kairu Nzoka said devolution has created 47 billionaires at the expense of locals. “We want to see a difference in how funds allocated to counties are managed thus corrupt governors should be investigated, arrested and charged,” said Kalonzo. The Wiper party leader said the 47 counties created have since manufactured 47 billionaires while most locals have not experienced the feel of devolution. Lauding senators for coming up with a revenue division formula and with Kitui county getting additional Sh1.5 billion shillings, Kalonzo said the money should be well managed to benefit locals. “We need to see improvement in the health sector, better roads, availability of water among other devolved functions” The Wiper party leader added. His sentiments came after several governors have been charged with graft and barred from accessing their offices until the cases are heard and concluded. The governors who have been charged with corruption cases last year include former Kiambu governor, Ferdinard Waititu, Nairobi’s Mike Sonko, and Moses Lenolkulal of Samburu. Migori’s Okoth Obado and Ali Korane of Garissa are the latest top county official to face graft charges and have also been barred from accessing their offices. Other governors under active investigations by the EACC over graft claims include Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Mohamud Ali (Marsabit), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Mwangi wa Iria (Murang’a) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet). Other leaders who had accompanied the former Vice President to the burial included Kitui Senator Enock Wambua Kiio, Kitui Women Representative, Irene Kasalu, Mwingi West MP, Charles Nguna, the host MP, Paul Nzengu, Kitui county assembly leadership led by George Ndoto the Speaker and Peter Mwikya , the majority leader.