The Sh3 billion digitisation of 369 public hospitals countrywide is on course, ICT Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng' has said. Health digitisation is aimed at improving services to citizens. Ochieng' said the government was committed to connecting 369 level four to six hospitals. Already, 50 health facilities across the country have been completed at Sh1.3 billion. While inspecting the progress of digitisation at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital in Kisumu, Ochieng' said the Local Area Network installation project will be completed by the end of 2022. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o, county commissioner Susan Waweru and hospital CEO Peter Okoth were present. The e-health system, he said, will ensure better services to patients. “When hospitals are interconnected a doctor will be able to access the medical history of patients in any hospital in the country for service provision,” Ochieng' said. Under the telemedicine concept, details of the patients are captured electronically from the reception to the point he or she sees the doctor thereby reducing paper. The PS said that the government was focused on the digitisation of public services to make them convenient and easily available to citizens. “Digitisation is key to service provision to citizens of this country. It will enable Kenyans to access services from their homes or business premises,” he added. Ochieng' said digitisation will eliminate paperwork in public hospitals through the realisation of telemedicine. He said technology is key in the realisation of effective health services provision. Ochieng' said Universal Health Care is one of the Big Four Agenda which the government is fully committed to. He assured Kenyans of data safety following the enactment of the Privacy and Data Protection Act. “Health facilities and providers are required to conform to the Act by ensuring the medical data of every patient is well-protected,” Ochieng said. Okoth said digitisation will improve operational excellence and better service delivery. Upon completion, the CEO said, they will avoid manual operations with the facility poised to have a new clinical experience for the clients. “We want to make everything reachable to the doctor wherever he or she is. Images will be transported digitally and not manually in various ways,” he said. Okoth said the project will ensure the hospital is linked to other facilities in the region and within the referral network. Nyong’o said the project will boost governance and service delivery to citizens. He said the success of UHC depends on the electronic records of patients. “We are not going to implement UHC successfully unless we can have the electronic patient record in every hospital. When I am referred to Ratta or Kombewa hospital my records should be accessed in every hospital,” Nyong’o said. He added that the process to elevate JOOTRH to a level 6 hospital was on. Edited by Henry Makori