Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has dismissed claims cops are involved in enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings at the Coast. Police officers, he said, are always unfairly blamed for abductions, yet those making the allegations never present evidence to back their claims. “Police cannot be doing evil in this country,” the IG said on Saturday. “Out of the 47 million people and you are the only one blamed for any disappearance. Unless you have facts [don't make the allegation]. When you accuse the police for no good reason, you discourage them.” He was speaking during a Kenya Police Sacco meeting at a hotel in Shanzu. This comes three days after the family of Alphonse Mwanda, 25, who was abducted on August 24 by people who introduced themselves as police officers, demanded that police produce him. Elizabeth Kilola, Mwanda’s mother, said they have searched for him in every police station, hospital and morgue in Mombasa in vain. However, Mutyambai said many criminals use the name of the police to hoodwink their targets. Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta said police are involved in most enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings. However, Mutyambai said he has never failed to act on any credible crime report. “I like specifics. Even if you call me, give me a lead, where to start. If it is my side, I will take action. If it is outside (the police service), I will take action,” he said. "If you give me blanket statements, it gives me challenges. I am very open and committed to working with the public. If you have facts, like a photo, I will have a beginning to the investigations.” He said the Internal Affairs Unit in the National Police Service has been strengthened and the unit’s director general is always the first person on the ground whenever atrocities said to be committed by police officers occur. “There is no time I have refused to take action. Even on my own officers, I have taken action,” Mutyambai said. He said 96.5 per cent of police officers are good and the bad apples are only a small fraction. He said the police are thinly spread and don’t sleep in order to protect Kenyans. He said police now are partnering with the public and have improved their relations with them. Edited by T Jalio