Migori Governor Okoth Obado and Senator Ochillo Ayacko on Wednesday traded accusations over an impeachment motion against the governor. The motion against Obado failed to kick off for the second time. Speaker Boaz Okoth, Obado's close ally, had to adjourn the house, claiming his life was in danger. Addressing the press, Okoth said his official bodyguard was withdrawn on Tuesday night and his house in the outskirts of Migori town attacked by goons. Okoth said he decided to call off the house from resuming because MCAs had failed to abide by Covid-19 rules as most of them wanted to access the assembly. “I understand there are claims that this impeachment we are talking about cannot be done when I am on this seat. Why do they want to kill me? Why is what is happening outside being brought to this assembly?” Okoth asked MCAs. He said he was yet to receive any impeachment motion, adding that Migori politics has found a way in the assembly. He accused an MCA he did not name of spearheading the attacks and threats on his life. “A member of this house is coordinating all this. Why will you want to be a leader at the death of your brother? What have I done to deserve this fate?” he asked. The governor said over the weekend his house in Kisumu was attacked and on Tuesday night he was force to sleep elsewhere after a similar attack at his Nyikendo house after his security was withdrawn. There was tension in the assembly as EACC detectives arrived to do an audit with claims they were out to arrest Obado over claims of corruption. “I am not a thief, EACC are here doing their job as a government entity for the 2014-15 financial year. They were not here for me. They will pick me if they if I am a suspect,” he said. On Tuesday when he was forced to cut short the assembly session,  Obado said, “There was a lot of misbehaviour from honourable members. We need to respect the assembly and the speaker.” Earlier, Obado and Ayacko accused each other of intimidating MCAs and supporters over the impeachment motion. “The senator should not hide behind ODM to try and impeach me. Ayacko, and not the party, is the one behind the impeachment motion,” Obado said. He said woes have been overhyped by the media and his political antagonists who believe that if left until 2022, he will side with Deputy President William Ruto. “Obado should not pass blame for his many problems on me, the party or individuals he has been attacking verbally. EACC, police and prosecutors are the people who charged him,” Ayacko said. He said it was ODM which called the push for impeachment motion which he took no part in, insisting he will “not be in the assembly or anywhere near when the impeachment motion is drafted”. Both Obado and Ayacko called for peace and restraint to avoid escalation of violence. Edited by R.Wamochie