Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua could be just what Kenya needs to rediscover lost opportunities and usher in a new generation of better leadership and prosperous life for Kenyans. Last Sunday as he unveiled a swanky presidential campaign office, Mutua pledged to reboot the country’s leadership seeking to capitalise on the public clamour for young leaders. As I watched him make his bid, there was no doubt that the governor had set the bar high for anyone who wishes to challenge him. And with an army of think-tanks that he has assembled to build a formidable force, it is clear that the former government spokesman will not be a pushover. Mutua, who has consistently been ranked as one of the best performing governors, is hoping to replicate his proven track record of development to the whole country. I am convinced the second-term governor, who has already started an elaborate strategy to build a solid national following anchored on re-engineering the economy and resolving the spiralling unemployment and poverty eradication, could be the man to beat in 2022. In complete contrast to his likely competitors, Mutua joins the presidential bid devoid of any political skeletons, baggage or scandals. He comes to the platform like a fresh breath of air after a prolonged period of suffocation. In the coming election, he will likely face off with Deputy President William Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, all of whom have expressed intentions to contest. Opposition chief Raila Odinga is also expected to be in the race even though he is yet to announce his plans. On Sunday, millions of Kenyans watched the governor as he delivered a passionate speech in which he divulged that he would contest on a Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket, outlining his vision for the country. Top on his agenda was job creation; he promised to deliver five million jobs by 2025. He, at the same time, cited his record as government spokesman and pledged to improve the country’s infrastructure to spur development by building roads and highways in every constituency and maintaining new ones. Being relatively young, Mutua petitioned his peers (youth) to support and own his bid premised on job and wealth creation; urging them to stop being spectators as their lives are ruined. Further, he said he will roll back poverty and restore dignity to all— regardless of where they were born or their social or political dispensation. Mutua now plans to embark on a countrywide political crusade to seek support and publicise his 2022 presidential bid. His bid, which he said will be modelled on US presidential campaigns, will start with a massive online member recruitment drive for his party; a new phenomenon in Kenya. He also promised to offer Kenyans an alternative voice on who is best placed to address the country’s social and economic problems, promising to change the political narrative and challenge those who hit the campaign trail earlier with robust ideas for the country. Political strategist