An activist has sued the Kenya Wildlife Service boss for disobeying a court order to provide him with all information on the management plan of Nairobi National Park. Activist Okiya Omtatah on Wednesday filed a case against director general John Waweru. Omtatah says Waweru failed to provide the information sought and also disobeyed a court order stopping the institution from concluding public participation on the draft Nairobi National Park Management Plan 2020-30. KWS issued a press statement on September 2 informing the public that it had concluded the review by stakeholders and general public. “The impugned actions of the respondent are totally contemptuous of this court. The director general must be punished accordingly to restore both the authority of this court and the rule of law,” Omtatah said. "Unless the contemner is immediately punished, court orders will continue to be disobeyed ," the activist added. The order was given by judge James Makau on June 29. According to court documents, Kenyans for Justice and Development (Kejude) had written to the Tourism ministry and KWS boss requesting documents and information relating to the management plan of the park to ensure same is acceptable to the general public. Its letter is dated June 15. Kejude sought to know the legality of the task force that developed the master plan and the legal basis for the same. Also sought was a copy of the title deed of the park. Kejude wanted full disclosure of information on arrangements between KWS, Kenya Railways Corporation and the Grain Bulk Handlers Limited regarding the re-alignment of the park's fence for the construction of grain silos and bulk cargo imports. KWS carried out its scoping plan from 2015 to identify key issues to be addressed in the management plan and came up with the plan. KWS received comments from public and made several amendments to the plan and published a second draft dated May 26. The agency indicated that it cannot produce the copy of the park title deed for public consumption but asked Omtatah to access it from lands office. KWS also said there is no agreement with Kenya Railways and Grain Bulk Handlers regarding re-alignment of the park fence. Edited by R.Wamochie