Deputy President William Ruto has said he wanted Jubilee Party to field a candidate for the Msambweni by-election. Ruto on Wednesday said Jubilee is a national party that believes in the unity of the country. This he said should be displayed by giving every Kenyan an opportunity to express themselves through participation in elections which is the party's cardinal principal. Ruto's sentiments came after the party announced that it will not field a candidate in the by-election. The seat was left vacant following the death of ODM MP Suleiman Dori. Jubilee said with its recent cooperation with ODM, it saw it fit not to field a candidate. Secretary-General Raphael Tuju also said the country faces serious issues currently following CJ David Maraga's call for the dissolution of Parliament for failing to legislate laws to implement the gender rule. "The country has very serious constitutional matters to deal with that will require sobriety and reaching across the political divides in order to navigate our beloved country across some of these challenges," Tuju said. He further added, "This announcement has been made in good time so that any aspirant who has interest in a Jubilee ticket still has other pathways to running for the seat." But Ruto said Jubilee is a national political movement that brings on board all Kenyans. "I had a different view on fielding a candidate in Musabweni but I came here and I have been briefed about the decision that has been made and I want to assure the party membership that we stand by it," he said. He added, "Those who intended to contest in the by-election on a Jubilee ticket will have to look for alternative avenues and either run as independent candidates or join other political parties". Ruto however maintained that by the party not participating in the by-election it was being folded. "I want to assure the party membership that by not contesting in the by-election, it does not mean that we are shrinking, in fact, we are expanding each day," Ruto added. He said going forward, the Jubilee party will participate in all elections as it should as it ready's for the future. "We shall have a meeting with the Secretary-General to ready the members for party elections when normalcy returns. It is important for members across the country to make a decision on their party officials ahead of the coming election," Ruto said. Ruto on Tuesday stormed the party headquarters along Thika road, a move that sparked speculations following his sore relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta who is the party leader. The DP has on various occasions accused the party saying it has been hijacked by cartels and busybodies.