 Embakasi West MP George Theuri has raised concerns over the delay of the completion of the Sh950 million Kangundo Road expansion project. Theuri said despite the ongoing works along the 25km road, little has been done to reduce traffic congestion. “Recent expansion works on the road that commenced in 2019 have been below expected standards and have done little to reduce the road’s congestion, thus necessitating a comprehensive expansion commensurate with the road’s traffic load,” Theuri said in Parliament on Thursday last week. The lawmaker said the road is currently heavily congested as it is used by motorists heading to and from Komarock, Kayole, Njiru and other estates thereby causing massive traffic gridlocks. He said Kangundo Road is a major route through Embakasi West constituency and whose importance has significantly increased following the exponential increase of the population. “In addition, the Kangundo Road fire station and the New Wakulima Market, which will serve over 2000 traders, are both located along this road, which is primarily one of the reasons that led the National Transport and Safety Authority to label Kangundo Road as one of the city’s top five high-risk roads,” Theuri said. The legislator sought a statement from the chairperson of the departmental committee on Transport, Public Works and Housing on how much money was spent on the recent expansion works on Kangundo Road. The committee should also highlight the designs of the dual carriageway, its projected costs and scheduled timelines for expansion and improvement. The 25km project to expand Kangundo Road to a dual carriageway will end in Ruai. The project which has been factored in the strategic plan that ends in 2022 is on a performance-based contract done in partnership with KeNHa and Kenya Urban Roads Authority . In August 2019, Kenya National Highways Authority director general Peter Mundinia announced that works were 60 per cent complete. He noted that the heavy traffic jam at the Umoja One Total roundabout along Kangundo Road would end in three months after KeNHA completes a facelift at the section. "The rest will be finished in three months. The contractor will be here for three years for maintenance,” Mundinia said.  Edited by Henry Makori