Awendo MP Walter Owino has told the Education ministry to move with speed and factor in private institutions adequately as schools plan to re-open after long closure over Covid 19. Speaking to the press in Rongo town on Sunday, Owino said while Cabinet Secretary George Magoha was still planning to re-open all learning institutions by next month, all sectors should be included. Earlier, Magoha promised that private schools may soon be bailed out by the government through concessionary loans. He said the government was in plans to provide Sh7 billion concessionary loans to bail out struggling private schools. “We know as legislators there was an allocation by government for private institutions to get a loan which was said by the cabinet secretary, it is yet to get finer details,” Owino said. The legislator said private school owners and associations should help put up finer details on how to get the funds as all is on top gear to open schools possibly from October. “There is always a criteria on always how such funds are disbursed, it is yet to be brought up but we are a keen to include the private sector in this process,” Owino said. His sentiments was echoed by PEFA church presiding bishop John Okinda, who spoke at Msomi TTC grounds in Migori town on Sunday. “All Kenyan children are equal, either in public or private learning institutions. As government is rolling out billions in public schools infrastructure boost, private schools should be factored in” Okinda said. The two said after the closure of learning institutions, private schools have experienced financial hiccups which has seen owner turn their institutions into other ventures like farming and rental houses. “We have faith-based organisations which have been running learning institutions which have greatly subsided high population in public schools in some areas, they need to be factored in fully,” Okinda said. Okinda said some private learning institutions without the loans risk closure completely despite playing a vital role in the sector. Edited by R.Wamochie