Nakuru town got her first digital motor vehicle garage. The highly sophisticated electronic and hybrid fully-fledged garage will be dealing with interior design courtesy of  Merdmosel Kenya Limited. This brings Nakuru’s aspiration of becoming the fourth city close as besides providing vital services to people who have been going to Nairobi for electronic diagnosis and repairs closer, the garage will also offer employment to more than 200 people. It is one of the many business ventures that are breathing life to the once vibrant Nakuru’s Industrial Area and is providing complete electronic diagnostic analysis for all vehicles. Speaking during the launch, Merdmosel chairperson, Laban Thiong’o said besides introducing the new technologies such as e-painting automotive engineering, decorative and designs, the facility will link with the technical and vocational education training institution and provide attachment slots for students. “Merdmosel has partnered with the government through institutions that are offering courses in line with this facility to provide internships,” Thiong'o said. He was accompanied by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Edward Mbugua who officially launched the business venture. Also present was nominated MP Gideon Keter, National Chambers of Commerce and Industry Nakuru branch chairperson, Stephen Thuo and County Assembly of Nakuru Deputy Speaker, Joseph Tonui. Thiong’o urged the government to reduce import taxes for motor vehicle parts and other equipment in the industry to ease the cost on investors. “We spend so much money importing materials, parts and equipment required for such a facility beside the cost of business licenses,” he said. The garage has a tyre centre, a spray and digital spray booth and offers auto repairs and body works, vehicle diagnosis, supplies building materials and hires earth moving equipment. MP Keter said he was pushing for the government to partner with private entities such as Merdmosel to impart the necessary knowledge to the youth. “There is a big skill gap between what is being taught in colleges and the market need that is why we need to collaborate between industry and TIVET to ensure there is no mismatch,” he said. Keter said it was unfortunate that due to the skill gap, a facility such as Merdmosel would get manpower from outside the country to operate its highly sophisticated equipment. He observed that the TIVET curriculum is mainly copy-pasted from certain countries with a lot of shortcomings, especially in the automotive engineering.