A teachers' union has supported the government's directive for tutors to report back to school by Monday ahead of reopening from Covid-19 closure. But the Kenya National Union of Teachers wants support for learners who might have been negatively affected by the closure of the institutions. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion on Tuesday said the urgent needs of children who have not physically attended school for many months should be prioritised. The TSC on Tuesday asked teachers to prepare all learning materials, timetables, schemes of work and lesson plans. The directive was contained in a circular by CEO Nancy Macharia. The Teachers Service Commission on Monday ordered primary and secondary school teachers to report back to learning institutions by September 28 ahead of the reopening of schools. Upon reopening, teachers will be required to coordinate and ensure cleaning of classes, dormitories and other facilities. Sources indicate that the Education ministry hopes to begin bringing students back to class by early October. Sossion said teachers would put to use the little they got and make the most out of it. Despite acknowledging gaps in reopening preparations, Sossion argues that teachers will be dealing with a wide array of approaches to jumpstart school operations. He also bets on school heads to provide sufficient precautions such as hygiene measures and ventilation to ensure safety of learners and teachers. "I'm urging teachers to give what they have never given before because we are in a period we have never been in before," Sossion said. He made the statement at the Knut headquarters during the launch of a gender-based violence sensitisation programme. In the meeting, Sossion called on the government to help children get back into the school system with ease. The union said the move to review the school calendar has been informed by a decline in the number of coronavirus infections. Among those who will be expected back to class will be teachers above 58 years and those with underlying medical conditions. Previously, TSC had suggested that these teachers should remain at home upon reopening. "The curve is flattening and schools will not only be putting measures in place to ensure children's safety but also that of the teachers," Sossion said. Sossion has asked teachers to strictly follow health guidelines as dictated by the Ministry of Health. He said the institutions would need to help learners who might have undergone trauma during the lockdown period. The union has asked schools to ensure all learners are back in school upon reopening and avoid any dropouts. "We want all our girls back in class in school, even those that are pregnant they must report back to class. We (teachers) will support them in whatever way, even if it means nutritional provision," Sossion said. The union will seek the arrest of the men responsible for pregnancies of school girls. Sossion said schools, local administrators and security agencies ought to find and arraign those found culpable. "We are asking parents not to negotiate with the perpetrators of these cruel actions and let the law take its course," Sossion said. He urged the Education ministry and the TSC to create a gender desk in schools to ensure every learner returns to school. He added that police will also need to be incorporated in the programme to ensure that the perpetrators are put behind bars. "I am directing all schools to establish a gender desk. There must be a Knut gender desk at every school that must be expanded to include TSC and other stakeholders," Sossion said. Edited by Henry Makori