Alleged financiers of the Dusit D2 Complex attack were among nine individuals whose assets were frozen by the state on Wednesday for funding terrorism in the country. Interior CS Fred Matiangi named Halima Ali, Waleed Ahmed Zein, Sheikh Boru, Mohammed Ali, Nuseiba Haji, Abdimajit Hassan, Mohammed Ali Abdi, Muktar Ali and Mire Elmi in the list. "Terrorism knows no bounds. We shall neither surrender into the hands of terrorism nor play into the narrative propounded by terrorists," Matiangi said. The CS said the only way to deny terrorists the means to threaten citizens' way of life is to choke their facilitation networks. Four months after more than 20 people died in the DusitD2 attack, Mohammed Abdi Ali appeared at a Nairobi court. He was charged with seven counts of providing property for the commission of a terrorist attack. The court heard that Abdi sent Sh500,000 from Soko Mbuzi in Mandera to the main attacker Ali Salim Gichinge using various phone numbers. Halima Adan Ali has been in and out of Nairobi and Mombasa courts on terrorism charges. She was first arrested in Machakos in April 2015. At one time, the DPP linked Ali and the other three co-accused to the Westgate Mall terror attack and Garissa University raid that left 165 students dead. The US has also listed her among seven individuals in the world who finance the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (Isis). The US Treasury department described Ali as an Isis facilitator based in Kenya with establishments of financial facilitation network that operated in Europe, the Middle East, the Americas and Eastern Africa. “She was designated for assisting in, sponsoring, or providing financial, material, or technological support for, or financial or other services to, or in support of, ISIS,” the department said in a statement. At the time, the US said she had received up to Sh15 million from various countries around the world in the previous two years. The Kenyan police also designated her as an extremist recruiter and facilitator renowned as the main coordinator of the infamous “Alshababes” which was uncovered by security agencies. Her sanction came eight months after the US also imposed sanctions on her associate Waleed Ahmed Zein, also in Matiangi’s list. The US said Ahmed was “a dangerous terrorist who established an intricate global network of financial facilitators for Isis, using intermediaries to evade police and fund their deadly ambitions.” He is said to have moved over Sh15 million in 2017 and 2018 that was used to finance Isis operations in Europe, the Middle East, the Americas and East Africa. In July 2017, Kenyan police arrested the two accusing them of being financiers of terrorism activities in the country. Nuseiba Haji and Mohammed Abdi Ali were arrested in May 2016 and accused of plotting a large scale bio-attack (anthrax attack) in Kenya. Abdimajit Hassan was arrested in Merti, Isiolo in 2018, as he transported a vehicle carrying 110kg of TNT explosives, five AK47 rifles, 36 gun magazines, three modified Nokia phones, 36 unprimed hand grenades, 18 pairs of grenade primers, five military-grade projectiles, and three military knives. At the time, police said Hassan among other suspects targeted the Supreme Court and other government installations in Nairobi in the failed large scale terror mission. "As part of our comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, we continue to disrupt terrorist operations with a sole focus on bringing to book perpetrators, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts in line with our national laws and international obligations," Matiang'i said. Edited by R.Wamochie