Police in Turkana county have donated sanitary towels to teenage girls in a campaign to reduce defilement cases associated with poor access to the items. Turkana police commander Samuel Ndanyi said 35 cases of defilement had been reported in the county and that many were unreported. He said the officers had joined other partners to sensitise teenage girls, educate them and provide sanitary towels protect them from being lured to early sex by men. “From March to July since the closure of schools in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19, 35 cases of defilement have been reported and there are still many other unreported cases in the region,” he said. “We were curious to know why the cases of defilement have increased and we agreed it was necessary to donate the sanitary towels to teenage girls from vulnerable families who cannot afford to buy them in amid the Covid-19 crisis." The police boss said teenage girls from vulnerable families could be easily lured to early sex by men who take the advantage of them  amid the Covid-19 crisis. Ndanyi said provision of sanitary towels to teenage girls from vulnerable families will continue in order to end cases of defilement and in championing the rights of girls in Turkana. Statistics from the Ministry of Health show that at least 4,000 underage schoolchildren in Turkana became pregnant since the closure of schools in March. Turkana Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor said the Turkana still embrace cultural practices that allow forced and early marriages, contributing to teenage pregnancies during the Covid-19 crisis. “It’s the responsibility of every parent to take care of their children. Children are supposed to stay at home and help their parents. They should not be allowed to do menial jobs in town to earn something, because this is the challenge that has contributed to teenage pregnancies in the county,” the MP said. She warned parents against taking cash to settle cases of teenage pregnancies. Turkana county commissioner Wambua Muthama said chiefs and assistant chiefs who failed to report parents marrying off their teenage girls in exchange for wealth risked losing their jobs. Edited by Henry Makori