Sauti Sol's lead vocalist Bien Aime has opened up on how he met his wife, Chiki Kuruka a few years ago. Speaking in the latest episode of their Sol Family docu-series, Bien revealed that he met Chiki at an event in Nairobi and one of his friends, celebrated photographer Emmanuel Jambo, was also present. What he didn't know is that both him and Chiki were mutual friends of Emmanuel. And Bien thought that Emmanuel and Chiki were dating. "I met her standing at the parking lot with a friend of mine called Emmanuel and I was like 'Emmanuel unachapa kitu safi' (Emmanuel you have bagged yourself a beautiful girl). I actually thought her and Emmanuel were together," Bien narrated. He added that they ended up talking for so long on the night of the event and in his head he thought that Chiki was a very intelligent woman. But just like what most guys do, he pulled the 'Your boyfriend won't mind you talking to me' card but Chiki straight up told him that she was not dating Emmanuel. "On that night, we ended up talking for so long and I was like this girl is intelligent. That time I had been single for about a year. When I met her, I wasn’t actually looking for love in her, but in her I felt like I was drinking a fresh glass of juice talking to Chiki," he said. As for Chiki, she said that she does not believe in love at first sight, but she felt a connection with Bien. "I don't believe in love at first sight, never have never will do, but Bien and I have had a connection from day," Chiki explained. Chiki worked in the music industry in the UK six years ago and at that time, Ghanaian artiste Fuse ODG was a big artiste. His music was being played in many countries. So Chiki talked to Bien about linking Sauti Sol with the star. "I told Bien that I'll speak to Fuse ODG and if everything is cool I'll seek numbers and he said cool," she said. Bien later on invited her for lunch and took her to Mama Oliech, a famous fish joint in Nairobi because he loves ugali and fish. But she didn't expect what she saw. “I was like why are we here because this is not thank you for a hookup because again culture difference. There’s cats walking around everywhere, there isn’t really even a ceiling. We were sitting outside,” Chiki narrated her experience. Bien explained how Chiki didn't like ugali and preferred to eat fish with chapati. "I'm not one to let someone eat fish and chapati on my table. So I said no. We had a good lunch though, good vibes. Then we had lunch and went somewhere and had drinks." He added that they were having so much fun and "It was like we are not letting each other go. As they say, she was turning this way and I was turning that way and our lips met," the vocalist said.