Cracks have emerged in the leadership of the Kenya University and Colleges Central Placement Services after some demanded that disciplinary action be taken against the chief executive. At the heart of the tussle is a dispute over the purchase of two computer servers, in which KUCCPS board claims chief executive John Muraguri oversaw a flawed tendering process. On Wednesday, Muraguri's lawyer, Mwaniki Gachuba, sought to stop disciplinary proceedings against him and eight others. Also caught in the circus are two procurement managers, four evaluation committee members and two finance managers. Sources claim the disciplinary matter is a diversion to taint Muraguri's quest for a second term in office. Gachuba says the accusations against the CEO date back to October 2019, when Muraguri wrote to the board seeking a renewal of his term. At the time, the CEO had only six months to the expiry of his first term –  in March 2020. After Muraguri submitted the letter, an investigation into procurement of the servers was commenced. The procurement was an open tender awarded in 2018, to supply two servers at a cost of Sh13 million. The alleged irregularity was first presented to the board at a meeting on December 13, over a year after the servers were procured. Joe Ager, KUCCPS board chairman, at a meeting raised concerns on the specifications of the servers supplied. The minutes of the meeting are in possession of the Star. The board pegs its decision to seek redress on the procurement to an anonymous complaint and an inspection report by KUCCPS internal systems auditor Christine Mukhongo. However, both the inspection report and the complaint lack a date of when they were carried out and reported. The report by the internal systems auditor, also in possession of the Star, indicates that the delivered servers were availed but missed the critical feature that enhanced speed and operation. “We noted that all specified features were availed except for the processor capacity which was specified as 3.2Ghz while the availed server’s processor was 2.4Ghz,” the inspection report reads. But Gachuba terms this laughable. He claims that the servers procured were way above the stipulated specifications. He accuses the board of trying to arm-twist the CEO. In his written defence presented to the board, Muraguri argues that the tender followed all set down regulations. The tender was awarded to Konvergenz and Muraguri said the procurement process was not challenged during the award of tender. “I accordingly awarded the tender to Konvergenz as the lowest evaluated tender under Section 86 (1) (a) of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act of 2015,” Muraguri in a letter says in defence. “It is therefore untrue that I illegally awarded the tender… It is also untrue that Konvergenz failed to qualify and to comply with tender specifications.” 