The population of vultures in the country is declining at an alarming rate, the government has said. Africa has 11 species of vultures, while Kenya has eight. The eight are white-backed, white-headed, hooded, Rüppell’s, Egyptian, lappet-faced, bearded, and palm nut vulture. The white-backed, white-headed, hooded and Rüppell’s are critically endangered, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List. The IUCN red list is a critical indicator of the health of the world’s biodiversity. Far more than a list of species and their status, it is a powerful tool to inform and catalyse action for biodiversity conservation and policy change, critical to protecting the natural resources we need to survive. It provides information about a range, population size, habitat and ecology, use and/or trade, threats, and conservation actions that will help inform necessary conservation decisions. A critically endangered species is a species that is extremely likely to become extinct in the immediate future. Two species-Egyptian, lappet-faced are endangered while bearded vulture species is near threatened. Palm-nut vulture is of least concern. Tourism CS Najib Balala on Saturday raised concern over the dwindling vulture numbers. Balala said vultures are critical to the ecosystem as they devour carcasses of animals thus keeping the environment clean and therefore limiting the spread of deadly diseases to other wildlife or even humans. By eating rotting carcasses, vultures prevent the spread of diseases such as tuberculosis, rabies and anthrax. “However, despite their importance, their numbers have been dwindling and is worrying. 61% is lost due to poisoning, 29% killed for traditional medicine, 9% due to electrical infrastructure, and 1% killed for food. (Imagine eating a Vulture),” Balala said when he presided over the International Vultures Awareness day at Hell’s Gate National Park. The day that is marked every first Saturday of September each year, is used to create awareness about the role and importance of vultures in the ecosystem and to humankind and the myriad threats facing the species. Balala said the 61 per cent that is poisoned is mostly due to two reasons. The first reason is that they consume carcasses of livestock poisoned by herders who have lost their flock to lions, hyenas, and other carnivores. “These herders poison the carcasses to retaliate, but vultures often fall prey as collateral damage,” her said. Poachers also poison vultures as they are usually the first to locate the carcass and circle above the dead animal. “This pinpoints authorities to the poached animals and in revenge, the poachers poison the birds,” he said. Other threats to Kenya’s vultures include the construction of energy infrastructure (power lines, wind turbines) in vulture flyways, which they often do not see as their eyes are focused downward, not ahead of them, and they collide with these. Another threat is food shortage because habitats are being transformed and natural food sources (such as antelopes and zebra) are declining due to poaching. Most vultures build nests in trees and their breeding is adversely affected by the loss of trees, particularly large ones. Balala urged all the communities that lose their livestock to carnivores, to restrain from leaving behind poisoned carcasses that end up killing the vultures,” he said. “Let us inform the relevant authorities instead of killing the innocent birds. Balala lauded the Kenya Wildlife Service rangers, Nature Kenya, the Peregrine Fund, Olgulului rangers and other organisations for continuously being in the forefront, making sure that the country does not lose more vultures than it has already.