You will no longer see the men and women in white in your compound if you lose your loved one to Covid-19. This follows the latest Health ministry guidelines that require only family members to take over the burial of their relatives who succumb to the virus. However, cultural rights such as washing of the body are still prohibited, with the ministry maintaining that the family should avoid contact with the body as it could still be infectious. Once the body is placed in double body bags and into the casket, nobody will be allowed to reopen the casket. As at Tuesday, 659 Kenyans had succumbed to the virus after the death of nine patients. Director Public Health Francis Kuria on Tuesday said communities will be required to report any deaths to the local administration for the death to be recorded. This, he said, will ensure that requisite investigations are carried out to ensure the cause of death is established. “If it is not a Covid-19 death, then the normal burial permit is issued and interred in normal circumstances but in case it is suspected to be a Covid-19 death, the county public (health) officer will inform the laboratory officers for the sample to be taken and the body preserved as per the protocols,” Kuria said. The burials will, however, still be supervised by public health officers from the ministry who will ensure the set protocols are adhered to. Pallbearers will be required to don in PPEs where necessary. “We have learned that the infectivity of that body if managed properly is minimal, so the family members will be allowed to handle that body as long as they wear some PPEs,” Kuria said. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said this should not be misunderstood to mean that the virus has ceased to be a public health risk. She noted families and communities are encouraged to practise safe rites as they mourn their loved ones, and at the same time maintaining the recommended social distance. Under the protocols, families will be required to ensure handwashing stations are available, and masks are worn. Family members will be required to identify healthy members who have no increased risk of Covid-19 outcomes, such as those that are diabetic or hypertensive, to be the pallbearers. “Going forward, families and communities will play a greater role in the burial of their loved ones who succumb to Covid-19,” Mwangangi said. She added, “It will no longer be necessary for the ministry teams dressed in full hazmats to take over the ceremony while families and relatives watch from a distance with limited participation.” On Tuesday, 139 more people tested positive for the virus, raising the caseload to 37,218. The new cases were from a sample size of 1,774 with the total samples tested to date being 520,124. The number of recoveries stands at 24,147 after 198 more were confirmed by the CAS; 46 from the home-based care programme and 152 from hospitals. Of the new cases, 46 were from Nairobi, 44 from Kisumu while Mombasa, Kericho and Kajiado recorded nine each. Kiambu had six, Laikipia four, Machakos three, Nakuru two while Garissa, Kirinyaga, Kisii, Makueni, Meru, Embu and Turkana recording one new infection each. Edited by R.Wamochie