Former Kenyan champions Sofapaka yesterday staged a massive transfer coup after confirming the arrival of Harambee Stars centre half Michael Kibwage from KCB. The highly-rated centre half, who formerly skippered the national U23, Emerging Stars had proved a hotcake in market but Sofapaka had the last laugh after breaking the bank to beat several suitors among them Gor Mahia. The former AFC Leopards had attracted interests from far as South Africa and Zambia. A senior Sofapaka official, who sought anonymity confirmed that Kibwage inked a two-year long deal with them yesterday and is set to be unveiled soon. The official said they turned  to Kibwage for services after failing to convince former Gor captain and Kenyan international Musa Mohammed who is currently a free agent after ending ties with Zambian champions Nkana FC. Sources within the club indicate that Musa's sky-high demands in sign-on fees saw the club drop out of the race to buy him. “I can confirm that Kibwage has joined us from KCB although it has not been easy to win his signature. He has cost us an arm and a leg but we are happy to have him in our team ahead of the new season. He is a talented young defender whom we feel will strengthen our rear and help us achieve our targets,” said the official Elsewhere, newly acquired Tusker centre half Christopher Oruchum has pledged to fire the club to a superb run next season. The towering defender crossed and signed a two-year contract from AFC Leopards yesterday, becoming the first player to be unveiled by the brewers since the transfer window. Before the 2019-2020 season was cut short due to coronavirus, Tusker had gone for more than 15 matches without defeat and Orumchum has vowed to help them pick from where they left once the league resumes. The former Thika United defender expressed hope in winning titles with the Ruaraka-based club before making his debut at the continental level. “Tusker have what it takes to win the league and consequently have the players exposed to continental matches. Every other player yearns to be at such a big stage and I can't wait for my debut. The club was doing well in the league before it was concluded in April and I join with an ambition of helping them better the results more,” he said moments after his unveiling Meanwhile, the former Thika United defender said switching allegiance was not tough a decision to make. He revealed that he was on the verge of joining the club in 2018 from Thika but the deal hit a snag leaving him with no option but to join the den. Oruchum will face competition for playing time from the quartet of Vincent Ngesa,Ugandan national Rodgers Aloro,Gabriel Wandera and Eugene Asike         