Mombasa governor Hassan Joho on Tuesday issued measures that will help in reviving the county’s economy. Speaking at the county assembly during the Stae of the County address  Joho said the revival of the economy is an urgent matter that must be addressed with seriousness. Towards a total Socio-Economic Transformation of the county, Joho said he has directed residents to devise ways and means of reviving the economy. He said his administration has drawn up a plan in the form of an Economic Stimulus Program (ESP) whose key objectives are to set the County on an economic recovery path by investing in short to medium term solutions to challenges facing the economy of Mombasa. The stimulus program will also expand economic opportunities for employment creation thus increasing the disposable income of Mombasa citizens and subsequently, boosting their purchasing power. "It will also promote local economic development for equity and social stability,  expand access to, and build ICT capacity to expand economic opportunities and accelerate economic growth," he said. Joho said the plan will improve infrastructure and promote business and private sector investment in specific sectors of the economy such as the Blue Economy, Tourism, Manufacturing, Agribusiness and Value Addition, Light Industries, Entertainment, Renewable Energy and Transport and Logistics with a focus on Promoting Exports. The program will also invest in the Conservation of the Environment, for Sustainable Development and undertake comprehensive Investment Climate Reforms, utilize ICT and digitisation, as well as support Innovation, Research and Development and Knowledge Management, to buttress all the efforts. "The ESP is further supported by the Program for Urban Value Chain Innovations and Technology (PRUVIT), which targets to allocate up to a billion shillings of County resources and mobilise, from financial institutions, up to Sh10 billion to support the Sectors identified above," he said. Joho said the sectors have been identified as high impact, low investment and quick turnaround areas that will trigger revival of enterprise activities, create jobs, generate incomes, improve living standards of the populace, increase disposable incomes and purchasing power, lead to increased economic activities, reduce unemployment numbers and by extension improve safety and security in our peri-urban homes. Joho said the development plans of the County Government of Mombasa are guided by its long-term Development Blueprint, the Mombasa Vision 2035 (MV2035), which was born out of the Integrated Sustainable Urban Development (ISUD) Plan of2015. He said the blueprint remains the driving force and engine of the county's growth. "Mr. Speaker Sir, in our planning process, we have taken note of the challenges facing our beloved people, the scarcity of resources and the desire to deliver a better County given the circumstances," he said. He added, "We have therefore invested heavily in the use of data and informatics to drive change and transformation in Mombasa". Joho said the current Covid -19 pandemic further compounded the problems facing the county. Kenya so far has 36,981 confirmed positive cases (and 650 reported deaths) as at 20th September 2020. In Mombasa, Joho said 2,675 cases have been reported having tested 51,380 with 72 deaths and 1,013 recoveries. "Based on the above numbers, Mr. Speaker Sir, am confident to report that my administration has diligently managed this Disease and successfully flattened the curve over the six months period that we have been on this course," he said. Joho said Mombasa has set the pace for the Country at large in terms of the level of preparedness, mobilization of resources especially from the private sector, the inclusion of youth, women, persons with disability and the elderly, in planning and execution of the designed interventions.