Businessman Chris Obure and his bodyguard Robert Bodo have been charged with the murder of Kevin Omwenga. They pleaded not guilty in a virtual session while at the police station. On Wednesday morning, Justice Mumbi Ngugi also dismissed an application by Obure, seeking to quash the murder charge against him and instead be a state witness. While declining to allow the application by Obure to be a state witness, Justice Ngugi said it lacked merit. She further ruled that Obure cannot purport to instruct the office of the DPP on whether to charge him or have him appear as a witness. “Indeed, it seems to me that it would be to stretch the boundaries of review of the DPP’s discretion to a point where it would be against the public interest were applications such as is presently before me, relating to the kind of matter before the High Court, be entertained,” she ruled. Obure’s lawyers further told the court that their client was exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms and wanted the court to order that he be taken for a test before going to remand prison. The judge allowed the application and directed that Obure be escorted for the Covid-19 test. He will however continue to stay in at Kileleshwa police station, where he has been since his arrest. The case will be mentioned on Monday next week when the court will hear the bail application. The DPP has already filed an application in court opposing to their release on bail. The court also noted that the information against Obure is that a man is dead and he is said to have been shot by his co-accused using his firearm. “The only court that can properly receive evidence and unravel the many threads of a murder charged is the trial court,” the judge ruled. Obure and Bodo were arrested two weeks ago. According to the charge sheet, it is alleged that on August 21, 2020, at Galana Suites in Kilimani, the duo murdered Omwenga. On Monday, Obure had asked the court to quash his murder charge arguing that there was evidence in a CCTV footage from his office showing that Bodo stole his gun. He faulted the DPP for charging him with murder instead of making him a state witness. However, in response, the DPP said there is sufficient evidence to charge Obure with murder. The DPP told the court that Obure was seen within the vicinity of Omwenga’s house on the day of the murder. “The investigations revealed that Obure was placed within the vicinity of the scene of the incident on the night of the August 21 at the time of shooting. This is despite him giving the police contradicting information as to his whereabouts,” the court heard. The state also dismissed the CCTV footage released by Obure over the weekend, saying it had been tampered with. “From our investigations, the CCTV footage submitted to the Investigators by Obure had been tampered with and the same is still undergoing forensic analysis to establish its authenticity,” they claimed.