People with dementia may not remember to wash their hands. They may not know why they have to wear a face mask and may not remember to wear one. Social distancing is a foreign concept. People with Alzheimer's and other forms of severe dementia are more at risk of contracting Covid-19 because they don't understand the need to protect themselves. Since people with dementia suffer memory loss, confusion, a decline in language skills and ability to perform daily activities, they may not understand why they no longer can embrace, shake hands and get close to people. On the one hand, granting them freedom of movement exposes them to the risk of contracting the virus or being found on the wrong side of the law for failing to adhere to containment measures. On the other hand, too many restrictions may undermine their mental well-being. While no research indicates dementia increases the risk for contracting Covid-19, it can be predictor of greater severity of illness and poor outcomes, such as a  higher risk of hospitalisation, ICU care and death. The Health ministry confirms more than 3,000 people suffer from dementia, the most common form of which is Alzheimer's. That estimate is very low. The Alzheimer's & Dementia Organisation of Kenya (ADOK) estimates more than 61,000 people suffer dementia. Again, a low estimate. “Luckily, there has been no reported death as a result of Covid-19 amongst these people,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. “The provision of care and support for people living with dementia, particularly at later stages of the condition, is very costly,” he added. Dementia is one of the major causes of disability in older people and undermines their quality of life. Dementia, notably Alzheimer's, is the fifth leading cause of death worldwide. The CAS said 40 per cent of dementia cases could be prevented or delayed by targeting 12 risk factors throughout life. They include excessive alcohol consumption, smoking, head injuries, air pollution, obesity, diabetes and depression, among others. WHO says the risk of developing dementia increases with age and is one of the major causes of disability and dependency. The ministry is working with WHO and other partners to develop the National Dementia Action Plan. Kenya would be among the first countries in Africa to develop such a plan. Covid-19 has disproportionately affected people with dementia; about a quarter of deaths in some countries are those of people with dementia. “In countries with residential care facilities, Covid-19 restrictions to curb the spread of the virus have resulted in interventions that could have accelerated physical and cognitive decline or indirectly contributed to deaths in residential settings,” Aman said. Globally, about 50 million people are living with dementia. About 80 per cent of the public are concerned about developing dementia. Someone in the world develops dementia every three seconds and the number of people living with the disease is predicted to triple to 152 million by 2050, the CAS said. It is estimated the economic burden of dementia is S1 trillion (Sh108 trillion) every year, a figure expected to double in 2050. “Caring for a person with dementia may result in profound impact on mental health. Some of the caregivers have lost their jobs, thus putting the well-being of the patients and carers at risk of deterioration,” ADOK CEO and founder Elizabeth Mutunga said. The Health ministry said about 35 per cent of caregivers worldwide have hidden the diagnosis of dementia of a family member due to stigma. More than 50 per cent of them said their own health has suffered as a result of caring responsibilities. Kenya is among the seven countries globally involved in the STRIDE Project,  strengthening response to dementia in developing countries. The Stride Kenya mandate is to implement and evaluate an anti-stigma toolkit in communities to reduce stigma towards people with dementia and increasing help-seeking behaviour and access to care. The project is a collaboration between the London School of Economics and Alzheimer’s Disease International. Dementia has no cure and begins at 30 to 50 years before symptoms show; about eight per cent of people above 50 have dementia. Because of this, Kenyans above age 50 are urged to go for cognitive screening estimated to take 10 minutes. Such people require cognitive stimulation therapy usually provided in social groups of five to eight people but social distancing makes that difficult. (Edited by V. Graham).