Bandari's first choice goalkeeper Justin Ndikumana is seeking to shed off the three kilograms he has gained during the time sporting activities have been on  suspension ahead of the new season. The Burundian international revealed that his weight had shot from 86kgs to 89 for the time he had been off the pitch despite his efforts in exercising from home. After the government suspended sporting activities, Ndikumana was lucky to get a flight back to Bujumbura but returned to the country last week to begin preparations for the new season. The former Sofapaka goalkeeper said his efforts to regain his body fitness received a boost after the Ministry of Sports cleared gyms to reopen last weekend. "I had been training back at home in the past months although the sessions were not as rigorous as the ones we are being put through by the Bandari's trainers. The restrictions in Burundi were few but I couldn't risk my health by training and mingling with teams back there. I have added three kilograms but I hope by the time we are cleared to return to the pitch, I will have regained my physical fitness," he said. Meanwhile the club's team manager Wilson Oburu says they are awaiting clearance from the management to launch their gym sessions as a team.  The former goalkeeper at the club welcomed the ministry's directive for sportsmen to access gym services which he noted will go a long way in addressing the fitness levels of their players before the season begins. "I am happy the government allowed us to back to the gyms. If our bosses permit us, then we will start training in groups of seven at our gym to boost our fitness levels," said the former Tusker custodian. At the same time, Oburu called on the government to borrow a leaf from Uganda, Tanzania And Zambia and open football activities. The former Kenyan international said clubs were willing to abide by the health protocols and conduct all tests as directed by Fifa. "Since the number of positive cases have gone down significantly, it's time the government lifts the ban. Uganda, Tanzania and Zambia have resumed training and we can learn from them too. Our footballers are suffering out there as majority of them rely on the game to generate income, " he added.