Senators have retreated to an informal meeting (Kamukunji) to discuss the contentious revenue formula before the debate resumes. Majority leader Samuel Poghisio said the House leadership led by himself and Minority leader James Orengo are going to brief the members on their resolution on the controversial formula. "The 12-member committee that was formed to deliberate this matter agree and asked the leadership to go and meet with the executive. We have done that and we have a report," Poghisio said as he moved the adjourned motion. This comes only hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM boss Raila Odinga and Council of Governor's chair Wycliffe Oparanya met the House leadership at State House, Nairobi. In the meeting, the President pledged to allocate an additional Sh50 billion to counties' budget during the Financial Year (2021/22). However, this will depend on the financial performance of the economy. The funds, Uhuru said, will go towards efforts to strengthening devolution in the country. Senators reconvened for a record tenth time on Tuesday to debate and vote on the contentious third basis for sharing county revenue. The Head of State urged Senators to urgently resolve the revenue sharing stalemate so as to avoid disruption of service delivery in the Counties. Governors have raised concerns over stalled operations due to lack of funds threatening to send county staff on unpaid leave. The Senate was represented at the meeting by Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio, Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata, Minority Leader James Orengo and Deputy Majority Leader Fatuma Dullo. This follows they failed to hold an informal meeting (Kamukunji) On Monday as ordered by Lusaka to strike a balance ahead of Tuesday’s sitting. Lusaka had ordered for the meeting to brief the senators on the resolution of the House leadership on the proposals fronted by a 12-member informal committee formed to strike a deal on the formula. The committee had presented two contradicting reports to the leadership led by Majority leader Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot) and Minority leader James Orengo (Siaya). The panel recommended to the leaders to consult Uhuru and Raila for further consensus-building.