A row has erupted over the construction of a mosque on government land in Mwatamba, Nyali constituency. The construction was stopped on Wednesday by county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo after more than 100 residents petitioned the government against it, citing lack of public participation, lack of knowledge about the project and its suspicious faceless sponsors. On Friday, the unfinished mosque was demolished by hired men. A section of clerics lead by Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao on Sunday protested the demolition, accusing area MP Mohammed Ali of being behind it. “We have given him 72 hours to apologise to all Muslims across the world for demolishing the mosque, failure to which we will report him to Allah through special prayers,” said Sheikh Ngao. However, Ali said he was not involved in the demolition saying his faith does not allow him to demolish any place of worship. He accused faceless tycoons of using religion to fight him for trying to stop alleged grabbing of the public land. “The construction had been stopped by the government because the area residents had petitioned. Using religion and machine gun preachers like Juma Ngao to fight political battles is a dangerous trend,” he warned. Area MCA Kombe Nzai said Turkish investors had volunteered to construct the mosque for the residents, 600 of whom agreed to the deal. “We have their signatures,” Nzai said. He said the deal was mooted in January when he met the Turkish investor at TSS mosque and engaged him. However, Ali said the supposed mosque is just a ploy to try and grab the government land earmarked for construction of a chief’s office, a social hall and the assistant county commissioner’s office. “How come there is no signage and no approvals for the construction? How come we have been looking for the one constructing the mosque for the last 14 days without knowing who it is?” posed Ali. But Sheikh Ngao said demolishing a mosque attracts the wrath from God, threatening to invoke special prayers against the MP. “He is a Muslim and is then demolishing a mosque? That is unheard of,” the cleric said. Ustadh Adam Wario, who says he was put in charge of the project, said they will rebuild the mosque. “This is a place of worship and we will rebuild it,” he said. Sheikh Ngao dared Ali to demolish the mosque after its rebuilding, saying they will ensure his political career is finished. “He should, in fact, change his name from Mohammed Ali to Jicho la Hasidi,” said Ngao. Kitiyo told the Star he was aware of the issues involving the construction and said whoever felt aggrieved could go to court. “I have information about that whole issue. But there is always the option of going to court for whoever feels aggrieved,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori