Anyone who gives al Shabaab militants water, food and shelter should be treated as an enemy, Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim said Thursday. Wajir East constituency, which borders Somalia, is among areas that have been raided by terrorists on several occasions, leading to the deaths of security officers and civilians. Police vehicles and communications masts have also been destroyed. Among the most affected areas are Khorof Harar, Kharsa and Konton. The MP said leaders will continue to work closely with the national government to improve security in the region. Kassim spoke in the border town of Khorof Harar when he joined Northeastern region and county committees to assess the security situation in the area. The legislator said many are times when local leaders criticise the national government without knowing about efforts being put in place to fix things. To fight insecurity, the government has since set up a KDF camp in Konton and a special forces camp in Kharsa. “My constituency has been one of those that has faced the wrath of al Shabaab. We have lost our gallant officers and KPRs in the line of duty. That is not only a great loss to our country but to their families. It is for this reason that we need to continue engaging the government to improve things,” he said. Kassim said even as the government works towards improving the general security, residents' input is paramount. “As a leader, I have been consistent on security matters by strongly voicing my concerns and openly saying what I think should be done to further improve things. These militants have deterred our development initiatives, and we might not realise much until and unless we unite,” he said. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana, who visited the New Khorof Harar subcounty administration unit, said the government is determined to wipe out the militants. He called for continued cooperation between the security officers, local leaders and members of the public. “I am happy to report that we have made tremendous progress in securing our borders and region at large. I may not tell you everything that we are doing on the ground to completely eliminate them [terrorists], but I want to assure Kenyans that our officers are not sleeping. All we are calling for is cooperation,” Ndalana said. Edited by A.N   