The United Kingdom government on Tuesday announced a donation of Sh 144 million to help poverty-stricken families in Mombasa. The fund will help cushion 10,000 vulnerable families living in informal settlements from the negative economic impacts of Covid-19. During a visit to Mombasa, the British High Commissioner to Kenya, Jane Marriott said  the funds will be channelled through mobile cash transfers directly to individuals and families to help with their most pressing needs including paying rent,purchasing food or other basic items. "The coronavirus pandemic is global.. we are all in this together. Across the world, there is a significant impact on people’s jobs and livelihoods. The UK and Kenya are working together to support companies, jobs and families who need help during this difficult time," Marriott said. "In particular, the UK partnership that I am pleased to be able to announce will further help vulnerable communities in Mombasa access food and other basic supplies: cash enables families to buy what they urgently need. This support will also stimulate the wider local economy as most of the basic items are supplied by small business owners living within their communities." This comes weeks after the UK donated Sh155 million education support for vulnerable children in Kenya affected by the Coronavirus pandemic. The fund contributed to salaries of teachers in Kenya who are educating children in refugee-hosting communities. Present during Marriott's visit was Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who appreciated the donation on behalf of the county, highlighting the devastation occasioned on the world economy by the Covid-19 pandemic. "I can’t thank the UK Government and the British people enough for this kind gesture. It’s not just about philanthropy but more to do with humanity. This means a lot to the people of Mombasa and the country at large," he said. According to Marriott, this donation is part of the UK’s support to 50,000 people living in informal settlements in Mombasa and Nairobi.