The Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has ordered a crackdown on vehicles flouting traffic rules. Mutyambai on Tuesday said the move comes following concerns from members of the public on how motorists have become ignorant of the rules. During the #EngageTheIG session on twitter, various Kenyans had asked the IG what have become of the traffic rules. While some said motorists have no regard to traffic lights, pedestrian crossings of roundabouts, others said it is unfortunate that some motorists especially matatus would reverse on Thika road under the watch of police. Thika Road, Mombasa road, Ngong Road and Jogoo Road are among the hotspots that were mentioned. But the IG said, "Following complaints raised during #EngageTheIG on Tuesday about matatus and motorists ignoring traffic lights on Ngong Road routinely, I ordered for a crackdown immediately. This crackdown has netted scores of matatus today and they will all be arraigned in court". According to the IG, it is imperative law and order is maintained on the roads. "All of us must work together towards achieving a society where everyone upholds the rule of law. Not to avoid arrests, but for the good of all other fellow citizens. Have a good evening and obey the law at all times," he said. When the Star reached out to Nairobi Traffic Police boss Joshua Omukata and the Central OCPD Mark Wanjala to establish how many vehicles had been netted but they indicated they were in a meeting and would revert once the data is tabulated. While refuting claims that corruption has been condoned among traffic officers, Mutyambai said any member of the public who has been asked for a bribe by any officer should report the matter. He said the National Police Service has established the Internal Affairs Unit where a member of the public can forward complaints about investigations. "We DO NOT condone corruption at any level, any officer, member of the public caught will face the full force of the law. We also encourage members of the public to report such cases for immediate action," he said.