Women leaders drawn from various parties want President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament as advised by Chief Justice David Maraga last week. The leaders under the Political Parties Liaison Committee Women Caucus said Parliament has betrayed the country by failing to enact a legislation that will ensure the two thirds gender rule is adhered to. “Parliament has repeatedly failed and betrayed the women of Kenya who make up  over 50 per cent of the population. This population should be reflected in our institutions, whether elected or appointed,” caucus secretary Jane Anika said on Monday at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. They complained that several formulas of attaining the rule were presented to Parliament but none was adopted. “The women of Kenya have waited for a decade since the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010, and the legislation on the two-thirds gender rule remains the only pending legislation to date,” they said. Parties represented at Uhuru Park included the United Green movement, People’s Empowerment Party, LDP, Amani National Congress, Justice and Freedom Party, Green Congress of Kenya, Farmers Party of Kenya, Thirdway Alliance, Chama Cha Uzalendo, Civic Renewal Party and Safina. They proposed that women be nominated to Parliament based on the percentage of votes garnered during the preceding election to ensure the two thirds gender rule is realised. They also proposed that each county be divided into two voting blocs and automatically produce two woman representatives to the National Assembly. This will automatically ensure the National Assembly has 94 woman reps. The leaders also want each registered party to nominate one woman to the National Assembly.  The country has 70 registered political parties. They hailed Maraga's advisory saying it offers an opportunity for the country to reflect on the democratic achievements so far. Also, by dissolving Parliament, the President will demonstrate he is a defender of the Constitution, they said. “The President should stand by the women of Kenya by safeguarding the gains they have made by promptly removing this constitutional barrier without undue delay by defending the Constitution that he solemnly swore to defend," Anika said. “Our continued existence and prosperity as a nation is predicated on the rule and respect of the law,” she added. They have also called upon the various government agencies, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties and political leaders to devote special attention to women candidates even during the primaries. “Women need to be supported in order to compete effectively with their male counterparts,” they said. Edited by EKibii