Mwatamba mosque project chairman Adam Wario on Monday denied knowledge of any funds given by Turkish donors to purchase land. The new twist comes after Nyali MP Mohammed Ali alleged that at least Sh70 million was donated by the Turkish funder, half of which was meant to purchase land on which the mosque was to be constructed. “Of the amount, Sh30-40 million was supposed to go towards the purchase of a piece of land for the construction of a mosque. This is where the story is,” the MP said. The land on which the mosque in Mwatamba was being constructed before being demolished is public. The MP said the land was earmarked for construction of a social hall, a chief’s office and the office of the assistant county commissioner. “That is why they want to build that mosque on public land to avoid the cost of buying land. Why?” Ali asked. However, on Monday, Wario said he was not aware of the funds in question. “We only gave the sponsor our support. We have not seen or heard of any Sh70 million. All we want to see is the mosque constructed,” he said. Wario spoke during a press conference in Buxton, Mombasa, in which several Muslim clerics allied to Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao defended him against accusations by MP Ali that he is a conman and a ‘machine gun preacher’. On Sunday, Ali denounced Sheikh Ngao, saying he is a political, religious and social gun for hire, always involved in different things that are controversial. “Why is he the only one who is heard defending people with questionable character? He is a machine gun preacher ready to do anything for a little fee,” Ali said. This angered Ngao's supporters, who on Monday said he is a respected Muslim scholar. “Mohammed Ali should know that he is too young to understand where people have come from. Sheikh Ngao is a respected leader who has done great things for this religion,” Sheikh Amir Zani from Likoni said. Kemnac director of education Hafidh Muhsin said unlike Ali, Sheikh Ngao is not a populist or activist leader. “There is a hidden agenda in this whole saga. Ali is hiding something but it will all come to light,” he said. The clerics said the MP should apologise to the Muslim fraternity across the globe for orchestrating the demolition of the mosque.