Civic organisations in Migori have called for peace, fairness and justice ahead of an impeachment motion against Governor Okoth Obado to be tabled on Wednesday or Thursday. Their statement comes as ODM and pro-removal MCAs held a Kamukunji meeting in the assembly grounds on Tuesday afternoon to iron out issues. North Kanyamkago MCA George Omamba is said to have obtained stay orders to challenge the deputy speaker position held by Bukira Central MCA Mathews Chacha. “Both of them are supporting the motion, we need to fix the tabling to be legal to avoid it being dropped on grounds it was tabled and discussed by an illegal speaker. We worked on getting the latest court order to be safe,” an MCA told the Star. The aim of the kamukunji was to find a legal position as it emerged Speaker Boaz Okoth, a close ally of Obado, may not be available in the assembly. DCI and EACC officers have increased their presence at the assembly since two weeks ago when Okoth was attacked after his security was withdrawn. He blamed ODM party. But the party said they are out to sponsor the ouster of the governor after he was charged with corruption together with his children and allies, and barred from accessing office. On Monday during the celebration of the International Peace Day at Kehancha Primary, activists called for peace, fairness and justice to prevail in the assembly. They said it was sad that already, MCAs, political activists and social media users have reported cases of intimidation even before the motion is tabled. “We want peace and tranquillity as residents have already accepted that the motion is on course, we need it to be dealt with so we have a smooth transition for development,” Migori Interfaith Council representative Bishop Charles Otigo said. Despite reported cases of intimidation, he said, they are satisfied as “so far there are no threats in the ouster bid”. Peace Net Kenya official Castro Baraza said residents expect a peaceful process. He also applauded the residents for demonstrating a willingness to live peacefully despite political, religious and cultural diversity. “We need MCAs to adopt a fair and transparent vote and avoid situations that can heighten divisions and animosity,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie