The Nairobi County Assembly Jubilee leadership has urged leaders to refrain from dragging family into political ‘verbal’ battle. This comes after Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng’eno utterances mentioning the name of Former first lady Mama Ngina while criticising President Uhuru Kenyatta last weekend. He was arrested and accused of insulting First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta and making hostile remarks against founding President, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. He has since been charged with hate speech and offensive conduct and released on a Sh1 million cash bail. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, condemned Ng’eno’s arrest as an attempt to silence dissenting voices and dared the police to arrest him. He accused President Kenyatta of sidelining Ruto in an administration he campaigned selflessly to ascend to power, saying the second in command had been reduced to a squatter in a government he was elected to serve. Wading into the issue, Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo on Thursday condemned the two MPs, stating that elected leaders should avoid insults and vulgar language. He noted that such public utterances are insightful in nature, borders on hate speech, and can cause a breach of peace in public. “A mother is someone who brings us into this world and it is uncalled for that elected leaders can stoop low and utter such words. Mama Ngina deserves respect just like other mothers. None should allow anyone else to insult the parents of another, whether for political expediency, or whatsoever reason,” Guyo explained. “Despite having different political ambitions or supporting different camp, let us leaders tone the language we use in public and keep off dragging people’s families for political expediency." Guyo who is also Matopeni MCA has called upon political parties to take up the matter and not leave it to investigative bodies alone. Majority Whip Paul Kados referred to such verbal attacks as uncalled for, uncouth and display lack of maturity on the part of those behind these kinds of insults. “What Hon Oscar Sudi, Hon Johanna Ng'eno and others on social media are doing is composing war songs and beating drums of war against the prevailing peace brought about by the Handshake,” he said. Kados who is also the Mihang’o ward rep appealed to the DCI, NCIC and EACC to move with speed and enforce the standards of conduct of all State and Public Officers as prescribed in Chapter 6 of the Constitution, The Leadership and Integrity Act 2012, the NCIC Act 2008 and Article 73 (1) (a) of the Constitution of Kenya against such elements. He further said the leaders involved in the regrettable outbursts are in his view unfit to hold public office and should be quarantined at the law enforcement isolation centres to curb the spread of such hate to the innocent citizenry.