President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday evening joined world leaders in calling for effective and coordinated efforts to stop biodiversity loss. The President emphasized the need for urgent global action to not only reverse the destruction of nature but also accelerate the achievement of SDGs. “We must all work together with scaled-up ambition through partnerships, collaborations and cooperation,” he said. He spoke in a recorded video delivered during the virtual High-Level Summit on Biodiversity at the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA 2020). UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, UNGA 2020 President Volkan Bozkir, President Xi Jinping of China, Prince of Wales His Royal Highness Prince Charles and French President Emmanuel Macron were among a galaxy of world leaders who voiced their support for global action to protect biodiversity and natural habitats. Terming it a “super year” for biodiversity and nature, Uhuru said the challenges the world has faced this year have provided a unique opportunity to get back on track on both biodiversity and nature. He pointed out that the theme of the summit “Urgent action on biodiversity for sustainable development” speaks volumes to the role the world must collectively play to execute the global responsibility. “We must build back better and smarter as it is no longer ‘business as usual’ but rather ‘business unusual’ to urgently deal with the vulnerabilities of our societies, our economies for a post Covid-19 recovery,” he said. The Head of State rooted for the empowerment of global organizations responsible for conservation to adequately deal with threats to biodiversity. “It is, therefore, critical that the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN Habitat) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) among other global bodies such as the Convention for International Trade on Endangered Species (CITIES) are empowered to take up the challenge in a holistic manner,” the President said. He acknowledged that sustained conservation efforts Kenya has put in place over the years including ban on single use plastics have started paying dividends. Such interventions, he said,  have resulted in enormous benefits for livelihoods and the environment. “Furthermore, Kenya has sought fundamental actions in the green and blue economy premised on clean energy, increased forest cover, conservation as well as the sustainable use of oceans to protect our biodiversity,” President Kenyatta said.