Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki is spending another night in police custody as he awaits his bail ruling on Wednesday morning. Chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti is to deliver the ruling. Muthomi was charged alongside 19 others with the loss of about Sh35 million county funds. They allegedly conspired to commit corruption between January 1 and October 31, 2018 at Tharaka Nithi county offices in relation to tender for the supply and installation of an incinerator. Muthomi, David Mwangi and Margaret Mugweru were jointly charged with fraudulent practices in procurement. The court heard that on January 2018 and September 24 2018 at the county offices, the trio, being directors of Generation Electronic and Allied Ltd, fraudulently procured and supplied an incinerator to the county government in respect of the tender. The court heard that they supplied, installed and commissioned the incinerator while misrepresenting the facts that it was procured and supplied by Westomaxx Investments Ltd. Muthomi was further charged with a third count of conflict of interest in relation to the tender. Fridah Muthoni Murungi, the county Environment and Natural Resources executive, was separately charged with failure to submit the project report to the National Environment Management Authority and failing to comply with the law, applicable procedures and guidelines relating to procurement. The prosecution did not oppose their release on bail but asked the court to issue stringent terms, arguing that the offences they face are serious and if found guilty they risk jail and the fine is twice the amount stolen. Among the issues the prosecution asked the court to consider in giving bail include the nature and gravity of the charges. "In this case, the accused face numerous counts and we urge the court to grant bail that is commensurate to the charges,” the prosecution argued. However, lawyer Paul Nyamodi urged the court to exercise its discretion, saying that bail is not a punishment to the accused persons. “When considering bail, the trial court should consider individual circumstances of the accused persons and the allegations made on the charge sheet,” Nyamodi said. Lawyer Muthomi Thiankolu told the court that one of his clients, Caroline Mwangi, who was absent in court, had recently given birth via C-section and was dealing with post-surgery complications, hence could not attend court. He pleaded with the court not to issue warrants of arrest against her as she has a newborn. Thiankolu urged the court not to punish the seven-day-old baby when granting bail to Mwangi, further claiming that she was married to Kenneth Ngai, another accused person in the case. He asked the court to consider the couple when granting bail because the burden will fall on the husband who will have to pay both their bail along with their employees Japheth Nyange, also an accused in the case.