Former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has blamed President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for the heated political temperatures in the country. Kiunjuri also blamed the three for the trading of insults being witnessed in the country adding that they started it all before their supporters followed suit. Speaking on Friday during the burial of his sister in-law Anne Wairimu at Kamwanya in Mugunda Ward in Kieni constituency, he said on the President’s side, there are people who wake up every day as if they are on the payroll to insult the DP. The same applies to those who are on the DP’s side who insult the President and have now gone to an extent of insulting former First Lady and President Kenyatta’s mother Mama Ngina Kenyatta. He also said Raila kept mum when ODM legislators like Embakasi East MP Babu Owino and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga insulted leaders from Jubilee Party. But he (Raila) is now lamenting that leaders should be respected, the ex-CS said. President Kenyatta’s followers, he added,  followed suit when people like Murathe hurled insults at the DP before the habit spilled to Ruto’s followers. “The buck now stops with the three of you. If we shall have peace, if you want to unite Kenyans and if you want this nonsense to come to an end, then Raila, Kenyatta and Ruto must apologise to the nation because you started it all,” he said. The Service Party of Kenya (TSP) leader said the three must respect Kenyans if they want to be respected by them. But they should not turn to Kenyans accusing them of being indisciplined. The three should extend a handshake between them and give Kenyans direction, he said. He called on the President and his deputy to unite the country as they pledged to do when they were first elected in office. Kiunjuru said though both of them had given the promise; they have since abandoned the position of unity. On the BBI, he said Kenyans will read the document and decide whether to reject or support it saying BBI was not the President nor his deputy’s idea "but that of Raila". “We did not elect you to come and change the Constitution,” he said, referring to Uhuru and Ruto. The former CS said he did not see the need for the country to spend Sh 10 billion to do a referendum while farmers are suffering across the country. Kiunjuri also faulted Raila and Ruto saying they have no interests of the Mt Kenya region at heart after they failed to lobby their senators to pass the third revenue-sharing formula. He wondered why Mt Kenya should vote for them if they cannot help pass the formula. The decried the division in the region saying it has turned it from being kingmaker to swing votes. The region’s vote may end up being divided into two between Raila and Ruto, he said. Also present were Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami and Laikipia Senator John Kinyua among other leaders. Edited by R.Wamochie