Kwale and Kilifi counties have been hit by an acute shortage of coconut fruits, Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga has said. He said on Tuesday most coconut trees are booked by Tanzanians and paid for in advance. “We have reports that our neighbors pay the farmers while the nut trees are still maturing, leaving them with nothing to sell locally." One coconut is sold at about Sh12-16 but the Tanzanians double the price. Boga said the business has been going on for long but needs to be regulated to salvage the coconut industry. Kwale has more than 2,600 coconut growers. They sell the nuts to Kentaste Limited Products in Ukunda which has the capacity to process more than one million coconuts per month. The PS said the company has recorded low production due to the scarcity of coconuts. Kentaste general supervising officer Betty Chemboi said they are struggling to find nuts to maintain the production flow. She said many farmers have deflected and went for higher prices, which she said are manipulative and asked the state to intervene. Meanwhile, Boga has emphasised the need for farmers to adopt high-yielding seedlings to improve production of food and cash crops in Kwale. The PS said almost 10 million coconut trees have become less productive because of old age. “It is time now we embrace a new type of cashew nut, mango and coconut trees that develop within a short time to maximise farm produce,” he said. He said through the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation, the government will distribute high-yielding coconut varieties, among other crops, in phases. The ancient nuts trees known as the East African Tall take almost 10 years to mature, unlike the hybrid one which develops within three years. The dwarf coconut trees can produce about 300 nuts annually as opposed to the tall trees that yield 40-100 coconuts. Boga said various products are sourced from coconut trees with 100 per cent consumption. The inputs contribute about 1.5 per cent to the agricultural production in the country. Governor Salim Mvurya said his administration is already partnering with Kentaste to improve supply of coconuts to reach the international level. Edited by R.Wamochie