t’s official: Former Trade minister Mukhisa Kituyi and Kenya’s highest-ranking diplomat in the United Nations system will run for president in 2022. He has already set up a secretariat but declined to confirm speculation he is President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's 'secret candidate'. In an exclusive interview with the Star on Thursday last week, the UNCTAD boss hinted strongly at running on the ticket of a new political party that does not clash with Jubilee or Nasa. Controversial Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi will be charged on Monday with hate speech and incitement after he surrendered to police in Eldoret. The MP surrendered at the Langas police station in his constituency before 8am on Sunday. He was placed under arrest, then flown to Nakuru Central police station for further interrogation by police and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. ODM leader Raila Odinga is expected to tour Kisii and Nyamira counties this week in a bid to consolidate his strongholds ahead of 2022. Raila's visit will come barely a week after Deputy President William Ruto toured Kisiiand addressed roadside gatherings. Ruto is making inroads in regions previously considered Raila's strongholds including the Coast and Gusiiland. Raila has been camping in the Coast for the last three days. The visit was preceded by a similar tour made by the DP. The anti-graft agency has fired a warning shot at governors that its resolve to rid their counties of wanton graft is unshaken, as the sixth governor goes down on Monday. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak said the agency is keeping its eye on the ball and will not be deflected from its pursuit of county graft barons and their cronies. “The EACC remains focused and committed to the discharge of its mandate to the people of Kenya,” Mbarak told the Star, reminding officials that county coffers are not their personal cash cows. Nairobi’s Mukuru slums will be upgraded in a Sh15 billion programme through which 13,000 new housing units will be built. The Cabinet approved the project last week on Thursday. The Mukuru Social Housing Project will be undertaken jointly by the government and private investors. President Uhuru Kenyatta said this is part of his affordable housing programme, which is part of the Big Four agenda.