The Commission on Administrative Justice has begun pushing counties to domesticate the right to information law to enable the public to have easy access. The Access to Information Act became effective in 2016 and all counties are expected to pass similar legislation. Currently, the commission is going to all the 47 counties to assess the level of compliance and garner support to ensure the law is operationalised at the county level. Commission chairperson Florence  Kajuju was in Kilifi county where she also listened to complaints from the public with a view to addressing them. She thanked Governor Amason Kingi and his County Executive Committee members for allowing the commission to educate them on the mandate. "We deal with complaint management, we wanted to see how responsive the county government is to the citizens because what matters is how the counties respond to the complaints," she said. Kajuju said Kingi told the commission that the county has a structure through which the citizens raise issues. She said they deal with complaints that have not been dealt with in the county by acting as mediators between the county and state officers on one hand and the public on the other. They have discussed with Kingi, who is chairs the Council of Governors' committee of Legal Affairs, to push for the domestication of the Access to Information Act to operationalise it. "They are going to come up with a bill so as to pass it. We have given them a model law so that they are going to look at it and come up with their own to make sure there is access to information," Kajuju said. The ombudsman said Kingi has ensured that the county is proactive in ensuring information is accessed in procurement and tendering for county projects. Since the beginning of the year, the commission has received 800,000 complaints, "of which 80 per cent have been resolved". In Kilifi, she said, they had complaints of noise pollution which will be addressed in a meeting on Friday. The complaints include poor services by public servants such as identity cards and passport application. Kajuju said they toured Laikipia where the governor already began a program to ensure they process the Act. Other counties include Kisii, Kajiado, Busia, and others. So far, she said, they have four offices countrywide and will open the fifth one soon, adding that they have agreed with governors to ensure officers are dispatched to remote areas to collect complaints. Kingi said the law was brought to the county in March and had it not been for the Covid-19 pandemic, it would be ready. He said in line with the Constitution, there has to be public participation which is barred by measures to reduce the spread of the virus. "Once it is over, we will give a chance for people to interact the journey for ensuring this Act becomes law," he said. The governor said his county has been ahead in ensuring access to information is made easier by ensuring all information regarding tenders is published in an online portal. Even the Covid-19 funds are already online for anyone to see how the money was spent, he said. Kingi promised to support the commission to ensure the legislation is domesticated in all counties. Edited by R.Wamochie