The Pharmacy and Poisons Board has unveiled a team to strengthen the pharmacovigilance and post-market surveillance in the country. The Kenya National Technical Working Group on Pharmacovigilance and Post-Marketing Surveillance was inaugurated by Health CAS Rashid Aman. This comes even as the Pharmaceuticals Society of Kenya decried an increase in unlicensed chemists and clinics during the Covid-19 period. Speaking during the virtual launch, Rashid said KTWG-PV/PMS is a great initiative that will strengthen surveillance systems in the country. “With the increasing access to medical products and health technologies, there is greater need to develop and strengthen the vigilance and surveillance systems for patient safety and thus collaborative efforts between different key stakeholders in health care service provision cannot be under scored,” he said. Aman reiterated that in the era of sustainable development goals, regulatory authorities play a pivotal role in promoting universal health coverage. Essential medicines are considered an integral part of UHC. They are an indispensable element for delivery of services and are also a requirement for high-quality care. “Collaboration with various stakeholders is key to ensure we leverage on technical expertise and resources to the monitoring of the quality, safety and efficacy of these medical products and health technologies,” he said. The CAS said the ministry through the board is committed to providing Kenyans with safe, quality and efficacious medical products and health technologies and is looking forward to great out puts from the working group. “The Ministry of Health would like to thank all key stakeholders for their financial and technical support in enhancing patient safety in our country," he added. The board’s CEO Dr Fred Siyoi said TWG will be a mechanism for collaborations with various stakeholders involved in commodity management support to improve access and management of health commodities. “Pharmacovigilance and Post market surveillance of medical products and health technologies in Kenya is one of the key regulatory functions that needs strengthening,” Siyoi said. He added, “The KTWG-PV/PMS will play a key role in provision of technical support to PPB as it works towards ensuring quality, safety and efficacy of medical products and health technologies.” The event brought together key partners and stakeholders in the industry among them the Health ministry, the World Health Organization, the East Africa Community, Kenya Medical Supplies Authority, Mission for Essential Drugs Supplies, Kenya Medical Research Institute and USIAD partners. Edited by EKibii