President Uhuru Kenyatta has lauded the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) for its role in the renewal of key infrastructure projects in the country. The President who spoke on Thursday at the KDF's Recruits Training School in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County during a pass out parade, thanked the KDF for successfully rehabilitating major railway lines in the country. KDF officers have participated in reinstatement of the Nairobi to Nanyuki railway line and are currently part of the ongoing works on the Nakuru to Kisumu line. Uhuru further commended the forces for their role in the renewal of the Kisumu Port which is set to revitalise the lake region economy. "We also recognize the contribution that our Defense Forces continue to make to our country as a whole, especially in utilizing their skills and assets to spearhead selected strategic development projects," the president said. At the same time, he challenged Kenyans especially Government institutions to emulate the efficiency exhibited by the military in implementation of public projects. "I urge all Kenyans and, indeed, all Government Agencies, to emulate this commitment of excellence from the Kenya Defence Forces," he said. He applauded the military for its contribution to national and regional security saying KDF had achieved good progress in the fight against terrorism. Beyond regional security and stability, the President said KDF continues to make the country proud by excelling at regional, continental and global levels. "The continuous participation of our military in these missions reflects the confidence that the international community, through the United Nations and the Security Council, in particular, has in our Nation’s Defence Forces. This, indeed, is a true testimony of the high standards of our military training and professionalism," he noted. The Head of State noted with satisfaction the growing number of women joining KDF saying his commitment as president was to ensure equal opportunities for all Kenyans. "It is important for these young women, working alongside men, to find meaning and purpose in their work. When these young men and women joined the Kenya Defense Forces, from all parts of this great nation, they became one cohesive family," he said.