Machachari actress Wanjiku Mburu, aka Mama Baha, has got a tattoo to honour her missing brother, George Mburu. Mama Baha says George and his cousin were abducted in Somalia in January 2014. He had gone to the country to work as an engineer. To keep his memory alive, she has had three crosses, the short form of George’s name (Jijo), a heartbeat and the words faith, hope and love inked on the back of her neck and left shoulder. She posted a photo of her getting the tattoo on Instagram with the caption: "For you my blood brother, for you I shed a tear and for you I will cross the ocean...". During George's birthday in 2016, she penned a moving letter to President Uhuru Kenyatta, which read; ‘Dear President, I am writing to you and this is me clutching at straws… I was told not to write to you, others said I should follow the chain of command, which I did and after a few attempts to seek an audience with the relevant people we had our 1st meeting and everyone was happy to see ‘us’. Well that’s until we told them why we were really there and no sooner did they hear us, there were promises of immediate action…there was ” call me 1st thing in the morning….” which I did and this was the narrative…in hushed tones I was told..” I am in a meeting I’ll call you later..” this went on for a while until they no longer bothered to pick my calls… His children need their father, his wife-a husband, his parents- a son and me- MY BROTHER. I remain in your service, Shiku’. It’s been five years with no word from the government. The actress last December uploaded a 15-minute video in which she narrated her family’s pain, saying the government has been silent. “They told us two things; that the government does not negotiate with terrorists. That is fine, I watched Captain Phillips. But you would [do] everything you can to bring back Kenyan citizens," she said. "The second thing we were told is to keep quiet about this. It has been six years. Enough is enough and I’m not keeping quiet about this. We have been patient about this. I watch my mum and dad break down every day."