The EACC has asked the board of Tana River Development Authority (Tarda) to suspend chief executive officer Steven Githaiga. The CEO is under probe on allegations of falsifying his date of birth on his identity card from 1953 to claim he was born in 1958. EACC boss Twalib Mbarak in a letter dated September 7 wants Tarda chairman Jamleck Kamau to suspend Githaiga until the investigations are concluded.“The findings of investigations cast serious aspersion on his conduct and its therefore prudent and in the interest of the public that the officer be suspended from public service pending finalization of investigations,” Mbarak’s letter reads. Investigations, he said, established that Githaiga was first registered in 1979 and was issued with an ID card 1901968 showing he was born in 1953. In 2015, he applied for change of date of birth from October 20, 1953 to October 20, 1958, changes which were approved on basis of a birth certificate he presented to the national registration bureau. EACC says Githaiga has two birth certificates – one that was issued in Nyeri in August 1979 and another issued in Gatundu in January 2016. The department of civil registration, Twalib said, has confirmed the birth record issued in Nyeri has the true particulars of Githaiga’s birth. The registration department has cancelled the record issued in Gatundu.“The commission is in possession of forensic proof that the date of birth in the immigration passport application forms was altered from 1953 to 1958. Twalib wants Jamleck to suspend Githaiga “to prevent further illegalities from taking place.” “The commission considering the applicable law notes that Githaiga’s conduct constitutes ethical breaches contrary to the integrity and ethical requirements governing the conduct of state and public officers,” the EACC boss’ letter reads. The official, the agency believes, could be in violation of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012; Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003; and the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003. The suspension follows fears the officer is likely to conceal, alter, destroy, remove records, documents, or evidence; intimidate witness or interfere with investigations.