The 300-bed capacity isolation wards in Siaya are ready for occupation after Governor Cornel Rasanga launched the construction in July to offer healthcare to Covid-19 patients. The Sh105 million isolation wards in Siaya, Ambira, and Bondo health facilities will help in the war against the virus in the county in case of an outbreak. Siaya has been on the Health ministry's radar after reporting the first Covid-19 death in April where a suspected virus victim was buried at night for fear of the spread of the pandemic in the county. The bizarre incident left the county in shock before Kenyans understood the impact of the virus in and outside the country. The victim became the first Covid-19 victim in Kenya to be buried in such a manner before the government issued burial protocols for Covid-19 victims. Since then the county has been on close inspection by the government until it was established that the county only had 10 isolation beds posing a big risk in case of an outbreak. The 300-bed capacity isolation wards constructed by Aberland Enterprises Company is a relief for residents who have been living in fear of lack of isolation beds in case of an outbreak. According to some of the project management committee members, the construction is up to standard and they are only waiting for the county government to schedule a date for the handing over. Currently, the county only has a 120-bed capacity of isolation wards where Covid-19 patients can be contained. With the additional 300-bed capacity facility the county will boost of having 420 beds where the health department will decide the number of special beds for the facilities. The centre will be equipped with beds, scanners, Covid-19 testing kits, PPEs, and an oxygen system. "This is a global challenge but we should not lose hope. I want to assure Siaya people that my government is not leaving anything to chance when it comes to preparedness,” Rasanga said. Earlier, the governor also inspected the Sh12 million county blood bank project, CT-scan machines, a fully equipped dialysis unit, ICU units at Siaya Referral Hospital where he urged the public to seek the services. He mentioned that the accident victims, anaemic patients, people undergoing surgery, sickle cell patients, cancer and leukaemia patients who previously went to Kisumu for the services will now depend on blood from the new facility.