The government will deal ruthlessly with politicians inciting Kenyans regardless of their political affiliation, Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has warned. “The country is slowly degenerating back to where we were sometime back. We will not allow anybody to take us back to anarchy,” warned Kibicho on Wednesday. He added: “We are two years into the next elections and temperatures have begun to rise and we must address this before the situation worsens. Any politician inciting people to violence or giving speeches that will cause disharmony will be dealt with whether he is friendly or unfriendly.” He said the National Security Advisory Committee is in the process of coming up with protocols against hate speech and incitement. “The protocols will be made public soon and when you cross the red line, action is taken. Don’t rush to your communities once you are found to be in the wrong side of the law,” added Kibicho. He spoke in Kisii when he led a delegation of the National Celebrations Committee to inspect facilities ahead of Mashujaa Day Celebrations on October 20. He was accompanied by Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Principal Secretaries Susan Mochache (Health), Gordon Kihalangwa (Public Works), Jerome Ochieng (ICT) and Josephta Mukobe (Heritage). Others were Wanyamba Musiambo the deputy head of civil service and Moffat Kangi the deputy PS Interior. Kibicho added that the ministry of Interior led by CS Fred Matiang’i will not be deterred by criticism. “We have been called all manner of names. Some have called us the system but that will not deter the CS and I from spearheading the jobs we have been given by the president. We shall not be shaken,” he noted. The PS further noted that he had received intelligence on emergence of illegal gangs and warned that the government will crush them. “We will not allow you to compromise the safety of Kenyans. We will crush your heads,” warned Kibicho. Kibicho said he was satisfied with the preparations so far. “President Uhuru Kenyatta told us that whether there is coronavirus of not, the celebrations must take place in Kisii. The preparations are going on seamlessly and we expect everything to be in place before the celebrations,” he asserted. Ongwae said the county government has worked closely with the national government to ensure that the celebrations will be a success. “Kisii County is ready to host the celebrations and I want to sincerely thank the national government for the support. We don’t take this for granted,” said Ongwae. Kibicho said the decision to devolve the hosting of national celebrations was a masterstroke from the president. “National celebrations were previsioly associated with Nairobi. We have now held the celebrations in 10 counties and we have built their capacity including upgrading stadiums, roads and having state lodges,” Kibicho noted. Kisii Assembly speaker David Kombo asked the government to expedite the construction of Suneka airstrip. “This project started very long time ago. It’s sad that it has not been completed,” added Kombo. Kisii County was to host Madaraka Day on June 1 but the event was cancelled and held at State House due to the coronavirus pandemic.