So how did armed officers working with the Presidential Eescort Unit find themselves in the home of Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi (pictured) at night? This is the question the country’s security apparatus is said to be dealing with. Sources whisper to Corridors of Power that since the incident, there have been concerns as to who actually guards the President. The officers went to Sudi’s home when the lawmaker was on the government's watch list, having publicly torn into the First Family, including family matriarch Mama Ngina. It’s only a matter of time until there's a major reshuffle of those hanging around State House. *** A politician from Kisii county was forced the other day to plead with irate youth who demanded their share of Deputy President William Ruto's donation. The DP is said to have generously donated mobilisation money during his county tour last week. However, some youths gave their MP a rough time and he had difficulty trying to explain the whereabouts of their share. The MP, who had attended a funeral in his backyard, was forced to implore the angry youths who had cornered him as he addressed mourners. The MP assured them the money would be paid once it's handed over to him. *** The CEO of a lucrative parastatal within the energy sector recently surprised everyone wth his increasing largesse. The executive donated generously to the building of his local church at his home, perhaps lifting the lid on his fast-changing fortunes. The CEO pledged to complete the roofing of the church building,which had stalled for more than a year. The whole roofing project is expected to cost not less than Sh6 million. Shockingly, the money has already been delivered and paid in cash to the suppliers and various contractors working on the next phase of the building. The executive could be plotting a gubernatorial quest in the coming months, his critics allege. *** A flamboyant Chief Administrative Secretary recently caused a stir at her village when she drove in a convoy of high-end cars. The little-known CAS moved to assert her authority after she summoned a contractor working on a key road leading to her upcountry residence. While touring the road under construction, the CAS threatened the contractor that she could terminate the contract if the construction continues to move at a snail's pace. Details have now emerged that there is a standoff between the contractor and the CAS over the manner in which construction of a section leading to her home would be expedited. The CAS has reportedly ordered the contractor alter his plans and immediately make a detour to and give priority to the section leading to her rural home.