Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo has condemned those pushing Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha to reopen schools despite the cloud of uncertainty over the spread of Covid-19. Odhiambo said the country is operating in unprecedented times where no one - nor even medics - know when the pandemic curve will be flattened. The Gem MP said bearing in mind that Covid-19 situation is unpredictable, the opening of schools will also remain the same until critical measures are put in place to protect all learners. “We want our students and pupils to be safe during the pandemic and politicians, parents and teachers must have a memorandum of understanding before reopening of the schools,” Odhiambo said. He asked parents and teachers to propose proper measures of protecting school-going children before forcing Magoha to reopen schools. “....not unless those criticising Magoha have conducted their research on how schools can be reopened without intensifying the spread of Covid-19,” Odhiambo said. The MP said if the President wants to keep the education sector alive he should keep educationists like Magoha where he is and not to listen to 'unjustified noisemakers'. Magoha during his recent tour in Siaya county said schools might reopen this year, asking parents to be ready for any eventuality. He said there was no confusion at all on the school's reopening calendar as purported, adding that if the Covid-19 infections continue to fall they will have no option but to return to normal. “We are observing the curve in two to three weeks and when it hits five percent we can then sit down and make hard decisions,” Magoha said. The CS said despite looking into the Covid-19 protocols the President will have the final say on the re-opening of schools. The CS said that many colleges had made adequate Covid preparations and teacher training colleges needed to re-open for the competency-based curriculum. Magoha was wary about re-opening primary and secondary schools under pressure from private schools and pointed out that some teaching at the community level had started in July as a stopgap. But some of the parents think that the first wave has passed and their children should not be deprived of education. They added that there have been many infections but the death rate was lower than Europe or America and the children and youth were less susceptible to illness although they can still spread it.