The Duke of Sussex has paid back the cost of refurbishing Frogmore Cottage near Windsor Castle. The cost, estimated at £2.4m (Sh341m) in 2018-19, was covered by taxpayers through the Sovereign Grant, but the duke and duchess said they would repay it when they stepped back from royal duties. Prince Harry's spokesman said he had paid the bill in full by making a contribution to the grant. The property will remain a UK residence for the duke and his family. It comes days after the couple announced they had reached a deal with Netflix to make a range of programmes, some of which they may appear in. A multi-year deal will encompass documentaries, docu-series, feature films, scripted shows and children's programming. Donald Trump behaves like a mobster and has "a low opinion of all black people", according to the US president's former lawyer Michael Cohen. The allegations come from Cohen's new book, Disloyal: A Memoir, written during his jail term for Trump campaign finance violations, among other crimes. Cohen claims Mr Trump also made racist comments about Nelson Mandela and Hispanics. The White House says Cohen is lying. "Cohen is a disgraced felon and disbarred lawyer, who lied to Congress," press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said in a statement at the weekend. "He has lost all credibility, and it's unsurprising to see his latest attempt to profit off of lies." In the book, Cohen alleges that Mr Trump is "guilty of the same crimes" that landed him in prison, and calls his former boss "a cheat, a liar, a fraud, a bully, a racist, a predator, a conman". He said he had the mentality of a "mob boss". Two Nigerian men have been arrested for allegedly scamming a German state that tried to buy 2.3m euros (£2m) of personal protective equipment (PPE). Nigerian police say they cloned the website of a Dutch company to obtain an order from the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. When the PPE didn't show up, a state government representative visited the company's offices in the Netherlands. The company then informed him that they had never done business with him. The representative notified the Dutch police and investigations led to Nigeria where the two suspects were arrested in the commercial capital, Lagos. They are due to appear in court soon. India has recorded more than 90,000 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking its total above that of Brazil. The country now has the second-largest number of confirmed cases in the world, 4,204,613. It has reported 71,642 deaths, the third-highest in the world. The surge in reported infections has mostly come from five states. The rise comes as the government continues to lift restrictions to try to boost an economy that lost millions of jobs when the virus hit in March. For the last seven days India's caseload has galloped, adding more than 75,000 daily infections per day. More than 60% of the active cases are coming from the states of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state. Cases have also begun spiking in the capital, Delhi, as well, with more than 3,200 infections recorded on Sunday, the city's highest in more than two months. An upsurge of Covid-19 in many rural areas has also led to an uptick in numbers. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has drawn criticism from rights groups after pardoning a US marine convicted of killing a transgender woman. Mr Duterte issued the pardon on Monday to Lance Corporal Joseph Scott Pemberton, who has been in prison since 2014 for the murder of Jennifer Laude. Pemberton has served just over half of a 10-year sentence for the murder. Virginia Suarez, a lawyer for Laude's family, called the decision a "mockery" of the country's justice system. The former US marine had been granted early release last week by a local court for good behaviour, but the decision was held pending an appeal by lawyers for Laude's family. That process was negated by the pardon. "The president has erased the remaining punishment against Pemberton," announced Harry Roque, Mr Duterte's spokesman. "He can now go home because of the pardon." There was no immediate announcement of a release date.