Gor Mahia goalkeeper trainer Willis Ochieng has tipped the club's new custodian Samuel Njau to fill in the void left by Tanzania international David Mapigano. Gor secured the services of Njau from Western Stima yesterday on three-year deal becoming the second glove-man to arrive at the club in the current transfer window after Levis Opiyo. “Goalkeeper Njau has joined from Western Stima on a three-year contract. He previously turned out for Sony Sugar and horned his skills earlier at Ligi Ndogo. Njau will fight it out with veteran Boniface Oluoch and another new signing  Opiyo for the number one spot,” said the club. Ochieng, a retired Kenyan international, said the new catch had depicted traits of a world class goalkeeper during his stints at Stima and Sony Sugar and was a sure bet as far as replacing Mapigano was concerned. Mapigano ditched Gor for Azam last year barely a season after joining them from Singida United. Besides Mapigano, the club also lost their former third choice goalkeeper Peter Odhiambo to Wazito. He said Njau was good in ball distribution, height and his reflexes were superb and had other attributes of a modern goalkeeper. “I was impressed with his quality when we played Stima and Sony and he is best suited to replace Mapigano. The latter was an experienced custodian and his exit was a big blow to the department. However, Njau has the capacity to take the slot if he works hard and remains disciplined. He is good on feet, agile and his height is an added advantage,” said Ochieng. Ochieng, however,  warned Njau of the impeding pressure to deliver  from the huge Gor fan-base. He counselled him to steer clear of mistakes and laxity which most often contribute to players downfall. “Gor is a big stage which demands a player to give his best. He has to avoid small mistakes which triggers a lot of criticism from the fans. He has to be focused and be aware that playing time will only be handed to the best of the three,” he added Meanwhile, Ochieng will be banking on Oluoch to help the duo of Njau and Opiyo settle at the club with ease. Oluoch is the current longest serving player at Gor having joined them in 2015 from Tusker. “Oluoch makes my job in the department easier by helping his juniors in different aspects. He is an experienced goalkeeper whom I expect will play a big role in helping Njau and Opiyo shed any fright which comes with playing at Gor,” he added. 