The government is not an open pot for looters, Education CS George Magoha has warned. Magoha said on Friday some people behave as if the government is their source of free money and where inflation of prices of goods and prices is the norm. He issued a stern warning to those salivating at Covid-19 funds meant for schools. "If something is worth Sh3,000, they say it is Sh10,000. Those are thieves and we are out to ensure we get value for money,” he said. “Covid-19 is a poisoned chalice so if you have any plans to do anything with it, please just confess to yourself and to God privately and bring back the money and do what you are supposed to do.” Prof Magoha spoke at Nyeri National Polytechnic in Nyeri town while assessing the institution's preparedness to reopen. The institution is among the three (out of 10 national polytechnics) that are set to open in a week’s time. Others are Rift Valley and Eldoret. The CS made the remarks even as government agencies intensified investigations into the alleged irregular purchase of Covid-19 items by the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered for investigations in the Ministry of Health after an outcry from Kenyans that money meant for the war on the coronavirus was stolen. Magoha said the government has set aside Sh1 billion for procuring secondary school desks and Sh900 million for primary school desks. He said the ministry will work with national government administrative officials to ensure the money is used to buy desks at the price. The CS said local traders will get the contracts directly through subcounty offices, adding that prototype desks have already been produced to guide those who will be selling them. “There will be prototype desks in every subcounty office to guide the jua kali people on what to produce,” he said. Further, Sh1 billion will be used to acquire masks for children, with the CS saying that is one of the major challenges the country faces as it prepares to reopen schools after the Covid-19 curve is flattened. He, however, assured that the government is dealing with the issue. "Momentarily, there are some masks which are being produced now with the help of some benefactors and we have gone around and created the prototype of the masks with doctors who know how effective the masks are,” Magoha said. He said the ministry has gone to the market and got quotations and is producing masks at Sh35 each to last six months. Each schoolchild is expected to get two.