Harambee Stars head coach Francis Kimanzi believes the national team will reap positive results in the forthcoming friendly match and Africa Cup of Nations qualifier should the government give the way forward on the resumption of sports in time. Stars are lined up to play a test match against Zambia nexdt month ahead of the November qualifier double against Comoros. Kimanzi urged the government through the Ministry of Sports to lift the temporal suspension of sports to enable him prepare in time. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa had hinted at the possibility of Stars warming up for the Comoros qualifier against Sudan at the start of the month but yesterday it emerged that Kimanzi’s charges will host Zambia in the friendly match. “We will play Zambia next month at home,” said a source at Kandanda House The development was also confirmed by the official Football Association of Zambia (FAZ) twitter handle, where it was reported that Kimanzi’s charges and South Africa will come up against Chipolopolo next month. Ahead of the matches, Kimanzi hopes the ministry will announce the Covid-19 protocols to be followed in time to enable him launch preparations in time. The league winning tactician with Mathare United in 2008 noted that time was not on his side and appealed to the ministry to confirm whether sporting activities will resume or not. “I can not reveal my plans for the team unless the government gives us the way forward first.The federation can’t mobilise even the local- based players to join camp before the authorities give us the way forward.There are countries which have already set out their Covid-19 protocols and have had their players start preparing for leagues and international assignments. The earlier the ministry pronounces itself the better for us,” said the former Sofapaka tactician. Kimanzi, who will heavily rely on international players for the qualifiers courtesy of their fitness levels and superb performances with their respective clubs, hailed the local-based ones for their efforts in keeping fit at home. “I am happy the local-based ones are keeping fit on their own. This will make our work easier in terms of ensuring they are fully fit for the friendly and qualifiers,” he added. 