Burials for patients who succumb to Covid-19 will still be supervised by the Health ministry but at a minimal scale. This is after it emerged that bodies are not infectious as long as they are properly packaged. As of Monday, 599 Kenyans had succumbed to the virus after two more deaths were confirmed by the ministry. The ministry is expected to issue new burial guidelines and protocols this week, with the focus being on avoiding contact with body fluids. CAS Rashid Aman said the protocols will include ensuring the copse is properly treated by placed in a double body bag before being placed in a coffin that has been fumigated to reduce the risks of transmission of the virus. Unlike before when public health officials were tasked with full responsibility of handling bodies, bodies will be released to family members to conduct the burial as long as they adhere to the protocols. “When the pandemic broke out, some of the measures were also rather extreme in ensuring that we didn’t take any chance with the transmission of the disease,” Aman said. “But as the pandemic has unfolded, and we have learned more and more about the disease and seen how can we now review some of these protocols to make it easier for those who have lost their loved ones.” Public Health director Francis Kuria has noted that the issue of decent burials that obey religious and cultural norms has been raised with the ministry repeatedly. “As long as you do not get into contact with the fluids, the risk will not be that high so the measures will now be more towards avoiding contact with those fluids,” Kuria said. "We will be issuing those guidelines regarding the packaging and how you handle the body thereafter, and hopefully, this is going to address the concerns of stigma that have affected fellow Kenyans.” The CAS confirmed 102 new cases, bringing the total number of infections in the country to 35,205. The new cases were from a sample size of 2,668, with the total cumulative tests now standing at 477,145. All except nine were Kenyans, aged between one and 86 years. Nairobi recorded the highest number of infections after registering 41 cases, followed by Kitui with 11, Kiambu seven, Mombasa six, Busia five, Turkana, Nyeri and Taita Taveta four cases each, Meru, Murang’a, Kajiado, Machakos, Makueni, Bungoma and Kilifi two cases each while embu, Laikipia, Garissa and Kisumu recorded one case each. The number of Kenyans admitted in various hospitals across the country stands at 644 with more than 1,000 being under home-based care. Data from the ministry further shows that 25 are under critical care, with 10 being on supplementary oxygen. Edited by R.Wamochie