Education CS George Magoha now says the decision on whether to reopen schools will be announced after a mega stakeholders' meeting that is expected to take place on or before September 25. Magoha spoke on Monday after a consultative conference for education stakeholders meant to deliberate on school reopening modalities at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum and Development. "The President in his last address said that within three weeks there will be a larger stakeholder conference headed by CSs Fred Matiangi and Mutahi Kagwe which will be held before the 25th of this month to come up with a conclusion about the reopening of schools," Magoha said. In July, the Education Ministry announced that schools will not reopen until next year. Magoha, however, remarked that the decision is not cast on stone and could change depending on the virus trends. In the last week, there has been increased lobbying propelled by private school owners, seeking that the government reconsiders reopening dates. This follows a significant drop in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases. With an average of about 150 cases weekly. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to issue new guidelines by the end of this month as part of reopening the economy that has slowed down since March. Private schools and school heads have urged the state to reopen schools in October for finalists in primary and secondary schools. January had been set for the reopening date, provided the worst of the Covid-19 pandemic has passed. The Kenya Private Schools Association also wants the KCPE and KCSE exams to be conducted by December. Proponents of earlier opening say students will not need to cover the entire remaining part of the syllabus. They say an exam can be customised to cover up to Form 3. Mutheu Kasanga, the Kenya Private Schools Association chair, argues the government should provide exams for the period the students had covered. Although most headteachers support reopening in October, they disagree on early exams and argue that exams at the earliest can be administered at the end of February. But the Kenya National Union of Teachers faults both reopening before January and early examinations as premature. Wilson Sossion, KNUT secretary-general, says institutions are not ready to reopen, even to accommodate just the candidates.