The cash crunch in the counties will persist after the Senate on Tuesday postponed the debate and vote on the revenue sharing formula. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka ordered that the matter be pushed to next Tuesday to allow for consensus-building. The lawmakers were expected to resume the debate, for the 10th time on Tuesday when they resumed plenary sittings after a month-long recess. But Lusaka directed the House leadership and an informal committee formed to strike a deal on the formula to be allowed to agree on the best method. “The informal committee has been updating the Senate leadership on a regular basis, including the Senate Business Committee. The committee was informed that consultations were ongoing and the prospects of achieving a win-win position are very promising,” the Speaker said. The 12-member informal committee has presented two contradicting reports to the leadership. They are yet to reach a common ground. Lusaka told the House leadership and the committee to sit on Wednesday and to iron out outstanding issues. The team should present a final formula to all members in a kamukunji on Monday. “The matter of the Report of the Committee on Finance and Budget on the third basis for revenue allocation among the county governments be listed on the Order Paper and disposed of on Tuesday, September 15,” Lusaka said. Governors had high hopes the senators would pass the formula yesterday to save the counties from the cash crisis. The deadlock over the formula has stagnated the passage of the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, stalling disbursement of funds. At the centre of the deadlock is a proposal by the House Finance and Budget committee that cuts allocations to 18 counties by Sh17 billion. Senators whose counties will get funding cuts in the proposal have fiercely opposed the reduction, leading to the protracted standoff. On Tuesday, they entered the debating chamber donning 'Team Kenya' caps and ties in the colours of the national flag. However, Lusaka declared them out of order, saying their dress code was 'inappropriate' and amounted to 'misconduct.' Senators have been on the spot over failure to pass the Bill that spells how the 47 counties share the Sh316.5 billion allocated to them in the current financial year. Last week, the Council of Governors announced they will shut down the counties in the next two weeks should a solution not be found by September 17. “We express our discontent with Senate’s failure to build consensus on the 3rd generation formula which has consequently delayed the approval of the County Allocation of Revenue Act, 2020,” CoG chair Wycliffe Oparanya said last Friday. Tbe Kakamega governor added: “This has had serious implications in the general operations of county governments and payment of salaries to county staff.” 