Land owners in 15 settlement schemes in Nairobi have a reason to smile after the government announced plans to issue over 18,653 title deeds from next month. Speaking at a joint press briefing with Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director General Mohamed Badi, Lands Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney said the government was keen to ensure that all genuine land owners in Nairobi have their title deeds after decades-long wait. “A lot of capital is locked up in land in Nairobi and if it is not titled, the owners cannot enjoy its benefits. In this new phase, we will work with NMS to issue 18,653 title deeds to land owners in different settlements in Nairobi,” she said. Karoney further announced that the government had waived all land rates and land rent in a bid to ease the burden on land owners and ensure seamless and faster processing of title deeds. “We have waived all fees, including survey fees, and we urge land owners to take advantage of this moratorium given by the President to document their land. She pointed out that the absence of proper documents had slowed down the issuance of title deeds in on-going titling exercises in Embakasi, calling on persons who have inherited their land from deceased persons to make sure they get the right succession documents to fast-track the process of documentation. On his part, DG Badi said that the County Government of Nairobi will work with the Ministry of Lands t ensure the success of the Nairobi Titling Programme. “The Site and Service Scheme and Tenant Service Scheme were developed as a joint venture between the national and county government of Nairobi, the world bank, and USAID between 1975 and 1988 to provide low housing for low income in the city. “In the new exercise the county government will waive all land rates and land rent as we seek to fast-tracking the processing of title deeds for ease the burden on the land owners,” he said. The verification exercise, which will run from September 24 to October 10, 2020, targets Site & Service Schemes and Tenant Purchase Schemes in Mathare North Phases 1 to 4, Ngei Phase 1 and 2, Huruma, Dandora Phases 1 to 5, Umoja Innercore sectors 1 to 3 and 5. The informal settlement schemes that will be targeted for titling include Kariobangi Jua Kali Sector B, KCC Resettlement Scheme, Dandora Block G, Kayole Soweto, Canaan Dandora, Patanisho Resettlement Scheme, Dandora Ex-Muoroto Scheme, Matopeni Resettlement Scheme, and Embakasi Riverside. Landowners will be required to present the original allotment document, two recent colour passport photos, a copy of National Identification Card (ID), a copy of KRA PIN Certificate, and clearance certificate to allow for the processing of their title deeds.