 Manchester United forward Mason Greenwood says he wants to “break records and be remembered forever” after earning a first England call-up. The 18-year-old said it is a “dream come true” to be selected for England’s Nations League games in Iceland on Saturday and Denmark three days later. Greenwood was selected after a breakthrough season for United in which he scored 17 times in all competitions. “Obviously any young football player would want to break records,” he said. “And if you didn’t, there’s something wrong. “It’s always nice to have visions and goals you set in your football career and that goes for virtually any England forward. “Just go out there and do your best and break records and just be remembered forever, really.” No teenager has scored more goals in a single campaign for United, with Greenwood’s 17 putting him level with George Best, Brian Kidd and Wayne Rooney. All-time record Premier League goalscorer Alan Shearer has also backed Greenwood to surpass his 260-goal haul in the competition. “The games have come so quick and you have to be focused 100% at all times,” he said. “My whole family was excited for me and it’s a dream come true. “It’s happened quick. You can be called on at any time and I got called in for some Europa League games early in the season and took my chances and took every game as it came and just played my football.” The forward is enjoying working with another former prolific goalscorer in United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. “Ole’s a big part of my game, really,” he said. “Obviously he’s helped me to get where I am now and he’s given me the chances to prove to everyone what I can do. “I am glad he’s there and he’s a good manager. When he’s talking to me I am always listening and always taking his advice on.” Greenwood has previously represented the Three Lions at Under-17, Under-18 and Under-21 level, and says senior boss Gareth Southgate is a “great coach”. “He just said to me to take my chances and play with a smile on my face and that’s what I’ll try to do,” he added. “Obviously I’m ready to compete with anyone. Everyone is pushing for individual places, that’s what it’s all about what its all about, but we are a team here.”