 Brendan Rodgers says his Leicester team are “not even thinking about” about a sustained Premier League title challenge despite moving top for the first time since they were champions in 2015-16. Sunday’s victory over Burnley gave Rodgers his 100th win as a Premier League manager in his 210th game — Sir Alex Ferguson, Sir Kenny Dalglish and Kevin Keegan the only British managers to have reached the landmark in fewer matches. “It’s only two games. After 10 games you start to get an idea of where the league is at,” Rodgers said. “We’re not even thinking about that [a sustained challenge]. We’re looking to develop the team and the experiences of last season, both in the league and the cup, will really enrich us. “Whatever way it finished last season we still had a fantastic season to finish where we did. The players have good motivation ­— they’ve scored seven goals in two games and it shows we’re ready to attack the season again.” Leicester, who finished fifth last season, came from behind to maintain their 100% start against Burnley at the King Power Stadium. Chris Wood opened the scoring for Sean Dyche’s under-strength side, firing into the bottom left corner after outmuscling home defender James Justin at the far post. But the Foxes, who enjoyed the majority of possession, immediately responded with Harvey Barnes’ placed effort drawing them level. Erik Pieters’ own goal put the hosts ahead after the break with Justin doubling their advantage. Top-flight debutant Jimmy Dunne raised hopes of a Burnley recovery when he headed in Dwight McNeil’s left-wing delivery, but Dennis Praet’s superb 20-yard strike into the top-right corner put the gloss on Leicester’s win. While Burnley’s determination and desire was admirable, in the end it proved no match for Leicester’s fluid attacking play and extra sharpness. The home side controlled the ball throughout with Barnes and Belgian midfielder Praet coming to the fore on the left of midfield. Whether it was going directly up against Burnley right-back Phil Bardsley or moving intelligently into infield positions, Barnes’ movement and pace was a key ingredient of Leicester’s attacking play. His placed effort to equalise was a show of composure as Burnley defenders reacted to Timothy Castagne’s cut-back. And he forced a wonderful save from Nick Pope at the end of a teasing run in off the left wing that Bardsley could do little to prevent. The England U21 international had more shots (five) than any other Leicester player but his final contribution of the evening was significant one in another way, as he skipped away from three defenders to pick out Praet, who did the rest with a sublime effort. “Harvey Barnes was outstanding tonight,” Rodgers added. “He keeps on getting into areas you want him to and is a big talent.” Dyche has repeatedly talked about the need for Burnley to add to their squad since top-flight football returned in June and conceded that they would be “stretched to the limit” for this fixture. And although he was disappointed by the outcome and the unfortunate manner in which they fell behind, Pieters inadvertently deflecting Castagne’s cross past Pope, he said he “marvelled at the spirit” of his depleted team. Already without five first-choice players and at the physical disadvantage of having not played last weekend, the Clarets’ task was made harder when midfielder Robbie Brady went off with a rib injury during the first half. But there were plenty of positives, with Dyche’s side managing more efforts on goal than the hosts and threatening to set up a tense finale when Wood hit the post late on. “We don’t go over easy and we were still creating chances at the end,” said Dyche, who also praised the performance of Dunne, at the heart of the Burnley defence. The 22-year-old made eight clearances, which was more than any other player on the pitch and Dyche added: “It’s a tough position for a young player to learn the game but he’s done well. He stuck at it and picked up a goal as well.”