Deputy President William Ruto now says the 2022 general election will be a defining moment for Kenya. Ruto on his twitter handle said millions of Kenyans him included are determined to put to an end political conmanship that has poisoned Kenyan politics. Ruto was responding to an opinion article published in the Star. The opinion by Wycliffe Muga said if Ruto had read and understood history, he wouldn't be where he is at the moment. The writer said Ruto should have understood that all of the Vice Presidents that existed before him in one way or the other ended in the opposition. The article said that the DP had shown just how deep a desire for advanced degrees can run, when – despite being weighed down by matters of state, and after having to resubmit his thesis at least once or twice (if I remember correctly) – he did not give up until he got his PhD. "This was done – no doubt – in fulfillment of a childhood dream, as he has long passed the stage in life where such a PhD is a practical requirement for any job he might seek," read part of the article. According to the writer, there is really only one job the DP desires at this point and that is to be the president of Kenya. "Now, here is where a deep irony arises. Dr Ruto’s PhD is in Plant Ecology. Which might have been useful if he aspired to be the Cabinet Secretary for Agriculture. But as he wants to be president, what he should have studied right up to a PhD in history," the writer said. He added, "To give but one example of what I mean here, I would point out that a proper study of Kenyan history would have revealed to him that the moment President Uhuru Kenyatta won his second term as president (in all ways assisted by Dr Ruto) – from that point, Ruto, as his deputy, was on his way to the political opposition". The writer argued that it seems to be Kenya's unbreakable historical pattern that Kenyan vice presidents either end up as leaders within the political opposition; or else they slide into irrelevance. He said, for instance, the first vice president, Jaramogi Odinga, ended up in the opposition despite having done much to get Jomo Kenyatta to be the founding president of the nation. "Retired President Mwai Kibaki, was the first VP to our second president, the late Daniel Moi. Kibaki too ended up as an opposition party leader. The late George Saitoti, Moi’s longest-serving VP, also ended up in the opposition," he said. The writer further said two of the current opposition leaders at this time, Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka, are both former vice presidents too. "Why then would Dr. Ruto have imagined that his fate would be any different?" he posed. But Ruto in his response said the 2022 election will put an end to such a retrogressive past. "This may be true about our past. We formed Jubilee to bring an end to deceit, betrayal, treachery and conmanship that has poisoned our politics,  he said. "Millions of Kenyans, I included, are determined to change that retrogressive past. the coming election God willing will be a defining moment," Ruto added.