At least 25 million Kenyans need to gain immunity against the coronavirus to stop the disease from spreading and return to the pre-Covid-19 normalcy. Scientists say vaccines are the easiest route to achieve this immunity, noting that natural immunity gained through infection would leave too many people dead and others with life-long heath problems. Herd immunity refers to the point where enough people are sufficiently resistant to a disease that an infectious agent is unlikely to spread from person to person. Scientists estimate that for Covid-19, at least 50 per cent to 70 per cent of people would need to achieve immunity to stop transmission. "There is little evidence to suggest that the spread of SARS-CoV-2 might stop naturally before at least 50 per cent of the population has become immune,"  a study published in Nature says. "An effective vaccine presents the safest way to reach herd immunity," says the study, titled 'Covid-19 herd immunity: where are we?' The last antibody survey in Kenya in June placed the number of people exposed to the virus at 1.6 million. Kenyan scientists warn the country still needs a vaccine to return to normalcy even though most cases are asymptomatic. They say some of those who survive the virus could suffer severe consequences to their heart, brain and other organs, potentially leaving them with lifelong disabilities. There is also the fear Kenya's crude death rate from Covid-19 is rising. "Stay alert people; don’t drop your guard. Nationally 11 per cent of all deaths happened on the last 14 days. Yes the same period contributes only 5 per cent of out total confirmed cases," Amref Health Africa CEO Githinji Gitahi said on Tuesday. "Tells you there is a missing piece in tracing and testing - Nakuru has had 27 deaths from only 1043 cases." Kenya has pinned its hope on the World Health Organization-led vaccine access programme called Covax. Early this week, Gavi reported that a further collaboration among the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Gavi and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to an additional 100 million doses of the vaccine for the 92 supported countries including Kenya. This brings the total number of vaccine doses to be covered by the partnership between SII, Gavi and the Gates Foundation to an aggregate of up to 200 million doses, following the initial agreement announced in August. Experts say the earliest any of the supported vaccines could be available is December, first for health workers. “The momentum behind our effort to ensure global, equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines is really building,"  Gavi CEO Seth Berkley said. "No country, rich or poor, should be left at the back of the queue when it comes to Covid-19 vaccines; this collaboration brings us another step closer to achieving this goal.” Edited by R.Wamochie