Airtel Kenya is targeting the growing demand for internet in the country with new products, as companies and institutions continue to embrace remote working to curb the spread of Coronavirus. The second-largest telecommunications services provider in Kenya has announced a new data bundle promotion that will see its customers enjoy up to 15GB free data. This is in response to the upsurge in demand for quality internet connectivity and the availability of affordable data products and services, management said in a statement on Tuesday. The new daily, weekly and monthly data promotion will allow customers to get 500MB free data daily depending on their data plan of choice. According to the plan, a customer who buys the daily bundle will get 500MB free data for 24 hours, a weekly bundle will give the customer 500MB every day for 7 days which is a total of 3.5 GB free data. Heavy data users who purchase monthly bundles will receive 500MB data daily for 30 days which is a total of 15GB free. For example, a customer who buys the 1000 monthly data bundle will get 12GB and free 500MB daily for 30 days hence the customer will have enjoyed 27GB worth of data at the end of the month. “As a company we are cognizant of the prevailing trying times we are living in and understand that our customers’ needs especially with regards to accessing the internet for various purposes have increased substantially,” Airtel Kenya Managing Director, Prasanta Das Sarma, said. “We continue to offer our customers great value for money through our products and services whilst allowing fast Internet access through our 4G network,” he added. The telco is currently in the midst of a major rollout of new 2G, 3G, 4G sites across the country, as it seeks to increase penetration. Airtel enjoys a 26.1 per cent market share in the country’s telecommunication space, Communication Authority data shows, with about 14.1 million subscribers. Telcos have been critical during the Covid-19 pandemic that has changed the way of doing business, studying and communicating.