Senators have resolved to fast-track the passage of a bill allowing the National Treasury to disburse 50 per cent of funds to counties. Senate Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata on Monday disclosed the House will prioritise the passage of the Public Finance and Management (Amendment) Bill. The Senate leadership had a daylong meeting on the formula on Monday ahead of Tuesday afternoon's debate. Kang'ata said he expected the second and third readings to be concluded so that they are done with the matter by next week. The Bill, which originated from the National Assembly, allows the National Treasury to disburse to counties up to 50 per cent of the previous year’s allocation in the event of a delay by Parliament to pass the Division of Revenue Bill and County Allocation of Revenue Bill. The senators have been on the spot over failure to pass the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, precipitating a cash crisis in the devolved units. Last Friday, the Council of Governors attacked the Senate over the standoff and announced the counties will be shut down in two weeks should there be no solution by September 17. “We express our discontent with Senate’s failure to build consensus on the 3rd generation formula which has consequently delayed the approval of the County Allocation of Revenue Act, 2020,” CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said. The Bill, which splits the national cake among the 47 counties, has stalled in the Senate since June after the lawmakers failed to agree on the third basis for sharing revenue. The lawmakers resume plenary sittings on Tuesday after a month-long recess with the approval of the contentious third basis for revenue sharing top of the agenda. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the urgent business for the House is the approval of the revenue sharing formula to save the counties from cash crisis. On Monday, he and Majority leader Samuel Poghisio and Minority leader James Orengo held a day-long meeting on the reports of the 12-member committee formed to strike a deal on the formula. “We are going for a meeting now, myself and the two leaders, to look at what is before us then make a decision,” Lusaka told the star. The committee, co-chaired by Senators Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) and Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), presented two reports with a recommendation that the leaders reach out to President Uhuru Kenyatta for consensus. Committee member Samson Cherargei said there was no white smoke yet but he was optimistic that the leadership would resolve the protracted stalemate. “There is smoke but not a white one. My position still remains that population must be a crucial factor in sharing revenue,” the Nandi senator said. The lawmakers have on nine occasions failed to agree on how the 47 counties will share Sh316.5 billion allocated revenue. They are divided on a formula proposed by the House Finance and Budget Committee that cuts allocation to 18 counties by Sh17 billion. Before the House adjourned to give the committee a chance to develop consensus, it had approved a proposal fronted by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi which, in the absence of a deal, is the motion for debate.  - mwaniki fm