The boldness with which top senior civil servants have attacked Deputy President William Ruto has raised questions as to whether they have the blessing of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kenyatta has warned civil servants against engaging in politics but has been silent lately even as Cabinet Secretaries clearly appear to defy his orders. On January 14, Uhuru sacked Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri largely for disobeying his instructions and engaging in politics. Kiunjuri was vocal on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and often issued demands to be met for Mt Kenya region to support any constitutional amendment. Lately, however, a number of Cabinet Secretaries have been engaging in active politics but the President has not acted or even spoken against them. In what may mirror the extent to which the Jubilee implosion is irreparable, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko at the weekend referred to the Deputy President as a mere clerk in President Kenyatta's government. Tobiko, while at Loita Forest in Kajiado, accused Ruto and his allies of disrespecting the head of state “yet he is just an assistant to the President like the rest of the Cabinet Secretaries.” Tobiko and colleagues Fred Matiang'i (Interior) and Mutahi Kagwe (Health) were in Kajiado county inspecting development projects. Kagwe while on an official tour of Kisii on August 8 asked locals to support Matiang'i for the top job. He maintained that it was the responsibility of the the Gusii nation to support their son, saying the rest of the country would follow suit. The activities of Agriculture CS Peter Munya, his Devolution counterpart Eugene Wamalwa and Education's George Magoha have also sparked political undertones. With the attacks spiraling into a public exchange between the DP and his juniors, Ruto's allies on Sunday demanded that the politicking CSs resign. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen censured the President for overlooking contemptuous remarks by Cabinet Secretaries against his deputy. “Without the blessings of the President, these idiotic CSs would never have insulted the DP. William Ruto is not anyone’s clerk. He was jointly elected with the President and without him Uhuru would not be President and Tobiko would never be a clerk. In a working state, Tobiko would be sacked,” Murkomen said. Laikipia Woman Representative Cate Waruguru also asked the President to sack CSs Matiang'i and Kagwe for engaging in politics. She accused the two officers of absconding their duties and scheming to vie for political seats in the next General Election. She cited the dismissal of Kiunjuri for politicking as the basis upon which Matiang'i, Kagwe and other CSs engaging in politics should be kicked out too. The DP, during his activities in Machakos on Sunday accompanied by former Senator Johnson Muthama and over 10 lawmakers, asked leaders to be humble and desist from calling each other names. He asked civil servants to stop politicking and focus on implementing the Jubilee administration's development agenda - manufacturing, universal health coverage, food security and affordable housing. He said at a fundraiser in aid of  St Paul's ACK Church in Athi River that civil servants should focus on fulfilling the pledges the party made to Kenyans during the 2017 General Election. "I urge those of us who got the opportunity to serve at different levels in government to stop cheap politics; let us put aside our pride, show humility while discharging our duties and stop hurling insults to each other,” Ruto said. "Let us stop petty politics and deliver the Big Four so that youths get jobs. Beyond the Covid-19 problem, we still have issues of employment," the DP said during a stop at Athi River. "Let all leaders, more so Cabinet Secretaries, ensure the Big Four agenda is achieved. That is the job Kenyans gave us. Those who want to politic, the time is not right. They need to know it is not possible by arrogance, pride and insults." MPs aligned to the hustler camp joined the DP in calls for the ministers to resign and focus on politics. They were Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Victor Munyaka (Machakos), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Rahab  Mukami (Woman Rep Nyeri) and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. Others were Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East) and Fabian Kyule (Kangundo). Ichung'wa said Cabinet Secretaries should focus on the tasks delegated to them by President Kenyatta. "If you are a Cabinet Secretary, your duties have nothing to do with politics. However, if you are interested in politics just resign from government and do politics,” he said. Washiali said it was illegal for Cabinet Secretaries to engage in politics. "The law is against CSs politicking, but if they want to, let them come slowly." Musyoka said Cabinet Secretaries who do not respect their constitutional offices have no business continuing being in government. "Kenyans will not tolerate Cabinet Secretaries who play politics at the expense of taxpayers," the Mwala legislator said. When asked whether there was a policy shift on the directive barring CSs from politics, Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said her colleagues make regional tours because of development and not to pursue personal interests - which politics is about. She defended her colleagues saying; "If we have to be judged, let us separate development projects from the politics of power and 2022. "Cabinet Secretaries must go and see implementation of government policies on the ground. If Kenyans want to interpret it differently, it is a bit unfortunate. "We should leave politics for the time being because its about power  - which is personal interests. I don't think the CSs are doing this for personal interests," the CS added. When he hosted a delegation of leaders from Kajiado at the weekend, Ruto hinted that the attacks by CSs could be part of the bigger scheme to frustrate his political bid. He came close to suggesting that Tobiko was being added to the list of those his competitors want to position in the 2022 race. The DP told senior civil servants spoiling for a fight with him to think twice about it. “The only person whom I respect is Uhuru Kenyatta and not the others. I am quiet because I just don’t want many issues,” he stated. He said that CS Tobiko is just like any other person that the Jubilee administration gave work to do. Ruto maintained that he will still receive delegations at his home saying those are the people who have employed him. “They are the ones who have employed me and not the clerk who is asking questions. Clerks should do the work they have been given and respect the people,” he added. The Deputy President said he will neither be intimidated by senior government officials who are against him nor by scheming for his downfall. “I will not be intimidated by these people. If they are going to vie, then I will be waiting for them at the ballot,” he said in reference to meetings by his competitors. Edited by Henry Makori