The Judiciary is in the process of digitising all court operations to help expedite cases, Chief Justice David Maraga has said. He said the process, which involves availing court documents online for easy access, started in July. The drive is expected to eradicate incidents of missing court files. “There are occasions where court documents go missing. Sometimes the papers are worn out because of passing through many hands,” Maraga said on Friday. “Digitisation will ensure there is minimal interference in the administration of justice.” The CJ spoke during the official opening of the new Oyugis law courts building in Kasipul constituency on Friday. The building was constructed at cost of Sh109.7 million. Maraga was in company of Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were, Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi, Homa Bay High Court judge Joseph Karanjah and Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan. The CJ said the digital process will also help police officers to file charges of suspects without going to court. “We are already in consultation with the Inspector General of Police and the Director of Public Prosecutions on how police can file cases at police stations,” he said. The CJ also urged administrators to form alternative dispute resolution committees to reduce the number of cases going to court. Such cases include those that involve sharing of family property and others which are not criminal in nature. “A case may take too long in court and end up dividing members of a family by the time a verdict is issued. It is more efficient if it is resolved at the community level,” the CJ said. MP Were urged the Judiciary to upgrade Oyugis court to a High Court to enhance administration of justice. He also called for the recruitment of more magistrates in the court. “The court has only two magistrates but it serves Kasipul, Kabondo Kasipul and Karachuonyo constituencies. More magistrates should be posted here,” Were said. The MP also urged the Judiciary to upgrade the mobile court in Kendu Bay town as one way of decongesting the court in Oyugis. Karanjah said Oyugis court has enough space to make work easier.  