Kenya is making progress in the phasing out of dangerous chemicals responsible for the depletion of the ozone layer Environment CS Keriako Tobiko made the announcement on Wednesday while marking World Ozone Day in Michuki Memorial Park, Nairobi. The UN General Assembly proclaimed September 16 as the International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer. The aim is to educate people on the need to protect the ozone layer. “As a country, we have made tremendous progress in phasing out ozone-depleting substances, especially in the refrigeration and air conditioning sector,” Keriako said. He was joined by PS Chris Kiptoo, National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo, Kenya Forest Chief Conservator Julius Kamau and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. Kenya, as a signatory to the Montreal Protocol, is supposed to phase out harmful chemicals by 2026. Mamo said Kenya phased out chlorofluorocarbons in 2010 in compliance with the set deadline. Marindany Kirui, the coordinator of the National Ozone Unit at the Environment ministry said the layer is healing. “Other chemicals were phased out in 2015 and there are other chemicals with hydrofluorocarbons that will be phased out by 2030 by developing countries and 2020 by developed countries,” he said. “The ozone layer is depleted by chemicals released from the earth and atmosphere. These chemicals are used in refrigeration and air conditioning. Kenya does not produce these chemicals, it is only a consumer of the chemicals.” The ozone layer absorbs ultraviolet radiation from the sun, acting as an invisible shield protecting living things. The radiation damages the immune system and increases the risk of skin cancer and eye cataracts. Long-term exposure to high levels of UV-B can destroy most animals, plants and microbes. Kenya signed the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer in February 1988, and has ratified the London, Copenhagen, Montreal and Beijing amendments. The country is in the process of ratifying the Kigali Amendment adopted in October 2015. The move will phase out hydrofluorocarbons, chemicals that are ozone friendly but have negative impact on the climate as they are global warmers. Tobiko said Kenya is in the process of initiating the development of the National Green Cooling Action Plan, to significantly improve cooling efficiency and expand green products supply and the green consumption market. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya