Businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki said on Sunday his CCM party will give Deputy President William Ruto and his allies a run for their money in 2022. He singled out Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi who had accused him of holding secret night meetings in Eldoret to incite residents before the general election. Buzeki told the Star the meetings were open and Sudi and DCI officers were welcome to attend. Sudi had called on the DCI to investigate Buzeki's meetings and supposed plans for incitement. Buzeki said Sudi should attend and see for himself, instead of spreading rumours. Sudi himself was arrested on Sunday on charges of hate speech and incitement. Businessman Buzeki told the Star, "They [Ruto, Sudi and others] should prepare  for a tough battle in Kapsaret because we [CCM] are going have candidates vying for all seats." Buzeki plans to run for governor, succeeding Jackson Mandago. He ran unsuccessfully against Mandago in 2017. “Sudi should come and attend our meetings and hear what we say. Security officers are also free to attend because there is nothing to hide," Buzeki said. He told Sudi to stop imagining all that the residents in the region want to hear about is Deputy President Ruto. “Sudi and his likes should stop bothering us with the gospel of William Ruto all over. Ruto will come and look for his own votes and compete with others interested in the presidency," Buzeki said. He accused Sudi, who made the accusations last week in Eldoret, of wasting residents' time with unnecessary meetings that disrupt business. Referring to alleged incitement, Sudi had said residents would never again engage in violence, as they had after the 2007-08 polls, despite differences among leaders. Buzeki, Sudi and Mandago recently clashed at another meeting in Eldoret where they argued abut support for DP Ruto and 2022 succession. Buzeki had also engaged in a social media spat with Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibet over succession. Ruto's home is in Uasin Gishu. Buzeki last year decamped from Jubilee and joined Chama Cha Mashinani, which is led by former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto. Last week he told  Mandago he would vie for governor on the CCM ticket and do a better job running the county. “When you retire, I will host a major send-off party for you and I will then do a better job in uniting the people of Uasin Gishu and ensuing the county is among the best in the country," Buzeki said. Sudi dismissed Buzeki as lacking capacity to lead the county. Mandago told Buzeki to stop relying on brokers to help him win the governor's seat. Buzeki has stepped up his political activities to prepare for another stab at the governor's office. Other likely aspirants are Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Kesses MP Swarup Mishra and politician Jonathan Bii. Mandago has said, however, he might run for a third term if the final Building Bridges Initiative report recommends open-ended terms for governors. (Edited by V. Graham)