Differences between TangaTanga and Kieleweke factions in Jubilee are playing out in the impeachment drive against Migori Governor Okoth Obado. Already, officials and MCAs, three elected and two nominated, have openly rejected calls to support the impeachment proposed by ODM. “We have been forced by the party decision that we should support the impeachment of Obado. We take that order as from Kieleweke faction. We in Tangatanga are standing with Obado and Deputy President William Ruto,” Joseph Hoyo, Makerero MCA, said. Last Monday, ODM ordered for the impeachment of Obado after he was charged with corruption alongside his four children and proxies. He is accused of stealing Sh73.4 million county cash. The impeachment has now metamorphosed into a Raila Odinga versus Ruto issue ahead of the 2022 General Election. Hoyo said it was open that Jubilee is already divided between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, Ruto, noting that the same which will play out in the support or rejection of the motion. “We have two Jubilee factions in Migori. We are proud to say we are allied to Ruto and we will vote to support Obado in and out of the assembly by any means possible and necessary at our disposal,” Hoyo told the Star in an interview on Saturday. Hoyo said they were aware of a directive from Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju to support the impeachment motion, but said those allied to Ruto will ignore it. “We heard of a directive of how we should vote. We are hereby saying it will be ignored and let it be known we are supporting Ruto,” Hoyo said. On Friday, a Kieleweke faction led by county Jubilee Party coordinator Mwita Nyangi held a press conference in Kehancha Town and called for the five MCAs to throw their weight behind the impeachment motion. “After consultations with officials and assembly members, we have resolved to support the decision to impeach Obado. We plan to take disciplinary action against members who will not follow suit,” Nyangi said. Nyangi said the move was to support the handshake between Kenyatta and Raila. His statement drew anger from county chairman Michael Ondieki, who said the statement was not binding. “As a party in Migori we are independent and condemn the statement by Nyangi, who is a face of conmen who have invaded Jubilee Party. We are supporting Obado and believe the impeachment will be dead on arrival,” Ondieki said. Ondieki said the five Migori MCAs from Jubilee have decided to back Obado. “We will never sell our soul to ODM. The impeachment motion against Obado is political. Let ODM square their issue with the governor in court and stop intimidating us,” he said. Already Ntimaru East MCA Augustine Mwera, elected on the Jubilee ticket, has thrown his weight behind Obado. The division between the two factions is said to have gone a notch higher with fear that Tuju may threaten the two nominated MCAs, Ndegwa Wangare and Christine Mwita of being de-gazetted. Wangare, the deputy Minority leader, and Tagare MCA Nicholas Ngabiya refused to comment on the matter when contacted by the Star.Migori county has 57 MCAs, with ODM commanding the majority at 41. Independent MCAs are seven, followed by Jubilee’s five, Ford Kenya three and DP one. The motion will only need 19 MCAs to support it for it to be tabled on Monday, and 38 to pass it.Central Kanyamkago MCA Alex Akugo of ODM has also come out openly in social media posts to insist he will not support the motion. Edited by EKibii