@alalmaurice About 2,000 desks and lockers are to be distributed to schools in Nyando, Kisumu county. Secondary school lockers and primary pupil's desks will cost Sh3,800 and Sh2,500 respectively. The initiative will cost Sh6.2 million. The extra furniture will help achieve social distancing in both primary and secondary schools when they reopen. Nyando deputy county commissioner Julius Kavita said 19 secondary and 15 primary schools will benefit from the state's Sh1.9 billion furniture project. The project, he said, is modelled on the ongoing youth community work employment initiative as part of the post-Covid-19 economic recovery plan. He spoke on Wednesday at his office in Awasi. Kavita said 34 public schools in the subcounty will ensure youth with skills are engaged to benefit from the programme. “We will provide 70 desks in each primary with 50 lockers to every secondary school to ensure students maintain the social distance required by the health officials," Kavita said. Already, he said, the tender has been floated for local artisans to assemble and supply high-quality desks. "The exercise will be conducted by a multi-sectoral committee in the subcounty. This will ensure fairness and transparency in awarding the tenders," Kavita said. Some of the targeted schools include Kandaria, Ombaka, Kakola among others that were affected by recent floods in the area. "The committee will visit the workshops to assess their workmanship and ability to offer the needed services to keep away ghost suppliers," Kavita said. So far, they have received several requests from youths who have shown interest in supplying the desks. The project came after the government released guidelines for reopening of schools. Learners, teachers and school workers will be required to wear face masks, maintain physical distance and check for Covid-19 symptoms daily. There are 44 secondary and 97 primary schools in Nyando subcounty. Nationally, 5,254 secondary and 5,136 primary schools will benefit from the Sh1.9 billion project. 