Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has urged senators to perform their constitutional duty to ensure a fair and equitable formula is arrived at so funds are released to the counties. The CS said counties are struggling and need the money to discharge their mandate. Wamalwa said senators have failed to adopt the third basis formula for sharing revenue among the counties, thus leaving the National Treasury in a difficult situation — unable to release the funds. "This has brought operations in the counties to a near halt and we plead with the senators on the formula to save the devolved units from further anguish,” he said. Wamalwa spoke on Thursday in Uasin Gishu where he accompanied Water CS Sicily Kariuki on an inspection tour of Kipkaren Dam water project. He said the counties will continue suffering the more the senators fail to reach an amicable solution to the revenue impasse. “When two bulls fight, it is the grass that suffers. In this case, it’s the counties that are suffering because of the tussle in the Senate over the sharing formula." The formula developed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation was forwarded to the Senate last year for consideration. Its variations are being deliberated on by the senators. At the centre of the statement is whether to use population or landmass as parameters for revenue sharing, with some calling for "one man one vote one shilling", with others citing landmass as a critical requirement and calling for equity to economically empower previously marginalised counties. The third formula before the House will see a number of counties that had been receiving higher allocation receive less if adopted. In this financial year, Sh316.5 billion has been allocated to the counties as per the Division of Revenue Act, 2020, which equitably allocates the revenue generated at the national level between the national and the counties. Meanwhile, Wamalwa assured families affected by rising levels of water in lakes Baringo, Bogoria, Naivasha, Victoria and Nakuru that the national government will continue to support them.