Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson has asked the Luo community to support Deputy President William Ruto in 2022 if ODM leader Raila Odinga does not vie for the presidency. “I know if Baba [Raila] will be on the ballot you will all vote for him. But just in case he will not vie I urge you to support Ruto because he supported Odinga in 2007 elections,” Mandago said in Homa Bay. He said the Luo community should stand with Ruto because as the DP he is closer to the top seat than any other leader. “If Odinga will contest then please ensure you give Ruto 30 per cent of your votes because I know if he [Raila] will contest then you will give him almost all your votes,” Mandago. He spoke during the burial of the father of Uasin Gishu county procurement director Kennedy Okwaro. He said while Odinga was working closely with some Jubilee leaders, he should not use the partnership to push Ruto out. “As the people of Rift Valley we fully stand with Ruto to take over from President Kenyatta but we urge you as our neighbours to also give him chance to lead come 2022,” Mandago said. Mandago asked Kenyans not to risk their lives or die for politicians but instead live in peace. Politicians remain friends in private but play hard politics in public, he said. He repeated his call on Kenyans not to harbour deep political feelings in their hearts because political trends and alliances keep shifting. “When we voted last time none of us knew that President Kenyatta and Raila Odinga would later work together. We each had very deep feelings for the sides we took but now the two people we were fighting for are together,” Mandago said. He said the most important thing for Kenyans was to keep peace and unity while playing politics because at the end of every election, Kenyans live in the same areas. Mandago said political competition should not be a means to cause disunity among Kenyans and urged residents of Nyanza and Rift Valley to remain peaceful ahead of the 2022 elections. Mandago’s visit to Homa Bay came weeks after Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi hosted in his Eldoret home a delegation of more than 1,000 elders and youth from Luo Nyanza whom he urged to back Ruto in 2022. Edited by Henry Makori