Before dipping their hands into the public purse, governors will now have to think twice as the anti-graft agency moves to make corruption an expensive affair in Kenya. The 47 devolved units have been cited as citadels of graft with some governors and their cronies becoming overnight billionaires. In just two weeks alone, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has nailed three governors, bringing their political careers to a screeching halt. They are barred from accessing their office with the additional headache of deputies salivating for their jobs. Others are facing impeachment threats. This now brings to six, the number of governors so far charged by EACC since the new boss Twalib Mbarak took over at Integrity Centre. Majority of the governors are under the EACC radar and the relentless war has left the county chiefs gasping for breath. “The EACC will pursue all governors implicated in corruption and theft until the rot is fully addressed,” Mbarak told the Star on Thursday, shortly after DPP Noordin Haji approved charges against Garissa Governor Ali Korane. At least 10 former and sitting governors are facing graft charges in court with the list likely to swell further as the EACC heightens the war. Governors fear they could be hounded out of office over graft and their deputies allowed to take over their offices. A 2019 landmark ruling delivered by Justice Mumbi Ngugi spelt doom for county chiefs charged in court over corruption. Ngugi said that elected executives cannot continue to attend office functions when facing corruption-related charges. “What message does it send to the citizens if their leaders are charged with serious corruption offenses and are in office the following day, overseeing the affairs of the institution?” she said. Former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu suffered massively after he was successfully impeached following his arraignment. James Nyoro, who was his deputy, took the oath of office as Kiambu governor. Migori governor Okoth Obado, who is battling a Sh73 million graft case is facing impeachment threats with his deputy Nelson Mahanga likely to take over if he is removed from office. So far, six governors are now facing prosecution over corruption worth billions of shillings with family networks emerging as the new avenues in executing official plundered of public resources. On Thursday, the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji approved graft charges against Garissa governor Ali Korane over embezzlement of Sh233 million. This is after investigations by the EACC revealed the grant from the World Bank and meant for urban infrastructural projects was illegally diverted and misappropriated. Korane is the latest in a growing list of county chiefs having dates with the courts over piggish plunder of public resources. Apart from Obado and Korane, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong is battling a Sh8 million graft case. Nairobi county chief Mike Sonko has been charged over Sh357 million graft case, Samburu's Moses Lenolkulal is charged with Sh87.6 million fraud. Tharaka Nithi's Muthomi Njuki has been arraigned over embezzlement of Sh34.9 million public funds. The EACC is already probing at least eight more governors among them Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Kitui's Charity Ngilu. Waititu and his ex-Nairobi county boss Evans Kidero are among former governors facing graft charges. The fresh impetus appears to have sent shock waves through the counties even as some governors claim the graft war is unfairly targeting them. County governors have even threatened to deny the media advertising revenue over 'negative' publicity in the war on corruption. However, the EACC has fired a warning on governors that boycotting media would amount to a criminal offence. “The governors' attempt to muzzle and frustrate the media if futile,” Mbarak said.