The wet and misty weather in Western and parts of Central will continue for another seven days, the Meteorological Department has said. The unusually steady rainfall, dense fog and low temperatures since last weekend have left the entire Central, Rift Valley highlands and Western Kenya sodden. Dr Richard Muita, the assistant director in charge of Climate Services at Met Department, explained this may be a carryover from the June-August season. The prevailing conditions, he said, are not entirely unexpected in September. "In general, this is normal when we look at climate variability. Parts of the cold season of June-August can delay such that that season can end in September," he said. "The ground has also been cold, and that is why it's suddenly very cold. It's like when you take something out of a freezer, it won't warm up immediately." He said the chilly stretch is likely to end early next week. In a separate seven-day forecast for this week, the department said the ongoing rains will continue in Western Kenya and Rift Valley highlands. Counties in these regions include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii and Nyamira counties. Other counties are Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. "Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over several places throughout the forecast period," Met director Stella Aura said in a forecast that ends Sunday. "Nights are likely to be partly cloudy but occasional showers may occur over a few places." She said Central region - Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kiambu, Embu, Meru, and Tharaka counties - will remain foggy and overcast but most places will not have rain. "Mornings are likely to be cool and cloudy, with a possibility of rains over a few places giving way to sunny intervals," Aura said. In Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu mornings will be sunny but a few areas may receive occasional rains early this week. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over a few places throughout the week. The rest of the country will mostly be sunny during the day and partly cloudy at night. However, the coastal strip may have occasional morning and early afternoon showers over a few places. Last month, weather specialists said Kenyans should expect a drier October-December season, which will also be hotter than usual. They said the short rains which come during this season, will be depressed and begin late - in November - in most parts of the country. "A drier than usual season is expected in most parts of the region," the experts from the Dagoretti-corner based Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre (ICPAC) said in a statement. "Warmer than usual temperatures are expected over most of the region," they added. The region covered by the forecast comprises Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan and Ethiopia. However, the short rains will begin earlier than normal - in the first or second week of September - in entire Western Kenya, along the border with Uganda, South Sudan and Ethiopia. Edited by A.N