A herder suffered three bullet wounds after bandits attacked Yatya village in Baringo North subcounty and stole his 40 goats at dawn on Tuesday. Jeremiah Cheptoo, 42, was admitted to Kabarnet County Referral Hospital where an X-ray showed he had three bullets lodged in his left shoulder, hand and thigh. "I was asleep at the time when an unknown number of bandits struck around 3am and entered my goat shed. When I tried to shout for help, one opened fire and shot me three times," Cheptoo said. He collapsed as the raiders drove all his animals towards Silale in the neighbouring Tiaty subcounty. "I'm now weak and feeling pain all over my body," the victim said in his hospital bed. He urged security officers to help pursue and recover his stolen goats. His brother Stephen Cheptoo said he heard him screaming and rushed to help him. "I called police who arrived immediately and I escorted him to hospital," he said. The family appealed to the government and well-wishers to assist in footing Cheptoo's hospital bill, saying they had nothing to sell to get the money. Yatya location chief Jackson Keitany confirmed the incident, saying tension was still high in the area as residents lived in fear of more bandit attacks. "Gunshots are heard around the village every evening, forcing people to watch overnight outside their homes," Keitany said. Two weeks ago riders on a motorcycle fled and abandoned a sack containing six G3 and AK-47 rifles with 160 rounds of ammunition on Nginyang-Loruk-Marigat road in Tiaty. County police commander Robinson Ndiwa said the rifles were found while the culprits were being pursued. Reports say about 6,000 illegal firearms are still in the hands of civilians in Baringo county, especially Tiaty. Seven people have lost their lives and at least 10 injured in bandit attacks in Baringo since January. Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei attributed the frequent attacks to the government withdrawal of the National Police Reservists late last year. "It is time government reinstates the NPR so they can help protect the locals and repulse the bandits," Chepchomei said. Edited by Henry Makori