LOCALS IN A Nyanza subcounty are up in arms over their newly promoted deputy county commissioner. They have accused the officer of meddling in a raging row over location of new headquarters after the subcounty was split into two. They want the administrator to keep off. They claim the DCC has gone to bed with the area MP who has openly taken a stand, yet locals are bitterly divided on where to locate the headquarters for the proposed sub county. They want Interior PS Karanja Kibicho (pictured) to intervene, and if possible transfer the administrator so he won't take sides in the emotive matter. DISGRUNTLED BOARD MEMBERS of a state agency covering a number of counties in Western want President Uhuru Kenyatta to save them from their chairman. They claim he is embarrassing them with his posts on social media. The board members accuse the chairman who has an immense interest in the area's politics of not only using the agency’s vehicles for selfish reasons but also politicising the institution’s projects to give him political mileage ahead of 2022. The chairman-turned-politician is also said to be reckless in his posts about neighbouring communities, making the agency’s job in those areas difficult. Some board members whispered to Corridors they will petition the appointing authority to revoke his appointment so he can join the political arena without soiling the good reputation of the state agency. HE WAS VISIBLY angry and tired. These were the words of members of a parliamentary committee stunned by the actions of a top county official who had appeared to respond to audit queries. The official, a former MP, shocked the committee when he demanded to have tea before the meeting started. He told the committee that he had left his house early and travelled for a long distance to beat the 'Nairobi jam' for the 10am meeting. The man insisted that he would not be in a position to effectively respond to the questions ‘in my current status’ – hunger. A FIRST-TERM MCA who was recently elected as an official of a county assembly in Central Kenya is planning to splash millions of shillings to celebrate the ‘remarkable’ achievement. The ward representative has initiated an online fundraiser, seeking to raise Sh5 million to fund the celebrations. According to those close to him, he planned to invite the who's who in the country’s political arena. However, some politicians have vowed to give the party a wide berth after word went round that he was planning to use the day to launch his bid for a bigger political seat as MP.