Phased resumption of learning could help avoid overcrowding in schools and ensure social distancing is achieved for learners' safety, Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina has said. He said the Ministry of Education should first allow Standard 5-8 pupils back in school, arguing that allowing all learners back would result in congestion — a situation that could lead to the spread of the coronavirus. Already, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has announced that learning will resume mid-October. Also, the Teachers Service Commission has directed all teachers to report to school next Monday to prepare for the reopening. But Wainaina said staggered reopening will allow the government to keep an eye on the trend of the pandemic in all learning institutions before all classes are allowed to resume. “Inasmuch as we want our children back to school, we want them to be safe. Some schools before Covid-19 were overcrowded to a point that a single class could harbour over 70 children and allowing all of them back to school would be courting trouble,” he said. The legislator noted that even if the country is registering a few Covid-19 cases, the government should be cautious to avoid a second wave of the virus as witnessed in other countries. “We’ve seen other countries reopen their schools after the pandemic cases declined, only to shut them immediately after being hit by a second wave. We should be cautious to avoid being in the same scenario,” Wainaina said. He urged the ministry to allow children to learn outside classes when the weather is favourable to help achieve social distancing. Wainaina praised the government for the Sh1.9 billion desks project, saying it will ensure all schools across the country get enough desks for all learners. He, however, called for prudent use of the cash. The lawmaker also urged the state to consider giving the job to artisans’ groups instead of individual artisans, to achieve maximum impact. “Giving the job to registered groups will ensure the impact of the funds is felt by many families and it will mean that many Kenyans will get jobs,” he said. And just like the desks project, the MP told the government to consider setting aside funds for the provision of sufficient water to all schools. “Sanitation will be paramount once schools reopen and we are aware that most schools in the country are still grappling with lack of water. The government should allocate funds to address this problem,” Wainaina said. Parents called on the government to rescind the decision to reopen schools next month, saying that the pandemic has drained their resources and they are currently facing financial constraints to take their children back to school. “We are aware that the curve is flattening but that should not be the only thing to consider while settling on reopening schools. We have been through a very difficult period and we have no money to facilitate our children's return to school next month. Psychologically, we are prepared for the January reopening,” said Maureen Muthoni.