Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo has petitioned the Kenya Wildlife Service to intervene in rising cases of wildlife-human conflicts in Lake Victoria beaches. Several cases have been reported where hippos and crocodiles either attack and kill or seriously injure locals as they undertake their duties at the shores of the lake. In the latest incident, a video was shared on social media showing a boy being attacked by a hippo in one of the beaches in Homa Bay. Helpless residents watched as the aquatic animal mauled the boy to death as they tried to scare it away by pelting stones at it. The hippo set the boy free after mutilating his body beyond recognition. On Saturday, Odhiambo expressed concern over the incident and asked KWS to restrain the hippo. The lawmaker said such incidences are seen not only in the lake but also along major rivers. “Let wildlife-human conflicts not deter fisherfolk from realising their economic potential. KWS should tame the animal to save other human lives,” she said. Such attacks occur during fishing expeditions, when residents fetch water and when undertaking other economic activities near the water bodies. Odhiambo said residents had previously raised complaints with Homa Bay KWS over the hippo and that no action has been taken. “Residents live in fear. They know where the hippo grazes, some time it trespasses and destroy crops. It’s high time KWS intervened." She was speaking at Kiumba beach in the constituency where she was accompanied by Beach Management Unit chairman Edward Oremo. They threatened to move to court if KWS does not tame the hippo. Oremo asked the government to relocate people who have encroached riparian land. “We know people who have fenced places considered riparian. They affect the habitats of the wild animals hence the government should remove them,” he said. On Sunday, KWS warden Millicent Atieno called for collaboration from residents to reduce the conflicts. She said they are doing everything possible to help residents. Atieno spoke after sending some officers to help Ndhiwa residents search for the body of Millicent Akoth, 37, who was attacked and killed by a crocodile in River Kuja. She was attacked by the reptile when she was fetching water on Friday afternoon. The Red Cross and local divers are also involved in the search. “We’re doing our best now but appeal to locals to work with us for a permanent solution,” Atieno said. Edited by R.Wamochie