Bomet Senator Christopher Langat on Monday was overcome with emotional before IG Hillary Mutyambai and DCI boss George Kinoti as he accused police officers of damaging his spinal cord. Speaking before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, Langat said due to the high speed the officers drove him to Bomet his spine was damaged. He is set to go for another spinal cord operation in two weeks. "These people are killing us.. I am now going to get another surgery..the damage that this people can cause..," an emotional Langat said. With his voice breaking, Langat said the officers who arrested him took him to Narok and threatened him. "...They told me to see Narok for the last time.. when I am travelling home I even fear stepping in Narok...my lawyer has been following it up and nothing has come up," he said. "These allegations have damaged my health and psychological being.. these people  can cause community animosity.. your officers are so brutal.." Langat said he has never been a criminal. "All these things that these people are doing is very serious. This matter was to prevent me from voting.. they told me hii ni mambo ya serikali. Ongea na serikali.. such incidences should not happen to any human being," he said. Senator Langat was freed after being questioned at Bomet police station. The senator was arrested on August 17 at his house in Nyayo Estate, Embakasi. He left his home alongside lawyer Nelson Havi. The senator later said that he was accused of grouping 200 youths on August 12 for an oath at a local river. He said an oath according to the police was meant to turn the youths against the neighbouring community. "I am accused that on August 12, I mobilised 200 youths from Bomet and took them to Amalo River and administered an oath for them and finally engaged them in fighting the Maasai whereby many of them lost their lives," he said. He dismissed the allegations, saying that he was in the Senate on the day quoted by the police and asked them to further investigate the matter. His Kakamega counterpart Cleophas Malala and Samburu Senator Steve Lelegwe were arrested on the same day. Malala was accused of distributing sanitisers to residents over the weekend without observing the Covid-19 measures.