Tusker FC new signing Kevin Monyi has reiterated his desire and ambition to succeed in top-flight football. His statement comes shortly after he secured a deal with the Ruaraka-based former Kenya Premier League (KPL) champions. The Kakamega High School alumnus expressed his gratitude to the management of Tusker for trusting in him and vowed to reciprocate in kind by fighting for the club. “It’s a dream come true for me as I had a great desire of playing for top clubs in the country and eventually pave way to the top teams in Africa or Europe. I feel this is the start of  a long  journey," he noted. “I have remained optimistic about achieving the dream and I feel Tusker is a better option and a home for me to develop to greater heights to enable me realise my potential in my football career. “I believe I have enough experience and the fact that I will be playing alongside my former teammates at Green Commandos Henry Mejja and Sammy Mejja will give me an easy time to settle in fast and concentrate fully so that I can be in a better position to compete at this top level,” Monyi revealed. He also thanked his former coach Brendan Mwinamo whom he said assisted him in making the big decision to join Tusker. Monyi also revealed that he is now prepared for a tough fight in securing a starting role under veteran coach Robert Matano while acknowledging that this will be a tough and stiff fight that requires courage. He stated that he is ready for the start of the season, adding that he can't wait for normalcy to return in football for the sake of players and fans across the country. His former coach Mwinamo touted him to succeed at Tusker, noting that the player has  all the attributes he needs to shine at the top-level. Mwinamo is convinced that Monyi made a good decision to join Tusker, which has recruited many youngsters. “Monyi is a hardworking and disciplined player with a good physique that is required for any defender. I believe Tusker has made good recruitment and will be one of the title contenders,” he noted. Monyi joins brothers Mejja siblings —Henry and Sammy, who are also products of Green Commandos and both helped the school team win titles.