Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo has urged MPs not to make Chief Justice David Maraga’s advisory to dissolve Parliament a personal matter. “I’m willing to go home… It’s not a men vs women fight… I know people have been calling me saying don’t support, but it’s not about me…” she said. During a sitting in Parliament on Tuesday, she said the matter is in the hands of President Uhuru Kenyatta and it is up to him to decide whether to dissolve the House or “dilly dally” due to loophole in law over the time requirement. “The issue is about standing on principle and I stand on the principle of gender equality,” she said. MPs engaged in an animated debate on the advisory. Eldas MP Adan Keynan said "somebody wants to spoil the image of this House". He further said with the Covid-19 pandemic straining resources, there would probably be no money to conduct fresh elections should Parliament be resolved. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa accused some women MPs of "pretending" to be keen on achieving the two-thirds gender law, but were "lining up to pick allowances" for foreign trips instead of voting on the matter. However, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga asked Wamalwa to withdraw the statement, saying he was spoiling her "good name". "You can't say that yet you know that after this we will have to be somewhere... Sasa unaleta nini (now what are you saying?)" she said. Wamalwa, however, refused to withdraw the statement, saying he only needed the Hansard to prove his point. Earlier, the Parliamentary Service Commission said it would move to court to challenge Maraga's advice to Uhuru to dissolve Parliament. PSC chair Justin Muturi, who is also the speaker of the National Assembly, on Tuesday said Maraga's advice was premature and unconstitutional. "The commission regrets that the Chief Justice appears to be willing, even eager to plunge the country into a constitutional crisis without exercising the wisdom and circumspection that is expected of the high office he holds," he said Muturi on Monday said Parliament should not be used as a punching bag, further adding it was 'unrealistic' to call for its dissolution for failing to enact the gender law. "We must not lose sight of the real challenges in implementing this matter and turn Parliament into a punching bag on account of gender parity," he said in a statement on Monday. He further said, "The clamour for dissolution of the current Parliament on account of failure to enact the two-third gender legislation is at the very least, unrealistic." "Given that legislators decide through voting in Parliament, this would in essence mean that there are an additional 100 votes of nominated women legislators, yet these legislators are not a direct expression of the will of the people. That elected legislators wield more legitimacy relative to nominated legislators can be deduced from article 123 of the Constitution with respect to voting in the Senate," he said. In an advisory dated September 21, Maraga had called for dissolution of Parliament in response to six petitions seeking his advice on the matter. "The petitions are based on the ground that despite four court orders compelling Parliament to enact the legislation... Parliament has blatantly failed, refused, or neglected to do so...." Maraga said. The CJ said it was his constitutional duty to advise Uhuru. "Let us endure pain if we must..." he said.