Modernisation of police quarters at the Kigumo station will be completed in October, Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua has said. The project was initiated by former Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i in 2018 and stalled for lack of funds. Matiang’i had said the government would partner with the NG-CDF to have quarters in both Kigumo and Githumu police stations renovated, saying officers were living in colonial and dilapidated buildings which made their work difficult. The government had resolved to reform the National Police Service and was looking for ways of improving officers’ welfare to motivate them. But Mbugua noted that the project was allocated funds towards the end of the 2017-18 financial year but the money was mistakenly returned to the National Treasury. “This caused the project to stall and today, I decided to visit and find out how it can be completed,” he said. Mbugua assured that the project will be completed by the end of next month so officers can move in. He donated Sh200,000 for the purchase of 100 bags of cement and two lorries of sand so the Prisons department, which has been contracted, can complete it on time. "They have said the only problem is lack of materials. The subcounty police commander will procure the materials and plastering will start next Monday. The doors and windows are ready,” he said. Mbugua praised MP Wangari Mwaniki for continuously following up on the project and appealed to local leaders to chip in. He also called on the local security heads to make contributions towards the project, saying its completion will make their work easier. Mbugua promised to make another donation of Sh200,000 by month-end for the project. “We should all appreciate our officers because if they (police officers) were unavailable for just a few days, it would not be business as usual,” Mbugua said, adding that it will be the subcounty commander’s fault if the project is not done by the end of next month. He also noted that MP Mwaniki’s appeal to have Kangari police station constructed would be impossible following the government’s directive to have ongoing projects completed before new ones are launched. Police stations have been increased from 600 to 1,300 in the last few years, yet there are no funds to fully facilitate them, he said. “Before we even find enough vehicles for all the new stations, it will take some time, unless MPs pass legislation to have them funded,” Mbugua said. Mwaniki said the officers' houses leak and are in a poor state, and expressed joy that through Mbugua’s assurance, the project will be completed. The lawmaker intends to modernise the entire station and will visit Kahawa Sukari police station that has been constructed on a small piece of land. The Kahawa Sukari station is storeyed and has male, female and juvenile cells, she said, noting that she plans to replicate the model. “I will visit the station with the works officer and the subcounty police heads to see how a similar thing can be done here,” she said. The MP will then seek funds to establish Kangari police station as the busy town is served by Githumu station.