Doctors’ union officials in Nyamira have advised patients in county health facilities to seek treatment elsewhere. The medics have been away from their workstations for the past two weeks. They have accused the county government of failing to implement the 2017 collective bargaining agreement and have demanded promotions. They also complained about frequent salary delays. They insist that they will only resume work if their grievances are addressed. They accuse Governor John Nyagarama of taking them for granted. Speaking to journalists in Kisii on Wednesday, Kenya Medical Pharmacists and Dentists Union Nyanza region secretary Lameck Omweri maintained that the strike was on. He urged patients seeking services to go to private hospitals or those outside the county, "as no qualified doctor was at work". Omweri accused the county of using clinicians to hoodwink patients that doctors were still at work. Nurses and clinicians are at work. Omweri lashed at the Nyagarama administration for resorting to "cheap propaganda". "That is cheap propaganda. Our members are still away from their workstations.  In fact, they are ready to go back even today if their demands are met,” he said. “The strike continues to be in force and it will only be called off when our demands are met. For now, we are not at work." Some patients have since lamented lack of doctors to attend to them. On Wednesday, Omweri said no County Executive Committee member has made effort to reach out to them to resolve the issue even as patients suffer. Some doctors have begun receiving show-cause letters from Health executive Douglas Bosire, he said, warning, however, that they will not budge. "We will continue to stand our ground and no amount of intimidation is going to work. To us, those just love letters. We are not going to cede any ground until what was articulated in the CBA is implemented to the full. There is no going back,” Omweri said. But speaking by phone from Nyamira, Bosire said the county has effected promotions for many of the medics and only a few were remaining. He said he did not know what all the "fuss" was about. “What are they doing at home if I dare ask? We have met most of their demands? Let them resume work immediately,” he said. 