Senators have summoned Nandi Governor Stephen Sang over the sacking and non-payment of wages to more than 400 support staff in the health department. The Senate Labour and Social Welfare Committee also summoned the County Public Service Board to explain the controversial termination of contracts and non-payment of the workers for eight months. The board, the entity mandated to hire and fire staff, terminated the contracts for the workers saying they were hired irregularly. The county chief and the board will appear before the panel chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja on Thursday following a petition presented to the House by the workers through their Senator Samson Cherargei. The official sacking comes a month after the employees sued the county government, demanding to be compensated for what they term illegal termination of contracts. Fifty-one workers, acting on behalf of their former colleagues, filed a suit at the Kapsabet principal magistrate’s court where they accused the county administration of firing them illegally. They have also sued the chief Finance officer, the chief Health officer and the county secretary. In the petition to the Senate, the workers want the lawmakers to intervene to have them paid their dues. They want the Senate to investigate their plight and recommend a special audit on the Nandi Finance department on the issue of payment of salaries and remittance of statutory deduction to KRA, NHIF and NSSF. They decried non-payment, saying they are languishing in poverty despite working for the county for eight months. They are providing among other security, messengerial and cleaning services. “Most of the staff were deployed to Health department and they have been working in different county hospitals without pay despite several efforts of seeking assistance,” the petition reads. “Despite several attempts to seek the matter to be addressed by the CPSB and with the Health CO, nothing has been done but instead staff are intimidated for seeking their wages.” However, the Board, in a recent notice on dailies, revoked the appointments, saying the recruitment process for the workers did not conform to the law. “Having carried out extensive investigations on the recruitment process of the support staff as was advertised in the newspapers on October 11, 2018, it has come to the attention of the board that the recruitment process did not conform to the law, the notice states. The notice is signed by the board Secretary and CEO Jacob Sissey. “Therefore, in accordance with provisions of the County Government Act (2012), the board wished to notify the concerned and the general public that the appointments made therefore stand revoked." The workers have cried foul over the move and said they are demanding more than Sh250 million for premature termination of contracts. The three-year contracts had been signed by the board. Those who filed the suit on behalf of others included Judith Chepchumba, Mark Kirwa and Nelly Chepngetich. All the county officials sued have been served with a notice from the court and directed to file their responses within 21 days. The county sent the workers home citing a ballooning wage bill, which Governor Sang’s administration said was unsustainable. MCAs had raised concerns that more than 60 per cent of the devolved unit's budget was being spent on recurrent expenditure, mainly salaries, leaving little for development programmes. Some of the affected workers told the Star that they had two months ago been given verbal notice to leave without pay. It was issued by the medical superintendent at Kapsabet Referral Hospital. “We were hired in 2018 and deployed to various health facilities and since then many of us have not been paid. Now we have been sacked,” one of the affected workers said. They were hired on three- year contracts at a monthly salary of Sh7,500 each and deployed to 249 health facilities. Senior county officials had held an emergency meeting to discuss the matter and it emerged that more than 230 of the workers were hired without approval of the county assembly. Also, their hiring and payments had not been factored in the county plans and budget. Edited by R.Wamochie