 A chief executive officer of an insurance company has been charged with stealing over Sh11 million that was meant to be wired to four other insurance firms. Cecilia Bridgit Rague, a CEO with Underwriting African Insurance Brokers denied stealing the monies before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku on Tuesday. The funds were to be remitted as insurance premiums to Waica, Continental, Ghana and CICA Reinsurance Companies in December last year. It is alleged that on December 6, 2019 at NCBA Westlands in Nairobi jointly with others not before court, Rague stole Sh11,877,025 the property of Sanlam General Insurance Limited. The prosecution led by Anderson Gikunda told the court the alleged monies were entrusted to the accused for remittance as reinsurance premiums. Gikunda said the accused was arrested on September 16. “Are you opposing the accused being released on bond,” Mutuku asked the prosecutor. “No. I have no instructions to oppose the accused being freed on bond. I urge the court to consider the colossal sum involved while fixing the bail terms,” Gikunda said. He also undertook to furnish the accused with witness statements and exhibits to prepare for her defence. He stated he will supply the evidence within two weeks. Mutuku admitted the accused to a bond of Sh2 million with one surety with an alternative bail of Sh1 million. She set the case for hearing on December 10. Meanwhile, a bank teller convicted for stealing Sh2,620,000 was fined Sh250,000 or serve a 12-month imprisonment. Dedan Kamau Nyamathuwe was found guilty of stealing Sh2,620,000 from the Co-operative Bank branch in Westlands, Nairobi between March 3 and October 2015. Nyamathuwe was convicted by chief magistrate Francis Andayi. Defence lawyer Angela Fuchaka asked the court to treat the accused as a first offender since she did not have a previous criminal record. Nyamathuwe 43, pleaded for a non-custodial sentence saying he is jobless and misfortunes have dogged him including deaths of very close relatives. “The accused has since been remorseful and has reformed after reflecting on the offence these five years he has been out of employment,” the defence lawyer said. The magistrate said the offence was serious because the bank lost money. 