Deputy President Willaim Ruto has urged religious leaders and politicians to restrain from the ongoing referendum debate, saying it is divisive. Ruto was speaking on Wednesday in Mwatate, Taita Taveta County, during a meeting with the county's religious and political leaders. "Let us not plunge the country in an unnecessarily divisive contest over something that does not exist. Instead of trying to solve a hypothetical problem, why don’t we sort out the real problems?" Ruto said. The DP instead urged leaders to focus on the pressing issues facing Kenyans including loss of jobs and disruption of businesses. He also warned public servants that they will be held to account if they misappropriate government resources and that matters of accountability were not issues that can be negotiated using other ways other than the law. Ruto added that it was insensitive for leaders to advocate for the interests of politicians at a time when Kenyans were suffering in the wake of the virus. "As leaders, we must be sensitive. In the last three months, 1.7 million Kenyans lost their jobs. Our unemployment rate amongst our youth has gone up in the last three months from almost 5 per cent to 11 per cent." Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa, who accompanied the DP, said that the constitution should not be used by politicians as an instrument of trampling on citizens. "A constitution is a contract between the people on how they are going to live together. If there are changes to be made, the people must be involved," Ichungwa said. Former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama asked politicians not to use the constitution amendments to reintroduce ethnic-based politics in the country. Muthama said that he is confident that the DP will carry the day come 2022. Other leaders who accompanied Ruto include Taita Taveta Woman Rep Lydia Haika, former Taita Taveta governor John Murutu, and former Taita Taveta senator  Dan Mwazo. Murutu said that the ongoing debate on the revenue sharing formula before the Senate should not be used to make other Kenyans feel lower than others.