@robertomollo3 Supporters of Deputy President William Ruto want him to visit Homa Bay and distribute empowering equipment to the less-fortunate. They said that there are many youths ready to take and operate various business activities with the equipment Ruto has been distributing. The DP has been donating various working machines to the youths to help them start and operate businesses. Some of the tools include wheelbarrows, handcarts, water tanks, laundry machines and assorted hairdressing equipment among others. Youths from various places visit the DP at his Karen home in Nairobi to receive the equipment. Ruto has argued that the machines are meant to empower youths who face numerous economic challenges due to high unemployment rate in the country. The DP has visited Kisii and spearheaded a fund-drive for the less-fortunate. He has also toured Mombasa and Bungoma counties. On Wednesday, a group of DP supporters in Homa Bay asked him to visit the county. Led by county coordinator Everest Okambo and his Rangwe constituency counterpart Vincent Ondeyo, the supporters said they are ready to welcome Ruto. “We appeal to our Deputy President to come and meet his hustler colleagues in Homa Bay. We have many hustlers who will want their challenges get addressed,” Okambo said. The supporters said they have a number of proposals and grievances they will present to the DP should he heed their calls. The last time Ruto visited Homa Bay was early last year when he launched the construction of Kanyadhiang –Kadel ring road in Karachuonyo constituency. “There are development projects which we will want the DP to complete once he ascends to power in 2022. We have stated them in our proposals that we expect to give him,” Okambo said. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town, the supporters called for political tolerance and democratic space in the country to help Kenyans get united ahead of 2022. “Let political opponents of Ruto go in other areas and ask for votes. The Constitution gives everybody a conducive environment to associate with likeminded people,” county women league Rose Auma said. Edited by R.Wamochie