The Inter-Faith Council has urged politicians to suspend political gatherings, despite the loosening of restrictions announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday. Council chairman Archbishop Anthony Muheria on Tuesday said it was imprudent for politicians to hold rallies yet Kenyans attend without observing social distancing rules and many do not wear masks. "Don't gamble with the lives of Kenyans... Consider putting all your political gatherings on hold until we are fully out of this corona pandemic," he said. Muheria also warned politicians against using funerals to make statements. "We must reclaim the meaning of funerals as prayer gatherings... not to be used for political platforms. Funerals must return to being funerals," he said. For weddings, Muheria said handwashing points should be put in place, social distancing maintained, temperature checks where possible and serving food to only the extended family. Uhuru, during the national Covid-19 conference at KICC on Monday, announced the national curfew had been extended by 60 days. The curfew hours have, however, been extended to 11pm to 4am. The hours were previously 9pm-4am. Bars will be allowed to operate from Tuesday. "Unaweza kukunywa pombe," Uhuru said. Bars are to close from 10pm. "The prohibition against the operation of bars, and the sale of alcoholic drinks by ordinary restaurants and eateries shall stand vacated from the September 29. Mnaweza kukunywa pombe sasa (you can now drink)," Uhuru said. Uhuru noted that the country's positivity rate has fallen from 13 per cent in June to seven in August and now stands at 4.4. Uhuru also announced that church services, weddings and funerals can have a maximum of 200 people, up from 100. The President, however, said schools will not yet reopen until it is established it's safe to do so. Uhuru said for the past six months, the country has been in a season of paradoxes. He said as a result, it became necessary to shut in order to save it. "As we head into a new normal, we are even faced with a greater paradox as to whether the curve is flattening or not," he said.