Galana Suites apartment where the late Kevin Omwenga stayed and the vehicles he owned were fully paid for by Global Jeta company associated with Businessman Chris Obure, a court has heard. In an affidavit to oppose Obure's bail, police now claim that investigations and evidence have shown that the businessman and the deceased knew each other even though he denied it. "Investigations and documentary evidence have shown that although Obure had denied having any business or a strong relationship with the deceased, there is strong evidence that Omwenga's apartment and vehicles he claimed to own were fully paid for by Global Jet a company that Obure has leadership authority in," the affidavit reads. It is further alleged that Obure is a team leader with aspects of leadership at Global Jet International and has his offices at Senteu Plaza where police believe he exercises full decision making responsibility. Sgt Bashir Boya said they believe that Obure and his bodyguard Robert Bodo acted jointly in the murder of Kevin Omwenga. Boya says the fact that Obure allowed his bodyguard Bodo to access his firearm in a safe clearly indicates that they were in a joint endeavour to have his gun used in the shooting that led to Omwenga's death. The state wants the court to deny both Obure and Bodo bail on grounds that they will interfere with witnesses. The prosecution witnesses lined up to testify on the strong connection between Obure, Bodo and Omwenga are employees of Global Jet. They said if the accused are released on bail they will interfere with the witnesses" they claim. Obure will be charged on Friday with the offence of failing to secure his firearm. The DPP has preferred the charge against him but Obure was not present in court to take plea. His lawyers asked the court to defer the plea to allow Obure to appear in court Friday to take plea. The court heard that Obure who was exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms had been taken for a test. His bodyguard Bodo, however, appeared before Magistrate Sinkiyian Tobiko. He was charged being in possession of a firearm without a certificate and being with ammunition. Magistrate Tobiko allowed the application and deferred the plea to Friday morning when Obure will be presented in court. Obure and Bodo were on Wednesday charged with the murder of Omwenga. They denied the charges. The bail hearing is scheduled for Monday next week.