Grace Wathoni from Ol Kalou in Nyandarua, did not experience complications during pregnancy. She attended all prenatal clinics and had no problems during childbirth. But after she gave birth four months ago, she noticed that her daughter's left leg was curved. She was told her baby needed corrective surgery. “I did not know where to start since I did not have money. I decided to let it be,” she says. Joyce Nyambura shares a similar story. Her son, now 16, was born with a problem in the ankle that led to an amputation. She says the family could not afford a prosthetic foot, and he has since been using crutches. For Hannah Waringa, her 14-year-old son had no defects at birth. He, however, developed a hunchback at six months, which affected his growth as well as his back. Mary Wanjiku’s case is different. Her 10-year-old daughter fell two years ago and fractured her hand. After treatment, her hand did not return to normal, and she was informed a surgery was required to correct the deformity. The four parents are among over 150 from humble backgrounds who flocked JM Kariuki Memorial Hospital in Ol Kalou on Wednesday during a free paediatric orthopaedic medical outreach conducted by AIC Cure International Hospital, Kijabe. The AIC Cure International Hospital has partnered with the Nyandarua government to sensitise residents and treat correctable physical disabilities. The two-day programme was held at JM Hospital on Wednesday and Njabini Health Centre, Kinangop on Thursday, targeting over 300 children. Parents whose children received help expressed gratitude and satisfaction. “I urge all the parents with children living with disability not to hide them at home but to bring them out and seek help,” Wathoni said. The free clinics, which include screening, treatment and surgery for correctable deformities, will be conducted every three months for children under 18 years. Dr Joseph Theuri from AIC Cure International Hospital said, “This kind of partnership is very important because it will not only bring them to a place where they can be seen but also to get help,” he said. He said while most children are born with deformities whose cause is not known, others come during birth, while some are due to accidents or infections. Sometimes, he said, children get burns which result to deformities if not quickly corrected. Nyandarua Firstlady Ann Kimemia said the burden of congenital bone defects in the country and the county has been on the rise. Nyandarua Health executive Njenga Mungai urged expectant mothers to always attend antenatal clinics and also deliver at medical facilities. Edited by A.N  