Five people including a Form 2 student have been killed following renewed banditry attacks in Kerio Valley along the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties. It’s the first such attack in over two years since communities signed a peace deal. Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo termed the attack an isolated incident carried out by criminals who were being tracked by security officers. Tens of armed bandits attacked Chesugo, Kamologon and Kipchumwa where they shot the victims in their homes before stealing livestock. Security teams led by Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Omar Ali started a search for the attackers who crossed the border and fled. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya was expected to fly to the area following the surprise attack which residents said would reverse gains made in building peace and reconciliation. Hundreds of people who had resumed normal lives and planted crops along with other flourishing business activities have now been forced to flee from their homes again. “We have our security teams on the ground and those involved will have to be bought to book at all costs," Omar said. Natembeya and Omar issued stern orders to security teams to arrest all those involved. Kangogo condemned the attacks and urged residents not to flee from their homes because security teams have been deployed. “The criminals will not have peace. We are pursuing them and we will not rest and they are dealt with," Kangogo said on Twitter. “No one should run away from their homes and let’s work together to build peace." Two years ago, the two communities signed a peace deal that was witnessed by Deputy President William Ruto and other leaders after which there were joint peace rallies that led to total peace. “It’s disheartening that we still have such criminals who don’t want our people to live in peace. This is unacceptable and those involved must be brought to book at all costs," Agriculture CAS Linah Kilimo, who is a former Marakwet East MP, said. Edited by R.Wamochie