Cabinet secretaries have been told to respect Deputy President William Ruto because he was elected to office alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta. Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga on Sunday said Ruto is not the President's clerk as asserted by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko last week. He said Ruto is constitutionally holding the Office of the Deputy President because he was elected by the people. "Ruto was chosen by God to serve Kenyans as the second in command and if God has chosen him to be the fifth president of this Republic, then nothing will stop him,” Mabonga said. He was speaking at Ibubi Church of God in Luanda constituency during a fundraiser for the funeral of Archbishop Byrum Makokha. Mabonga said those referring to Ruto as a clerk to the President are being misled by their egos and should refrain. Tobiko last week accused the DP and his allies of disrespecting the President, "yet he is just an assistant" like the rest of the Cabinet members. He spoke last Friday at Loita in Kajiado county. “Respect is two-way traffic. If you cannot respect your boss then you don’t deserve respect from anyone,” Tobiko said. "In fact, the DP is a clerk to the President and he should respect him as I do.” In Luanda, Mabonga urged the church to take the centre stage in protecting the nation and speak up against evil. “It’s only the church that has powers to condemn the evil we are seeing and if it won’t talk about it then the nation is heading in the wrong direction,” he said. The lawmaker said tribalism and corruption continue to bedevil the country, with people in top offices spearheading corrupt dealings. “The church should come out strongly to protect the integrity of this nation and lead us in serious prayers so that come 2022, we elect sober leaders only,” Mabonga said. He said Kenya needs new leadership that will end corruption, tribalism and steer the economy, and a leader who will promote regional balance. “The President should not be talking of tribalism when Central counties each has a Cabinet secretary while the Luhya people have only Eugene Wamalwa who is in Rift Valley,” Mabonga said. Also present were Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo, MPs Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Chris Omulele (Luanda) and MCAs from Kakamega and Vihiga.  Edited by P.O