Parliamentary watchdog committees want governors facing corruption charges impeached. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investment committee and the National Assembly’s Public Account committee say the move will be a strong statement in the fight against corruption. Governors Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Mike Sonko (Nairobi), Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) and Migori’s Okoth Obado have all been charged with graft-related offences. Kiambu's Ferdinand Waititu became the first casualty in January. On Tuesday, ODM resolved to have Obado impeached over the graft allegations he and his family are facing. Obado and his four children were on Monday freed on Sh18.25 million bail with a raft of strict terms to prevent them from interfering with witnesses. PAC chairman and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said it was untenable to have governors charged with corruption stay in office. “The offences as contained in charge sheets are enough grounds for impeachment,” Wandayi tweeted on Tuesday. Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko, Obado's nemesis, reckoned that ward reps are enjoined by law and where they find a threshold has been attained in regards to violations of law and the Constitution, it is for them to forward the matter to the Senate. “I have not gone into specific details of what went wrong in various counties but I am familiar with what went wrong in Kiambu county. In my view, it meant the threshold of impeachment, which the Senate unanimously agreed to,” Ayacko said. He, however, said he did not want to pre-empt what is likely to happen to governors facing corruption charges. “It is within the mandate and duty of MCAs to deal with each case as it presents itself. Let them look at the evidence and bring the matter to the Senate or decide as they best wish,” the senator said. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei cautioned MCAs not to rush to file impeachment motions as it will set a bad precedence. Cherargei said every accused person is presumed innocent until proven guilty. “There is presumption of innocence which is provided in the Constitution and principles of natural justice demand that you hear the accused and ensure the case is properly heard and determined,” he said. “When you tell MCAs to impeach a governor based on allegations because they are facing economic crimes, we are having double standards because we will be negating the presumption of innocence and natural justice,” he added. He also claimed that some of the allegations against governors were politically motivated. “The war on corruption has been hijacked by individuals with a political agenda ahead of the 2022 polls,” he said. “They (MCAs) can bring triumphed up charges, impeach you and when the court rules, you are innocent,” he said. “Let them be innocent until proven guilty,” he said, urging MCAs to be sober when dealing with impeachment matters. Edited by EKibii