The World Health Organisation has denied it is challenging Kenya on the current declining Covid-19 cases. The organisation said it continues to support the Ministry of Health and the Government of Kenya’s measures put in place to reduce the transmission of the disease. "A section of the media has portrayed the statement made by WHO Kenya on 31 August 2020 regarding the declining numbers of COVID-19 cases as challenging the Government of Kenya. This is incorrect," the organisation said in a statement on Tuesday. The statement said WHO commends the government of Kenya’s transparency related to the COVID-19 outbreak as evidenced by the daily press briefings by the Ministry of Health, and the participation of many health sector partners in the outbreak response task force. "As has been stated by the Ministry of Health, the number of COVID-19 cases has been declining in the past three weeks, and this was reinforced by the statement in the Council of Governors COVID Conference on 31 August by His Excellency, The President, Uhuru Kenyatta, that the curve is beginning to flatten," the statement read. On Monday the organisation said the decline of the coronavirus numbers in Kenya should be treated with caution. WHO cautioned against an interpretation that the decline meant that Kenya is flattening the curve. "For now we would warn against premature relaxation of the effective measures put in place by the Kenyan government," it said. The organisation said the testing needs to be strengthened to capture a greater proportion of suspected cases within the testing regime. But in Tuesday's statement, it said, "Equally, as stated by the Ministry of Health it remains uncertain if this is an indication that the peak of the disease has already passed. As His Excellency, The President has stated, this inflection point is the most dangerous, as the curve can either flatten and de-escalate or take an upward surge. WHO is of the same opinion". WHO said it does not believe that Kenya was “masking the numbers” as portrayed by the media. "The difficulties in conducting widespread laboratory testing have been openly discussed; this is a matter that all countries globally are facing during this pandemic," it said. The organisation said additional data and further in-depth analyses are required to verify the currently reported decline in cases seen in the current data since mid-August. "In support of the Government of Kenya, we state that the current prevention measures should remain in place until this decline is verified. We call on those media to kindly correct any false impression that may have been created that WHO Kenya is in contradiction with the government of Kenya," the statement said. WHO said it remains firmly supportive of and engaged in the COVID-19 response by the Government of Kenya.