The main challenge facing poultry farmers in the country has been lack of access to quality and affordable animal feeds. This has not spared Kirinyaga County farmers who have been affected by the high cost of feeds leading to the high cost of production, which has driven many farmers out of the trade. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru on Tuesday came to the rescue of poultry farmers who have been most affected by the high cost of quality feeds. Through Kirinyaga Agricultural Training Centre animal production unit, the county is manufacturing quality chicken feeds for distribution to farmers engaged in a project in which the county is producing over one million eggs a month. While launching the one million eggs project, Waiguru said that the feeds factory, which is located in Kiaga, plays a major role in the success of the eggs project since the enlisted farmers are guaranteed quality sources of feeds. The governor said that the county government has provided free feeds to 32 community groups involved in the first phase of the eggs project in its first six months. Thereafter, farmers will buy the feeds from the factory at a subsidised cost. She added that the current production capacity at the factory stands at about 220 bags of 70-kg chicken feeds daily. So far the factory has produced around 13,000 bags. Waiguru noted that there are plans to expand the factory’s production capacity in order to accommodate farmers who have been incorporated in the second phase of the egg project and with time it will be big enough to sell feeds to other farmers across the county. The subsidised feeds not only reduce the cost of egg production but also saves farmers from getting substandard feeds from unscrupulous dealers. The feeds are a combination of well-blended carbohydrates, proteins, minerals and vitamins with some of the main ingredients being maize and omena. To avoid toxins the factory uses well-dried ingredients only. The governor noted that farmers and the people working at the factory have been well education on proper storage, stock management and effective pest control in the feeds. The factory is big enough to handle all the raw materials as well as the finished products as well as adequate loading and offloading space.