The number of Kenyans who are positive for Covid-19 stood at 35,103 on Sunday after 83 more cases were confirmed by the Health Ministry. This the lowest caseload recorded since the country started experiencing a decline in cases in recent weeks. The ministry, however, called on Kenyans to continue exercising caution, saying the decline in cases was not an indicator that the curve was flattening. The country has faced a myriad of challenges in its testing capacity such as a breakdown of labs and lack of access to reagents due to a global shortage. In a statement, the ministry said the new cases were from a sample size of 3,093, bringing the cumulative tests conducted in the country since March 13 to 474,477. Six of the new cases were foreigners, and the total comprised 58 men and 25 women aged between one and 85 years. Three more patients succumbed to the virus, bringing the total fatality in the country to 597. On a positive note, 72 more patients recovered from the virus; 39 from home-based care while 33 were discharged from hospitals. This brings to 21,230 the number of recoveries. Nairobi led after registering 27 new infections. Lang’ata estate recorded five cases, Westlands four, Dagoretti North, Embakasi West and Kamukunji each had three cases. Roysambu had two while Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi East, Embakasi South, Kasarani, Makadara and Ruaraka each recorded one case each. Busia recorded the seconded highest number of cases at 15, with seven in Teso North, six in Matayos and two in Teso South. Kisumu had 12 cases while Nakuru registered seven new infections. Machakos recorded seven more cases. Other counties that had new infections include Kiambu with five, Laikipia and Kisii with three while Kirinyaga, Mombasa, Nyandarua and Uasin Gishu recorded one case each. The government last week warned of a possible new wave of Covid-19 infections in the country should there be laxity. “We will get another peak if we change things. If we stop doing the things we are doing we are certainly going to get another peak and we don’t know how high that peak will be,” Health CAS Rashid Aman warned. Edited by Henry Makori