Residents of Sikri village in Suba North have been finding it difficult to access their homes in the last eight months due to rising Lake Victoria water level. The village has turned into a small island following the backflow of lake water. Residents are facing hardship when they want to get out for essential services like healthcare or business activities. The channel they cross is infested with crocodiles, hippos and snakes. They use wooden canoes that carry about five passengers when full. Residents pay Sh20 every time they want to cross to either side. The distance covered across the channel is about 300 metres and takes five minutes. Paddler Fredrick Ojwang’ says he helps residents cross from Sikri to Ndhuru. From Ndhuru, residents are able to access health services and markets. “I now earn a living by helping residents cross over to and from the 'island'. We sometimes get blocked by grazing hippos and crocodiles when we cross,” Ojwang' said. More than 900 people from 145 households in the village depend on canoes when getting in or out of the area. Ojwang’ says they never used canoes in the past to reach their homes. “The problem started after water from the lake began rising. The phenomenon has forced us to adapt to the new environment,” he said. Sikri village used to be part of the mainland of Lambwe ward. Today, the village is completely cut off from the mainland. Many residents, including children, have suspended activities happening in the mainland because they have to pay money to get out of the village. “Many people just stay at home without engaging in economic activities as they wait for the water to subside. They fear being attacked by hippos and crocodiles,” Ojwang' said. On Wednesday, the residents began building a causeway to enable them access their homes. The initiative is led by Arthur Mbara and village elder Charles Aundo. They said they had approached the Homa Bay government for intervention but they have not been helped. “We’re mobilising residents to collect stones for a causeway so  our people move without problems,” Mbara said. With no expertise on engineering, residents are focused on ensuring the structure is put up before schools open next year. “We had experienced a rise in water level in the past but it was not as intense as this. It has attracted wild animals like hippos and crocodiles,” Mbara said. A resident has offered a tractor and a trailer to transport materials to the site for building the causeway. Aundo said they have been faced with a challenge of helping patients cross the channel. “Sometimes we carry a sick person on our back to cross the water when seeking health services. We risk a lot when doing this,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori