KCB Bank customers will now be able to redeem their loyalty points for vouchers to offset their shopping or delivery of goods to their homes. This follows a partnership between the lender, Glovo and Jumia which will allow customers to redeem as low as Sh250, effectively facilitating cashless payments. “The redemption for vouchers is one of the bank’s move to ensure our customers' safety as they shop online and have their goods delivered straight to the doorsteps,” said KCB marketing and communications director Angela Mwirigi. “Online stores such as Glovo and Jumia are synonymous with online shopping in Kenya. Therefore, reinforcing, the importance of this partnership," she added. She said the lender will also continue to forge other strategic partnerships with various platforms that add value to KCB customers. The Bank through its Simba Points loyalty program is also in partnership with several other merchants including Chandarana Supermarkets and Text Book Centre, making it easier for customers to redeem their points for various rewards. For a customer to utilize the facility, they are required to log into the Simba Points website www.simbapoints.kcbgroup.com, with their mobile number and secret Simba Points PIN, select the gift vouchers page, redeem points, get a voucher that they can then use to offset the cost of their shopping on their preferred online store. To register for KCB Simba Points Loyalty program, customers can dial *522#, Select My Account and follow the prompts, download the KCB App from Google or Apple Stores, and select Simba Points from the menu, or visit a KCB branch to fill in an amendment form and tick the registration for Simba Points Program field. Registered customers earn points whenever they save, borrow or pay with KCB. To increase Simba points, customers can transact with their credit, debit or pre-paid cards, use KCB mobile banking on *522# or KCB App, bank online with KCB i-Bank, deposit money at any KCB Mtaani agent, process salaries, or even take a loan, mortgage or insurance cover.