Universities will this week welcome thousands of new students in absentia, for the first time, with the orientation set to take place virtually in all institutions. The admissions mark the commencement of the 2020-21 academic year. All universities are expected to hold lectures online. Learning institutions were shut down mid-March to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Unlike primary and secondary schools whose academic calendars were cancelled, universities were directed to switch activities and operate online. Higher education leaders have to adjust fast to ensure continuity during remote teaching and learning as many of their institutions lack elaborate online learning systems. The University of Nairobi will admit its freshers virtually from September 7, with the orientation ceremony scheduled for a week later. Egerton University will welcome new students virtually from September 4. Learning will begin online, UoN Vice-Chancellor Stephen Kiama has said,  noting that each institution will assess its level of preparedness to accommodate all learners. Kiama says lack of devices by some students and the cost of data are the two main hindrances to "almost effective implementation of online learning". The university has partnered with Telkom Kenya Ltd to provide students and staff with data bundles for use during online teaching and learning. Universities, through the Vice-Chancellors committee, had earlier asked the government to advance loans to students to acquire laptops. However, the Education ministry declined with Cabinet Secretary George Magoha suggesting that student loans be appropriated for the same. He spoke before the Education committee in the National Assembly in July. School fees It is almost certain that first-year students will not have a discount on their tuition fees, even if lectures largely move online. In July, the VCs' committee proposed to the ministry that new students be charged new fee rates. The committee sought to charge upward three times of the current Sh16,000. This would push the tuition fee of new students to Sh48,000. The continuing students were not to be affected. The ministry is yet to give the go-ahead, meaning the institutions will have to stick to the current tuition fee. Converting to a virtual working environment has been a massive undertaking with most employees working remotely for the first time, challenged by limited shelter space and children at home due to Covid-19 associated closures. Edited by R.Wamochie