The Sh63 billion medical equipment programme which senators say was conceived like a criminal enterprise was not tailored to suit specific county needs. A report by the Senate ad hoc committee that investigated the project shows that there was no consultative needs assessment process as government mandarins acquired for counties what they deemed fit The programmes involved leasing of assorted medical equipment to select hospitals across the 47 counties and the Kenyatta National Hospital. However, the report notes that the counties were not optimally involved in the needs assessment exercise that led to the prioritization of equipment under the Managed Equipment Service (MES) Project. “The MOH undertook blanket allocation of equipment across the counties leading to duplication of equipment,” the report says For instance, despite having functional X-Ray and theatre equipment prior to devolution, Laikipia County was still supplied with new X-Ray and theatre equipment under the MES project. Further, most counties lacked specialists to operate the equipment, some lack rooms to accommodate the heavy machines while others lacked electricity. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia was the man at the helm of the Health Ministry when the multi-billion deal was signed with Khadija Kasachoon as Principal Secretary. Cleophas Mailu, now an ambassador and permanent representative to the UN, Geneva later took over as CS before handing over to Sicily Kariuki, now Water and Sanitation CS. In Isiolo, the committee established that there was a large disparity in the standard of implementation of the MES project between Isiolo County Referral Hospital and Garbatullla Sub-county Hospital. “Whereas all the equipment in Isiolo County Referral Hospital was operational and in good working order, none of the equipment supplied to Garbatullla SDH was functional save for a CSSD machine,” reads the report. In Elgeyo Marakwet County, the report shows that of the theatre and radiology equipment supplied to Chebiemit and Kamwosor Sub-County Hospitals, only the mobile X-Ray machine at Chebiemit SCH and the CSSD machine at Kamwosor SCH were reported functional. “The Committee observes that in order to accommodate the equipment supplied under the MES project, County Governments were constrained to incur costly and unforeseen expenditure in infrastructural development and recruitment/training of specialized personnel,” it adds. These costs, according to the nine-member panel, had not been factored into county budgets or Integrated Development Plans. As such, the senators’ said counties were forced to reallocate funds from other votes to accommodate the project. In addition, the committee’s probe revealed that most counties lacked specialists to operate the equipment. The committee noted that despite finding that more than ten counties did not have even a single specialist, the MoH went on to fast track the roll-out of the MES Project. For instance, in Hola District Hospital, although equipment for specialised surgery was delivered to the county, the county has been unable to use the varicose vein stripper set and arthroplasty set delivered since it lacks the necessary sub-specialists; While describing the MES project as a criminal enterprise shrouded in secrecy, the committee said some counties did not receive uniform equipment under the project. Despite this, a standard rate of first Sh95 Million, then Sh200 million was allocated to all 47 counties. Further, when the contract was varied to add 21 beneficiary hospitals to the MES project, the added costs were equally distributed to all the 47 counties as opposed to being charged on the specific counties that had benefited from the additional equipment. In addition, the ministry ignored its own needs assessment report that showed that the various equipment prioritized under the project were already available in at least 60 per cent of county health facilities. “The ministry went on to carry out a blanket allocation of equipment across the counties,” they noted. While some counties exceeded the infrastructural requirements necessary to absorb the equipment envisaged under the project, others had only one per cent of the infrastructure required. For instance, in Elgeyo Marakwet County, the Committee found that theatre equipment had been installed in partially constructed theatre facilities at Iten County Referral Hospital. Despite this, the MoH went on to fast track the roll-out of the MES Project at a time when most counties did not have the infrastructure necessary to enable them absorb the equipment.