Smartphone manufacturer OPPO has introduced its latest device under the Reno Series, the Reno4 in the Kenyan market, which will retail at Ksh39,999. In a statement released on Monday, the manufacturer said the new device, which has already been launched in other markets globally, comes with additional features from its predecessor, the Reno3. This includes the AI Colour Portrait for both the front and rear cameras – feature that now also applies for videos, monochrome video capture, three new stabilisation modes under the Ultra Steady Video 3.0 and an Electronic Image Stabilization algorithm to the front camera with Front Steady Video. On the accessories front, the smartphone firm has also introduced the OPPO Watch, its first smartwatch in the market. “Reno4 introduces fun and new ways to be in with the latest trends and fully express creativity through OPPO’s innovative imaging technology. This means that Reno4 will make it easy to capture creative portraits at any moment or imaginative videos that are designed to give every user a chance to “Clearly Unlock the Best You," Head of Communications and Projects at OPPO Kenya Muthoni Wachira said, The Reno4 also comes with touch-free interactions for the first time, powered by an AI-enhanced Smart Sensor and AI algorithm to secure the phone from peeping eyes, while allowing users to control their phone with a wave. “The Reno Series has always been one of the pioneers in smartphone camera technology and with Reno4 we’re proud to continue innovating with new portrait shooting and videography features that empower our users to truly stand out. "From innovative imaging technology to the futuristic touch-free interaction, and from stunning designs to VOOC Flash Charging, we’ve walked the extra mile,” Wachira added. In terms of its design, the phone strikes a delicate balance between a slim and sleek design. Equipped with a 6.4-inch Dual Punch-hole Display, Reno4 comes in at 7.7mm thick so that it fits in the hand and pocket easily, while it’s lightweight at 165g, ensuring that your hand won’t be fatigued while holding Reno4. The device comes with two colours: Galactic Blue and Space Black, with OPPO introducing a new design technique dubbed ‘Reno Glow’ for the Reno series. Continuing to strengthen its foothold with smartphone imaging technology, Reno4 leads the way this time with exceptional portrait shooting and videography capabilities. It's rear camera features a 3 + 1 four-shot matrix including a 48MP Main Camera, 8MP Ultra Wide-angle Camera, a 2MP Macro Camera and a 2MP Mono Camera, while the 32MP Front Camera captures clear selfies. With AI Colour Portrait, both the front and rear cameras of Reno4 can capture portraits that use the AI Colour Portrait effect. Only the person in the shot is highlighted in natural colour ith AI Colour Portrait Photo, while the background colours are muted black and white. This feature is also available for taking videos. The gadget is also equipped with an AI-enhanced Smart Sensor to perform functions like Smart Spying Prevention, Smart AirControl, Smart Rotation and Smart Always-on Display. The AI-enhanced Smart Sensor can leverage a smart recognition algorithm and automatically detect whether the owner and only the owner of the phone is watching it when there is a notification on the phone. If a notification pops up as a stranger is peeping at the phone, the detailed content in the notification, including drop-down notification drawers and banner notifications, will be hidden. Reno4 is packed with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G processor, with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of ROM. Equipped with 30W VOOC Flash Charge 4.0 and 4015mAh battery, it can be charged 50% within 20 minutes and fully charged within 57 minutes. Moreover, Superpower Saving Mode gives the phone an extra kick to keep the phone running longer. It gives 1.5 hours of messaging on WhatsApp or calls for more than one hour with just 5% of battery, according to test results from OPPO laboratory. At night, Super Nighttime Standby is designed to learn the sleep schedule and optimizes the battery life so that only 2% of battery is used throughout the entire night for about 8 hours. The ColorOS 7.2 will arrive on Reno4 that offers a more user-friendly experience, gets tasks done faster, enables you to enhance your mobile gaming experience, while also giving you a chance to express yourself through your home screen. As for market availability, OPPO Kenya have opened the pre-orders for the Reno4 starting September 21, 2020 til September 28, 2020 in the two colours; Galactic Blue and Space Black.