When President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Treasury to allocate Sh10 billion to fund a temporary work programme for jobless youths, Clementine Katuku never dreamt it would end up being a lifeline for her. Katuku, who lives with a disability, has been jobless since she graduated from college in 2016 with a certificate in secretarial skills. When a friend told her the Kazi Mtaani initiative was hiring, she decided to give it a try despite having misgivings due to the large numbers of unemployed people. Today, she is happy she tried. She was lucky to be chosen among the 7,000 youths from Machakos county in the programme. Katuku is one of 12 persons living with disability working in Machakos subcounty who are paid Sh5,000 after every 11 days. With the pay, Katuku can now meet some of her basic needs like paying her house rent and buying food at a time many families are struggling to get by. “I am so grateful to the government for launching this programme as it has literally turned out to be a lifeline for me. I don’t know how I would be surviving today in this era of the Covid-19 pandemic. We only hope this initiative will be extended for a little longer to enable us continue earning until things return to normalcy someday,” she says. She hopes to get a permanent job with the government and utilise the skills she learned in college for close to three years. Another beneficiary, Paul Musomi worked at the Machakos Level 5 Hospital between 2015 and 2017 as a casual before he was dismissed over allegations of insubordination. The 31-year-old father of one says working in Kazi Mtaani has saved his family from the vagaries of the Covid-19 pandemic. Musomi says the disease has aggravated the unemployment crisis in the country as thousands of people continue to bear the brunt after having lost their jobs or closed their businesses. He counts himself lucky to have been recruited into the programme after having closed his clothes business due to lack of sales. “Life had almost become unbearable for me after the Covid-19 disease struck the country early this year. Were it not for the quick response by the government in coming up with measures to cushion Kenyans against the aftershocks of the pandemic, things would be quite different for me today,” he pointed out. Some 6,800 youth workers and 229 supervisors in Machakos will participate in projects that have long-term benefits to their local community in the state-initiated programme aimed at cushioning vulnerable youths from the adverse effects of Covid-19. The programme was officially launched in Machakos in July by the government and is benefiting the residents of Athi River, Machakos, Matungulu and Kangundo subcounties. Nationally, 283,210 persons are projected to have been registered under the scheme by the time it is wound up later in the year. Among some of the tasks the cohorts are expected to perform include tree planting, road clearance, unclogging storm water drains  and the rehabilitation of pavements in urban centres, especially in the informal settlements. The daily rates are Sh455 for a worker and Sh505 for a supervisor. Machakos subcounty assistant county commissioner George Kubai says going forward, the cohorts who total 1,278 might soon be incorporated in road maintenance works once the Ministry of Transport gives the green light. “The Kazi Mtaani initiative was meant to cushion the country against the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic by offering temporary employment opportunities to young people to undertake hygiene services around the towns and public places," he said. "But going forward, there are plans for the cohorts to work in legacy projects such as maintenance of some key national roads through gravelling once the proper working equipment are availed.” For Jessica Mutunga, a supervisor in one of the cohorts, her plea is for the government to explore the possibilities of making the employment permanent. Mutuga who holds a diploma in journalism says the government should provide additional basic skills to the youths to prepare them for self-employment. Edited by Henry Makori