Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula’s has suffered another blow after the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal stopped him from disciplining coup plotters. The ruling comes weeks after Wetang’ula Ford-K wing convened a National Executive Council meeting which purportedly expelled Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, his Kanduyi counterpart Wafula Wamunyinyi and Busia nominated MCA Cynthia Mutere. The NEC's August 17 resolution recommended that the General Council effects the changes and cautioned party members and supporters against engaging the trio on any party matters. However, the tribunal cut the party short for Wetang'ula after it issued conservatory orders stopping the changes following a complaint by party member Crispinus Barasa. Barasa had challenged the changes and asked the tribunal to restrain Wetang’ula from expelling Eseli and Wamunyinyi until his complaint is heard and determined. In the sworn affidavit seen by the Star, Barasa argued that the NEC meeting was illegal as it was not convened by the secretary-general as per the party constitution. “The notice is null,” Barasa said and further argued that the NEC meeting attendance fell far below the required quorum despite going against the government ban of public gatherings of more than 15 people. The complainant claimed that Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa has been threatening NEC members who did not attend the NEC to sign the attendance register to achieve the quorum. “I am aware that the 4th respondent (Wamalwa) has been making phone calls to members of the NEC who did not attend the illegal meeting and is intimidating, threatening and coercing them to sign an attendance register.” PPDT chairperson Desma Nungo, in a ruling dated September 9, temporarily squashed the NEC resolution and gave the Wetang’ula team seven days to respond. “That pending hearing and determination of this application an interim conservatory order is hereby issued,” Nungo said. The matter will be mentioned on Friday to confirm compliance for further directions. Edited by R.Wamochie