A caretaker who allegedly forged documents to grab a widow’s land, which was in his custody, has been charged. Ainea Daudi Odalo was arraigned before Makadara senior principal magistrate Angelo Kithinji on Friday. The court heard that Odalo - on February 13, 2012, at Soweto in Njiru subcounty - held possession of Kayole Soweto plot no 637 in a manner likely to cause a breach of peace. He was also charged with forgery after he allegedly forged a sale agreement purported to be between him and John Kago Ngugi. The land was allocated to Kago, now a deceased, in 1988 by the Nairobi city council. Early in 2000, he started building a house on it. But the construction became difficult because the Mungiki sect was demanding a lot of money from landowners building a house. Work would be done during the day only to be demolished at night by the sect. This prompted him to look for a caretaker, and he met Odalo. Kago erected a perimeter wall around the plot and built a temporary room where odalo used to live. When Kago died, widow Mary Wanjiku asked Odalo to vacate the plot as she wanted to develop it. But Odalo refused, leading Wanjiku to lodge a complaint at the chief's office in Soweto. Odalo later came with a sale agreement document purportedly signed by Kago, and claiming the land belonged to him. Wanjiku had been accompanied by another of Kago's caretakers Philip Kariuki, who confirmed that there had not been any sale of properties. On doublechecking the signatures, they noticed it was fake, and the chief advised them to report the matter to the DCI. But another man - a Gabriel, a well-known land broker - convinced the parties that he could sell the land and give each Sh400,000, claiming the court process would take long and the widow was already old. They signed an agreement before an advocate he had taken them to. Gabriel then demanded the original document, which made Wanjiku suspicious hence report the matter to DCI in Kayole. It later emerged that the land broker was in the company of Odalo. It emerged that the persons listed as sellers' witnesses were ghost witnesses as their identification numbers reflected different persons. Odalo denied all the charges and was freed on Sh100,000 bond with a similar surety. The matter will be heard on February 17. Edited by R.Wamochie