Fast rising Daniel Ebenyo Simiu is seeking to emulate World  Half Marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor as he prepares for the Kip Keino Classic Continental Tour this Saturday at Nyayo Stadium. Newly crowned Berlin 10km road race champion Simiu has been watching Kamworor's clips on the Internet before heading to any race or championships across the world. Simiu says he wants to run just like Kamworor, who is also the two-time New York marathon champion. Kamworor has competed on all surfaces— including track, cross country and the road. He is a three-time world cross country champion and has also won World Half Marathon thrice. Simiu will be running in the 5,000m race and believes Kamworor past races will guide him well. "I have numerous clips of Kamworor on my phone and this serves as a motivation for me,"he added. He said: “Kamworor is a great athlete and I always watch his clips before approaching any race.  I really want to emulate him and that is why I compete on all surfaces thus roads, track and cross country,” said Simiu after winning the Berlin 10km invitation race over the weekend in the Germany capital. He, however, said despite being a great admirer of Kamworor's running style,  they have never competed in the same race either locally or internationally. “One day I would like to face him in a race and see how it goes. That will be my greatest and most memorable moment,” he said. Still in shock after failing to compete for the country at the World athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar in 2019 alongside Michael Kibet, Simiu is focused to make a  Team Kenya cut for the postponed Tokyo Olympic Games in Japan. The athlete, who trains in Iten under Erick Kogo, missed a chance to represent Kenya at the global show in Doha after failing to meet the three out of competition tests threshold as required by Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU). “It was painful to miss the World Championships especially considering that I was well prepared and I was to make my international debut. It was a bad experience and I am still angry. I want to make up for my losses by booking a ticket to the Olympic Games," he said. He said his 10km win in Berlin in a time of 27:18 was a major relief after failing to compete at Ostrava Golden Spike a fortnight ago due to visa issues.  He edged homeboys Simon Boch and Aaron Bienefield to second and third places  in 28:37 and 28:46respectively. Sweden's David Nilsson (28:48) and Germany's Philip Pflieger (28:49) placed fifth and sixth. In the women's race, Ethiopia's Helen Bekele Tola won the title after timing 30:59. He beat home runners Katherina Steinruck and Miriam Dattke to second and third positions in 32:16 and 32:20 respectively. Belgium's Nina Lauweart (32:59) and Anne Haug (33:06) closed the top five positions. Simiu's coach Kogo said the athlete has been consistent in his races both locally and internationally, a move he described as progressive. “He has been doing well and I hope he will continue with his top performance in future race,” said Kogo.