Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is aggressively wooing allies of Deputy President William Ruto as the 2022 election battle gains momentum. Billed as a journey to wrest Rift Valley from Ruto’s stranglehold, Gideon is on a charm offensive to win the hearts of at least 12 MPs. The Star has established that the son of former President, the late Daniel Moi, has already bagged two governors from Rift Valley. One of the governors has close ties with President Uhuru Kenyatta and has been tasked with convincing at least three MPs from his county to join camp Gideon. The governor has met several MPs from his county and the Star has learnt that two have agreed to join Gideon. A third lawmaker has resisted the overtures of the Baringo senator, saying Ruto was still popular. Former allies of the DP who have switched to the Gideon camp include MPs William Chepkut (Ainabkoi) and Silas Tiren (Moiben) and Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos. Gideon also had Charangany MP Joshua Kutuny on his side, but their relationship has hit a rocky patch. It is understood that the senator is keen on reconciling with the vocal MP and have him back in his fold. Among those said to be considering Gideon's camp are Peris Tobiko, the MP for Kajiado East and Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis. On Tuesday, Tobiko, a critic of the DP, hosted Gideon who was the chief guest at a Maasai community event. On Thursday, Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda (Kanu) confirmed to the Star that Gideon was on an overdrive to build his Rift Valley base before extending to other parts of the country. “As you know my chairman is an ambitious man and he has every right to reach out to friends and like-minded people. He wants to ensure that not just Rift Valley but other parts of the country support him,” she told the Star on phone. The majority of MPs from Baringo county have gone silent on the succession politics in the country, sparking suspicion in the DP's camp. Apart from Baringo North MP William Cheptumo who has announced that he supports Ruto's  2022 presidential bid, the rest have remained fence-sitters. The leaders joining the Kanu fray embolden Gideon who alongside William Kamket (Tiaty ) and Gladwell Tungo (Woman Rep) has been fighting to extinguish the DP Ruto wave. Opinion leaders observe that Kiptis' cordial relationship with the senator is a political move to temper complaints from MCAs of the slow pace of development, corruption allegations and poor absorption of resources. In Kabarnet town last week, MCAs led by Kanu's Betty Kabon criticised the Baringo government for incompetence and underdevelopment. They also slammed Governor Kiptis for bashing Kanu in the day and consorting with it at night. “How can he have the audacity to stand and say Baringo is a Jubilee zone? He sleeps at Kabarak at night and wakes up in Jubilee. We know. We can even publish photos. He should not lie to the Deputy President. "If he needs an endorsement, he should serve the people who stood with him and voted out [former Governor Benjamin] Cheboi because they believed in change,” Kabon said. On Thursday, Tenges MCA Silas Tochim (Jubilee) told the Star they were unhappy with indecision by the majority of MPs to declare their support for DP. “Apart from Cheptumo who was in Nakuru court to stand with Oscar Sudi, just as other leaders from Rift Valley did, the rest kept off, confirming our suspicion. Baringo is fully backing the DP and we don’t know why our MPs are silent and timid,” Tochim said. “What is it that they know that we don’t know? When all Kenyans are rallying around Ruto, we are being told they are heading in a different direction. This thing requires boldness and it is time they speak.” Tochim said Gideon needs to build a network of friends because he is seeking a higher office in 2022. “I support what he is doing. No one has a monopoly of certain regions. Gideon is looking forward and any good politician would do exactly what he is doing,” he told the Star on the phone.