 Two major programmes in Kirinyaga county will be undertaken with Sh600 million funding from the British government. Some Sh400 million will finance the construction of a rice husks factory and the rest the upgrading and transformation of the Kerugoya-Kutus municipality. The rice husks factory will produce rice husks boards to make, among others, furniture, according to county Lands, Housing and Urban Development executive Samuel Kanjobe. The funding is provided under the Sustainable Urban Economic Development programme of the British government. “We settled on a rice husks factory as a way of conserving the environment as the boards will help spare trees,” Kanjobe told a needs assessment workshop convened by UKAID, a British organisation that provides poverty eradication assistance to developing countries. The workshop was attended by municipality and county government officials, the business community and representatives of Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The project will create employment to the youth being trained in the local technical institutes and vocational education and training centres. The county produces 200,000 tonnes of husks annually from the Mwea Irrigation Scheme. This will provide a steady supply of raw materials. Mwea produces 80 per cent of the country’s rice production. The completion of Thiba Dam will further increase the amount of rice produced in the county as it will expand the land covered by the crop from the 26,000 acres to 34,000 acres. Kanjobe said the municipality was among 12 of the 56 shortlisted for funding. The Municipal Board chairman Daniel Kimweya said that the needs assessment workshop was to establish the level of preparedness for the municipality to undertake the Sh200 million urbanisation project. The donor will formulate capacity building responses, including training for the stakeholders. Kimweya said apart from curbing environmental degradation and providing jobs, the husks factory will position the county as an industrial hub and attract more investors.  - mwaniki fm