President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are engaged in renewed proxy wars cementing their fallout. On Tuesday, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, a supporter of Uhuru wrote to the DCI asking for a probe the use of phrases 'watu wengine' or 'watu fulani' by Ruto and his allies. As this happened Kandara MP Alice Wahome, an ally of Uhuru, moved to court seeking to block Uhuru’s decision to allow Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss to sit in Cabinet. The Star has also established that Bishops of major churches have drawn up a plan to reconcile Uhuru and Ruto with reports that Mama Ngina Kenyatta has approached Rachel Ruto to jointly organize national prayers. Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) is currently worth Sh1.1 trillion, a valuation by the Lands ministry reveals. The valuation report obtained by the Star shows that the airport’s market value stands at Sh1.1 trillion with an insurance value of Sh200 billion. This accounts for close to 10 per cent of Kenya's gross domestic product currently at about Sh10 trillion. JKIA’s land can earn up to Sh7.5 million per acre per year while the retail shops can fetch up between Sh200 and Sh250 per square feet per month. Eight in 10 children in Kenya believe they have learnt little or nothing since schools closed due to Covid-19. This is one of the findings of a survey commissioned by Save the Children that also indicated that two-thirds of children have had no contact with teachers during partial lockdowns. This revelation came as Education CS George Magoha said the decision on whether to reopen schools will be announced after a mega stakeholders' meeting that is expected to take place on or before September 25. In July, the Education Ministry announced that schools would not reopen until next year. The eldest daughter of the late politician Nginyo Kariuki has rejected claims by her half-sister of wastage of cash belonging to her father's multibillion-shilling estate. Jane Wambui Kiragu, a lawyer, wants the case filed by her half-sister Brenda Nyambura Kiragu, who is one of the three children born out of wedlock, be dismissed. Brenda is also a lawyer. Brenda had challenged the will of her late father, complained of being locked out and raised claims that her stepmother Margaret Wangari Nginyo and her children were illegally withdrawing money from the estate. A war of words has erupted between controversial Kikuyu singer Muigai wa Njoroge and Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege after the musician accused the MP of hypocrisy. Through a video shared on Facebook and YouTube, Muigai addressed the raging debate about mothers, saying all women should be accorded the same respect. He, however, took issue with politicians calling on women to protest saying that they were doing so for selfish political reasons. Sabina hit back telling Muigai to wear a skirt or pick on his own gender and not women.