The government should buy land near Busia and Malaba border points to be converted into parking bays for trucks ferrying goods to and from Uganda as they await clearance. Former Bumula MP Boniface Otsiula said the move will provide a solution to the current traffic snarl-up along the roads leading to the border points. The Malaba border has experienced huge traffic snarl-ups over the past four months after Uganda closed its borders in the war on Covid-19. Truckers have no parking space, meaning their lorries are on the road. Speaking to the Star in Bungoma town on Monday, Otsiula urged Transport CS James Macharia to consider buying land within Busia and Malaba towns to be turned into parking bays. "It is easier managing trucks in a common environment for ease of clearance purposes as opposed to trucks causing congestion and traffic snarl-ups along the two major roads," he said. Otsiula said the truck drivers have been mingling with locals, hence spreading the risk of contracting the coronavirus. Truckers are among the biggest spreaders of Covid-19. "The transport CS should then cause transport companies engaged in cross-boarder business to lease space for their vehicles and the vehicles should only leave the yards when duly cleared," Otsiula said. He said the leasing of parking space will generate more revenue for the government while also providing convenience for other road users. "The government is keen to battle the Covid-19 pandemic and we thank the President for ensuring the safety of Kenyans by cautiously dealing with the challenges of this virus," he said. Meanwhile, the truckers have appealed to the government to intervene for ease of clearance. Those using the Mombasa-Malaba highway have threatened to hold demonstrations if the Uganda government does not stop charging them for Covid-19 tests. Each driver is charged about Sh6,000 for testing. The drivers said that is too expensive. The traffic jam from the Malaba border has stretched for over 80kms to Kanduyi in Bungoma county. "Its only Uganda which is charging us but other countries like Kenya and Rwanda the tests are free of charge," Nicoulas Kiptoo said. They said the charges should be reduced if it can't be scrapped. "If they are insisting on Sh6,500 then let them talk to our bosses to pay for us because we can't afford it ourselves," Peter Wanyonyi said. They said they had given Ugandan authorities three days to do away with the fee or they boycott crossing into the country. ''We have given them up to Saturday. If they will insist on us paying Sh6,500 then they will come and pick their cargo from the Kenyan side," Kiptoo said. 