Leaders of civil society organisations in Migori have appealed to ODM party to abandon its quest to impeach Governor Okoth Obado. They asked party leader Raila Odinga to go slow on the impeachment motion saying it will interfere with development programmes and cause disunity in the county. Migori Bunge la Wananchi chair (Nyanza Network Information Initiative Bunge Power coordinator) Peter Ogindi implored on Raila to save the situation. "We are appealing to our respected party leader Raila to save the situation. We have only two years remaining and having a new governor will not help now,” he said. ODM chair John Mbadi had indicated that the party leader had okayed the impeachment. Addressing party delegates in Migori on September 12, Mbadi has refuted claims by the embattled governor that it is only a few individuals in the party who are after his ouster. In a statement, Ogindi said a new governor may not have enough time to establish structures and at the same time work on development projects within two years. “We have no problem with court cases; we are only worried about impeachment. We further ask our party chair John Mbadi to go slow on this issue so that we save the people of Migori,” he added. He said, “Obado is known for development compared to other Luo counties. Let us give him support so that he completes his term.  We want unity and peace to prevail so that ODM party remains one and strong in Migori.” Public Service Vehicles Matatu Association chairman Samuel Doe Ochola said the impeachment has created tension in the county. “We are begging the party leadership to let Obado continue working as the governor. We appeal to Raila to use his wisdom to bring peace to the people of Migori. We have few years remaining. Let us allow Obado to finish his term,” he said. Obado rode against a formidable ODM wave in Nyanza in 2013 and won. He ditched the party and vied on the little-known People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket instead. Matiko Bohoko, a former aspirant for Kuria West constituency noted that in 2017, Obado won ODM nominations with an overwhelming majority but the party attempted to delay giving him the certificate. “ODM then realised that would not help as Obado would beat them at their own game,” he added. He further said the likelihood of Obado influencing how residents will vote in the 2022 governor race is high. “Whoever he will throw his weight behind is likely to trounce the ODM candidate. If they go ahead and impeach Obado, they will have started on the wrong footing,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie