A family in Nyakahura village in Kangema subcounty, Murang'a, on Sunday lost five of its members in a road accident. The family was travelling back home from Machakos where they had visited their in-laws when the accident occurred at Kwangolia area along Wote-Machakos road. Peninah Muthoni said the family had accompanied her eldest son Michael Kang'ethe whose son (her grandson) was visiting his in-laws. Muthoni said her grandson lost a child while another grandson died together with his wife and child. Another granddaughter who had travelled from Nakuru for the occasion also died. "They had all travelled and only left me with a great-granddaughter," Muthoni said. Muthoni said her family needs assistance to transport the bodies from Machakos for burial and clearing bills for those still in the hospital. "What has happened has happened. The only thing I ask for right now is help in burial preparations," she added. Monicah Irungu, a neighbour, said she received a phone call at 4pm by a man who informed her that one of the vehicles that the family members were using had been involved in an accident. Wanjiru's last born daughter, who is married in the family, was in the entourage but in another vehicle. She said she called her daughter to inform her about the accident but found they had been notified of the incident. "She told me five people died on the spot while several others had been taken to Machakos general hospital," Wanjiru said. Wanjiru, a village elder, said they were struggling to deal with the loss. The family had lost another daughter to cancer late last year. Eunice Kariuki, nominated MCA and a neighbour, said she heard screams coming from the home around 7pm only to receive the sad news when she rushed there. "I was shocked. That is such a huge loss and only God can comfort this family," the MCA said. Kariuki said she has been liaising with those still in hospital and that Kang'ethe is awaiting amputation at Machakos General Hospital. She called upon leaders to help the family prepare the burial.