owners have been trying to reduce costs to remain afloat. Speaking to the Star, Workify founder Celine Van Asbeck, 31, said one way is to walk away from conventional office leases. Started in December, Workify specialises in creating flexible office spaces, where individuals can work, co-work, and network by renting a desk, office spaces or meeting rooms. “This means that unlike the conventional office leases, which are five years or longer, Workify allows you to rent space for an hour, a day, a week, a month or for several years,” she said. “We offer flexible solutions and there is no long-term commitment needed, and you can pay by use only, saving you a lot of time and costs.” They are targeting companies that do not want to pay long-term leases or invest finances in layout, interior, Internet or office equipment. They provide all these solutions. “You will cut costs on office equipment and hiring employees for office management. Our members no longer need to worry about leakage, Internet fail or electricity power cuts. All of that will be taken care of by us,” she said. “Our members have the benefit to impress their clients in our well-designed office space with all the necessary equipment, without having the hassles of it.” She says because they have a wide range of clients, they can easily network for business growth. “We have different types of members, from tech developers to a film production company to new energy companies. Because they work in different fields, our members can support and complement each other,” she said. “Workify offers flexible, affordable and tailor-made office solutions for one person to 100 persons, depending on the company size. You can work for one hour for up to five years. We charge a monthly fee of Sh20,000 per desk” she said. "You can always upgrade or downgrade the size of your office, which is very interesting in times like these." Due to the hustle and bustle of the city, she says, most working folks are unable to have time for anything else. “Workify solves all the problems above by providing all services under one roof. During a work break, members can be productive in the gym, and after work, members can drink a beer with friends at the rooftop terrace or watch a movie.” The building offers a gym, spa, cinema, barbershop, rooftop bar and restaurant,” she said.