Nine universities will reopen next month for medical students after seven months of closure. Learning institutions that have been given the green light by the Commission for University Education are the University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University, Moi, Egerton, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Maseno University, Uzima, Kenya Methodist and MKU. The institutions have met health guidelines to warrant their reopening as advised by Education CS George Magoha. University Education PS Simon Nabukwesi said on Friday the reopening of medical schools will act as a curtain raiser and benchmark to inform the resumption of learning activities in the country. He urged the institutions to strengthen their capacity to provide online interactions in learning and recruitment, hinting at a possible hybrid system of teaching after reopening. The resumption of studies in medical schools seeks to train physicians and increase the number of hands in the fight against the coronavirus. But despite efforts to reopen, University Academic Staff Union secretary at the University of Nairobi George Omondi said it was unlikely that students would graduate as earlier planned. The institutions are set to conduct graduations between November and December. “Even if the institutions are reopened, they cannot meet the set timelines for examination and graduation. At the University of Nairobi, for example, the earliest possible time students can graduate will be in May 2021,” Omondi told the Star. Upon reopening, CS Magoha instructed learning institutions to follow health protocols put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus. This will include the use of PPEs while in hospitals. They will also be required to manage suspected coronavirus cases among students in their isolation and quarantine facilities. The number of students per rotation must be limited to permit social distancing. Magoha warned that the failure to adhere to the Ministry of Health protocols on Covid-19 shall lead to immediate closure. Edited by A.N