Nominated senators Beatrice Kwamboka and Mary Seneta must apologise in writing to the Senate for "lowering the dignity of the House". The Senate Powers and Privileges Committee found them guilty of acting inappropriately following a scuffle in the precincts on July 1. Kwamboka and Seneta differed over the election of Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina as Health committee vice-chair and exchanged blows. Speaker Ken Lusaka reported them to the committee where they were summoned to defend themselves. The committee ruled that they were guilty “for conducting themselves in a manner which, in the opinion of the committee, reflected adversely on the dignity and integrity of Parliament and its members and was contrary to the best interests of Parliament and its members”. “Sen. Beatrice Kwamboka, MP and Sen. Mary Seneta, MP be reprimanded for breach of privilege and be ordered to apologise to the House from the Bar by reading a written statement of apology approved by the Speaker,” the committee says in the report. Kwamboka, an ODM senator, told the committee she was provoked into the physical confrontation by Seneta after they exchanged words. Seneta, however, regretted what had happened. She said they had made peace and worked well with Kwamboka after the incident. Before referring the duo to the committee, Speaker Lusaka had received a complaint by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission demanding action on the two lawmakers EACC boss Twalib Mbarak said the senators' conduct constituted a breach of the Constitution and parliamentary laws. Twalib asked Lusaka to enquire into the conduct of the two senators with a view to taking appropriate action. He cited the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act and other relevant Standing Orders of the House. “The commission's attention has been drawn to reports appearing in both print and electronic media of an incident that happened within the precincts of the Senate on July 1, 2020, where senators Beatrice Kwamboka and Mary Seneta are alleged to have differed over the election of Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina as deputy chairperson of the Senate Health Committee. ... It is alleged that the two legislators were involved in a scuffle,” Mbarak wrote. The CEO said the allegations constituted serious ethical issues and amounted to a serious breach of the integrity and ethical requirements governing the conduct of state officers.