Eleven-time champions Tusker have confirmed that their striker Timothy Otieno is likely to complete his transfer to Zambian-based outfit Napsa Stars today. The Ruaraka-based club said the Harambee Stars' striker who was the league's top scorer in the past season is in Lusaka to finalise the move which will see him join more than the ten Kenyan players who ply their trade in the country. Tusker chairman Daniel Aduda revealed that his office and Napsa have been in discussions for months over the transfer of the former Posta Rangers man and they are looking forward to close business possibly this evening. Aduda said Otieno is remaining with four months on his contract and rather than wait, they decided to look at the offer tabled by Napsa for the sake of his career. If he successfully switches allegiance, Otieno will join former Gor Mahia goalkeeper Shaban Odhoji who turns for the club. The imminent move of the former Gor Mahia player comes as a blow to Wazito who were understood to be chasing his signature in the recent weeks. "We granted him the permission to fly to Zambia and we are likely to finalise the business today.We have been in talks with our counterparts for months and it is only prudent to let the player pursue greener pastures from the opportunity which we felt was good for his career.He had less than four months in his contract and we couldn't wait and watch him leave for free," said Aduda. With Otieno as good as gone, Aduda was non-committal on whether they will shop his for replacement.He, however, said the decision to fill Otieno's gap will be made by coach Robert Matano. Should Tusker fail to buy another forward,they will heavily rely on the youthful duo of Henry Meja and South Sudan's David Majak. "We have enough strikers and attacking midfielders. However, should the coach want his replacement, we will break the bank to fill the void," he said In the Meantime, Aduda said they are pursuing two players who Matano had identified in a bid ti beef up the squad ahead of the season. "We have the requisite depth to negotiate through the forthcoming seasons but we are in discussions with two players whom the coach wants to work with going forward," he added