A governor and his senator from a county in Rift Valley nearly exchanged blows right in front of their aides and county staff. Reason? The county boss had busted a meeting of the senator and some county staff who have been demonstrating for weeks against his administration. The governor is said to have gotten wind of the meeting that was taking place in a nearby town. The workers have been demonstrating for weeks over delayed pay and mistreatment by county administrators. The governor stormed the meeting, accompanied by armed bodyguards, and went straight for the senator’s throat. It took the intervention of police officers to save the lawmaker. A Nyanza politician allied to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) is having a rough time. The MP, who is accused of misusing Constituency Development Fund resources, is in the eye of another storm. The MP is said to have recently coerced staff of the CDF management committee to sign a blank cheque that he used to withdraw money from the accounts. It is not clear why he decided to dip his hands in the public coffers, however, there are claims the MP is broke. He recently came under fire for allegedly 'eating' cash donations to some of his constituents. Locals now want anti-graft detectives to be more alert and probe financial improprieties associated with the lawmaker. A first-term MP has infuriated his colleagues with his unbecoming habit of always disrupting proceeding of House committees. The legislator has been attending parliamentary meetings while following another meeting via Zoom. Call it the scramble for parliamentary allowances. Worse, he joins the virtual meetings with his gadget on the loudspeaker, causing disturbance and disruption of the physical meetings. Last week, the chair of a committee was forced to warn him after he kept disrupting committee proceedings where a top government official was being grilled. At one time, the session had to be halted for five minutes to allow the lawmaker to complete his contribution in the other meeting. Is the leadership of the National Police Service in Nairobi aware of three officers who are harassing and extorting money from motorists in Ruaraka? The trio, two policemen and a police woman, are always stationed on Baba Dogo Road where they flag down every passing vehicle. They are demanding between Sh100 and Sh500 for matatus and private vans. Sometimes, they cause drama on the busy route, especially when not given the bribe, leading to traffic jams long the road. Residents and matatu operators are now calling for quick intervention of the police leadership in the city or they promise to to stage a mass protest.