Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir on Monday told his critics that his focus is on development and not empty talk. Nassir challenged Nyali MP Mohamed Ali, Jubilee politician Abdulsalaam Kassim and another unnamed politician to a public debate. “I am not giving one person a challenge. I am giving them all a challenge. They will defeat me in hurling insults because I was not taught how to insult [opponents]. But they will not beat me on the projects that have been done,” Nassir said. He told youths in the Kazi Mtaani programme in Mvita that in 2022, he will beat his opponents hands down to the governorship because of the projects he has initiated for the constituency and for Mombasa people. On Sunday, Ali and Kassim accused Nassir of hanging on Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s coattails for political clout. “You are made to sing Katerina everywhere you go. If you want to be governor, go to the people,” Ali said at the Renaissance Centre on Sunday. ‘Katerina’ is a song by Rwandan musician Bruce Melodie, which Governor Joho likes to dance to in political fora and rallies. The Nyali MP spoke after meeting Buxton residents who complained about the Sh6 billion regeneration project being undertaken by businessman Suleiman Shahbal on behalf of the county government. Ali said Nassir has been pocketed by Joho and that is why he is silent on the matter. On Monday, Nassir said he is not used to shouting matches with other leaders and prefers to speak through projects for his Mvita people. He said the most effective way to respond to insults from people is to pray that God opens their eyes. The legislator noted he was the first MP to speak about the potential harm of the SGR in Parliament, asking that the government review their policies. “Facts and figures don’t lie. Let us talk about what we have done in Parliament for our people and not shout in the streets like madmen,” Nassir said. He said in 2022, he will not be remembered for insulting other politicians but for the projects he has and will have initiated in Mvita and Mombasa. “I have no interest in the 2022 elections if it will mean taking advantage of people’s weakness,” Nassir said. He said leaders’ duty is not to whip up emotions among suffering residents. Nassir told the Star his ambitions to become governor are fuelled by the push by Mombasa people who have seen his development record in Mvita. On Sunday, Kassim, a resident of Mvita who is eyeing the Mombasa Senate seat, accused Nassir of sleeping on his job. He said Nassir has been blinded by Joho and forgotten his duty to the people of Mvita. “Abdulswamad pack and go. You do not represent us,” he said. But Nassir dismissed Kassim as a non-starter who does not warrant his time. “Let them combine all their efforts and face me. One person alone cannot stand up against me. That is why I say we should compete on what we have done for the people,” Nassir said. (edited by o. owino)