After landing his maiden call up to the Harambee Stars team, fast-rising Sofapaka defender Stephen Otieno is eager to defy odds and cement a place in the starting team in the forthcoming international assignments. The 19-year-old centre half was a surprise inclusion when coach Francis Kimanzi summoned a 34-man provisional team set to take on 2012 African champions Zambia in a friendly match on October 10 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Even though the former Sofapaka Youth player understands that scaling from Kimanzi's reserve team to the starting team is a tall order, he has vowed to give his best and achieve his long term dream. Otieno was promoted to the senior team at the start of the past season. The former Kinyago United defender, who can also be deployed as a right back, says donning the national team colours has been his dream since childhood and will fully capitalise on this chanceto give Kimanzi selection headache at the heart of defence. The youngster will face opposition in his bid to earn his first appearance from the experienced Simba defender Joash Onyango, Brian Mandela, Sweden-based Joseph OKumu, Gor's Andrew Juma and Harun Shakava. “I was elated when I received news that I had been summoned for the forthcoming national team duties.   I will be joining the camp with one objective of convincing the coach that I am ripe to start the match against Zambia. I know through hard work and self belief ,it is possible,” he said Meanwhile former Gor  Shakava believes  playing Zambia will gauge the team's readiness for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier double against Comoros in November. Shakava, who plies his trade with Zambian champions Nkana FC, said a positive result against Chipolopolo will inspire the team to register their first win in the qualifiers having registered an identical one-all draw  result in the opening two matches against Egypt and Togo. “Zambia are a good challenge for the team considering  they are placed above us on the Fifa ranking. I have come against most of their local players in the league and for us to beat them, we have to be fast and maintain concentration through out. A win over them will be  motivation for us to go for maximum points in the qualifiers," said the former Kakamega Homeboyz centre half.