The Agriculture ministry is focusing on programmes aimed at increasing production and fulfilling the food security agenda, CS Peter Munya has said. He said these programmes target to increase small-scale farmers' income, increase agricultural output and value addition, and boost household food resilience. “One of the key focus is to increase food production to tame chronic malnutrition among children under five years. We are putting emphasis not only on food security but also on the production of high quality foods such as eggs, milk and meat,” Munya said. His speech was read by Agriculture CAS Jebii Kilimo during the launch of a Sh10 million upgraded hatchery, rearing unit and poultry feed factory in Kakamega on Tuesday. The equipment was donated by the government of Turkey through the Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TIKA). The equipment will increase the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation's (KALRO) capacity to produce improved chicken breeds to 14,400 chicks a month. The new hatchery at KALRO station in Kakamega has three egg setters, one hatcher, automated brooding cabinets, a stand-by generator, feed mixer and an incinerator. Turkish Ambassador Ahmet Cemil Miroğlu said the success of the project demonstrated the good relationship between Kenya and Turkey. "I am happy that my country is taking part in a project that promotes sustainable agriculture and livelihoods by employing a model that will improve the living standards of the people,” he said. Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima said the project will reduce the time farmers wait before they receive chicks from Naivasha. “Poultry farming is one of the flagship projects by the county government of Kakamega and this project is a big boost to the county initiatives," he said. He said the county government has so far purchased and distributed 108,000 day-old chicks to 162 groups in the county. "Farmers here raise chicken but have a challenge in selling them. We hope that now with this hatchery here, the next phase will be construction of a chicken processing factory,” he said. 