As the unofficial campaigns for the Dock Workers Union positions in next April’s elections hot up, candidates are galvanising support from their communities. On Sunday, members of the Luo community met at a hotel in Makupa, Mvita constituency, and endorsed Alex Ndege as their preferred candidate for the DWU secretary general's seat, the most hotly contested position. This comes about a week after members of the Somali business community in Mombasa endorsed Siyat Abdullahi, 36, and a cop who is now the zone manager in the security department of the Kenya Ports Authority as their preferred candidate for the seat currently held by Simon Sang. Ndege, a technician in the Harbour Crane section of the Convectional Cargo Engineering department, has been working at the port for 32 years. He served in the DWU as general secretary Kennedy Kiliku’s deputy between 2001 and 2006. “Come rain or sunshine we will be with him. We have suffered a lot under previous regimes. Enough is enough,” KPA employee Dickson Oruko said. He said the security of many dock workers' tenures is threatened by constant attempts at privatisation of the port. Worker Maurice Okal said his community has long been used to put others in position. “We have been instrumental in putting people in positions in the union. This time we feel it is the appropriate time to put one of our own,” Okal said. He said Kiliku, Juma Khamisi and Sang all got the seat courtesy of the Luo votes. Ndege said his vision is to restore unity among dock workers, alluding to the disunity caused by the wrangles in the leadership of the union that has pitted Sang against his chairman Mohammed Sheria. The disunity has been blamed for punitive policies by the management, who are said to take advantage of the disunity to have their way. He said past and present general secretaries have also largely ignored the industrial relations guidebook which determines how the union and the management relate. “I want to ensure we work within the industrial relations machinery, which is the key to improved performance at the port. That is where the union is not performing. Every day we see a lot of circulars. The circulars are supposed to be issued after consultations between the union and the management. Nowadays, we just get the circulars from the MD or the HR department without knowing what is going on,” Ndege said. “I want to take the union back to the workers,” he said. Sang, who intends to defend his seat, has already dismissed his challengers saying they are way behind him in strength. He has been at the helm for 14 years, after taking over from Kiliku in 2006. Other union members interested in Sang’s position include Said Chande, Alphaeus Aluoch, Edward Opiyo, Abubakar Abubakar, Jorum Kiilu, Ezra Okong’o and Harrison Lusigi. The giant union controls about 7,000 KPA employees and the SG position gives the holder significant influence both socially and politically. “I have been winning by 90 per cent of the votes but this time I think I will win by 87 per cent,” a confident Sang told the Star on phone. Ndege said he will ensure female workers are recognised more in the union and the port generally. Female workers have largely been ignored in leadership positions at the port, which Ndege attributed to the "lack of someone to hold their hands". He said it is time to have a secretary general from within KPA, arguing that those who have held the position have tended to grab the union and rule as they wish. Ndege said increasingly, there have been attempts to privatise some berths, risking people's jobs. “When I come in, we will have to sit down with the management and critically look at any intended move and the effect it will have on workers. If the effect is negative, we will not allow, if it will be positive, we will allow,” Ndege said. He said there is constant fear of retrenchment over moves made by the management. This fear, he noted, affects productivity. “Sometimes the management may be having good intentions but since they make moves without consulting the union, issues arise, leading to industrial action, which always affect productivity,” Ndege said. The elections are set for April 2021 but campaigns are set to be officially allowed in January. Edited by R.Wamochie