An 11-year-old boy has become the talk of Juja, Kiambu county, following his spirited campaign against teenage pregnancies. Alpha Baraka, with the help of his parents, has created a YouTube channel and a Facebook page where he uploads his poems and songs, hoping to reach as many girls as possible. The Standard 6 pupil at Bethlehem Academy in Juja writes his own songs and poems, which also call on parents and the government to stem the vice. A recent report by the government health information system revealed alarming numbers of teenage pregnancies. In Machakos county, for instance, 3,964 girls were impregnated in five months. The sad state of affairs could be a blessing in disguise in the future if girls heed the advice by Baraka — a Kiswahili word for blessing. The pupil said he began his campaign after numerous cases of teenage pregnancies were reported since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country. He spoke to journalists at their home in Magomano village on Saturday. “I saw the reports in the news and the upsurge of teenage pregnancies got me worried. To make the matter worse, some of the pregnant teens tested positive for HIV. I felt the urge to talk to my fellow children and warn them of the dangers we are facing. The best way to reach them I thought would be through songs and poems on social media platforms,” Baraka said. His latest poem, ‘Watoto Uzazini’, has astounded residents, who praised his creativity and message. The poem urges schoolchildren to uphold the dignity of self, always do what is right and restrain themselves from vice. Baraka is also educating teenagers of the repercussions of early sex, which he says leads to early pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV. “Children have suffered a lot after the school programme was disrupted by the pandemic. Most of them have fallen victims to rogue ‘grown-ups’ who prey on them due to their vulnerability. The future of some girls in the country has been ruined and everyone must play their part to ensure no more lives are ruined,” he said. “I wish schools were reopened soon so that the cases can drop. I pity our girls because it’s their lives that are getting destroyed.” Baraka also called on parents to take their responsibilities seriously and safeguard their children. “Most parents nowadays have very little time for their children and that’s why they (children) are finding themselves in wrong hands,” he says. He also noted that children are losing direction and ending up in antisocial activities because of harsh church restrictions that bar them from attending services. “Children are no longer getting the spiritual and moral advice they used to get from the church.” His mother, Phyllis Wangeci, told journalists that she was shocked when she first learnt what her son was up to at his tender age. “I was astonished when I read the poem that he wrote. He kept asking me why there are so many reports of children becoming pregnant but I never knew he had a mission. I couldn’t believe that at his age he could be thinking about such things,” Wangeci said. “But it’s now clear to me that teenage pregnancies that have been reported are worrisome to even our children." Wangeci, herself a pastor at Glory Outreach Assembly Church, urged parents to stop neglecting their parental duties and assist their children to discover themselves. “Teenage pregnancies are a menace that will require everyone to stand up against.” Resident Theophillas Kimani said, “I’ve felt really challenged by the boy because of his agility in devising a way to fight teenage pregnancies. It’s an effort that could help many children. “At his age and the fact that he’s a boy, it shows cases of schoolgirls getting pregnant is now an itchy concern that requires a communal or multi-sectoral approach to end,” he said.