Former ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka has dismissed reports that he has joined Deputy President William Ruto's camp. Muluka said, however, he has been approached by many political formations and leading politicians, including and not limited to DP Ruto, since leaving the ANC. He resigned from the Musalia Mudavadi-led ANC party on August 12. "I am in conversation with major political formations and leaders in the country, the latest being UNCTAD secretary general Mukhisa Kituyi, who called me on Saturday to find out whether we can work together," Muluka said. He was responding to reports on social media that he had joined DP Ruto's Tangatanga outfit after he settled for him a Sh9 million loan. The report said he was destined to head the DP's communications team. But he has rubbished the reports, saying he was free to join anyone within the Republic since it was his constitutional right. "I don't know whether DP Ruto has leprosy so people should be helped when you join him," he said. "I  don't know why it has become a concern for anybody because I have a constitutional right to political affiliation." Muluka said he was free to join Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kanu's Gideon Moi or even go back to Mudavadi because it's a free world. He said that as a public communication expert, he would join the DP as long as the two reach an agreement and that should not be a matter of concern. In his resignation notice to Mudavadi on August 12, Muluka said ANC needs a fresh start ahead of 2022. "I doubt that I could add more value to what I have done so far. Moreover, it is now fitting that the space around you should be decongested. This will allow you to make critical decisions on the population and leadership of the party under the new constitution," he said. Muluka's resignation was followed by the exit of Eliud Owalo. The exit of the two was seen as a major setback for Mudavadi who is preparing to make another attempt at the presidency. Muluka had earlier been accused of attempting to push Mudavadi to work with DP for the 2022 race.  Edited by A.N