@robertomollo3 Patients in Homa Bay will now access health services from public facilities after medics called off their strike which lasted one month. More than 4,000 health workers, including doctors, pharmacists, nurses, clinical officers and laboratory technicians, struck from August 3 over salary arrears and allowances for June and July. The strike disrupted services in all county facilities, undermining the fight against the coronavirus as all isolation centres were closed. Residents had urged Governor Cyprian Awiti to intervene and forestall a disastrous outcome. On Wednesday evening, the health workers and the county government arrived at a consensus to end the strike following talks led by county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko and his health counterpart Richard Muga. In a joint statement by health workers’ unions issued by the chairman of Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Nyanza region, Kevin Osuri, they said the arrears had finally been cleared. “We have been paid all the money we were demanding from the county government. We have agreed that salaries for the subsequent months will be paid by 8th of the succeeding month,” Osuri said. Speaking to journalists after they signed return-to-work forms at the county headquarters, Osuri said all the unions had agreed that their members return to work with immediate effect. “As unions, we are communicating with our members to resume work on Thursday morning,” he said. Ogwe said they had made arrangements to ensure workers are paid salaries on time. “We apologise for the salary delay, which made the health workers down their tools. It was not our wish but because of the stalemate that has marred the Division of Revenue Bill in the Senate,” he said. He expressed concern that the county has yet to get any cash for the current financial year from the National Treasury. Residents Michael Ogallo and Eli Nyang’or said the strike left many lives in ruins as most patients were unable to afford treatment in private facilities. “Many residents of this county could not afford healthcare in private health facilities due to limited income,” Ogallo said.