Four men who allegedly posed as DCI officers pretending to sell gold obtained Sh29.9 million from city doctor, court documents say. They were charged on Monday with obtaining money under false pretences. Arthur Agutu, George Mbugua, Erick Odinya and Antony Ngeso pleaded not guilty before Kibera senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki. They are accused of committing the offence between March and December 1, 2019, at Landmark Suites in Westlands, Nairobi, jointly with others not before court. The charge sheet says they obtained Sh29,956,000 from Dr Ali Raza by purporting that they were in a position to sell him 11.6kg of pure gold. A police report says Dr Raza was arrested alongside his Liberian friend at a city hotel in Westland’s by one of the accused persons who identified himself as Francis Ndegwa working with the DCI, Parklands office. The police say the complainant and his friend were taken in for an undisclosed offence and upon reaching the Parklands police station, the complainant was left without any charge. He went back to his hotel room and later was informed by the same 'DCI officer' (George Kinuthia) that his friend had been deported. He later and met the same officer who informed him that he had been transferred to DCI headquarters. Kinuthia then informed him that at the headquarters, there was gold which had been declared for sale after cases were dispensed with by the courts. The police report says Raza then got interested in purchasing the said gold and Kinuthia, who posed as DCI officer Ndegwa, promised to assist him to buy it. The police report says that on April 2, 2019, Kinuthia appeared at the hotel where the complainant resided with a sealed container, which he said had 11.6kg of gold. Kinuthia was in the company of the other accused persons and the second accused person allegedly introduced himself as Kinuthia's senior colleague at the DCI. They gave him the 'gold' but on condition that it would only be opened once DCI boss George Kinoti gave his consent. They then obtained the money, but Dr Raza on realising that the gold was fake, complained to them. He later reported the matter. The accused were released on a Sh15 million bond with the surety of the same amount. The magistrate directed the case to proceed on October 13. (Edited by F'Orieny)