Service to humanity, servant leadership and mentorship are causes she cares for. She is proud of being a born-again Christian and is passionate about giving back to society. Magistrate Dolphina Alego has been in the Judiciary for the past 17 years, having started at the lowest cadre of magistracy in 2003 and risen through the ranks. At one time, she was vetted out because she was "always in and out of the country”. Despite the hiccup that threatened to end her career as a judicial officer, she says she has remained steadfast in her efforts to serve justice and her "record speaks for itself". Alego is one of the five magistrates seeking to replace Emily Ominde at the powerful 11-member Judicial Service Commission (JSC). The commission recommends names for appointment by the President as judges, including Chief Justice and Deputy Chief Justice. In the case of the CJ and the DCJ, the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee has to discuss the suitability of nominees before they can be appointed. The JSC also handles complaints about judges and can initiate removal. It can also remove magistrates. Alego, currently serving in Kakamega, is one of the five candidates seeking to represent magistrates in the JSC. The position is currently held by Emily Ominde whose term is coming to an end. A vote has been scheduled for December and more than 500 magistrates are expected to take part. Other hopefuls are Limuru senior principal magistrate Everlyne Olwande, Kiambu principal magistrate Stella Atambo and her colleague Teressa Nyangena, also a  principal magistrate, and Shanzu-based Florence Macharia. Alego refers to the opponents as her sisters, adding that she loves it when women affirm their rights within a democratic space. "Am I doing it for myself or for service to God's humanity? If for myself, then it’s selfish. What pushes me is that I pray a lot and even this, that looks like a normal thing, I'm praying about." JSC also handles complaints lodged against judges and can initiate their removal. It can also remove magistrates. Those are some of the tasks Alego will have to take alongside other JSC members should she get the endorsement of her colleagues. Alego says leadership has been part and parcel of her professional life. She has held different positions, including chairperson of the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association North Rift chapter. She was also elected consecutively as secretary-general and treasurer of the East African Magistrates and Judges Association (EAMJA) — a body that draws its membership from six East African countries. The JSC needs committed individuals who espouse accountability and transparency in their personal and professional life, Alego says, adding that she fits the bill. "I am an accountable person, huge in teamwork, and I believe in teamwork. In short, I am a brand. I am also transparent and I don’t hesitate to say it as it is, authentic with all these. Above all, I am humble," she says. The magistrate says one of the things that drive her is mentorship as she has been a great beneficiary having got into the Judiciary 17 years ago. "If it was not that somebody held my hand, I would not be here. I met great people when I joined who walked with me. So one of my agendas is mentorship because I was also mentored," she told the Star in an interview. Alego has a master's degree in Conflict Resolution from Kampala International University, 2011, Uganda. She has Bachelor of Laws from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, 1996, India, and a Bachelor of Social Legislature from the same university. She also has a Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law. Alego is also an alumna of Catholic Parochial School, Nairobi; Loreto Convent, Valley Road; and Lwak Girls’ High School. She has also specialised in gender and conflict resolution at Koffi Annan International Peace Training Institution and the Legon Institute of International Affairs, Accra, Ghana. She says she is experienced in human rights, women’s and children’s rights, Advocacy and litigation. Her skills include strategy formulation, project management, resource mobilisation, budgeting, and development of rights-based training manuals. Alego previously served as head of station and senior principal magistrate at Kapsabet law courts — May 2016 to February 2019. Before then, she was a principal magistrate at the Eldoret law courts — November 2011 to April 2015. She had also served at Siaya law courts. She is a member of the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association, the East Africa Magistrates and Judges Association, and the International Association of Women Lawyers-Kenya Chapter. On issues affecting the Judiciary, she says Covid-19 has been a game changer and has made them rethink the use ICT to deliver justice. She says that going forward, judges and magistrates have to adapt to technological changes if they have to remain effective in their work. "The beauty about me is I embrace change because if I don’t, change will change me. While in Eldoret in the lower cadre magistrate before 2010, I brought the idea of ICT to avoid people walking from far to appear in court and we managed to get a grant from the USAID," she says. She says the US ambassador came in to officially see what they were doing and see how the Eldoret court was doing. This changed the way people viewed the Judiciary and Eldoret became the first court station in the republic to go IT — an achievement Aleg still cherishes. "The advantages of ICT is one can have their case being heard in Eldoret or Kapsabet but is in the comfort of her sitting room. This reduces issues of time-wasting, files getting lost and even corruption issues will not be there because you are not going to see anybody to give money for your case to go a particular way, basically you don’t know where a judicial officer is sitting." Alego is also quick to add that her contributions have helped in making the Judiciary better. She cites a report by the Law Society of Kenya Kakamega that rates her court as one of those that had adopted ICT during this Covid-19 crisis. She adds that last month, Kapsabet law courts where she was the head was the best magistrates’ court on magistrate’s merit productivity in the caseload category of more than 4,000 cases with 378 cases in 2018-19 "Covid or no Covid, my cause list is going on and I'm not complaining," she says. Is someone backing her campaign? Not at all, Alego says she is passionate about it and is in it alone. She believes in the need to serve her colleagues, hence there is no need to have someone back her campaigns. She is also passionate about women and children's issues because they form the bulk of society. On her assessment of the current JSC, she says the members are men and women of honour and each has something to the team. She says she will have to learn from them if given the opportunity. "I salute them because they got into grounds that was unknown to anybody. My elder sister Emily Ominde... has done a good job but what I can do is only come in and do better and learn from the rest," she says. In response to critics who accuse her of high-handedness, she terms it positive criticism and says she cannot take it as negative. Alego says the Judiciary is not for the fainthearted as challenges abound. In 2015, she was vetted out and she was out of the courts for about one-and-a-half years. "In my journey, it’s not been easy... I will tell you for free it was reflection time, nothing ever takes God by surprise. I took it in my stride. I had my support system and family and I knew it’s time to rest. At the time I was the secretary for the East African Magistrates Association. One of the complaints against me and I quote: 'The magistrate is always in out of the country.'" Recalling that incident, she says it is not an easy thing to wake up one morning to find you have no job. Thanks to her passion for the work, she says, she survived. "At that time I would have said I'm done but I didn’t. I had strong support from my church to pray for me and I took that time to rest and focused on my kids. I was brought back in 2016 and was posted to head the Kapsabet court station," she says. In Kapsabet, she became proactive and engaged local leaders in a bid to get a high court. Alego says she brought justice closer to the people after acquiring four acres for the establishment of a High Court station. "I met the former governor who bought my idea and the second governor said it’s a good idea. Fast forward, I acquired four acres for the Judiciary to construct a High Court station. The current CJ even came down to Kapsabet and I had even called the CRJ (the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary) and we handed over the land to the Judiciary. For me, that’s a legacy that I will look back on. I left the legacy being the best court station in 2018-19." The magistrate does not take her family life lightly. She refers to herself as a hands-on mummy. Of her three children, all boys, the eldest is a Bachelor of Architecture student (proceeding to the third year). The second-born just started his Bachelor of Civil Engineering studies and the baby of the house is in Grade 4. Alego also fosters other children. "I am the firstborn in a family of six and I'm a mother to many. I am huge on parenting and mothering children, biological and not biological." How hard is it to balance family and career? Alego says she has a strong network called the Girls Club, as well as a safari group from her church. "In the Girls Club, none is a judicial officer but [we are] huge on supporting each other. We visit our parents every month, pray together and when girls want to be girls, we can decide to go somewhere for a holiday." She says the network refreshes her so she does not suffer an irritable burnout and become less productive. They help one another even in raising their children. "The people in these groups can drop anything just to be there for me and vice versa." Here is the full interview Who is Dolphina Alego I am a born again Christian, currently a senior principal magistrate at the Kakamega law courts. I have been in the Judiciary for the last 17 years, having been appointed at the lowest cadre of magistracy in 2003 and I have risen through the ranks. I have held leadership positions through the 17 years, including the chairperson of KMJA North Rift chapter. I have been elected consecutively as the East African Magistrates and Judges Association secretary-general and treasurer. This body has a membership of six East African countries. I am an accountable person, am huge in teamwork I believe in teamwork. In short, I am a brand. I am also transparent and I don’t hesitate to say it as it is, authentic with all these above all I am humble. What drives you? I am a great beneficiary of mentorship and that’s one thing that drives me, having gotten into the Judiciary 17 years ago. If it was not that somebody held my hand I would not be here. I met great people when I joined who walked with me. So one of my agendas is mentorship because I was also mentored. Why are you in the race? I am in the race because I have been mentored through the ranks and secondly I believe in mentorship and it’s time for me to give back. I am passionate about giving back service to humanity. It is said that you are a spoiler in the race, what’s your response? Truth be told the campaigns have not been officially opened, so five more candidates can join the race and we will be 10. I also believe in democracy instead of calling it being a spoiler what I would say the democratic space is open and wide. What are the key issues affecting the Judiciary and what solutions do you propose? Covid-19 has been a game-changer and it has made us rethink on how to use ICT to deliver justice to Kenyans. The beauty about me is I embrace change because if I don’t change will change me. While in Eldoret in the lower cadre magistrate before 2010, I brought the idea of ICT to avoid people walking from far to appear in court and we managed to get a grant from USAID. When this happened, the US Ambassador came in to officially see what we were doing and they would come to the court and see how the Eldoret court was doing. This changed the way people viewed the Judiciary. Eldoret became the first court station in the republic to go IT and it was an achievement I still hold close to my heart. Had we embraced it then it would have been so easy to move to IT due to the pandemic. Looking back in hindsight, during that time we never knew we will get here because this is a global pandemic but here we are and appreciating what the digital world can do. The advantages of ICT is one can have their case being heard in Eldoret or Kapsabet but is in the comfort of her sitting room. This will reduce issues of time-wasting, files getting lost and even corruption issues will not be there because you are not going to see anybody to give money for your case to go a particular way. Basically you don’t know where a judicial officer is sitting from. We are embracing technology, which now becomes a game-changer. Had I refused to change, then I would be saying why are we being told to go this way? I embraced it and ran with it. In August this year, Kapsabet Law Courts where I was the head was the best magistrates’ court on magistrate’s merit productivity in the caseload category of more than 4,000 cases with 378 cases in the year 2018-19 There is a report by the LSK Kakamega saying one of the courts that had embraced ICT in this pandemic is my court. Covid or no Covid, my case list is going on and I'm not complaining Who is backing your campaign? I am passionate about it and I'm in it alone. When you believe in something you shouldn’t be having someone backing you, it is the passion that moves you. It’s the mentorship that is backing me there is a vacuum in that area. When someone is backing you then it’s not you. I am also passionate about women issues and children because they form the bulk of society. What do you make of the current JSC and how might you improve it? The JSC came into being after the 2010 Constitution and their functions are outlined in Article 172. The members of the JSC are men and women of honour and every other person there has brought something to the JSC. If I come in, I also have to learn from them. I salute them because they got into grounds that was unknown to anybody. My elder sister Emily Ominde who is there has done a good job but what I can do is only come in and do better and learn from the rest. How do you respond to critics who say you are high-handed? That is positive criticism, I do not take it as negative but I'm also one person who has a strong support system. These are people who believe and understand me. When you are always surrounded by negative energy you will be always a negative person. I believe that the kind of company I keep depicts who I am. I also go to church in CITAM and I sit on the education board. Service to humanity, servant leadership and mentorship are all my hashtags. What are some of the challenges you face in your career? My journey has not been easy. At one time in 2015, I was vetted out. I was out for about one nad a half years. I will tell you for free it was reflection time. Nothing ever takes God by surprise. I took it in my stride I had my support system and family and I knew it’s time to rest. At the time I was the secretary for the East African Magistrates Association One of the complaints against me and I quote: “The magistrate is always in out of the country.” It’s not an easy thing when you wake up one morning and you don’t have a job. I say it’s about passion because at that time I would have said I'm done but I didn’t. I had strong support from my church to pray for me and I took that time to rest and focused on my kids. I was brought back in 2016 and was posted to head the Kapsabet court station. In Kapsabet, I became proactive and engaged the local leaders in a bid to get a High Court. I met the former governor who bought my idea and the second governor said it’s a good idea. Fast forward I acquired four acres of land for the Judiciary to construct a high court station. The current CJ even came down to Kapsabet and I had even called the CRJ and we handed over the land to Judiciary. For me, that’s a legacy that I will look back on. In Kapsabet I brought justice closer home, got four acres and I left the legacy being the best court station in 2018-19. Now I'm in Kakamega. My track record speaks for itself. Tell us about your family? I am a hands-on mommy. I have three biological sons. My eldest is going to third-year Bachelor of Architecture. The second-born just commenced bachelors of civil engineering and the baby of the house is in Grade 4. I am firstborn in a family of six and I'm a mother to many who are not biological. I am huge on parenting and mothering children, biological and not biological. How do you balance family and career? I have a strong network we call the girls club and my safari group which is a group from my church. In the girls club, none is a judicial officer but huge on supporting each other. We visit our parents every month. We pray together and when girls want to be girls we can decide we are going somewhere away and we go for a holiday. You need to recoup because otherwise, you will get a burnout which will make you irritable and less productive. The safari group has also been a great help and we are there for each other further helping each other to raise our children together. The people in these groups can drop anything just to be there for me and vice-versa. What do you think about your opponents? It is a democratic space and I love it when women affirm themselves, they are my sisters. Am I doing it for me or for service to God's humanity because if I am, then it’s selfish? What pushes me is that I pray a lot and even this, that looks like a normal thing, I'm praying about it.