Former Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda wants Football Kenya Federation to enlist Shield Cup holders Bandari as the country's representative in the Caf Confederations Cup. The Confederation of African Football (Caf) on Monday requested countries to start forwarding names of clubs and register players who will participate in the two tournaments with October 20 being set as the deadline. The federation enrolled Gor as the country's representative in the continent's inter-club creme de la creme tournament Champions League by virtue of winning the league in the 2019-2020 season. However, they failed to present a club for the Confederations Cup, thanks to coronavirus pandemic, which halted the Shield Cup matches. The winner of the Shield proceeds to the continentals. Prior to the first case of coronavirus in the country, the competition had stretched to the round of 16 mark. FKF argued that their constitution did not provide for the way forward should the Shield Cup fail to run to the finals and were thinking of not sending a team to the tournament. However, Aduda has challenged the current office to consider registering Bandari who won the cup last year and punched above their weights in the continentals, where they were a step away from making it to the group stages. Aduda said the coastal club enjoy financial support from the Kenya Ports Authority and this was enough to see them navigate through the tournament from its initial stages to the finals. He also said that the opportunity would grant players exposure which will in return lift the standards of local football. "We can't afford to squander the opportunity to expose our players to the continent and the world at large.Having been the CEO at Gor for years, I can testify that players and the country has tasted the benefits of playing Caf matches.It will be only fair if the federation hands Bandari this chance instead of letting it go. The club has the financial muscle and their playing unit is strong enough to pick from where they left last season." he said. Elsewhere, after nine months wait, former Tusker midfielder John Ochieng has finally completed his move to Gor from Chemelil Sugar. Ochieng was bound to join K'Ogalo in January after his performance caught the eye of coach Steven Polack during a league match at the Moi Stadium,Kisumu. "Midfielder John Ochieng’ has crossed over from Chemelil Sugar FC to join the Green Army on a three-year deal. Ochieng’ is a hard-tackling utility player who is expected to help Gor retain the title next year ," said the club in a statement