The introduction of a third  tier of government will water down devolution, Wiper Democratic Movement has said in a signal seen fired at ODM leader Raila Odinga. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Wiper executive director Jared Siso said the Kalonzo Musyoka-led party has taken a stand that regional governments are not viable and will reject it should be introduced in the BBI report. “If there is such a proposal or people trying to bring in the matter of regional governments, then we will not support such. Creating another tier of government amounts to diluting devolution,” he told the Star on phone. “Wiper is keen to ensure success of devolution, we want more resources to be devolved but not through creation of other layer of governments. Resources and leadership should be close to the people as much as possible,” he added. He said the spirit of devolution was to take services closer to the people as much as possible and regional governments would mean returning to the older provincial administration. “Why would we want again to have Kenyans for example from Turkana or in Kajiado traveling all the way to Nakuru to seek for services? Those are structures overtaken by events and as Wiper we have taken a position,” he said. Siso told Kenyans to await the final report then read it before taking position. Raila has thrown his weight behind the push by a section of governors who are serving second and last term in office for the creation of the tier of government. The former Prime Minister has on several occasions held that the regional governments should be introduced in the anticipated Building Bridges Initiative report arguing that it was initially in the Bomas Draft Constitution. Raila, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s handshake partner, argues that some counties are not economically viable and the 2010 Constitution should be changed to divide the country into 14 regions on top of the 47 county governments. It is understood that part of the reason as to why the BBI report has been delayed is because of standoff between Uhuru and Raila camps on the quest to insert in the report the introduction of the regional governments. Last week, a few days after accompanying Uhuru during the official opening of Kenyatta University hospital, Kalonzo announced that Wiper will not entertain any proposal for three-tier system. “Even as WDM-K supports the BBI Agenda, it is clear that Kenya is not ready for Regional governments. In our view, what is critical for us is to strengthen Devolution and make it work for the common wananchi by creating Ward Development Fund,” Kalonzo said after chairing the Wiper National Executive Council. The Star has established that the President is unconformable with the push for establishment of the regional governments arguing that it will poison further the support of BBI which is facing resistance from a majority of Kenyans. The three-tier system means that the country retains the current national and county governments while creating regional governments. During a BBI rally in Mombasa in January, Coast governors demanded the creation of the coast federal government. “On governance, a federal system should be established with 70 per cent of national revenue going to the regional and country governments,” the leaders said in the resolution that were read by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. Former Lagdera MP Farah Maalim said the current 47 units should be dissolved and replaced by “14 or 16 economically viable counties”. “I agree with those pushing for the formation of bigger units. What we have not does not serve the true meaning of devolution. If we collapse what we have now and they are given 35 percent of national revenues, we will see meaningful change. Counties will be able to utilize economies of scale,” he told the Star. On Monday, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya the current regional economic blocs should at some point be transformed into regional governments. “We should strengthen regional blocs. If those ones can be strengthened then may be in future, like 20 years from now, we can have government structures. Because the goodness of them is that they were not modeled on tribal lines. They will be good for economic purposes,” he told the Star. Currently there are six regional blocs that covers 46 counties. There is the Mt Kenya and Aberdares Region Economic Bloc which comprises of 10 counties-Laikipia,Nakuru, Nyeri, Nyandarua, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Kiambu. Frontier Counties Devolopment Council which bring together seven counties including Garissa, Wajir, Mandera,Isiolo, Marsabit, Tana River and Lamu. The North Rift Economic Bloc has seven counties namely Uasin Gishu, Trans-Nzoia, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Baringo, Samburu and Turkana. The Lake Region Economic Bloc has the largest grouping of counties bring together 14 units. They are Migori, Nyamira, Siaya, Vihiga, Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kisii, Kisumu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Kericho. Tana River,Taita Taveta ,Lamu, Kwale, Kilifi and Mombasa come together under Jumuia ya Kaunti za Pwani while Kitui,Makueni and Machakos are fall under South Eastern Kenya Economic Bloc.