DCI George Kinoti has termed as fictitious assassination claims by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala even as the legislator wept before the Senate security committee over threats to his life. Malala told the panel that five DCI officers had been assigned to eliminate him. The claims prompted the team chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji to summon Kinoti to respond to the allegations. And Kinoti, who appeared before the team alongside Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, said he was utterly shocked by the allegations levelled against his office by Malala. “Why would we allocate all those resources to assassinate you for a Covid-19 offence? It does not make any sense at all,” Kinoti said. Malala produced a photo of the alleged assassins and showed them to Kinoti. But the DCI boss swore he has never seen those people. The senator declined to give the photo to the DCI and IGP, saying the Senate Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee would advise accordingly. Mutyambai promised to conduct a detailed investigation into the matter before submitting the findings to the two committees. He said the Independent Oversight Policing Authority could take over the matter if senators are uncomfortable with his office conducting the investigation. Kinoti said he was comfortable with the matter being subjected to independent investigations. “We are ready to submit ourselves 100 per cent since we are the accused.” Malala shed tears as he narrated to the committees how the five "police officers" had allegedly been assigned to eliminate him. He said the cops were acting on orders from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. “I am a husband and a young father. The most painful thing is that I am being accused of stage-managing my arrest on August 17,” a tearful Malala said. He named the five officers as Sergeant Kiprop, Benedict B, Adanus Chemtai, David Kutekha and Sylvanos Njeru. He said the five were summoned to a hotel in Thika where they met a police inspector by the name Wanjala who gave them the assignment. “They were given a Subaru Forester green in colour and then gave themselves the code name Bravo Zulu Yankee,” Malala said. He said they were given a Total fuelling card and five rifles after surrendering their Ceska pistols. “The rifles they were given are semi-automatic and are known as Scorpio. They are Israeli made,” the senator said. Kinoti said the Special Service Unit based at the DCI headquarters did not have anybody bearing those names. He said the offices the alleged meetings took place in should be able to give CCTV pictures of the said officers. He said his office does not have such a vehicle. “The whole matter has been dramatised. The registration number given is of a Toyota Land Cruiser pick-up and not a Subaru. It is not even a police vehicle,” Kinoti said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula said Malala’s claims should be taken seriously by Kinoti and Mutyambai. “Whatever Malala has said, it deserves attention. Whether it is hallucination or fiction. Share your findings and the two committees will decide whether they are fact or fiction,” Wetang'ula said. Malala claimed the five officers were forced to go on a two-week leave when he raised the matter. “They were told to go on a compulsory two-week leave and were given Sh20,000 as travel allowance.” He claimed the arms movement register was withdrawn soon after the officers proceeded on leave. “There is now a new arms movement register and the vehicle has been taken to Limuru,” Malala said. Malala was on August 17 arrested by DCI officers at his Kitengela home after a 10-hour standoff.  Edited by P.O