Striking Kenyatta National Hospital health workers on Wednesday heeded a court order suspending their strike. Union officials, however, said the strike will resume if their grievances are not addressed. The unions are the Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun), the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union (KMPDU) and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions and Hospital and Allied Workers. The Employment and Labour Relations Court suspended the strike pending the hearing of a case filed by the hospital. KNH's application was certified as urgent. The hearing was set for Tuesday next week. "The struggle continues. It's just that we are changing tack," KMPDU secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. Knun secretary general Seth Panyako said, "We have agreed in one accord that we are going to look for the best lawyers in Kenya. This is an agreement of 2012 so what we want are the arrears of 2012." This comes even as the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) said it should not be blamed for the strike. In a statement on Wednesday, the commission said it undertook a job evaluation and determined the relative worth of jobs at KNH in 2017. The SRC said the industrial action was as a result of demands for pay increase outside the commission’s advice. It said KNH staff had already benefitted from pay raise for the remuneration review cycle 2017-18 to 2020-21. “The commission advised KNH on the resultant job evaluation-based salary structure, which KNH has been implementing since 2017, with the last phase implemented with effect from July 1, 2020,” SRC said. It has, however, added that it will re-evaluate jobs at KNH to address any emerging issues, and upon completion of the exercise, it will issue its advisory. More than 7,000 health workers began the strike on Monday over what they termed failure by the hospital management and other stakeholders to implement the agreed-upon salary review. In 2012, the SRC recategorised KNH into PC 7A, something that was to come with an increase in salaries. The employer will part with Sh2.4 billion annually if the management accedes to their demands. And the monthly salaries of some of them will be doubled. For instance, those in job group K1 earning a monthly salary of Sh191,000 will be drawing Sh318,566. Those in job group K3 earning Sh141,000 will be getting Sh211,793. Lowly paid non-medical workers in job group K13, who earn Sh23,810 will be taking home Sh27,509.