The Coast Guard has set up operations to patrol Lake Victoria. Officers from the unit will operate from Mbita town and patrol the vast lake up to the boundaries of Kenya with Uganda and Tanzania. The officers will work with officials from Kenya Revenue Authority and the Immigration Department to get rid of all illegal activities in the lake. They will also address frequent harassment of Kenyan fishermen. Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan said there are many activities in the lake that are of great concern to the government. Among them is harassment of Kenyan fishermen by Ugandan and Tanzanian security personnel. A number of Kenyan fishermen have been arrested, detained and heavily fined in the two countries over allegations of trespass. The fishermen have also been accused of fishing activities that are not allowed in the two counties. Speaking to journalists in his Homa Bay town office on Monday, Lilan said the Coast Guard will protect Kenyans from harassment by Ugandan and Tanzanian security officers. Some arrests are said to have been done without any offence committed. Homa Bay covers up to 60 per cent of the lake on the Kenyan side. “We expect an increase in surveillance through patrol in the lake. The government intends to protect the country’s borders,” Lilan said. The county also has a lot of points of entry from the two neighbouring countries making it a weak point in the war against smuggling of goods. The government says illegal activities are carried out in islands like Remba, Kiwa and Mfangano. Among them is the sale of contraband goods and importation of aliens. Lilan said the Coast Guard will eradicate such vices. “The officers will work with other government agencies to address many security challenges in the lake. We appeal to residents to work closely with security officers for better services,” Lilan said. Only those with genuine work permits will be allowed to enter the country. Some foreigners are accused of abusing the freedom of movement between the three East African countries to cross the boundaries for work. Lilan said foreigners working in Kenya should have valid permits.  Edited by Henry Makori