Some Kisumu residents have defended Migori Governor Okoth Obado against the ODM-sanctioned impeachment after he was charged with corruption. The Nyanza Information Network group said ODM should not be selective in the war on graft. They said the party appeared to target Obado after he faced corruption charges. He is accused of benefiting indirectly from Sh73.4 million that was paid to his four children who received payments from companies that traded with Migori county. The group questioned why ODM has not condemned corruption allegations in Siaya and other counties in Nyanza. At a press conference in Kisumu, lobby member Raphael Omenyo cited a case in Siaya where lots of money was allegedly spent on tea at Governor Cornel Rasanga’s office. “We are aware he bragged that he was not arrested for alleged corruption because of a phone call from some powerful individuals," Omenyo said. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta should fight corruption without favour. "We are not convinced that the President wants to stop corruption. He should fight graft equally and not politicise it," Omenyo said. He condemned the graft allegations facing Obado but noted that the fight against the vice should not be politicised and weaponised. Omenyo said it was in the public domain that other governors in the region involved in corruption had not to be arrested, charged and impeached. He termed the manner of arrest and prosecution of Obado as political. "We have seen some county finance offices and documents being burnt to do away with evidence of corruption. No action has been taken,” he said. Omenyo said no proper investigations had been carried out in some counties faced with graft claims. Charles Aketch said the Luo community should support development-oriented leaders like Obado even as they fight corruption. "We still remember what the late Assistant Minister Orwa Ojode did for the Luo community in terms of development. May his soul rest in peace," he said. Aketch added, " We are aware of what ODM party did to Ugenya MP David Ochieng, making him to decamp from the party. He was re-elected on a different party due to his development track record." He noted that Obado was the best performing governor in the region. The governor, Aketch said, was not the first person to be accused of corruption, noting that one is innocent until proven guilty. His sentiments were echoed by Peter Owuor, who told ODM to stop targeting Obado over alleged corruption. Owuor said the party should stop being prosecutor and judge in Obado's case. "We want to see this kind of zeal in fighting corruption in other counties where other governors are mentioned in graft cases," he said. Edited by Henry Makori