Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi will remain in police custody for another two days pending ruling on his bail and bond. He was presented before the Nakuru Chief Magistrate, Josephat Kalo through a miscellaneous application seeking to hold him for 14 days to allow time for investigation. In the miscellaneous application, the prosecution through an affidavit sworn by the Investigating Officer, James Akello claimed that his release was a threat to public order, peace and security. The MP did not take plea although the State said it intended to charge him with five counts of hate speech, assaulting a police officer, offensive conduct, resisting arrest and being illegal possession of a firearm. The MP will be held at the Nakuru Central Police Station. Efforts by the Defence consisting 15 lawyers led by Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Sholei and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator to have him taken to Nakuru GK Prison were fruitless. Prosecutor Daniel Karuri objected the application to have him at the GK Prison saying that he was yet to be charged. "The prison is a home for remandees who have either been charged or serving sentences," said Karuri. On claims that the Central Police Station cells were congested, Karuri said all persons were equal before the law and no one should be treated differently. Kalo ordered that he be taken for treatment at the Nakuru County Referral Hospital for treatment after his lawyers claimed that he was ailing. The matter will be mentioned on September 16 for bail and bond ruling. The MP surrendered at the Langas police station in his constituency on Sunday. He was placed under arrest, then flown to Nakuru Central police station for further interrogation by police and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. Sudi is accused of making offensive comments about President Uhuru Kenyatta and his family, notably Mama Ngina. A group of leaders among them Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), MPs Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Hilary Kosgei (Kipkelion West) and Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Sholei were among those present at the Nakuru Central Police Station where Sudi was being held. Also present was Nandi Governor, Stephen Sang.