An ODM meeting with Migori MCAs held on Tuesday resolved to impeach Governor Okoth Obado, party chairman John Mbadi said. A total of 37 out of 41 ODM MCAs attended the consultative meeting at a Nairobi hotel. The move comes a day after Obado blogged from prison cells accusing Senator Ochilo Ayacko and other county leaders of planning his impeachment. Obado took to WhatsApp hours before he appeared before Milimani anti-corruption court magistrate Lawrence Mugambi alongside his four children and six other co-accused. A message from the governor’s official number in The M.R.C Original WhatsApp claimed Ayacko - his political nemesis - was coordinating the impeachment drive together with eight MPs in Migori. The message claimed the MCAs had been roped in. “Senator doing the coordination and bragging that once MCAs do their part, the remainder at the Senate is as good as done,” Obado posted. Contacted, Ayacko said through a text message that if the post was indeed “his personal post, it should not be dignified with a response.” He  texted: “Gov Obado should not show this level of desperation by attempting to blogging (sic) in person and getting his facts wrong.” Obado, his children and the co-accused were released on bail with a raft of strict terms. They were barred from the county office. The governor will be escorted to the office to pick his personal items. He and the co-accused have also been barred from leaving the country. Obado was freed on an Sh8.75 million bail or Sh20 million bond. Son Dan Acholla was freed on Sh2 million bail, daughter Scarlet Susan Sh3 million bail or Sh6 million bond, son Zachary Okoth Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond and daughter Everlyne Adhiambo Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond. Businessman Jared Peter Kwaga was freed on Sh8.25 million bail, Christine Ochola Sh3 million or Sh6 million bond, Joram Otieno Sh5.5 million or Sh10 million bond, Patroba Otieno  Sh6 million or Sh10 million bond, Penina Auma Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond and Carolyne Ochola Sh2 million or Sh4 million bond.