The Constitution has no problem to warrant amendments, according to Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi. Havi, who spoke on Saturday at Robert village in Likuyani subcounty during a thanksgiving ceremony for his election as LSK president, said what is needed is a change in leadership of the country. He said that President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration has disregarded the rule of law since coming to power in 2013. "We have been studying the MPs who were elected since 2013 and realised that they have brought to Parliament so many bills that target to mutilate the Constitution for their own benefit," he said. Havi's remarks are likely to pit the legal fraternity against politicians, a majority who support the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) that seeks to amend the Constitution, 10 years after its promulgation. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and a section of elected leaders are pushing for the BBI process to amend the Constitution and alter the structure of governance, among other changes, ahead of 2022. On Saturday, at the home of nominated MP Wilson Sossion, Raila said that BBI campaigns will resume soon. Though the Senator Yusuf Haji-led committee has not released the final BBI report, politicians are already drumming up support for the process. The term of the committee to validate the initial draft expired three months ago. Havi, who was also installed as a Maragoli elder, said that most Kenyan leaders lacked integrity and engage in looting or disregard the rule of the law for personal aggrandisement. “What we are seeing in Kenya is leadership that lacks integrity and disregard the law at will for personal aggrandisement,” he said. He said the Constitution has the aspirations of Kenyans but has not been fully implemented to identify its weaknesses. The LSK president said that what is happening in the country is a blatant violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms which some leaders were out to shrink. LSK filed a petition with Chief Justice David Maraga in July asking him to recommend to President Kenyatta that he should dissolve Parliament for violating the two-thirds gender rule. 