Manchester United are closing in on the signing of Ajax midfielder Donny van de Beek after the two clubs agreed a fee in the region of £40m. United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is a huge admirer of the Netherlands international, 23, and has had him watched on a number of occasions. It is understood United have now firmed up their interest with a medical and personal terms still to be concluded. The transfer is expected to be finalised within days. Van de Beek is set to sign a five-year deal, which should allow him to be available for United’s opening game of the 2020-21 season, against Crystal Palace on September 19. He will become Solskjaer’s first close-season signing after a much-publicised move for Borussia Dortmund’s England winger Jadon Sancho stalled over the size of the fee. Van de Beek was part of the outstanding Ajax side that got to the Champions League semi-finals in 2019. He was left out of Ajax’s friendlies with German pair Eintracht Frankfurt and Union Berlin over the weekend. Meanwhile, Fulham have strengthened their midfield ahead of the new Premier League season by signing Harrison Reed and Mario Lemina from Southampton. Reed, who spent the 2019-20 season on loan at Fulham, had signed a four-year contract with the option to extend by a year, the club said. “It’s going to be an exciting season, it’s a big challenge this year, but I can’t wait to get going. I’m absolutely delighted to be here,” he told the club website. The 25-year-old was an integral part of Scott Parker’s promotion-winning side and played every minute of their three Championship play-off games. Lemina arrives on a season-long loan with an option to buy. The Gabon international joined Southampton from Juventus in 2017 and was loaned out to Turkish club Galatasaray last season. “I’m glad to be part of the project. I spoke with the manager and he’s got some good ideas about the team, about everything he wants to do this season,” Lemina said. Fulham begin their Premier League campaign at home against FA Cup champions Arsenal on September 12.