South African giants Orlando Pirates are among three Premier League Soccer clubs battling to sign Gor Mahia and Harambee Stars midfielder Kenneth Muguna. According to the player's agent, who is based in Pretoria, Pirates are favourites to secure the Gor skipper ahead of Amazulu, who survived relegation last weekend and SuperSport. The agent who declined to be mentioned for 'fear of online backlash from the 'Green Army', said Pirates, the 1995 Caf Champions League, were inching close to signing Muguna thanks to their relentless efforts in their negotiations with the club. Muguna confirmed that he had signed for the agency which gained fame in the previous years courtesy of its association with Ghanaian forward Asamoah Gyan. The former Western Stima player revealed that he has 10 months remaining in his contract with Gor. "I have less than year remaining in my contract with Gor. I am, however, not worried of where I will be playing next season. My agent has told me he is in communication with three South African clubs and by the end of the window, I shall have made my mind on whether to stay at Gor or switch allegiance, " said Muguna. The agent said the Soweto-based club, better known as Buccaneers and who finished third in the PLS, had tabled a stronger bid and has as well qualified for continental football. Should he succeed, Muguna will become the second Kenyan in the PLS after Harambee Stars holding midfielder Anthony Akumu, who turns for Kaizer Chiefs. "Pirates, through their chairperson, have been pushing to have the player join them as soon as possible. They were impressed by his qualities from a video we shared as well as the few live Caf matches in which he featured in in the past," said the agent. "Pirates are aware that the player has less than a year remaining in his contract but from their bid, they are likely to break the bank. Amazulu and SuperSport have also shown interest in him." Besides confirming the offers from the three South African clubs, the agent revealed that the trio of DC Motema Pembe (DR Congo), Petro Atletico (Angola) and Tanzania's Azam have chickened out of the race to sign the midfielder. "Motema Pembe and Atletico have since given up on signing him while Azam seem to have followed suit. I am carefully analysing every deal to avoid the 2018 scenario where he left for Albania only to return home prematurely," he said.