Families of patients who succumb to coronavirus will be allowed to perform burial rites. This development comes after the Health Ministry confirmed that bodies are not as infectious as earlier thought. Health CAS Rashid Aman on Monday said the ministry had done several tests and confirmed that the bodies if properly treated and placed in bags lowered the risk of infection. "It is true that the precautions taken before were extreme to some extent, but along the way we have learned more and more about the disease," Aman said. Aman said as a result, the ministry has reviewed the burial protocols and the new guidelines will be availed in the course of the week. "This will allow the affected families to perform their rituals before burial,' he said. His sentiments were echoed by Director of Public Health Dr Francis Kuria, who said the issue of religious and cultural norms has repeatedly been of great concern but the revised protocols will handle all the matters. Kuria said they have certified that when a patient passes on, they are no longer a great risk as long as the handlers of the body do not get in touch with fluids. "Our focus then will be on how the bodies are handled and packaged for burial. This will also be key to addressing the issues around stigmatization," Kuria said. He said though ministry officials will still supervise burials, it will be done on a low scale. Kenya has so far reported 35,205 Covid-19 cases after 102 more people tested positive on Tuesday. This was from a sample of 2,668 tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the cumulative tests to 477,145. Another 80 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 21,310. The number of fatalities rose to 599 after another two patients succumbed to the virus. Kuria said currently some 664 patients are still in hospitals out of whom 25 are in ICU while 10 on supplemental oxygen. CAS Aman said the low infection numbers being reported in the last few days is an indication that the country is moving in the right direction towards flattening the curve. "We cannot however rush to say we are there. Let us continue with the preventive measures as we monitor the situation,' he said. Aman said the ministry is also putting measures in place to handle any second wave of infection as has been the case in other countries.