Kenya Cup caucus have abandoned their plans to complete the 2019-2020 Kenya Cup and Championship seasons. The caucus was initially adamant that the season must be completed before the new season begins. Caucus chairman , Xavier Makuba, said the clubs have had a change of heart and are waiting to start the 2020-2021 season once the Ministry of Sports gives the union the green light to resume play Makuba said time was clearly not on their side to finish the season. "We are now in September and if we are to factor all the protocols involved from testing to training to pre-season, it will not work. So instead, we are looking at starting the new season hopefully in November," he noted. Makuba's admission means there will no be league winner for the 2019-2020 season with the KCB chairman insisting that the caucus will discuss with the union the modalities of promotion from the championship to the Kenya Cup. “It's something which we and the league fixtures committee are going to discuss going forward and I hopefully,  we will get a resolution on the matter,” added Makuba. He said they have submitted their proposals on the 'return to action'  to the union who in turn submitted them to the government and thy are waiting for the response. The results from the 2019/20 Kenya Cup, KRU Championship and Nationwide Leagues have been rendered invalid alongside the Enterprise and Mwamba Cup. The union had in April cancelled the league due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic but rescinded the decision following an outcry by clubs and stakeholders. The league had entered the playoff stage with Homeboyz set to face Menengai Oilers with the winner taking on champions KCB in the semis. Kabras were set to meet the winner between Mwamba and  Impala clash. Strathmore Leos were leading the KRU Championship unbeaten on 76 points and were well on course to return to top flight rugby after a two-year hiatus. Masinde Muliro University were lying second with 67 points. Leos were to face the winner between Northern Suburbs and United States International University in one of the semi-final. Masinde Muliro were to meet the  winner between Mean Machine and Egerton Wasps.