The feud between allies of businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki and DP William Ruto has intensified. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi on Friday accused Buzeki of holding secret night meetings in Eldoret to incite residents ahead of the 2022 General Election. Buzeki denied the allegation. Buzeki is among the top aspirants aiming to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago in Uasin Gishu but Sudi says the businessman should be investigated over the night meetings. Buzeki said Sudi was among those who were scared though the general election was still two years away. Sudi asked the DCI to investigate and establish why Buzeki was holding night meetings in the region. He was speaking at a public meeting meeting in Eldoret town. He said residents would never again engage in violence, as after the 2007-08 general election, despite differences among leaders. A week ago Buzeki, Sudi and Mandago clashed at another meeting in Eldoret where they arugued over support for Deputy President Ruto and 2022 succession. A week earlier, Buzeki had also engaged in a social media spat with Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibet over succession. Uasin Gishu is home to DP Ruto. Buzeki last year decamped from Jubilee and joined Chama Cha Mashinani, which is led by former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto. Buzeki last week told Mandago he would vie for governor on the CCM ticket and do a better job in Uasin Gishu. He ran  unsuccessfully against Mandago in 2017. “When you retire, I will host a major send off party for you and I will then do a better job in uniting people of Uasin Gishu and ensuing the county is among the best in the country," Buzeki said. Sudi dismissed Buzeki as lacking capacity to lead the county. Mandago asked Buzeki to stop relying on brokers to help him win the governor's seat. Buzeki has stepped up his political activities in Uasin Gishu to prepare for another stab at the governor's office. Apart from Buzeki, others angling to succeed Mandago include Soy MP Caleb Kostany, Kesses MP Swarup Mishra and politician Jonathan Bii. Mandago has, however, asked them to go slow because he may run for a third term should the Building Bridges Initiative report be endorsed, leading to consitutional changes. They could include allowing governors to run for more than two terms. (Edited by V. Graham)