Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said the state will not raid newsrooms as has happened in previous eras. Matiang'i said the media plays a critical role in enhancing democracy in society and must be supported at all costs. The CS, while speaking during the launch of the new digital brand for Nation Media Group, said though sometimes media finds itself at a crossroads with the state, tjos should not be interpreted as enmity. “At one time I fought with the media over digital migration up to the Supreme Court. We are here today because then this is where we wanted to be,” he said. He added, “We might at sometimes have arguments but let it be on record that media is a critical partner to government business”. Matiang'i said before the new constitution, state machinery would be deployed to raid newsrooms to cover up the truth. “Under the new constitution, Kenyans made a choice on how they should be governed. I want to assure all of us that nothing, not criticism, divergence of opinions or insults will tempt us to ever again raid a newsroom,” he said. Matiang'i said under the new constitution the debate on media freedom and human rights is a thing of the past. “The debate now is on the responsibility in exercising those freedoms and rights. As media houses we must position ourselves at a place to confront new challenges because sometimes the truth is under attack or sometimes we tend to protect the truth as it were,” he said. The CS further challenged media houses to make serious investments in digital transition as that is where the world is headed. Matiang'i said no serious government with an intention to succeed will make it without serious investment in the digital transition. “This is why President Uhuru Kenyatta is working so hard to ensure that all government services have migrated to the digital space,” he said. He said the government has however noted a rising trend where the digital space especially social media has turned out to be a criminal hideout. “We are noting intense competition among various groups and some of the worst in contenders will manifest.  This is even escalating to intense ethnic tension where huge gangs of youth are paid and moved in the blogosphere to attack those with different opinions,” he said. Matiang'i added, “ These gangs or digital vigilante groups are being used not only to attack opponents or those who hold different opinions but spread hate against individuals and communities”. Matiang'i said media houses should thus strive to have a solid platform to move the country. “We are as good as we treat those who do not agree with us. It is evident that the value system is on trial and we can only overcome depending on how well we engage in difference of opinion,’ he said. Matiang'i said as the country heads to a heated political season towards the 2022 election, media should stand out by telling the truth. “I know proceeds of crime are cropping in media houses to sugarcoat the truth, but let us stick to our true values and enhance democracy,” he said.