Northeastern regional coordinator Nicodemus Ndalana has sternly warned residents collaborating with al Shabaab that the government security machinery will soon catch up with them. Speaking on Saturday in Wajir town after touring Wajir East to assess the security situation, Ndalana asked those working with the Somalia-based terror group to stop forthwith before they are caught. “Anyone working with al Shabaab is our enemy. We shall treat him as such and the punishment meted out on al-Shabaab suspects will be meted out on them,” Ndalana said. He said those caught will pay for their crimes, even if they are security agents or police reservists. He, however, thanked residents who have been working closely with security agencies by volunteering information that has helped in stopping terror attacks in the region. He said Khorofharar that has been frequently under attack for the past three months has remained peaceful, thanks to the cooperation between residents and security agencies. Ndalana was accompanied by his security team and Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim. He praised Kasim for putting up a police station at the Khorf Harar subcounty office and a residence for the new deputy county commissioner. “The area MP has done a commendable job. I must thank him because he is part of the security we are witnessing here today,” he said. Kassim said the region’s leadership will continue working closely with the national government to improve security and the wellbeing of residents. The lawmaker said elaborate security measures put in place by the national government are finally bearing fruit. The constituency borders Somalia is among those that have been raided by terrorists on several occasions, leading to deaths of both security officers and civilians. Police vehicles and communications masts have also been destroyed or burnt down. Kassim said local leaders had criticised the national government several times without knowing efforts were being put in place to fix insecurity. “I appeal to my fellow political leaders to stop politicising security matters. this habit of always hitting out at the government and blaming it whenever there is an incident thinking it will make one popular with the electorate doesn’t help at all,” he said. The legislator has been at the forefront of denouncing al Shabaab activities. He urged the national government to continue incorporating the input of residents in its anti-terrorism plans. Residents who spoke urged Safaricom to rebuild the mast that was destroyed during the last Shabaab attack. They assured the government that they will work with security agencies by providing relevant information about criminals.