Doctors have issued a two-week notice to the government to address their grievances failing which they will call for a nationwide strike. The doctors under the umbrella of the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union have been in talks for the past two weeks but threatened that should there be no amicable agreement in a fortnight, they will be left with no choice but to avoid work. They have expressed disappointment at the government's withdrawal of Covid-19 allowance. The allowance was for three months, with doctors and other healthcare workers pushing for the government to ensure the amount remains until the pandemic ends. So far, more than 1,000 healthcare workers have been exposed to the virus, with more than 16 succumbing. "Six months into the pandemic, the government is yet to fulfill its pledge on provision of comprehensive medical insurance and compensation for those who have lost their lives in the line of duty," KMPDU acting secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said on Monday at their headquarters. "On the contrary, the incentive of an enhanced Covid-19 allowance has been withdrawn with no commitment or indication of its payment despite the increased risk that all Healthcare workers continue to face," Mwachonda added. The doctors said the focus on the virus has been skewed towards procurement that has given birth to tenderpreneurs at the expense of the much-needed human resource. Medics have also faulted the handling of the pandemic by the counties, saying some are owing their healthcare workers three months' salary. "There is no way I will be in isolation, I don't have a cover and I don't have a salary. All counties should be warned. We won't take that lying low," KMPDU vice chairman Allan Ochanji said. This comes even as the 21-day notice issued by other healthcare unions lapses on Wednesday. They include the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, the Kenya Health Professionals Society, the Kenya National Union of Laboratory Officers, the Kenya National Union of Pharmaceutical Technologists and the Kenya Union of Dieticians. They had given the relevant parties 21 days ending September 9 to act on their demands failure to which they will commence a strike on September 10. The unions issued fresh strike notice after conciliatory meetings initiated by Labour CS Simon Chelugui on May 18 stalled. They have demanded that healthcare workers who are pregnant, above 55 years and those with preexisting medical conditions to be excluded from active duty. Further, they want all contractual engagements terms in the health sector to be converted to permanent and pensionable terms to ensure they are remunerated equally with their colleagues on permanent and pensionable terms. Edited by EKibii