Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Kitui South MP Rachel Nyamai have condemned  premature election campaigns they say are being perpetuated by allies of Deputy President William Ruto. The two were reacting to an impotent attempt by some Ruto allies led by Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai to hold rallies in Kitui South and Kitui Rural constituencies to hawk the DP's 2022 presidential bid. Ngilu warned Ukambani residents against dancing to the whims of the DP's foot soldiers, saying they have sinister motives to disrupt development programmes as they engage in early campaigns. Governor Ngilu on Saturday warned the Tangatanga team that their agenda to undermine the implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta's legacy and the Big Four agenda was no longer a secret. "When they bring their big money here, take it but ask them to go back to wherever they came from. They do not mean well for our people because it is time for development and not political campaigns," said Ngilu. Dr Nyamai dismissed the MPs supporting Ruto as political sell-outs and brokers who had abandoned their electorates. “I think it’s time MPs focused on developing their constituencies,” she said in a press statement on Sunday. “If they think they can make my constituency an opposition zone, they will get a rude shock. I won’t let them joke with me just because I am a woman MP.  I am equal to the challenge they pose,” added the MP. She said she would not stand the Tangatanga squad hauling abuses at the mother of President Kenyatta and founding First Lady. “The Tanga tanga sinister agenda must be advanced in other areas but not in Kitui settle Kitui south,” said MP Nyamai. She declared that she was vehemently loyal to President Kenyatta with the full blessing of her constituents. On Friday, anti-riot police intercepted the Ruto team convoy on two occasions as they attempted to enter Kitui south and Kitui rural constituencies to address rallies. Police lobbied tear-gas as the convoy to force them out of the two areas.