A Kibera court has allowed detectives to access the M-Pesa statements of a hospital owner where a woman is suspected to have died after a botched abortion. Police constable Willie Bungei was granted the order by Kibera senior resident magistrate Charles Mwaniki after he filed an application before the court. Bungei told court that he needed to access the M-Pesa transactions for the period between September 14 and September 19 from the Safaricom head office. He suspects money was transferred to the doctor through M-Pesa. “I need to access the said M-Pesa statement from Safaricom Kenya Limited as the postmortem results revealed that the deceased died as a result of a surgical abortion,” he said. On Tuesday, the same court allowed police to hold Benjamin Menja for ten more days pending investigations. The order was granted by senior principal magistrate Esther Boke following a successful miscellaneous application by police constable John Ndemenge. Ndemenge in his application told the court that he needed more time to investigate the offences of murder, giving false information and conspiracy to defeat justice. Menja is said to have reported to Kenyatta police post vide OB Number 10/17/2020 that he had been called by his friend Keffa and informed that Jackline Atieno was sick in the house. He was requested to rush her to Kenyatta National Hospital where she was pronounced dead Officers from Kenyatta police post did a follow up and revealed that the suspect had concealed his true identity while booking at Kenyatta National Hospital police post. He gave out wrong names, identity card and phone number. Police said that the officer was the owner of White Smile Medical Centre where the abortion is alleged to have been conducted. "That the respondent was transfered to Riruta police station where the incident took place and the postmortem test was yet to be conducted. We need the said days to complete the investigations, conduct psychiatric test and for statements to be recorded," Ndemenge said in his application. Boke directed the case to be mentioned on October 5.