Five Kenya Sevens team players have been selected to feature in theWorld 10-a-side tournament in Bermuda next month. Shujaa skipper Andrew Amonde has been picked alongside talisman Collins Injera, Willy Ambaka, Oscar Ouma and Oscar Dennis to feature in the event. The five will play for  SFX 10, a franchise based in Cape Town and will have a sprinkling of some of the best South African Sevens stars in the team. The team will be coached by former Springbok Sevens international Frankie Horne. South African Sevens playmaker Cecil Afrika will also offer his expertise and vast knowledge to the squad. Horne said he is delighted to have the Kenyan boys in the squad for the event. "We also have a few guys from the Kenya Sevens set-up and they will be wonderful additions to the squad as they exhibit their flair and skills. We have gone for an all-African affair, pretty much, just to give the African boys an opportunity," Horne told SARugbymag.co.za. The first round of matches is scheduled for October 24-25 October, followed by Round 2, which takes place between October 31 to 1 November. The final round will be played at the National Sports Centre on November 7. The 10-a-side world 10's series comprises eight privately-owned teams from around the globe, featuring world-class players. The format offers opportunities for players from both the XV and 7-a-side codes of rugby. The 2020 world 10's series will be played as a closed event with a high-quality broadcast production and global distribution set to wow fans around the world. The World Tens Series has been developed to become the ‘IPL of rugby'. Bermuda’s robust testing programmes and Covid-19 protocols have ensured the island is now one of the safest places in the world, rated Level 2 by the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC) along with only four other destinations. The world 10's series will ensure all protocols and testing steps are taken to ensure a safe transition into a Bermuda ‘bubble.’ All participants will adhere to Bermuda’s testing policies, including temperature checks and screening procedures daily.