ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked leaders to shun divisive politics that may cause loss of lives ahead of 2022 polls. Mudavadi said it is important for Kenyans to remember that thousands of lives have been lost due to reckless talk by politicians. He noted that he was part of the team that worked to restore calm after the 2007 post-election violence. The dialogue and reconciliation team was spearheaded by former United Nations Secretary-General, the late Kofi Annan. Mudavadi said it is irresponsible to engage in insults and politics that may cause tension among communities. "Let us respect others' opinions. No one has the right to insult others. Why would anyone target Mama Ngina politically," Musalia asked in reference to the widely debated remarks made by MPs Oscar Sudi and Johana Ngeno. The unity of the country, he said, is a matter that should not be joked with as the nation's prosperity depends on it. "Such politics should not be allowed. Kenyans should not forget the lives that have been lost because of politics," he added. Mudavadi spoke at Gaitheri Primary School in Kiharu constituency during the funeral of Gaturi MCA Kiiru Mwangi alias Mbembe who passed away last week. He further challenged the Senate to ensure funds meant for counties are disbursed as soon as possible to restore operations of the devolved units. "I am appealing to Senate to use all means possible to ensure the funds are released," he said. The main disbursement criteria should be population and other parameters, including land mass and poverty index, should come second, he added. The ANC boss said the economy is hurting due to the stalemate on revenue sharing formula. Mudavadi further asked Kenyans to vote in leaders who prioritise rehabilitation of the economy. He pointed out that three months after the budget was unveiled, the dollar has increased in value from Sh104 to Sh108 which may call for more funds for the budget to be implemented. Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata said the current revenue sharing formula has heightened poverty in populated counties and advanced development in less populated one. Kang'ata accused some governors of bribing senators to block the proposed formula but vowed to push it through. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro challenged ODM leader Raila Odinga to rally his senators to support the formula. "When we were removed from parliamentary committees, they all came together and had more than enough votes, where are they now?" he wondered. Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege urged leaders to observe restraint and take care not to spark aggression in the country. 