ODM leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday met a section of leaders from Migori county ahead of the Governor Okoth Obado's impeachment. Obado's impeachment process is expected to commence on Tuesday after he was charged with abuse of office and fraud. "Counties brought the promise of better service delivery and Kenyans have high expectations of the system of governance," Raila said via Twitter. Raila added, "By and large it has worked but at times political parties are obligated to step in and protect the interests of the people. " He met with Senator Ochilo Ayacko, Suba East MP John Mbadi among other leaders. There is tension in Migori town ahead of reopening of the assembly on Tuesday and the start of Governor Okoth Obado's impeachment process. On Monday, ODM ward reps supporting the impeachment motion said they were ready to start the process. However, a team supporting Obado has been holding meetings and press conferences to look for ways to convince their colleagues to drop the bid. Migori ODM chairman Philip Makabong’o and county secretary Joseph Michael led a meeting of all party officials across the eight sub counties at the ODM offices to help solidify their numbers. Last week, the ODM party sought government protection for Migori MCAs who will vote for the impeachment of Obado. Party chairman John Mbadi said,"We urge the government to ensure the security of Migori MCs and protect them from any form of intimidation and blackmail." Mbadi noted that the party will publish names of Migori officials including MCAs and CECs with alleged involvement in diverting county funds to bribe MCAs. This comes as 37 out of 41 ODM MCAs resolved to impeach Obado due to his existing corruption case. Obado was last week arraigned alongside his four children and seven others to answer charges of graft over loss of Sh73.4 million county funds. They were released on bail with a raft of strict terms including being barred from the county office. Obado is allegedly trying to convene a cabinet meeting at his home to try to salvage his impending removal from office.