South Africa’s director of rugby Rassie Erasmus believes there are no shortage of options to replace injured flyhalf Handre Pollard at the Rugby Championship in Australia. Pollard will miss the Southern Hemisphere competition, and possibly the build-up to the British & Irish Lions series next July, after rupturing his anterior cruciate ligaments while playing for French Top14 side Montpellier this month. He was integral to the Boks’ World Cup win in Japan last year with his tactical kicking and ability to control the game from flyhalf. “In terms of a team man and someone who served the side, Elton (Jantjies) really stood out at the World Cup in the way he helped us prepare,” Erasmus told reporters. “And when he’s playing with structure and a good forward foundation, he’s unbelievable. He was pushing hard for Handre’s spot. “Then there’s Damian Willemse, who has gone to a World Cup and who can do a job at 10 and 15 (fullback). Even Frans Steyn can slot in if needed. Curwin Bosch, if he gets a good run, is someone to watch.” Defending champions South Africa are yet to confirm their place at the Rugby Championship, which will be played from November 7–December 12, as they await government approval to travel and debate concerns around player welfare with their domestic season set to start on October 10. Meanwhile, All Blacks coach Ian Foster said on Tuesday Rugby Championship organisers needed to move quickly to change the tournament’s schedule and allow his team to spend Christmas with family rather than in quarantine in New Zealand. The All Blacks are scheduled to play Australia in Sydney on December 12 and would have to spend two weeks in isolation when they return home as part of Covid-19 protocols. The schedule has angered New Zealand Rugby and Foster said Sanzaar, which organises the Rugby Championship, had “reneged” on a deal that would have allowed the All Blacks to finish the tournament a week earlier. “It needs to be sorted — today would be great, but we’ll accept tomorrow,” he told New Zealand media. “There was a deal based on the fifth (of December), we feel that Sanzaar has reneged on that, so we’ve put some solutions (forward), so we’ll wait and see. “There’s been set expectations and they haven’t been delivered on, so that’s up to the game and Sanzaar to sort out.” Foster stopped short of suggesting the All Blacks could boycott the final match if Sanzaar would not change the schedule. “I don’t want to talk about that now,” he said. “That’s a headline that I don’t want to put out there. But we’re bitterly disappointed that what was proposed got changed.” The All Blacks will play their first test match of the year against Australia in Wellington on October 11, with a second Bledisloe Cup test at Eden Park a week later before the Rugby Championship starts in Australia in November. New Zealand media have raised concerns a number of All Blacks players with young families, including new father Beauden Barrett, might opt out of the last Rugby Championship match. Veteran hooker Dane Coles said he would not be making any Christmas plans until there was clarity. “Once we get a solid plan then we can have those conversations with our loved ones and have those tough conversations about what will happen,” he said.