A Senate committee has recommended that EACC and DCI investigate the circumstances surrounding the awarding and implementation of the health Managed Equipment Service Contracts. The committee says that it established that the MES project was a criminal enterprise shrouded in opaque procurement processes. It notes that the Ministry of Health relied on a faulty tool to justify a predetermined outcome in relation to the award of tenders. The Star on Wednesday has details of how Kenyans may have lost billions of money in the ambitious health project. The war in jubilee is taking a dramatic turn with allies of Deputy President William Ruto openly calling out President Uhuru Kenyatta. The development has seen the arrest of Emurua Dikirir MP Johanna Ng’eno on incitement charges. ODM leader Raila Odinga condemned the recent utterances by Ruto allies saying no one should lead to country into a warpath. The Star on Wednesday examines this erupting war of words and what it means for the ruling Jubilee Party. ODM leader Raila Odinga has a tough assignment in retaining his support in Western, allies of Deputy President William Ruto have stated. The lot holds that Raila’s support in the region is waning fast and may worsen as the country hurtles towards the 2022 general election. Raila was at the weekend hosted by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, the ODM deputy party leader, in a meeting, which was attended by one MP and a handful of MCAs. The 2020/2021 budget is a crisis budget and hence may not steer the economy through the stormy waters of the Covid19 pandemic, budget experts have warned. The Parliamentary Budget Office says the pandemic has simply exposed the soft underbelly of the country’s economic growth and thus Kenyans are not out of the woods yet. It says that the government would face cash challenges given the uncertain economic outlook and revenue performance worsening the situation. Despite protest by governor, county governments will have to wait longer to get funds after the Senate on Tuesday postponed the debate and vote on the contentious revenue sharing formula. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka ordered that the matter be pushed to next Tuesday to allow for consensus building around the formula. The lawmakers were expected to resume the debate, for a record 10th time this week when they resumed plenary sittings after a one month long recess on Tuesday.