Unicef has launched investigations into a video that showed one of its employees causing a fracas during a night party over the weekend. "We have been in Kenya for many years, and both our country and regional offices are warmly hosted by the Government of Kenya, "Regional director Mohammed Fall said on Tuesday. "Throughout that time, we have all enjoyed the warmth and friendship of the Kenyan people, for which we are most grateful. At all times we expect impeccable behaviour from our staff, as they go about their critical and life-saving work for children throughout the region." In the video, a man believed to be an employee of Unicef Kenya office is seen interrupting a gathering which left many speechless after it went viral. In the video shot on September 12, 2020, the man is seen storming into a house when there was a party being held. The man was flailing his arms and claiming that the crowd must exit the premises since it was already past the curfew time of 9 pm. The host Thogori Karago said she was hosting a few friends and family for a post-wedding lunch for her brother at her rented AirBnB located in High View area, Ridgeways, Nairobi when the incident took place. "As the person renting the premises I asked the gentleman who initially failed to identify himself or request entry into our property or provide his name and details and purpose," she said. "However, much to my dismay he refused to disclose and continued shouting and addressing me and my friends aggressively." In the video, the man identified as Philip van de Graaf is seen shouting and he is restrained by some of the people in the party as they also hurled insults at him. "I asked him to calm down and step away as he continued to shout verbal abusive words and racial slurs towards me and my friends," Karago said. After the man realised that he was being recorded, he tried to attack the cameraman but was held back. The man continued to hurl the insults and threatened physical assault. "You think I am afraid of you, I will kill you ... " the man repeatedly said this and proceeded to scream calling the diplomatic police. "We have called the UN police on you...Get Out!" a woman could be heard screaming. The scuffle continued with the people saying that he was a racist. Karago said that they locked themselves in the house and called the police from Muthaiga Police station. "We were assigned Police officers Noor Abdi and Veronica Bett who came to the property and listened to our grievances regarding the earlier events and took evidence," she said. During the discussion with the police, he identified himself as an employee of Unicef in Nairobi. According to LinkedIn, the man is a regional Supply and Logistics Manager at Unicef. This article has been updated