A youthful MP from Nyanza is on the news again for all the wrong reasons. The MP, who is barely struggling to hold grip ahead of 2022 polls since he has lost touch with electorate, has now defied party leader Raila Odinga on avoiding early campaigns and is even using government-donated hand sanitiser to try regain his waning support. This is despite the government cautioning leaders not to brand such items in their names. The MP who has court cases against his constituents has branded dozens of government hand sanitiser with his picture meant to appease locals. *** A governor in Western is going round bragging how his preferred successor will be the next county chief. Addressing locals in almost all public meetings, the governor has said he is the one to decide who becomes the next county chief and makes it appear as if voters in the devolved unit don’t have the power to pick their leaders. “I will not hand over the government to my enemies,” he said, adding that all his rivals cannot match his political prowess in the county. Word has it that the governor might endorse his deputy as he has been full of praise for him. He says he is the best deputy governor ever, always there when needed. *** Political competition has just gone to another level. Last week, a politician who has declared he will be among the candidates seeking to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 was overheard coaching a political stalwart during a television interview, advising him to go hard on his rival. The presidential aspirant went ahead to explain to the interviewee that the politician was making inroads in his traditional support base and had started wooing some of his lieutenants to his camp. And indeed, the man answered in affirmative as he did not have any kind words for his rival. *** Well, it appears the Covid-19 pandemic has been coming in handy for those wishing to snub meetings. When ODM threatened disciplinary action against MCAs from a county in Coast for failing to attend a crucial meeting chaired by secretary general Edwin Sifuna on September 1, the ward reps said they were self-isolating because three cases of the virus had been confirmed at the assembly. Only three of the 14 MCAs attended the meeting, prompting the party to write to the 11 MCAs demanding an explanation. One MCA said it would not be difficult for them to get out of the trouble as their clerk will just confirm there were three coronavirus cases among assembly staff.