Elections for Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Narok branch proceeded on Saturday despite protests from a section of candidates boycotting the elections claiming that the exercise was not free and fair. Naftal Kirui, who was vying for the chairmanship seat for Narok Branch and his team, opted not to participate in the elections which were conducted at Narok stadium saying the election was a sham and one-sided exercise which does not meet the standard as required by the law. “We are boycotting on the account of a predetermined outcome favoring certain candidates even before the elections are held. Most football teams participating are not eligible to vote and the delegates are not genuine” Kirui said. The aspirant wondered why the elections continued after they raised their complaints to the FKF electoral board electoral board chairperson Kentice Tikolo. “We raised complaints to the FKF electoral board because only three teams participated in the South Rift branch league and were eligible to vote. There was no county league as claimed by those in the office,” he said. The aspirants said they are planning to file an appeal at the court of law at the Sports Disputes Tribunal which they will seek nullification of the elections. Despite their boycott, the elections continued and new officials were declared the winners with the incumbent chairman Peter Karino retaining his seat after garnering 10 votes against Kirui who had one vote. Elias Musunkui was voted in as the secretary, Paul Parmuat is the new treasurer and Ntirenye Dikirr also retaining his women representative seat and Charles Ledama youth representative. Returning officer Violet Oyee said she did not receive any complaints from the team that boycotted the elections and “If there are complaints, they should have channeled it to the FKF electoral board,” Oyee said. In his acceptance speech, Karino promised to revamp football in the grassroots level and start youth academies in bid to tap talents among the young people at their tender age. He dismissed the team that refused to participate in the polls saying they decided to do so after sensing defeat. South Rift chairman David Bunei, who is now seeking Rift-Valley representative position, said the exercise was free and fair and thanked the delegates for exercising their democratic rights. “I wish the new officials well and hope they will ensure that the football in Narok is taken to another level," Bunei said.