An initiative called Bar Kumi has been formed to help enforce the government regulations on Covid-19. Bar, Liquor and Hotel Traders Association chairperson Simon Jogoo said it borrows heavily from the Nyumba Kumi initiative started by the government to improve security. Every licensed bar is required to join the association and each Bar Kumi group will have a leader. Errant members will be disciplined and the matter forwarded to the administration in case of repeat offences. Jogoo said the association has 54,000 members countrywide and the huge number makes it difficult to manage them, hence the need for the initiative. “That's why we have formed Bar Kumi initiative because each will have a leader who will make sure his members follow government guidelines,” he said. He added that strong Saccos are the only way the matatu industry, which supports thousands of Kenyans, is able to regulate itself. He said the same will apply to bars. Jogoo thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for allowing hotels and restaurants to sell liquor. The President had also directed hoteliers and restaurateurs to form an eight-member committee that would develop regulations to allow their resumption in the next 30 days. The team, Jogoo said, has been formed and has drawn a list of modalities proposed to ensure bars comply with Covid-19 guidelines. It is made up of liquor manufacturers and distributors. “We have presented our memorandum to the Cabinet Secretary for Health and once we come to an agreement, we know even the bars will be allowed to operate,” he said. The sector has been making losses amounting to Sh6 billion every month but is slowly getting back on its feet, Jogoo added. He appealed to his members to apply for the Sh3 billion SME fund set aside by the government to support and reinvigorate struggling businesses. In May, the President announced that the government had formed an SME credit guarantee scheme as part of its economic stimulus package to resuscitate the economy that had been devastated by the Covid-19 crisis. Jogoo reiterated that his members will continue to follow the government directives to protect their customers. “We are happy because we have been in the cold for a long time and now the time has come to dialogue on the best way forward,” he said.