Subordinate staff of schools in Kisumu county have faulted the government for failing to come to their aid. The group comprising bursars, cooks, groundsmen and women, matrons and security guards amongst others said only teachers are getting help. They said they received their last salaries in April. Speaking at Jomo Kenyatta sports ground led by spokesperson Stephen Angienda, they said they have faced difficulties in life since schools were closed due to Covid-19 . Angienda said they have been forgotten as the government pays teachers employed under boards of management. “We have been suffering since the virus broke out. The government has been talking about releasing money, but down here we are yet to get anything and we call upon the government to come to our aid,” he said. Angienda also called on the Ministry of Education to consider them and work on modalities to pay them the accrued salaries and allowances. “We want the government to implement the 2014 Kilemi Mwiria report that the non-teaching staff salaries should come from the ministry like in 1993,” he said. Monthly deductions for their medical schemes have arrears, terminating medical services to their families, the spokesman said. He further appealed to CS George Magoha to look into their terms of service. “Our working condition is very bad. There is nobody looking at our wellbeing." He noted that they have no security of tenure and implored the CS to help in reverting to the old system where they would be in the government employment. The 2014 Kilemi Mwiria report recommended non-teaching staff in secondary schools to be paid up to Sh41,000 per month. The Mwiria-led team that also proposed qualifications for each category;  recruitment of staff be pegged on students’ enrolment and the number of streams per school. On salary recommendations, a secretary in public secondary schools was proposed to earn a maximum of Sh24,662 per month. Their minimum pay was pegged at Sh12,510. The report proposed that all secretaries fall under job group F, G and H. School bursars were to fall under job group K and to earn Sh41,590 per month. Their minimum pay was set at Sh31,020. They were expected to have a qualification of Certified Public Accountant (CPA) III. Office messengers were to fall under job group D with a take-home minimum of Sh10,380. They were to earn a maximum of Sh11,370. Messengers were to have a basic requirement of Form 4 education. It was suggested that catering staff earn a maximum of Sh21,304 under job F and G. Their minimum pay was set at Sh12,510 and required a Kenya National Examination Council certificate in catering. Cooks were to take home Sh11,370 and a minimum of Sh9,660 per month. They were to fall under job group C and D and would be expected to have Form 4 qualification. ICT technicians were proposed to fall under job group F and G with a maximum pay of Sh21,304. Their basic pay was capped at Sh12,510. Kitchen staff were assigned to job group C and D, with a maximum salary of Sh10,380 and minimum of Sh9,660. Those with Standard 8 certificates would qualify. The school nurse was to take home a maximum pay of Sh24,662 per month. Nurses were to fall under job group H and J and would produce a Certificate in Nursing for employment. Storekeepers were recommended to fall under job group F, G and H. They were to be paid a minimum salary of Sh12,510 and a maximum of Sh21,304. Edited by R.Wamochie