Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng'eno who is charged with hate speech and offensive conduct was on Thursday released on bond. Nakuru chief magistrate Elizabeth Usui released Ngeno on a Sh2 million bond with a surety of a similar amount or a cash bail of Sh1 million. The MP was arrested on Monday at his home in Emurua Dikirr constituency before being moved to Narok police station. He was later transferred to Nakuru Central police station and has been in custody for three days. Ng'eno was held at the Nakuru GK Prison for two days after the chief magistrate deferred the ruling for his bond application to Thursday. The charge sheet says that on September 6 at Junction area, Olgos Sofia village in Transmara, Ng'eno used abusive language likely to stir ethnic hatred. He faced a second count of offensive conduct for allegedly using abusive language against the Presidency and the first family at a public gathering at the home of the late Joseph Oitakei. During the bail and bond ruling, the court declined the prosecution’s application objecting TO the MP's release on bond saying that he was not a flight risk. “The MP has stable employment as an MP with a known abode and the prosecution has not proved that he can be a flight risk. It did not provide a previous record either,” Usui said. The magistrate said the claim that Ng'eno could interfere or influence the witnesses was not valid. The witnesses were police officers and an official at the Communication Authority and one civilian, she said. “There is no danger of interfering or influencing the police officers who include the investigating officer because they have already done their work of arresting the suspect,” she said. Usui said the names and residences of the CA official and the civilian listed as witnesses in the matter were not revealed. The court added that the prosecution was free to demand the re-arrest of the MP if he behaved in a way likely to endanger the case. On claims that there was a likelihood of violence in the Mau like the ones experienced in the recent past, the court said the prosecution did not also provide a record linking the legislator to such. The matter will be mentioned on October 12.