Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala broke down into tears on Monday as he narrated to two Senate Committees how five police officers had allegedly been assigned to eliminate him. In an emotional presentation to the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee and National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, Malala said the five officers were from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI). “I am a husband and a young father. The most painful thing is that I am being accused of stage-managing my arrest on August 17,” he said while holding back tears. The senator was overcome with emotion as he narrated his frustration in having his security beefed up. " I humbly request this committee and the Inspector General of Police to take action. I have written many letters and called many offices seeking help but they have not taken any action". Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai and other senior officers from the National Police Service, who had appeared before the committee, were all this time listening. The joint committee then adjourned the meeting and asked the IG to summon the DCI to appear before him side by side to respond to the accusations. Malala named the five officers as Sergeant Kiprop, Benedict B, Adanus Chemtai, David Kutekha and Sylvanos Njeru. He said the five were summoned at a hotel in Thika where they met an inspector by the name Wanjala who gave them the assignment. "HIT SQUAD" “They were given a Subaru Forrester green in colour and then gave themselves code name Bravo Zulu Yankee,” he said. He added that they were then given a Total fueling card and five rifles after surrendering their Ceska pistols. “The rifles they were given are semi-automatic and are known as Scorpio. They are Israeli made,” he added. Malala added the officers were forced to go on a two-week leave when he raised the matter. “They were told to go on compulsory two-week leave and were given Sh20, 000 as travel allowance,” he added. He further added that the arms movement register was withdrawn soon after the two proceeded on leave. “There is now a new arms movement register and the vehicle has been taken to Limuru,” he claimed. Malala said on many occasions he has begged for security and nobody is willing to accord him the same. He said he has gone to an extent of pleading with the Kakamega County Commissioner to look into the threats but all has been in vain. "Mr Chair nobody is willing to give me security. It is so sad walking around the streets of Kakamega and Kenya knowing I will be killed the next day," Malala said. He said to add insult to injury, some leaders in the country have made claims that he faked his arrest. Malala was referring to allegations by ODM Leader Raila Odinga that some of the arrested senators staged their arrest after receiving bribes to vote a certain way in the Counties Revenue Sharing debate. "The most painful thing is seeing very respected leaders saying I forged my arrest Mr Chair. After all this, somebody says I planned with the police to stage-manage my arrest and sent them a pin location, I carry a heavy heart,"  he said. Malala was on August 17 afternoon arrested by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officers at his Kitengela home after a 10-hour dramatic standoff. Senators Kipchumba Murkomen(Elgeyo Marakwet), Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni), Johnson Sakaja(Nairobi), Aaron Cheruyiot (Kericho), Ledama Ole Kina (Narok) Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi) attempted to shield Malala, engaging the detectives in bitter exchanges for an hour arguing for solidarity. The furious legislatures also demanded to be arrested saying the arrest of Malala was intimidation over the third-generation revenue sharing bill. Malala is among three senators arrested on that day. Others were Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) and Christopher Langat (Bomet). The detectives said Malala was being arrested because of defying the government protocols while distributing sanitisers in his county.