Teso North MP Oku Kaunya has told university students to capitalise on the closure of learning institutions due to Covid-19 to look for online jobs and earn money. The MP on Sunday said he expected creative university students to use their free time to work online. He said Kenya has a very fast internet that provides a platform through which students can look for work and scholarship opportunities online to advance their careers and studies. “During this time of Covid-19, take your time and do something,” Kaunya said. “We have the internet. In Busia, Teso North is the only constituency with four ICT hubs. This has given you the opportunity to learn by accessing free internet. I urge you to take full advantage of these opportunities to be able to access the openings available online, including scholarships.” The MP spoke when he hosted a group of university students pursuing studies in law, medicine and engineering for lunch at his home in Kakemer village. The students are part of a group of learners benefiting from a programme the MP initiated after his election in 2017. It aims at helping bright students pursue higher education primarily in the disciplines of law, medicine and engineering. Part of the students’ tuition fees is paid by the Teso North National Government Constituency Development Fund. “My belief is that the foundation of any community is dependent on assets and most importantly the asset of human resource,” Kaunya said. “My work for the period I have as your MP is to ensure that we lift our people to the level where we have a large number of people who have the power of the mind and are able to contribute not only to the development of our community but also the country and the world.” He said the four ICT hubs in Amagoro, Ang’urai, Kolanya and at the Malaba Youth Empowerment Centre offer an opportunity for students to work online. At least 30 students have been sponsored to study the three courses. The MP said he expects at least 100 students to have benefitted from the programme by 2022. “The power of the internet is so great. Look for jobs, look for scholarships and don’t be comfortable where you are now. Take advantage of the internet,” Kaunya said.