National champions Ulinzi Warriors have recruited two players in readiness for the season. On Sunday, team manager Stephen Bartilol revealed that Brans Nzioka and Gideon Ndambuki, who are forwards, have joined the soldiers from Laiser Hill Academy. "I have got two good players from Laiser Hill who have been in training and will be graduating in two weeks," said Bartilol. He expects the duo to fit in the side and add the much needed punch in the front court as the team prepares to defend their title. "Their understanding of the game is high so I am sure they will team up well with the rest of the squad to make an immediate impact," he noted. Besides having their eyes set on defending the national title, Ulinzi will also seek to qualify for the Basketball Africa League (BAL) starting in January. "As the country's sole representative in the lucrative BAL tournament, we are determined to make a name in this competition as well. We want success at all fronts," said Bartilol adding that they are waiting for a flexible government directive on resumption of sports to enable them hit the ground running. "Other than ball work, which is a challenge, the players are having individual training and are fit. They will be ready when called upon," he said. The team's hands are full since besides the national league and BAL, they have their eyes set on the Africa Military Games as well. Kenya finished third in last year's championship held at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Bartilol said that they are determined to build a strong team for the future and will do whatever it takes to achieve that goal. Ulinzi Warriors beat Thunder in the play offs to claim the 2019 Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) national title on a 3-1 basis and coach William Balozi believes the team can only get better. "We will work on our weaknesses and strengthen the side even more," he said. The soldiers will rely on the national team trio of Eric Mutoro, James Mwangi and Victor Bosire to do well in the two events.