Kenya is set to review its military cooperation with the British Government. Defence CS Monica Juma on Wednesday said the review will reaffirm the two countries defence priorities for the next five years. Juma is currently in the UK where she was received by her counterpart Ben Wallace. "Was received by and held official talks with Rt. Hon Ben Wallace, UK Secretary of State for Defence at the Ministry of Defence in London, today. We signed on priority areas of cooperation; looking forward to reviewing the progress at our next meeting in Nairobi," Juma posted on Twitter. Juma was accompanied by Kenya's High Commissioner to London Manoah Esipisu, Maj-Gen. Mwangi, Brig. Odeny, and Col. Banda, DA in London. "Our meeting reviewed the state of our defence relations, agreed to open up new areas of cooperation, and to strengthen our collaboration on regional and international peace and security," she said. Juma said they had also agreed on further ways to fight terrorism and extremism, and shared commitment to promoting peace and stability in the region. Kenya has remained a strategic partner for UK's military cooperation through the British Army Training Unit - BATUK which offers a training support unit for the British soldiers. Through the cooperation, the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) has maintained a longstanding Defence Cooperation Agreement with the Kenyan Government whereby up to six British infantry battalions (10,000 service personnel) per year may carry out four-week exercises on Kenya Ministry of Defence land at Archer's Post and in Laikipia County. This is because the hot conditions and rugged terrain are unavailable in the UK and present an opportunity for British soldiers to improve their skills through training. The exercises are run by BATUK from its base at Nyati Barracks in Nanyuki. Despite the UK offering training opportunities to the Kenyan military in the UK, they also and conduct joint exercises with the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) through cooperation. The unit also supports Kenya's pursue against Al Shabaab, including the deployment of British personnel to Somalia to provide the KDF with logistical support and contributions towards anti-terrorism training for the Kenya Police and border guards. The cooperation however became part of a broader series of diplomatic disputes between the two countries between 2013 and 2015. The intial agreement of the cooperation required the UK soldiers to abide by Kenyan law but the UK preferred to try them under UK military law which resulted in a legal grey area.