About 2,400 women and youth-led agribusinesses in Bungoma are to benefit from a Sh5.1 billion partnership between eight counties and donors. Poultry, sweet potatoes, dairy, horticulture, soya production among other value chains will be supported. Funded by the European Union and Denmark (Danida), AgriBiz hopes to create 17,000 jobs over five years. Bungoma county has signed a memorandum of understanding with Kenya Climate Innovation Centre to take part in the project. By signing the MoU, Bungoma has committed to establishing a business incubation hub to be located at the Agricultural Training Centre (ATC) based at Mabanga. It is expected to be ready by November. Other pre-identified counties include Kilifi, Machakos, Kiambu, Meru, Isiolo, Kisii and Uasin Gishu. Already, KCIC has signed up 200 agribusiness enterprises to receive support from its central hub at Strathmore University in Nairobi. Edward Mungai, the Chief Executive Officer at KCIC said, “Bungoma is endowed with great agribusiness potential. By tapping into the potential of youth and women, our intention is to increase smallholder production that will have a ripple effect on household incomes and food security as envisioned in the government’s Big Four Action Plan.” Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said the programme will help the county to strengthen community-based self-help groups and Agri SMEs to improve productivity. European Union Ambassador Simon Mordue said the programme is a timely intervention for the women and youth of Kenya. “With more than 60 per cent of the unemployed Kenyans being young people, AgriBiz will channel resources to a crucial sector to provide meaningful and quality job creation opportunities for them, in a high potential sector such as agribusiness," he said. Danish Ambassador Ole Thonke said improving the skills of youth and women in agribusiness enables them as skilled labour to access decent and sustainable jobs. “The AgriBiz programme will contribute to transforming Kenya’s economy and the agricultural sector towards greener and more inclusive growth – this is a key priority for Denmark’s engagement in Kenya,” he said. Bungoma county will work with KCIC to create an enabling environment that will enhance women and youth participation in agribusiness ventures in the county. The AgriBiz programme will also create linkages to financial institutions to enable women and youth to gain the much-needed capital to grow their enterprises. The programme will also work with training institutions to impart knowledge and skills to farmers.