Day in, day out, top officials from the Ministry of Health stand before the cameras and sing the same song, saying Kenya is not out of the woods as every citizen should follow directives to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, it seems politicians do not hear this advise, or maybe they couldn't care less. The country is yet to eradicate the coronavirus that has so far claimed 612 lives and paralysed businesses across the country. Top political leaders in the country are dancing to their own tune, with gatherings being held right, left and centre. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday evening toured Ruaka and a large crowd in their hundreds convened to hear what the Head of State had to say. A  video which cirulated showed Uhuru engaging a crowd which had many people without face masks. People gathered very close to each other to listen to what the maskless president had for them. Uhuru was on his way to inspect a road that will connect Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang'a and up to Nyeri. Another culprit is Deputy President William Ruto, who on Thursday followed his boss’s footsteps when he toured Kisii. The 'hustlers' clerk' as he referred to himself last week, was welcomed by locals who cheered all the way to the ground where he addressed them. As Ruto drums up support for his 2022 presidential ambitions, ODM leader Raila Odinga was in Taita Taveta to solidify his party support. The script was the same in Raila’s rally where the number of participants was neither regulated, nor Covid-19 measures observed. The cases of the virus in the country on Thursday reached 35,603 following 143 new cases. The Ministry of Health has been calling upon Kenyans to wear their masks, sanitise, keep social distance, and adhere to the dusk-dawn order so as to reduce the spread of the virus. It further warned that those gathering will face the music.s Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja in July had to resign as chairman of the Senate Ad hoc committee on Covid-19 after being caught drinking past curfew hours at the Ladies Lounge club. He at first denied being arrested, but owned up later. " I hereby tender my resignation as the chairman and a member of the Senate Ad hoc committee on Covid-19," Sakaja said in a letter to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka. Sakaja jeered when Uhuru, Raila, and Ruto defied the restrictions, saying through his Twitter account that: The senator said he had decided to step down from his position in the committee in order to set an example and take responsibility for his actions. The lawmaker said he will abide by the law and had already paid his cash bail for his actions.