The Teachers Service Commission has announced a massive recruitment of 5,000 teachers to fill vacancies in both primary and secondary public schools. The commission through an advertisement published in MyGov on Tuesday , said the new posts will support the 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary. The teachers recruited will serve on permanent and pensionable terms of service. Interested and qualified candidates should submit their applications online through the commission’s website not later than September 14, 2020. TSC said they are seeking to recruit 4,000 secondary school teaching posts and the qualification includes being a Kenyan citizen, have at least a diploma in education, and must be a registered teacher with the Teachers Service Commission. The commission is also seeking to promote and deploy 1,000 public primary teachers and applicants must be a Kenyan citizen, must be a holder of a PI certificate, and must be a registered teacher with the Teachers Service Commission. Successful candidates will be posted to serve in any part of the country and not necessarily in the county where they were recruited. The other 1,000 posts of promotion and deployment of practicing teachers in primary schools should be filled by Kenyan citizens with P1 certificates. Qualifications for primary posts also include a bachelor’s degree in education with two teaching subjects. The applicant must also have attained at least C+ (Plus) mean grade at Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) or equivalent and C+ (Plus) or it’s equivalent in the two teaching subjects and must be serving under the Teachers Service Commission. Successful candidates under this category will be appointed at T-Scale 7, Grade C2 under the Career Progression Guidelines. The commission is also advertising 5,474 vacancies for primary and 1,100 vacancies for secondary schools to replace teachers who exited service. The commission is also encouraging persons with disabilities (PWDs) to apply for the posts. TSC said to qualify for appointment on permanent and pensionable terms of service, a candidate should be eligible to serve for a minimum period of 10 continuous years, effective from the date of the first appointment as required by law. Only the shortlisted candidates will be contacted and the shortlisted candidates will be required to produce original professional and academic certificates. Successful candidates must also not fill more than one application for employment form and that filling more application for employment forms will lead to disqualification. Also, the commission said that manual applications will not be accepted.