The Employment and Labour Relations Court has suspended the KNH strike pending the hearing of a case filed by the hospital. This is after KNH's application was certified as urgent. The hearing date has been set for October 6. KNH workers had gone on strike, accusing the hospital of failing to effect salary increments. "The strike notice by the Respondent calling for a general strike or lockout with respect to any category of staff in the employment of the Kenyatta National Hospital is hereby suspended and or stayed pending inter-parties hearing of the application herein," the court order read in part. The hospital management has been directed to serve striking workers and interested parties not later than close of day on Wednesday. A boda boda rider died on Monday after workers refused to attend to him after starting the first day of their strike. Evans, a 27-year-old a rider was vomiting blood as he waited for hours with nobody attending to him. On their part, the health workers said the strike is still on even as they engage connected bodies to resolve the impasse. "We wish to assure the public that even as we strive maintain normal operations in critical functions, we remain committed to resolving the ongoing industrial situation so that our clients can continue to enjoy quality healthcare services," , KNH Board of Management Chairman George Ooko said on Tuesday. "In the meantime, we urge the Unions to come to the table with a view to finding an amicable solution that will result in restoring industrial harmony." The workers who are members of the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union, the Kenya National Union of Nurses  and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Education Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers were demanding implementation of proposed salary review. KMPDU acting Secretary-General Chibanzi Mwachonda said the problem lies with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and not the hospital. In 2019, the hospital’s board of management sought funds from the Treasury to implement the new pay. The Treasury set aside Sh2.4 billion. It handed over Sh601 million to KNH early this year. "The government has already released Sh601 million to that effect, and the money transferred to the KNH accounts. It is now up to the SRC to write a no objection order to the management to allow the new salary scale to be effected," the official noted.