Mariakani in Kilifi county is now emerging as a the new focus for property market at the Coast, according to real estate experts. This follows improving infrastructure at the Coast, mainly Mombasa, whose outskirts have for decades remained undeveloped. For decades Nyali, Utange, Mtwapa, Kikambala and Vipingo have been the centre of attraction for property developers. A 50 by 100 plot goes for Sh2 million and above in North of Mombasa, said Mwiti N. Mwiti, a lead consultant at  Mombasa based real estate firm Oligro. “In the north, the land prices are very high. However, in Mariakani, the plots of 50 by 100 go for between Sh350,000 to half a million shillings,” said Mwiti. The region has for long not been favourable for many property developers because of accessibility from Mombasa town. Mariakani is about 36 kilometre west of Mombasa, and is accessible through the Mombasa-Nairobi highway, which is very prone to traffic jams from Makupa Course Way (Kibarani), Changamwe roundabout , Miritini and Mariakani area. In 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the expansion of the roads around Mombasa west, connecting to Mariakani and the Dongo Kundu-bypass. Phase II of Dongo Kundu bypass, which connects west of Mombasa to south, without going through the Likoni crossing channel, has already begun. The expansion of the road from Changamwe round-about to Mariakani is currently underway. Kenya National High Authority is currently working on the intersection at Changamwe round-about. Mwiti said in the next two years, “Mariakani will be a hot cake.” Kilifi County Physical Planning, Urban Development and Housing Chief Officer, Moses Gunda Munga, said Mombasa's population is growing and the demand for housing has not been met. “This has led to a spillover of the housing supply to Kilifi County through Mtwapa and Mariakani areas,” said Munga. According to the county official, both Mtwapa and Mariakani have integrated Sustainable Urban Development Plans which have allowed for controlled developments. They are both poised to be conferred municipal status. “Mariakani is growing as an industrial urban centre and with this, there is also high demand for housing,” said Munga.