The Internal Affairs Unit of the police should be made independent, with a budget and human resource autonomy, a human rights lobby has said. The Independent Medico-Legal Unit (IMLU) executive director Peter Kiama also want police watchdog Ipoa to involve families and victims of police violence in investigating violations to ensure accountability and expedited processes. He spoke on Wednesday during a webinar organised by Centre for Human Rights and policy studies to assess the successes and failures of holding police accountable in the country. It was attended by Ipoa chairman Anne Makori. Kiama said IAU was ineffective in holding rogue officers accountable because it still depends on the National Police Service for financing and seconding of officers. The unit was established by the police IG to serve internal oversight. Officers with complaints against one another or their bosses report to it for investigation and to recommend action. However, Kiama told the webinar that the current practice where officers seconded to the unit get recalled to the police service after some time, makes it difficult for the officers to do their job of oversighting their colleagues. “Officers working at the IAU should have a different career there, rather than getting to work back at the National Police Service. Transferring the officers to the police to work with officers they were investigating is dangerous,” he said. Kiama also said many police officers do not report to Ipoa the fatalities and injuries that occur from an operation where they are involved. He challenged the oversight authority to hold officers to account as part of the efforts to eliminate impunity in the police service. Makori said her agency has done the much it can in holding officers accountable and remained open and accessible by members of the public. She gave an example of the probe against Nairobi crime-buster Rashid Ahmed whose investigation file, she said, had been concluded and forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecution. Makori said her authority was struggling with huge resource mismatch and deficit as it had a workforce of around 200 to oversight the police service that had a workforce of over 100,000 officers.  Edited by R.Wamochie