Mixed reaction continue to greet the decision by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission  to charge Garissa Governor Ali Korane with corruption. The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions on Thursday agreed with the EACC and directed the prosecution of Governor Korane and four members of his administration on suspicion of misappropriating part of Sh233 million from the World Bank-funded Kenya Urban Support Programme. Some of the money was allegedly diverted on different occasions between February, 2019, and September, 2019, to personal accounts. Those in support of the charges welcomed the move saying that it was long overdue. According Abdikarim Aden, the arrest and subsequent prosecution will send a strong message to any public officials who fail to  prudently use public resources entrusted to them. "It is unfortunate that some people have made it a habit to put their hands in the cookie jar,” said Aden. Another resident, Mukhtar Dahir, called for prosecution of anyone suspected to have mismanaged public resources. He cautioned that such prosecutions should not be used to settle political scores. He called for a fair process in the prosecution of the Garissa governor. “I one hundred per cent support the war on corruption because when someone diverts public funds, it mean us as residents we don’t get the required services,” he said. But there are those who are  opposed to the charges saying much has been done on the ground by the governor. Zeinab Mohamed, woman leader, wondered which funds were alleged to have been diverted when it was clear the monies were prudently utilized. “I am finding it absurd that the DPP can come up with such wild claims of finance misappropriation and yet we can all see what has been done on the ground. My fellow mothers and sisters will soon have a modern market which was among the projects, lined up for implementation with the funds,” she said. Shabbel Abdi, another resident, regretted that the matter has all over sudden been politicised with the governors detractors already calling him names even before the case is heard. “Despite there being clear evidence of the projects physically being in place, the investigating authorities have gone ahead with a predetermined decision to level accusations of misappropriation against the Governor and the county officials. the truth will however come out,” said Abdi. Governor Korane and his four co-accused have been directed to present themselves at EACC headquarters at Integrity Centre Nairobi on Monday, September 14, at 6 am.