ODM on Thursday claimed a plot is afoot to scuttle the impeachment of Migori Governor Okoth Obado and said MCAs were being bribed and intimidated to keep him in office. ODM chairman John Mbadi said county executives, a section of MCAs, suppliers and contractors are raising money to bribe MCAs and finance violence in the county. He told a Nairobi news conference Obado is the party's only governor who has been barred from his office over graft allegations. He denies the charges of siphoning Sh73 million county funds. Speaking at party headquarters, Mbadie said ODM will forward to police the names of businessmen and Migori officials the party believes are trying to bribe and intimidate MCAs against impeaching Obado. ODM has called for his impeachment, saying that to allow Obado to remain in office would impeach the party's own anti-corruption credentials and zero-tolerance policy. “Those CECs, directors, suppliers, contractors and county assembly officials are currently holed up in Nairobi, Kisumu and Migori. As soon as we forward those names, we will expect the police to act with speed to arrest the individuals so law and order can be maintained and justice is not subverted in Migori,” Mbadi said. Mbadi, who is also the Minority leader in the National Assembly, called on the national government to provide security to the Migori MCAs whom he claimed were facing intimidation and blackmail from Obado. Considering the weighty charges facing Obado, his term is no longer tenable, Mbadi said. As of Thursday evening, 27 MCAs out of 40 have signed an impeachment motion, he said. ODM has 4o MCAs. "We assure ODM MCAs who have signed the petition to remove Obado that ODM will stand with them fully against attempts by the governor to intimidate and blackmail them. What Obado is doing in Migori is simply to visit terror on the people and he has done it for far too long,” he said. The chairman added, “And he now thinks he can visit terror on the party leadership. I want to tell him, he is mistaken. He cannot visit terror on everybody. Obado is trying to divert and seek sympathy from the public. The very party he has been accused of stealing from.” Mbadi said ODM decided to impeach Obado after the court ruled he cannot set foot in his office until the corruption case facing him and his four children is cleared. The Suba South MP said that earlier when Obado was charged with murdering his pregnant girlfriend, Sharon Otieno, the party did not talk about impeachment because the court did not bar him from office. This time, however, the circumstances are different and the party is calling on Obado to resign or face impeachment, he said. “The process is on, numbers are going to be there. We only need 19 MCAs to initiate the process. Those who even insisted in signing before we told them to are already 27. Others want to sign. The governor should be honourable enough and vacate the office and allow his deputy to discharge his functions for the reminder of the term,” he added. Mbadi cautioned county residents against being used to defend the governor, saying the Sh73.4 million in question could have paid school fees for thousands of students. “In seeking to have the governor impeached, ODM is simply trying to ensure Migori residents get the services they deserve and pay for," Mbadi said. "The party enjoys public goodwill because it has always stood against corruption." Despite the court barring him from office, Obado is planning a Cabinet meeting on Friday, which would interfere with the court order, he said. Not setting foot in the office is not simply about the building, he said, it is about not transacting any county business. He is barred from the office so he does not interfere with evidence or intimidate witnesses, ODM said. “If he is not accessing the building but still allowed to wield power and authority over the county executive officers and other officers, can he interfere with investigations? He will use the same officers to interfere," Mbadi said. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said Obado was the first ODM governor to be ordered not to set foot in his office. “So don’t ask why we have not done the same for other governors who are facing graft allegations. As a party, we have a say on public officers sponsored by ODM. You cannot be given a ticket and when elected, you become a law unto yourself," Sifuna said. (Edited by V. Graham)