The 2019 National Super League 'Golden Boot' second runner up Stephen Onyango is anticipating to get a new home in the top flight ahead of the new season. Onyango was rendered a free agent in April after the first case of coronavirus was reported in the country. The lanky striker revealed that after being axed by KCB in January, he returned to Fortune Sacco who beat Nairobi City Stars and Nairobi Stima to his signature. He says he did not sign a contract with the Kirinyaga-based Fortune Sacco whom he hailed for handing him the platform which has moulded him to the player he is today. The soft-spoken goal poacher said the purge at the Ruaraka-based KCB  punctured his long term dream of breaking the 14-year old Kenyan Premier League goal-scoring record held by Boniface Ambani as well as get his first call up to Harambee Stars. However, Onyango who is currently earning a living from his grocery business in Githurai, says he is keen to return to the top flight and prove a point having failed to sparkle at KCB. "It is my dream to get a club which plies its trade in the top flight. "Although I haven't received any offer. I believe my previous record in the NSL will earn me a contract with one of the clubs. "When KCB dropped me in January,  Fortune requested me to rejoin them but they did not give me a contract. "I couldn't turn them down as I believed I would settle and regain my confidence and goal scoring instincts fast than City Stars and Stima. "They also promised to offer me bonuses and allowances which were keeping me afloat until football was suspended ," he said. Meanwhile,Onyango said there is no bad blood between him and KCB despite the break up which he described as painful. The forward says he was unfairly overlooked at KCB despite working hard in training and in test matches. "I was frustrated after failing to break into the KCB's first team despite working hard in training. I trained hard and in line with instructions from the technical bench but the coach would turn a blind eye on me during match days," he added. They eventually dropped me in January, saying I was surplus to requirement but I harbour no hard feelings towards them," he added.