@magatinews Security agencies in Nyanza have been ordered to step up the drive to stem escalating cases of gender-based violence in the Nyanza region. County security officials have been instructed to act fast and decisively on all cases reported to their stations. Regional police commissioner Lydia Ligami on Thursday said they are monitoring all cases closely to ensure justice for victims. “We have been monitoring the situation keenly and it is time we acted firmly and decisively to end this vice,” she said. Ligami spoke in Kisii on her maiden tour of the area since she was moved to Kisumu from the Western region a fortnight ago following a reshuffle. She also told the police to end the trade in illicit brews. “There is no way we are going to allow brewers to have their way. I have already instructed police chiefs to be vigilant and act. We will see more prosecutions soon,” Ligami told journalists at Ufanisi Resorts after a meeting with police chiefs from Kisii and Nyamira. Her warning came two days after Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the government will sack police officers and chiefs who fail to act on "hooligans engaging in domestic violence". The CS spoke on Monday at a funeral in Tombe, Nyamira. He said rising cases of defilement and domestic violence paint a bad image of the country. He instructed county commissioners countrywide to initiate the sacking of any lax administrators who compromise the law even as the incidents proliferate in their areas. “I want to see heads roll. If there is a chief in your locality allowing this vice to proliferate without taking action, I think the best thing is to relieve him of his duties so we can have competent personnel to do the work,” Matiang'i said. In Kisii, Marani and Sameta subcounties are among areas with high defilement cases in the country. Defilement and incest in the region have risen to alarming rates, with most young mothers finding it hard to access economic and educational opportunities. Already, police officers in Marani are hunting for a cleric who defiled a mentally ill girl on Wednesday evening. The pastor went into hiding after he got wind of the hunt. In Bobasi, police are also looking for a teacher who has been defiling his niece, a Form 2 student at a local secondary. Ligami said such cases will be pursued fast to their logical conclusion. Her meeting was attended by, among others, Governor James Ongwae and new county commissioner Abdirasack Jaldesa. Ongwae said the county will continue partnering with the national government to ensure success in the implementation of development programmes. Meanwhile, the family of an eight-year-old boy who was allegedly knocked down by a Kisii county vehicle on Monday in Nyatieko area have appealed for assistance to have him treated. Hellen Moraa said her son was selling avocados at a local market alongside his 11-year-old brother when a speeding county vehicle rammed into him. She said they had not taken the injured boy to hospital because they did not have any money to cater for it. The vehicle had enforcement officers who were deployed to control riots by residents protesting the siting of a waste management plant in the area.