Media personality Anita Nderu has once again become the topic of discussion on Twitter after she made remarks about her not wanting her kids to go through what she has gone through for being and LGBTQ+. "I hope my kids never have to go through what I have gone through for being LGBTQ+," she tweeted. Well, her tweet has sparked a rather intense conversation on twitter with many questioning her sexuality while others questioned her decision to post such kind of information on social media. One user, George advised her, "Just teach them that everything they choose to become in life has a good and ugly side (consequences) attached to it, if for example, you choose to be a leader, there those who will bully & criticize you and there those who will adore you in equal measures. Life ain't a straight line. Another one questioned her sexuality and said, "Manzi mganii hukufyeka Anita?? Come out now and tell the truth tujue nani hukula hii mali safi. John Mungai defended her by saying, "No one should be judged or accused of his or her sexual orientation.... Everyone has a right to what h/she thinks is right. Festus asked her how she plans to have kids,"How will you get children or via adoption?" "I'm curious how you would explain to those kids how they have 2 mommies and that it is okay," another tweet read. Jack tweeted, "Kumbe madem pia siku hizi wakiwa warembo wanajoin bendera community. Anyway, love and light, more kids and blessings together amigo." Jephron went ahead to comment,"Don't have them kids and they will never experience the same." Here are some other tweets; This is not the first time Anita has become a trending topic based on her views about the LGBTQ community. In one of her episodes on YouTube, she hosted two members of the LGBTQ community and the comments were not so kind. In a previous interview with Radio Jambo, she said she will not apologise for hosting members of the LGBTQ community on her cooking show, 'The overdressed cook'. The video, which was meant for viewers over the age of 18, caught the attention of many, which led to her trending for days. Speaking to Massawe on Radio Jambo, Anita said she respects people's opinions but she will not apologise. She said she has always been open about different things happening around, and so this being pride month, she decided to invite some of her friends on the show. On whether she is a member of the LGBTQ, Anita said that is private. "When I'm ready to share, I will," she said, adding she will have another episode on the same.