Virtual learning and plans for resumption of studies in public universities could be thrown into disarray if lecturers begin a scheduled strike next Tuesday. The strike will be in solidarity with lecturers and academic staff at the University of Nairobi College of Health Sciences, according to University Academic Staff Union (Uasu). has issued a seven-day strike notice in solidarity . The college staff have withdrawn their services to protest the University of Nairobi's decision to withhold Sh200,000 allowance for professors and Sh172,000 for the lowest ranking medical tutor. Clinical allowance is earned and paid to university medics offering clinical service to the public. It is offered to medical tutors to guide medical students in hands-on clinical sessions. UoN Vice-Chancellor Stephen Kiama on Friday said the institution would not pay the contested allowances as some medical lecturers had abandoned their work at Kenyatta National Hospital for their private clinics. "I have been in contact with the CEO and he has informed me that some of the medical lecturers do not show up at Kenyatta Hospital, which is the referral hospital for the university," Kiama told the Star. The VC said the institution is willing to pay the allowances if the attendance is proved. He said that 119 lecturers who had been reporting to work would receive their allowances. "My only dispute with them is that they are seeking allowances for services they have not been offering... We don't want to produce half-baked graduates on account that they did not receive the required clinical guidance," he said. Uasu, while issuing the seven-day strike notice on Tuesday, termed the move troubling and ill-informed. Secretary-general Constantine Wasonga said the list with 119 lecturers has doctors who died a long time ago and some who left service but excludes those at work. “While the academic staff respects KNH as an important partner in the training of doctors, we consider it unlawful and mischievous for our employer, the University of Nairobi, to stop payments based on an unverified list from KNH,” Wasonga said. The union says that doctors who work round the clock at KNH wards have been left out of the list. Cardiologists, internists, neurologists have been omitted, according to the unionist. “Doctors whose services do not necessarily require going to the wards such as the pathologists have been excluded; and so have virologists, microbiologists, haematologists among others. Dentists and pharmacists have not been listed,” he said. Also missing from the list are doctors who offer services outside of KNH such as psychiatrists and clinical psychologists at Mathare Teaching and Referral Hospital, the union said.  