That the Church is the pillar and bulwark of truth is not in doubt. This mean that the church should always stand for what is right. Last week, a group of evangelical clerics came out to warn politicians against flouting Covid regulations by engaging in early campaigns. Personally I struggled to be attentive. My mind was clouded with images of the same clerics allowing politicians to flourish on the altar. I often wonder, had Jesus accepted money and gifts from the politicians of his time, would his impact have been the same? What strategy did Jesus employ so his mission would be self-reliant. In my view, we are slowly but surely permitting the cannibalisation of the church’s moral authority by allowing political agenda as a key component of our liturgy. It was refreshing last year when the Catholic Church banned politics on the pulpit, and encouraged electronic transfer of donations for accountability. We should make churches self-reliant otherwise soon they will be no different from CBOs. The question is, who will lead the way? All points considered, it will make sense for churches and mosques to receive donations from the state. In their very heart, they promote peace, tranquility and moral strength, a key ingredient for security and development. It is in the state’s interest to have morally upright citizens, where corruption does not flourish and return of looted funds, like Zacchaeus did, is something normal. I propose, that religious leaders acquire a minimum of a degree in theology or an equivalent, depending on their faith. Guiding the flock is not like other careers. In terms of donations, any money given to places of worship must be channeled through the organisation’s bank account for the benefit of audit. This is not to say that I do not recognise the crucial role the church plays in spiritual nourishment and development. Far from it. But if we don’t, speak, who will? We have to let go of our culture of silence. The sanctity of the Church must be preserved for posterity, we lose it we lose everything. Let me thank the churches and mosques that have taken a stand, for in their wisdom, we have room to mold our children and society. National coordinator, Iday Kenya