Migori Governor Okoth Obado's pre-trial hearing for his Sh73.4 Million corruption case failed to take off on Monday. The court was told that Obado's lawyers had not picked documents from the EACC. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said the documents are ready and the defence can collect them, adding that they should liaise with the Investigating Officer in the case. Chief Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi said the pre-trial hearing could not proceed due to the above circumstances. The case will be mentioned on October 7. Obado was last month released on a Sh8.7 million cash bail. He was barred from accessing Migori county offices until the case is concluded. Mugambi said the same conditions that applied to former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu will also apply to Obado on access to his office. Obado's children were also released on various bail amounts. Dan Okoth was granted Sh2 million bail, Scarlet Okoth Sh3 million, Jerry Okoth Sh2 million and Evelyn Okoth Sh2 million. Obado's family friend Jared Odoyo was granted Sh8.25 million cash bail and his mother Peninah Auma Sh2 million or a Sh4 million bond. The Chief Magistrate also ordered police to give all the identification cards numbers of the accused in the case to the Immigration Department who will block their departure from Kenya. Obado and his children were ordered to deposit their passports in court. The accused persons denied all the counts of graft at the Migori county government. They all denied that between October 29, 2014 and October 18, 2016 within Migori county they jointly conspired to commit an economic crime which was the unlawful acquisition of public funds totalling Sh73.4 million. The accused included Obado's children Dan Okoth, Scarlet Okoth, Jerry Okoth, Evelyn Okoth and his alleged family friend Jared Kwaga Odoyo and Kwaga’s mother Peninah Auma. Obado was separately charged with eight counts of conflict of interest. It is alleged that being the governor he held an indirect private interest in several contracts that paid money into his children's accounts. He and his son Dan were jointly charged with money laundering. They allegedly entered into an arrangement to transfer of Sh10 million for the purchase of a Land Cruiser vehicle knowing that the money was proceeds of crime.