ODM leader Raila Odinga has outlined three critical issues that Kenya has to solve to avoid a similar standoff witnessed in the Senate regarding revenue sharing formula. "We must urgently return to debating how to create fair and equal chances for every Kenyan to participate optimally in national productivity and wealth creation," he said. After months of standoff characterised by arrests, claims of intimidation, bribery, blackmail and a record 10 adjournments, senators on Friday struck a deal and voted to approve the third basis for sharing revenue among counties. In a statement on Friday, Raila said Kenya's productivity as a nation is way below the demands of our population. Raila said unless we create wealth as a nation, we will have more vicious fights as we share poverty rather than prosperity. The former premier noted that it is urgent that we all support the proposal to increase the share of revenue to counties. "In the BBI reforms, we had proposed to raise the minimum percentage of national revenue from 15 to 35 per cent," he said. "It is our hope that this proposal will receive positive considerations by the BBI team and endorsed by Kenyans." He said as a country, we must re-commit to fighting corruption adding that we must raise the standards for holding our national and county governments accountable for their use of public resources. "We must have a mechanism for punishing and getting rid of the cartels and syndicates that promote corruption," he said. "All the issues are at the centre of BBI agenda. It is my expectation that the country can now refocus on the reform agenda. The standoff must compel us to return to the basics of grown and wealth creation." All the 41 elected senators (delegations) present in the House on Friday voted unanimously to approve the formula in a session that saw factions that have been warring for months close ranks. Nairobi, Nakuru, Kiambu and Turkana will get the lion’s share of Sh370 billion set to be allocated to the counties in the next financial year. In the new formula, Nairobi will get additional Sh3.3 billion from the exchequer, to push its total allocation to Sh19.2 billion from the current Sh15.9 billion. Nakuru’s allocation will balloon to Sh13 billion from the current Sh10.4 billion, Kiambu's will be Sh11.7 billion after an additional Sh2.2 billion, while Turkana’s will be Sh12.6 billion from Sh10.5 billion. Other big gainers are Kakamega, which will get additional Sh1.9 billion, Bungoma (Sh1.7 billion), Uasin Gishu (Sh1.7 billion), Nandi (Sh1.6 billion), Kitui (Sh1.5 billion) and Kajiado (1.5 billion).