State agencies rolled over Sh53.5 billion pending bills owed to suppliers and contractors in the financial year ending June 2020. The situation smacks of defiance of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive that pending bills be made a first charge state agencies’ budgets. The amount is a slight drop from the Sh64.7 billion that state ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) rolled over last year. During last year's Madaraka Day celebrations in Narok, President Kenyatta directed state agencies to settle all pending bills without queries by the end of the year. “Pending bills have reduced overall spending and business activities in our economy,” the President said. However, state agencies are yet to settle all the bills, the dilemma being that settling the same in full would have left agencies without cash. Treasury warnings to withhold cash for entities with pending bills have not borne fruits either. Of the Sh53.5 billion; Sh19.96 billion is in respect of recurrent supplies while Sh33.54 billion was for development projects. Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang’o flagged the unsettled debts in her latest budget review report of the national government spending. At the top was the Crops department which rolled over Sh17.2 billion pending bills followed by the Defence ministry at Sh8.2 billion. Regional and Northern Corridor Development was yet to pay Sh5.9 billion by June this year, so was the Water ministry which was stuck with Sh5.4 billion. The Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) rolled over Sh3 billion pending bills – largely in legal fees and other recurrent supplies. The Correctional Services department started the financial year with Sh6.3 billion pending bills – largely historical. The department has, however, begun payments for verified bills of Sh5.3 billion and will be executed per region starting with Northeastern. The National Youth Service is also in the second phase of reviewing its Sh14 billion bills having cleared Sh6 billion in May. The Sports department was yet to pay Sh1.14 billion whereas the Broadcasting department was yet to settle Sh1.3 billion with its suppliers. Housing and Urban Development owed contractors Sh913 million whereas the ICT department was yet to settle claims of Sh827 million. Various undertakings for the Public Works department at Sh693 million were yet to be settled as of June. The Judiciary owed suppliers Sh554 million, Sh75 million in the case of the Attorney General’s office whereas the Petroleum department was yet to settle Sh438 million bills. The Foreign Affairs ministry rolled over Sh168 million; Tourism (Sh191 million); Wildlife (Sh173 million); Livestock (Sh231 million); Transport (Sh89 million); and Basic education (Sh91 million). The Transport department’s debt includes Sh40 billion pending bills accruing from the operational cost of the Standard Gauge Railway. The office of the Auditor-General crossed the year with Sh31.05 million – owing to the long period it took to recruit a substantive auditor. Lands crossed the year with Sh106 million unsettled claims; National Land Commission (Sh25.6 million); Labour ministry (Sh119 million); Immigration department (Sh69 million); Mining (Sh43 million); Culture and Heritage (Sh50 million);  Industrialisation (Sh24.6 million); and Sh10.3 million for the case of Witness Protection Agency. Those with less than Sh10 million are Public Service Commission (Sh9.3 million); Commission on Revenue Allocation (Sh6 million); National Gender and Equality Commission (Sh6 million); CAJ (Sh2.1 million); JSC (Sh1.7 million); Parties registrar (Sh2.7 million); EAC (Sh4.5 million); Youth (Sh1.2 million); Trade (Sh3.5 million); Shipping and Maritime (Sh8.7 million); ASAL (Sh6.9 million); and Universities (Sh1.4 million). Ten MDAs had not submitted information on pending bills at the time the COB finalised its report. They are the National Treasury and Planning; Infrastructure department; Environment ministry; Energy; Irrigation; Agricultural Research; Public Service departments; Parliamentary Joint Services; Parliamentary Service Commission and the National Assembly. “Therefore, the actual quantum of pending bills could be higher than Sh53.5 billion,” the Budget controller said. She directed MDAs with pending bills to ensure their payments are prioritised as the first charge in the current financial year before embarking on new development projects. In its report on the review of this year’s estimates, the Budget and Appropriations Committee recommended that non-payment of pending bills be made a crime. They deplored the situation of pending bills persisting despite the government’s’ commitment to clear the same in the last financial year. “Commitments should not be entered into if there are no funds and Treasury should endeavour to issue all funds as approved,” the Budget committee said. Edited by R.Wamochie