A GOVERNOR FROM from the Rift Valley has been tasked with the onerous and yet tedious task of wooing leaders allied to a faction of Jubilee. The governor met the leaders at a posh hotel in Westlands, Nairobi, at the weekend, promising goodies and protection from sleuths. Corridors heard that the county chief has been armed with a humongous war chest to price away vocal leaders and endear them to an aspiring politician from the region. However, those who attended the meeting grumble about the lack of charisma, candour and poise from the leader who seems aloof in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured). AN EMBATTLED BOSS of a Coast-based parastatal we have been telling you of his excesses could have bargained for another two years at the entity. The board had resolved that his term ends this month. But the man, Corridors is told, has entered into a deal with a principal secretary so they continue cooperating with a view to getting more for their governorship prospects. The fellow is keen on fighting it out with a vocal senator who is equally bidding for governorship. His partner in the collusion is also said to be eyeing the post in a Central Kenya county. SHAREHOLDERS OF A local commercial bank are questioning the long retention of a single law firm at their disposal. Corridors has learnt that the firm has been charging customers exorbitant prices for simple tasks like witnessing documents, yet other banks are way cheaper. The cry has got the attention of shareholders who are now questioning why the lawyer enjoys the monopoly and whether he shares the proceeds with some of the bank's fat cats. THE FAMILY OF a late influential politician from a pastoralist community is worried by the emergence of several children allegedly sired out of wedlock by the late leader and who are now demanding recognition and a share of the man's multimillion-shilling estate. The children have moved to court to push for their recognition after attempts through elders and close relatives hit a dead end. The politician's family is said to be angered by the embarrassment the children, who are look-alikes of the politician are causing to their late father and are out to do everything to ‘bring the nonsense to an end.’ 