Quitting tobacco use will decrease your risk of developing heart disease by 50 per cent after one year, according to the World Health Organisation and the World Heart Federation. The two agencies said in a joint statement ahead of today's (Tuesday's) World Heart Day celebrations that cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death, killing more than 17 million people every year. Out of that figure, 1.9 million people die from tobacco-induced heart disease. WHD is celebrated on September 29 to draw people’s attention to heart illness and a range of associated health issues. The commemoraton also promotes different preventive steps and changes in lifestyle to avoid cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) like heart attack, strokes and heart failure. A Kenya Stepwise survey on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) shows that these diseases contribute to over 50 per cent of inpatient admissions and 40 per cent of hospital mortality. The main types of NCDs are cardiovascular like heart attacks and stroke, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. Mortality due to CVDs in Kenya ranges from 6.1 per cent to eight per cent, while autopsy studies suggest that 13 per cent of cause-specific deaths among adults could be due to CVDs. People living with NCDs are more likely to be severely ill when infected with coronavirus alongside persons above 60 years in age. “Given the current level of evidence on tobacco and cardiovascular health and the health benefits of quitting smoking, failing to offer cessation services to patients with heart disease could be considered clinical malpractice or negligence,” Dr Eduardo Bianco said. Bianco  is the chair of the World Heart Federation Tobacco Expert Group. About 2.2 million Kenyans use tobacco products. Globally, 1.12 billion people are smokers. The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (Nacada) says that 8.6 per cent of Kenyans uses tobacco products and is largely male - 16.8 per cent compared to 2.1 per cent of females. WHO attributes nearly two million of the deaths to smoking and second-hand smoke. It also warns that high blood pressure and heart disease increase the risk of severe Covid-19. The deaths, which primarily manifest as heart attacks and strokes, are triggered by tobacco use, unhealthy diet, physical activity and the harmful use of alcohol. These in turn show up in people with raised blood pressure, elevated blood glucose and obesity. The agencies warn that smokeless tobacco is responsible for around 200,000 deaths from coronary heart disease annually, while E-cigarettes also raise blood pressure, increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease. “Tobacco and alcohol should be removed from the list of essential products this corona period. It is embarrassing for a country that is highly recognised globally as a regional pacesetter in matters health to publish such a list,” Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance chairman Joel Gitali said. Smoking in Kenya is the number one risk factor for lung cancer and is linked to more than 70 per cent of lung cancers. It also causes cancer in almost all parts of the body and cardiovascular illnesses such as heart disease and strokes. Four out five lung cancers are caused by smoking while nine out of 10 people who get lung cancer will die from the disease, usually within two years of diagnosis. More people die from smoking than from Aids, car accidents, suicide, murder, fires and other drugs combined. Tobacco kills 1,200 people daily. The Kenya Cardiac Society president Bernard Gitura at a past event emphasised the importance of continuing to seek essential health services during the Covid-19 pandemic. He urged patients with hypertension and other heart diseases to continue with the treatment routine as prescribed by their health provider. “In addition, they should not hesitate to seek health services in case of emergencies or if they develop symptoms while at home. At this time, partnerships and collaborations are key in the provision of quality healthcare services, Gitura said. NCD Alliance of Kenya member Catherine Karekezi has highlighted the urgency of sustaining public awareness campaigns and interventions to reduce risk factors and the burden of cardiovascular diseases in Kenya. “During this period where people are being encouraged to stay at home, we urge all to keep active and do regular physical activities at home,” Dr Karekezi advised. Edited by R.Wamochie