Some 10,000 smallholder maize farmers from vulnerable communities in Kiambu and Murang'a counties will receive 1,000 tonnes of fertiliser to increase their yields. Each farmer is to receive fertiliser for planting and top dressing during the season as part of Yara International food security initiative worth Sh800 million. According to Yara, the fertilisers have been tried and tested and designed to match soil nutritional needs. They are also applicable and useful to specific crops produced in the country to ensure the safety of the soils, maximum crop yield, as well as healthy crops. The initiative — Action Africa- Thriving Farms, Thriving Lives — will also involve training of farmers through digital and extension services in innovative ways of growing their food crops. During the launch of the initiative on Tuesday, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro thanked Yara, noting that farmers are key players in the agricultural value chain and constantly need support to implement sustainable practices. “As the world progresses, farmers also need to keep up with international best practice in the field of agriculture through adoption of innovative ideas that will increase the current yield," Nyoro said. He added that similar public-private partnerships are significant as they complement services offered to farmers and other players across the agriculture value chain. “I would like to encourage farmers to take advantage of this boost they are receiving, and to make sure that they farm diligently, and share the good farming tips with those around them," the county chief said. Yara East Africa Kenya country manager William Ngeno also encouraged farmers to take advantage of the initiative and increase their harvests and profits through the adoption of innovative farming. He explained the registration process that will enable farmers who registered via the USSD platform, which is hosted in Singapore, to receive digital and on-ground knowledge transfer on best agronomical practices. “Extension officers in collaboration with our Agrovets, in these counties, will be available to offer learning opportunities on how to provide food on the table and earn an extra coin from agriculture," he said. Speaking on behalf of partners in the initiative, Paul Seward, the head of extension and capacity building at the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa, noted that despite the disruption by Covid-19, the partnership will provide the needed assistance to farmers in the form of advice. It will also provide assistance in the application of the fertiliser during and post-Covid-19 period using digital platforms on which farmers can learn best practice. “Through the Action Africa initiative, we will work to strengthen operational support, manage on-the-ground operations and to provide digital enablement and personalised agronomic advice on the desired production practices across the food production value chain,” he said. Other counties set to benefit are Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Nyamira, Narok, Bomet, Trans Nzoia, Nandi, Machakos, Makueni, Kitui, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Taita Taveta and Tana River.