Fresh details have emerged indicating that the Office of Attorney General approved the controversial medical kits project that senators say was designed like a criminal enterprise. Documents in the Star’s possession reveal that former AG Githu Muigai, during whose tenure the project was initiated and executed, approved the entire project, including the appointment of legal consultants. The AG gave the Ministry of Health the approval to appoint legal consultants and permitted the then Principal Secretary to execute the contracts on behalf of the Health ministry. Equipment was leased to the counties. Deputy President William Ruto on Monday snubbed a key national Covid-19  conference where President Uhuru Kenyatta slammed the brakes on the much-awaited schools reopening. Ruto's no-show at the crucial meeting convened by his boss to chart the post-Covid way forward further increased the already-high tension in exposed high tension in the Jubilee government. The programme had indicated Ruto would invite the President to open and close the conference, evidence his attendance had been confirmed. Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga believe that Deputy President William Ruto's aggressive campaigns will be deflated when the BBI report is unveiled. The confidants have dismissed Ruto's frenzied rallies as a waste of time and resources, arguing they will be punctured by the Building Bridges Initiative. To counter the DP, a series of rallies is lined up across the country in the coming days to prepare the ground for the unveiling of the BBI report. State agencies rolled over Sh53.5 billion pending bills owed to suppliers and contractors in the financial year ending June 2020. The situation smacks of defiance of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive that pending bills be made a first charge state agencies’ budgets. The amount is a slight drop from the Sh64.7 billion that state ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) rolled over last year. Quitting tobacco use will decrease your risk of developing heart disease by 50 per cent after one year, according to the World Health Organisation and the World Heart Federation. The two agencies said in a joint statement ahead of today's (Tuesday's) World Heart Day celebrations that cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death, killing more than 17 million people every year. Out of that figure, 1.9 million people die from tobacco-induced heart disease.