The government should investigate claims of torture and other abuses of Kandara residents by Delmonte, a human rights lobby has said. Kenya Human Rights Commission executive director George Kegoro said injustices have been happening at Delmonte but the government has ignored them. “It is sad to see that these atrocities are still taking place and the government seems reluctant to address the matter,” Kegoro said. He said the government had delayed giving residents of Kandara their share of land currently under lease by Delmonte. During a press conference in Nairobi, Julia Wangui narrated how her husband failed to return home last year, only for her to learn from two of his friends that he had been killed. “My husband was stabbed to death. He was in the company of his two friends when they were arrested by askaris guarding the farm for trespassing. The two escaped but my husband did not manage. His body was found in a sack, in one of the pineapple fields,” Julia said. Millicent Wakiharu said she inhaled a cleaning chemical while she worked at Delmonte. Her body started swelling and she has become disabled. “I cannot wash, cook or do any other thing on my own. I am totally dependent on other people,” she said. The company's land lease expires this year and renewal has been blocked by several parties that want part of the land to be ceded to the community. The National Lands Commission on March 1 last year recommended a participatory survey to allow 5,000 residents of Kandara get their land. Kegoro said that up to date, the survey has not been conducted and there is no communication from NLC. “The cries of Kandara residents have not been heard and they have continued to be denied what rightfully belongs to them,” he said. Kandara Residents Association chairman PMG Kamau said that the government has abandoned them. There has been no communication from the Lands ministry, even after writing to PS Nicholas Muraguri asking him hasten the process. “We have written many letters but he has never responded to any. We even sent him WhatsApp messages but we only see blue ticks,” Kamau said. He said it is sad that a foreign company mistreats Kenyans in their own country yet the government fails to intervene. “We have witnessed the killings of our relatives, friends and neighbours. We have gone to courts by nothing has been done yet,” Kamau said. He said that it is crucial for the National Assembly to demand accountability from Delmonte.