Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has criticised the ongoing Kemsa probe by the National Assembly Health Committee, saying it will not lead to the indictment of key suspects involved in the theft. Sudi said, “Wale wanaoongoza Health Committee kule Bungeni ni among wale ambao wamehusika. Msiongoje eti kuna ripoti itatoka Bungeni ama kutoka kwa Senate, nataka kuwahakikishia Wakenya mapema ndio wasitarajie yoyote (The people in the Health committee are involved and there will be no report from them, Kenyans should not to expect much from them).” While addressing the media at his home in Kapseret on Friday, Sudi alleged some legislators have supplied materials to Kemsa using different names and companies. The MP added that the ongoing probe is a way of tricking Kenyans. "Haya yote yanayofanywa ni sarakasi tu. Mtaona watu watakaoshikwa kwa haya maneno ya Kemsa. Watakua watu wachache sana ama hata wakose kushikwa (The ongoing investigations are only a mere game that will lead to no arrest or if so, few people will be arrested)." Sudi has also challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to lead in fighting corruption by condemning his close allies such as Jubilee Party vice-chair David Murathe. "Investigate these close people to you and you will understand why am saying this... Murathe is their ring-leader," Sudi added. According to preliminary investigations, Murathe is a bank signatory of Kilig Limited, a firm he has publicly disowned on prime time news. The company — only registered on January 22 and not among the pre-qualified firms at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority — was hand-picked and awarded a lucrative Sh4 billion tender for the supply of 450,000 personal protective equipment at Sh9,000 each. Sudi’s comments come as both Houses continue to uncover the people behind the Kemsa scandal that has caused uproar across the country. “As Jubilee leaders, we are asking you the president to keenly follow the ongoing Kemsa scandal but your cousins and nephews should be taken to the court.” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and his PS Susan Mochache appeared before the National Assembly Health Committee on Wednesday to answer their involvement in the Kemsa procurement process. Suspended Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari had earlier claimed that he was pressured by top Health Ministry officials to procure Covid-19 supplies. Manjari alleged Kagwe and PS Susan Mochache made direct contact with him to influence the procurement of the items. Kagwe dismissed the claims, saying that it was not his job to tell anyone to commit a crime. "…It is, however, not my job to tell anybody to commit any crime...... And in the event that I told a CEO to do something that is against the law, the normal thing to do in government is to say - give me what you're telling me in writing," he said. But he noted that part of his job was to coordinate with other agencies to ensure that they serve Kenyans better. Manjari later changed tune, saying he was not pressured by anyone during procurement.