Fresh details have emerged indicating that the Office of Attorney General approved the controversial medical kits project that senators say was designed like a criminal enterprise. Documents in the Star’s possession reveal that former AG Githu Muigai, during whose tenure the project was initiated and executed, approved the entire project, including the appointment of legal consultants. The AG gave the Ministry of Health the approval to appoint legal consultants and permitted the then Principal Secretary to execute the contracts on behalf of the Health ministry. Equipment was leased to the counties. The ex-AG, in a series of letters seen by the Star, gave the Managed Equipment Services (MES) project a clean bill of health, saying it was above board. Githu also approved the appointment of Iseme, Kamau and Muema (IKM) Advocates by the Health ministry to provide legal services in relation to the contracts. “I hereby confirm that the Principal Secretary, MoH, Kenya is duly authorised to execute documents for and on behalf of the MoH,” reads a letter by the AG addressed to five international firms contracted to supply the equipment. The companies were Bellco SrL, which supplied renal equipment and dialysis machines for Sh2.3 billion; Esteem Industries Inc that delivered CSSD (Central Sterile Services Department) and surgical equipment for Sh8.8 billion; and General Electronics East Africa Services Limited which provided digital X-ray, ultrasound and other imaging equipment for Sh24 billion. The others were Shenzen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronic Co-Ltd that supplied theatre equipment for Sh4.6 billion and Philips Medical Equipment that delivered ICU equipment for Sh3.6 billion. The five contractors were the original manufacturers of the medical equipment. They supplied, installed and managed the equipment. The AG also okayed the PS to execute any other documents necessary or desirable to exchange and complete the MES project. “We also confirm that the MoH has corporate power to enter into and perform its obligations set out in the MES contracts,” reads the letter dated February 5 this year. In another letter dated July 10, 2015, the AG confirmed clearing the approval of IKM to provide legal services in relation to the MES contracts. “With approval of my office, the firm of IKM Advocates was appointed to provide legal services in relation to the contracts for the provision of medical equipment and related services to be entered into between the Government of Kenya through the Ministry of Health and [the five international suppliers],” Githu said in the letter. The documents emerged amid outrage over a damning report released by a Senate committee that investigated the programme. The report says that the MoH officials and all those involved in the project conceptualised and implemented it in a manner that violated the Constitution and the sacred principals under which it was originally conceived. The report shows the officials manipulated procurement laws, varied contracts and bulldozed counties into accepting the equipment without proper consultation between the two levels of government. The senators invited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to probe those charged with executing the programme. “The committee has established that the entire procurement process in the MES project from conceptualisation to its implementation is shrouded in secrecy and smells of irregularities and illegalities,” the report reads. Ironically, in the Senate report, the lawmakers observed that the MoH illegally procured the services of IKM through direct procurement without the authority of the AG. “IKM Advocates were identified by the MoH and engaged as the legal transaction advisers even before the Attorney General gave the clearance at a contract sum of Sh56.5 million as required by Section 17 of the Office of the Attorney General Act, 2015,” the report reads. It adds, “The Committee opines that the request by the MoH to the AG was just but a decoy and used to ratify a decision that the MoH had already taken to determine which legal advisers it wanted to work with.” The Committee observed that the direct procurement of IKM Advocates contravened section 74 (3) of the PPDA 2005 [now repealed], as the procurement of the MES equipment was not so urgent as to render competitive procurement methods for legal advisory services impractical. “The EACC and other investigatory and prosecution agencies are also urged to investigate the process of procuring the legal consultants who advised the MoH in the entire conceptualisation and implementation process,” the committee recommended. In the letters, Githu said that IKM had confirmed to his office in a letter dated June 12, 2015, that the MES contracts were in a form that reflected instructions from the MoH and outcome of the negotiations with each of the contractors and that the obligations expressed in the transaction documents constituted legal, valid and binding obligations. He ascertained IKM’s position, saying that his office had also independently reviewed the MES contracts and confirmed that the obligations of the government expressed in the transaction documents constituted legal, valid and binding obligations. The AG also expressed his satisfaction with the letters of support issued to various contractors by the government. “We have reviewed the draft GoK Letter of Support availed to us by the MoH and noted that they requires certain amendments to ensure that they accord with the PFM Act and in particular that the letters do not impose financial guarantee. “It is my opinion that the letters of support as amended and enclosed herein are in a satisfactory form for execution by the National Treasury. “Arising from the above, my office hereby clears the MES contracts as well as the GoK Letter of Support as modified,” the letter reads. Last week, IKM disputed the committee’s observations particularly on its appointments and the advice it provided the ministry. In a letter to the Senate, the firm dismissed the committee’s observations that its services were illegally procured by the MoH. Through lawyer Paul Muite, the firm explained that it was not only listed in the panel of law firms prequalified by the AG, but had express authority of the AG to provide the advice. “The Public Procurement and Disposal Act allowed entities to identify qualified persons from a prequalified list held by another public entity, by virtue of Section 32 of the PPDA (now repealed),” Muite said. “The AG has in numerous correspondence reiterated that he approved the appointment of the law firm including in the letter dated July 10, 2015,” Muite's letter reads. Concerning the direct procurement of the firm by the MoH, the senior counsel explained that Section 74 (3) of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act allows the procuring entity to use direct procurement when there is urgent need for goods, works or services. He cited a letter dated July 31, 2014, to the then AG by the MoH that listed the urgency to roll out the MES project, thus warranting direct procurement of the legal and financial consultants. “The advice given by the law firm on the issue was based on its interpretation of the law. The law firm did not tell the MoH what to do, but merely advised on what the law at the time stipulated. As a matter of fact, the law firm provided MoH with at least three options that it could consider,” the letter reads. (Edited by V. Graham)