The government will recruit 5,000 additional police officers in November after two years of dashed hopes for thousands of youths keen on joining the service. However, the number is still a far cry from the 10,000 the state has been hiring in past years, save for 2018 and 2019. The National Police Service Commission, the statutory body mandated to employ police officers, will hold a crucial meeting on Thursday to approve the recruitment. The commission is expected to set the minimum requirements for prospective recruits and appoint officers to supervise the exercise. Some 150 professional cadets will also be hired, as well as 250 civilian staff to be deployed to support police operations. For the cadets, the Star has established, half of the recruits will be absorbed from among those already in service and have acquired higher academic qualifications. The rest will then be hired from successful applicants seeking to join the police service and having university degrees. The police force has been facing an acute staff shortage as there has been no recruitment in the last two years. It is estimated about 3,000 police officers had left the service in three years. The NPSC meeting on Thursday will approve recruitment guidelines and instruments. “You are invited to attend a full commission meeting on Thursday, October 1, at 7am at Skypark Building, Westlands, 4th floor boardroom,” the invitation to commissioners reads. The NPSC is expected to publish the recruitment calendar by mid-October, to pave the way for the exercise in November. The invitation letters are signed by NPSC chief executive officer Joseph Onyango, who is also the commission secretary. The meeting will be attended by Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and his two deputies Noor Gabow (Administration Police Service) and Edward Mbugua (National Police Service). All other NPSC commissioners have also been invited. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has also been invited to the crucial meeting that comes at a time when of disquiet within the service over NPSC's promotion criteria. Police officers who have gone to class and earned degrees have complained of being sidelined in promotions. The 'silent' requirement that a constable must have enlisted in the service as a graduate has angered many officers who see it as a move to stifle career growth. The meeting is expected to streamline  promotion guidelines and instruments that would gradually promote officers with degrees. The meeting will also for the first time give the NPSC approval to hire civilian staff to support police operations countrywide. There is a general requirement that for every police officer recruited there has to be a five per cent corresponding civilian staff to support police services. These are positions such as clerks, secretaries, payroll officers, among others deployed to various places such as Vigilance House, Jogoo House, DCI headquarters and in police stations. The commission will also endorse the roadmap of the planned activities to generate the recruitment calendar and approve the promotions for vacant ranks. In April, the government appeared to have scrapped any police recruitment within this financial year after massive budget cuts to fund the war on Covid-19. (Edited by V. Graham)