Ford Kenya has expelled a nominated Busia MCA and an official accused of going against the party. The party's Busia chairman Emmanuel Osore said on Sunday the expulsion took effect on September 13 and the two will not be expected to conduct any political activities on behalf of the party. Those expelled are MCA Cynthia Mutere and county secretary Chris Barasa. The two are allied to a party faction led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wamunyinyi is currently at loggerheads with Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who himself was ousted in May. “We can’t work with defiant people,” Osore told a press conference in Busia town on Sunday. He added, “We have met and discussed with officials from the seven subcounties of Busia and agreed that they be expelled.” The resolution on their removal was reached at a meeting in Busia town after officials were ejected by police from a hotel in Amerikwai. Officers led by Busia police station boss Julius Ling’ole said the conveners of the meeting did not notify law enforcers of the event as required. Ling’ole also said the attendees had not adhered to Covid-19 rules as stipulated by the Health ministry. Mutere had in an earlier interview told the Star the party would be wrong to expel her without giving her a chance to defend herself before the disciplinary committee. “They said they wrote to me to face the disciplinary committee but I have never received that letter. It was never sent to me and I never received it. Things don’t work that way,” Mutere said. She maintained that Ford-K leader is Wamunyinyi and Watang'ula’s action of threatening her expulsion was only a circus. The Sunday meeting also resolved to reconstitute the Busia county executive line-up in which Barasa was replaced by John Orengu. Bunyala North MCA Fred Musirimba is the new deputy decretary. Ford-K county trustee Ojiambo Mbanda said the party will not entertain members who do not toe its line. “We have met and agreed that Chris Barasa be expelled. Mutere is also expelled and is no longer with us. She is no longer a party delegate,” Mbanda said. Musirimba said the party would push for a political arrangement in which Wetang'ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi closely work together for the 2022 General Election. “We are fully in support of Moses Wetang'ula and as Ford Kenya's Busia county chapter, we will continue to support the political union between Wetang'ula and Mudavadi,” he said.  Edited by P.O