Carrefour is set to open three new stores in the nation’s second-largest city, Mombasa. The franchise, operated in Kenya by Majid Al Futtaim, is set to support the city’s local suppliers following the Covid-19 pandemic. The store openings will mark the supermarket’s commitment to investing in the Kenyan economy while expanding consumer choice. In a statement released on Tuesday, the retailer said the first two stores will officially open their doors and welcome customers in November at City Mall Nyali with the new outlet spanning 2,150 sqm, and Diani Centre Point Plaza with this store spanning 1,800 sqm. “The opening of the three stores in Mombasa underscores our ambitious growth and expansion plans in Kenya. "It honours our commitment to offering great customer experiences locally; doing so by bringing a wide assortment of products — at the best value within a modern, state of the art environment — to more Kenyans and communities across the country," Country Manager of Carrefour Kenya Franck Moreau said. The Nyali store will house a home-made bakery section alongside a wide assortment of non-food and electronic products. It will also feature a two-floored Carrefour Diani. The stores will stock over 20,000 food and non-food items each, all under one roof for the convenience and ease of Mombasa residents. A third store will also be launched as part of the development of Shanzu Mall — which will be completed by 2023. The opening of the stores comes at a time when other supermarkets are closing down branches. Last month, Tuskys Supermarket located at United Mall in Kisumu was closed over rent arrears worth millions. The retail shop owed the landlord Sh26 million according to an auctioneer familiar with the matter. Other small shops which are sublet by Tuskys were also affected. In April, Shoprite announced plans to close its supermarket at Waterfront Mall, leaving 100 without jobs, in a month's time. Shoprite HR Manager Carolyne Walubengo through a letter,  notified the Kenyan Union of Commercial Food and Allied Workers of the planned closure inviting them for a consultative meeting.