Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has called for higher pay for maize deliveries to enable farmers to cope with the tough economic conditions brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing the press at Parliament Buildings on Tuesday, Murkomen said the Sh2,500 per 90kg bag that the government wants to pay maize farmers will only plunge them into losses since the cost of production has been high, advocating, instead, for a sum of Sh3,500 per 90kg bag of maize. “It seems discriminatory that while the government is rolling out intervention measures to revive other sectors of the economy, farmers are being asked to accept a paltry Sh2,500, despite the high cost of production. “When the government directed that that maize be bought at Sh2,500, who was this order directed to, considering it has stopped NCPB from purchasing the maize from farmers in the first place? Supposing this order was directed at private business entities like maize millers, what law would it be anchored on?” he questioned. Murkomen called on the government to reinstate NCPB as the maize purchasing, drying and storage institution, settle the amounts owed to farmers for deliveries made to NCPB three years ago, and avail subsidized farm inputs to farmers. “Even as the government addresses the non-payment for the deliveries farmers made to NCPB three years ago, it must ensure that thee payments are made inclusive of interest computed using current bank rates from the time they delivered their maize,” he stated. The former Senate Majority leader further urged the government to convene a national conference to address the crisis that has befallen the agricultural sector, and channel a path that will lead to food security. He challenged leaders from the North Rift to firmly defend the interests of farmers and ensure they get increased returns from their toil. “It is shameful for leaders from maize growing regions to be part of this PR exercise being propagated by the government through Ministry of Agriculture to hoodwink our farmers who look up to us for redemption from the tentacles of poverty. “I challenge the government to desist from playing games with farmers through the perpetuation of lies and deception; the government must instead get serious and address real issues that have condemned our farmers to a state of hopelessness. Only then will we make Kenya a food-secure nation,” noted the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator.