The government closed schools following the outbreak of the coronavirus in March and the number of reported  teenage pregnancies have soared. The reports alarmed Peris Wangari, a 24-year-old first-year student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. She began thinking of how she can help mentor teenage girls so they can evade early pregnancies. Wangari came up with the 'Save The Teenage Girl' programme to reach out to vulnerable schoolgirls. On Wednesday, she shared life skills with teenage girls at Kangari Catholic Church in Kigumo constituency. Wangari said many Kenyans overlooked the pandemic’s impact on children and young adults. The clinical medicine student said she plans to incorporate boys in her initiative, as many fall into the trap of drug abuse. “Our aim is to ensure boys and girls understand their reproductive health and the need to keep off activities that may land them in trouble,” she said. Besides mentoring girls, her programme also provides them with sanitary towels and underpants. She has already distributed sanitary towels to hundreds of girls in Kiambu county. Prof Joseph Kweri, a lecturer at the university, said when Wangari approached him with the idea, he saw an opportunity to help youngsters and an avenue for university students to take up their role in society. “Universities should take the lead in solving societal issues but there has been a missing link,” he added. Wanjiku Karanja, an official of the Catholic Diocese of Murang’a, has formed teams to map out issues affecting teenagers. The diocese, she said, has discovered that lack of sanitary towels is one of the main contributors to teenage pregnancies. “Our churches are now open and any girl can come in for help in both Murang’a and Kirinyaga counties that are covered by the diocese. We are also ready to partner with other churches and well-wishers to make people’s lives better,” she said. Kigumo University Students Association chairperson Esther Wanjiru urged varsity students to help mentor teenagers. Edited by A.N