Ijara MP Sophia Noor on Tuesday urged constituents to jealously guard the security they are currently enjoying for the sake of development. Parts of her constituency such as Holugho, Ijara and Sangailu have in the past borne the brunt of al Shabaab attacks and police have been killed through IED attacks.  Communication masts have also been destroyed. Addressing a baraza in the border town of Hulugho, Sophia said wananchi have a very big say in matters security, noting that statistics had shown that in areas where the security officers and the locals fully cooperate by sharing information cases of insecurity are unheard of. The MP who later donated car washing machines to youth groups in the area and  Sh10 million to women's groups said security and development go hand in hand. She called on parents to at all times watch over their children lest they find themselves in bad company. Sophia also launched a Sh94 milion rural electrification programme. The line connection has started from Hulugho KenGen station to Sangailu and Galmagala division. On the teacher crisis, the  Ijara MP said the entire political leadership from Garissa county will refine the recommendations before presenting them to the parliamentary Education committee. She was referring to a meeting that was held in Garissa town on Monday which was sponsored by the board of management and parents association. The meeting brought together political leaders and officials from the Kenya Secondary Heads Association (Kesha) and Kenya Primary Schools Associations (Kepha). It came up with a memorandum that will be presented to the Ministry of Education and the TSC on staffing levels, among other challenges. She said that the seven legislators from Garissa together with Senator Yussuf Haji and Woman Representative Anab Gure will team up and push for affirmative action to ensure that education in the region receives the necessary attention from the government. "We want the document to have legal backing. Going to court will take time and may not resolve our problems,” Sophia said. Sophia who in February, at height of the mass transfers by TSC, stormed the offices of the teachers' employer, ordered all staff out and locked them out. She said in her constituency there was a shortage of more than 500 teachers in both primary and secondary schools. The MP was accompanied by the deputy county commissioner Kibet Boen, subcounty administrator Abdullahi Yerrow and area MCA Adow Mohamed among other leaders. Edited by Henry Makori 