Former Nzoia Sugar head coach Collins Omondi has hinted at returning to the touchline in the new season after seven months in the cold. Omondi, who is christened as Korea left the sugar millers in March after a largely disappointing run in the league but he is certain of marching back to active coaching if the offers coming his way are anything to go by. The former Kariobangi Sharks' assistant coach revealed that two National Super League clubs and a renowned football academy, which he declined to name, were jostling for his signature. Omondi said it was just a matter of time before making up his mind on which club he will join but appeared uninterested in taking up the job offered by the academy. "There are two NSL clubs and an academy who have tabled bids but I haven't decided which offer I will take although I feel I should be either in the top flight or the second tier. "I have served as an assistant coach at Mathare, Nairobi Stima and Sharks and later advanced to head coach after joining Nzoia at the start of last season. "The experience, which I have gained through the years, is enough for me be an head coach rather than an assistant," he said Omondi disclosed that the experience gained from managing Nzoia had prepared  him to cope with the pressure from fans and management hence is looking forward to manage a new outfit in the new season. He said the financial challenges at Nzoia had taught him how to handle the never unending challenges in Kenyan football including working with players who are not motivated to grind out results. "I learn't a lot during my stay at Nzoia. I can now handle the pressure when good results are not coming forth and the one from fans and management. I now know what it means to be the head coach and the responsibilities which come with the title. I helped the club retain their top flight status despite the financial hiccups and I am ready for work anywhere now so long as I will be in charge. Being an upcoming gaffer, I am ready to gamble once again by going for the top job," added the Korogocho Youth coach.