Nairobi county’s affordable housing project is taking shape, raising residents' hopes of owning a home. Phase One of the project which is ongoing, intends to use 12.5 acres in Pangani to build houses, a major development in low-cost housing in Nairobi. As site visit by the Star established that construction workers are on site. A perimeter wall has been set up, keeping the construction works away from the public and to give the workers an easy time with the project. In the project, old estates are transformed to optimise land use, improve their aesthetic appeal and providing basic amenities in accordance with the Urban Regeneration Policy. As highlighted by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service Housing director Charles Sikuku, Block One already has two level basements and is currently at second floor, out of the planned 17 storeys. “Block Two, which is now at its foundation level, and the other blocks ( Three, Four and Five) are at excavation." So far, the relocation of sewers has been completed. As explained by NMS, the houses are designed to promote sustainable neighbourhoods, which is a mix of affordable and market housing. Sixty per cent of the affordable units will be cost between Sh1-3 million. “There will be sufficient water supply storage in two level basements and basement parking in the courtyard with playgrounds on top,” Sikuku said. Project consultant Saili Malonza noted that lifts will be installed in all the apartments to accommodate any handicapped tenants. The official groundbreaking of Pangani Estate was meant to happen in August 2018 but was postponed to December when President Uhuru Kenyatta was expected to launch it. Last year in May, each of the 48 tenants received Sh600,000 to facilitate their rent where they relocate for the next two years as groundbreaking was projected to happen last June. Despite evicting tenants in the middle of the night last year on July 16, City Hall still failed to commission the project. Lands CEC Charles Kerich had earlier said the project had delayed to kick off because the county had started it without a policy that would guide affordable housing. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic that hit Kenya in March, bureaucracy and lack of land documentation were some of the challenges encountered in implementing the project. “There was also lengthy processing of documentation and statutory approvals, relocation of existing tenants and that of services which hindered the project from kicking off,” Sikuku said. A total of 1,562 will be distributed accordingly with 952 affordable housing, consisting 128 one bedroomed apartments, 248 (two bedroomed) and 576 (three bedroomed). There are also 610 three-bedroom market housing units. As revealed by NMS, 1,000 affordable housing units are expected to be completed by December next year and the remaining will be done by May 2022. The Sh5 billion contract was awarded to Tecnofin. The 48 tenants, who were evicted, will be given first priority when the houses are completed. Each tenant will be allocated a new house for which they will pay Sh8,000 monthly for 30 years. Governor Mike Sonko emphasised that his administration will ensure all contracts awarded before the deed of transfer by the county are executed. The affordable housing programme is part of the state’s efforts to reduce the housing backlog that currently stands at two million. It is anticipated that 200,000 units will be built annually in line with the President’s Big Four agenda. Edited by R.Wamochie