Newly elected Nyamira branch FKF chairman Luthers Mokua has pledged to ensure that the men’s and women’s teams will play in the Kenya Premier League. “We currently have a women’s team in the national Division One and men’s teams in Division Two. One will play in the play off and in three years, we can have a team in the KPL,” said Mokua. Mokua, a former Wazito FC chief executive officer, added: “I have what it takes because we started Wazito from scratch to the Kenya Premier League. Nyamira has talented players who have not been given an opportunity.” He also appealed to the county government of Nyamira to complete the construction of Manga Stadium which has stalled and upgrade Kiendege and Nyamaiya playgrounds. “The county should put up a perimeter fence, changing rooms, washrooms and standard goalposts with nets. Those are minimum requirements for a stadium to host an NSL game,” he asserted. Mokua further noted that the several cases being filed at the Sports Disputes Tribunal were hurting the game. “Everybody has a right to seek justice once they feel aggrieved. However, there is need for all stakeholders to sit down and agree on the way forward,” noted Mokua who was elected for the third time. The two previous elections were nullified by the SDT. Mokua garnered 14 votes against Thomas Mayaka’s one vote. Others elected were Vincent Nyasani (secretary), David Kireki (treasurer), Harriet Kemunto (women Representative) David Maseti (youth representative). In Kisii, newly elected chairman Jezreel Mbegera pledged to make Kisii a soccer power house. “I will work with primary and secondary schools because we want to nurture footballers while they are still young,” said Mbegera. Mbegera asked the county government of Kisii  to improve playing fields across the county. He said under his leadership, there will be fairness in giving training opportunities for coaches and referees. Mbegera was elected chairman after flooring former Nyanza South chairman Yobes Mose. Mbegera had 10 votes against Mose’s six. Others elected were Evans Mageka (secretary), James Ayienda (treasurer), Florence Nyamute (Women Representative) and Lameck Ongoro (Youth reprehensive). In Kisumu County, former Nyanza North secretary Dick Oruko was elected as chairman. He polled 36 votes against Muhoroni Youth chairman Moses Adagala who had five votes. Others who were elected were Seth Oduor (secretary), George Ouma (treasurer), Benta Owuor (women representative) and Calvin Ogalo (youth representative).