Top flight side Kariobangi Sharks have secured the signature of former Nairobi Stima winger Douglas Mokaya for the next four years. Mokaya was in Stima's books last season but was rendered club-less alongside his teammates after the Kenya Power and Lighting Company parted ways with the club in July. Western Stima and National Super League side Coast Stima were also affected by the parastatal's decision to end the partnership. Sharks are understood to have opted for the diminutive winger who prior to joining Stima featured for Bidco United as a replacement for Harrison Mwendwa who left for AFC Leopards. Sharks' chairman Robert Maoga said the player is expected to compete for playing time with the other wingers including national U-23 Emerging Stars' James Mazembe, Patrick Ngunyi and national U-20, Rising Stars player Patrick Otieno. "We have signed Mokaya on a four-year contract. He is an intelligent player whom we feel will add more fireworks to our flanks and help us achieve our objectives," he said. Besides capturing Mokaya, who was a transfer target for Leopards last year, Maoga revealed that they had resigned Vincent Odongo in a bid to strengthen their midfield. He said the experienced midfielder who has also featured for Gor Mahia and Western Stima is likely to fill in the void left by Sven Yidah who joined league returnees Nairobi City Stars. "We have brought Odongo back to bring some stability in the midfield. He has been in the league for long and understands our philosophy well. We expect him to also guide the young turks in the team. The club is also looking to promote one of our players from the youth team," he added. In the meantime, Maoga disclosed his plan to complete business by bringing a defender, preferably a centre half. The club parted ways with two of their defenders; Amani Kyata and Michael Bodo who have since joined Namungo and Sofapaka respectively. "We are almost done with business but I feel we need a defender who is comfortable with both feet and posses aerial prowess. We have identified targets whom we are in discussions with and hopefully, he will have joined by the time the government lifts the ban on sporting activities," he added.