Covid-19 deaths in Kenya are unlikely to exceed 1,000 by December, the Ministry of Health has said in a revised projection. The ministry and the Kenya Medical Research Institute-Wellcome Trust say the disease already peaked in July in Nairobi and Mombasa. "Our analysis suggest the disease burden in Kenya may be far less than initially feared," they say in a new study. “We expect that by the end of December, less than 1,000 deaths in Kenya will be cumulatively attributed to Covid-19.” They have no scientific explanation for the low numbers. In July, MoH had directed the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to procure 100,000 body bags, in preparation for a 'worst-case scenario'. The worst case scenario projected that 450,000 people would be infected with Covid-19, with 45,000 deaths before the curve completely flattens. The current study is co-authored by Kemri epidemiologist-statistician John Ojal alongside 25 other scientists and bureaucrats including acting Health Director General Patrick Amoth, and Health CASs Mercy Mwangangi and Rashid Aman. Nearly all Covid-19 models around the world are still constrained by limited knowledge of the virus, whose many biological features of transmission are hard to measure and remain unknown. Projections of all these models are constantly changing as new evidence becomes available. Microbiologist Patrisio Njiru says Covid-19 was never as serious as it was being portrayed "and there was a deliberate misinterpretation of severity data". Njiru says the projected deaths from Covid-19 were erroneously inflated 10 times. "Someone used Case Fatality Rate. This is the number of people suffering serious symptoms, who are probably ill enough to be in hospital. Clearly, people who are seriously ill – the “cases” – are going to have a higher mortality rate than those who are infected, many of whom don’t have symptoms," he explains. He says projections applying Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) are more accurate. "IFR means the total number of people who are infected with a disease and the number of them who die. This figure includes those who have no symptoms at all, or only very mild symptoms – those who stayed at home, coughed a bit and watched outbreak. Which means that the CFR will always be far higher than the IFR." Njiru, a lecturer at Technical University of Kenya and former Embu Agriculture CEC, says with influenza, the CFR is always around 10 times as high as the IFR. He says the low deaths in Kenya cannot be fully explained by measures such as lockdowns, social distancing and washing hands. "We have controls. Sweden and Tanzania did not lock down but Sweden has had a death rate of 0.0058 per cent. Are ICUs and hospitals in Tanzania full?" In the new modelling study, Kemri and MoH suggest about 40 per cent of the urban population has already been exposed to the virus. "It seems likely that a significant factor in the epidemic resolving is through population immunity," they say. Early June, USIU-Africa statistician Samuel Karoki faulted the model used by experts to calculate the case fatality rates, to justify a continued lockdown at that time. He said Kenya's models were based on the disease pattern in the United States and Europe. “You cannot compare a model meant for, say, America and apply it to the Kenya situation – unless the two populations have similar characteristics with respect to the virus,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie