The Directorate of Criminal Investigations wants Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala charged with giving false information about an alleged plot to assassinate him. But Malala says an independent investigative agency should take up the matter because the DCI cannot investigate itself since it was the accused entity. DCI boss George Kinoti told a joint committee of the Senate on Wednesday that the allegations by Malala were "untrue, malicious and ill-intended". Kinoti told the Justice and Legal Affairs and the Security committees that the morale and reputation of DCI officers had been injured by the claims. “Malala should have verified and established the authenticity of the information before engaging the DCI and giving it to the committee,” Kinoti said. But Malala told the Star he gave the DCI all the information as he received it because he had no capacity to verify the details. “I demand an independent adjudication. This matter should not be handled by the same people I am accusing,” he said. Kinoti said the senators’ lawyer Charles Malalah, who authored the letter to the Inspector General of Police and DCI should apologise in print and electronic media. The lawyer said he was not going to apologise and is ready to meet Kinoti in court. “Apologise for what? We had specific instructions from the senator to address the threat to his life. We did that professionally and competently. The DCI must stop sideshows,” the lawyer said. Kinoti told the committee the names of the alleged hit squad do not exist except for one, David Ingutia Kutekha who is not a DCI officer. He said Kutekha is a regular police officer based in Thika and attached to Kenya Power. “The Eaton Hotel in Thika, executive lounge at DCI do not exist. CCTV footage from the hotels where meetings were [allegedly] held did not show anything,” Kinoti said. Kinoti, who was with Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai further said the claims had traumatised officers. Malala’s lawyer wondered why Kinoti would say his officers have been distressed by the allegations if those mentioned are non-existent. “How could he say that there is no Eaton Hotel in Thika? If the officers don't exist, how come they are depressed and demoralised? Give us a break! There will be no apology to nobody,” he said. The senator said he did not have the means to verify information he presented to the police. “He talked about me giving them the plate numbers and not the chassis number of the vehicle hit men had been given. How would he have got the chassis number? How was I to verify CCTV footage or arms movement register,” he asked. The chair of the joint committee Yusuf Haji said Malala would not apologise to the DCI since the information he gave to the Senate was privileged. “You have done your work. Let us not look at each other as enemies,” he said. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei thanked the DCI for confirming that Malala did not stage-manage his arrest on August 17. On September 14, Malala broke down as he narrated to the two Senate committees how five police officers had allegedly been assigned to eliminate him. Malala said the five officers were from the DCI and named them as sergeant Kiprop, Benedict B, Adanus Chemtai, David Kutekha and Sylvanos Njeru. “They were given a Subaru Forester green in colour and then gave themselves code name Bravo Zulu Yankee,” he said. In August, Malala alleged his life was in danger following his stand on the revenue sharing formula. The senator stood with counties that would experience funding cuts even though Kakamega would have gained under the formula. 