As pressure mounts on President Uhuru Kenyatta to act on Chief Justice David Maraga’s advisory calling for the dissolution of Parliament, ODM leader Raila Odinga's allies have turned the heat on the CJ. The lawmakers publicly bashed the president of the Supreme Court and asked him to retire as the Parliamentary Service Commission announced it would move to court to challenge Maraga's call for the dissolution of Parliament. PSC chair Justin Muturi, who is also the Speaker of the National Assembly, termed the advisory over failure of Parliament to effect the two-thirds gender rule “ill-advised, premature and unconstitutional. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has asked Foreign Affairs ministry staff operating illegal bank accounts abroad to comply with the law or face legal action. The anti-graft agency says 191 employees of the ministry are operating illegal bank accounts outside the country. In a letter to the Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau, EACC gave the officers up to end of October to comply with the law. A 'second force' is shaping up in Deputy President William Ruto’s home turf - Rift Valley - ahead of the 2022 general election. A team of leaders opposed to the DP are working on a new line up to offer alternative leadership they say is 'issue-based and pro-people'. On Tuesday  Chama Cha Mashinani party leader Isaac Rutto, who has hosted two high-level meetings at his Bomet county home, confirmed that 'like-minded leaders' have been meeting to chart the best way forward to address issues afflicting the Kalenjin community. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has hit the 2022 campaign trail, announcing an aggressive charm offensive to consolidate his Ukambani vote block and make forays into the Coast. Kalonzo now joins Deputy President William Ruto and ODM chief Raila Odinga, who have embarked on serious campaigns two years ahead of the general elections. Ruto has been crisscrossing the country and addressing crowds on his hustler movement in his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. A fresh supremacy battle has erupted between the Senate and the National Assembly over Bills. Senators are protesting against the rejection of at least 13 of their Bills by members of the National Assembly, rekindling the bad blood that exists in the bicameral House. The lawmakers lamented the rate at which their proposed laws are being ‘killed’ in the other House on grounds that they are money Bills.