Guaranty Trust Bank is an international banking group operating in ten markets in Africa and the UK. The Bank’s business model is informed by its strong commitment to build sustainable businesses in all the markets that it operates, in order to consistently create long-term value and wealth for shareholders and customers. Working closely with all stakeholders the Bank has managed to create a platform that facilitates efficiency in service delivery, impeccable customer service and responsiveness to customer needs. GTBank is committed and determined to continue providing world class banking products and services in all the markets in which it operates, further ensuring that their customers’ unique business needs are addressed. In a bid to re-strategize its operations and continue to offer excellent and efficient services, Guaranty Trust Bank (Kenya) Limited has extended the Bank’s footprint by opening a branch in Nakuru. The new branch will complement the services rendered by the Bank in other towns across the country. The branch, located at Polo Center, Kenyatta Avenue, Nakuru town, was officially opened by the Managing Director, in an event attended by customers and members of staff. In recognition of this move, GTBank Kenya’s Managing Director, Mr. Olabayo Veracruz, speaking at the launch, reiterated that the branch was opened in response to customer feedback. Mr. Veracruz highlighted the growing need for additional banking services targeting both current and prospective customers in the region while remaining cognizant of convenience, alternative banking channels and accessibility to financial services as key factors in achieving service excellence. He further confirmed that opening the branch was a strategic move which will act as a gateway to tap into the vast investment opportunities found in the region. Opening of the new branch epitomizes the Bank’s growth strategy of spreading its footprint to various regions in the country, bringing accessibility of the Bank’s niche products and services to its customers. The new branch brings the total number of branches in Kenya to 9, making an addition to the other branches in Nairobi, Nanyuki, Mombasa and Thika. GTBank takes pride in having been recognized and awarded numerously for being at the forefront of providing excellent customer service and all customers can be assured of the same experience across all its branches. Excellent customer experience is complemented by the state of the art e-banking channels that the Bank has made huge investments in, to ensure customer satisfaction. Head, Communication & External Affairs, GTBank