Delegates should be allowed to vote in person and not through virtual technology, Nairobi National Executive Committee member candidate Tom Alila has urged. However, Alila implored the Football Kenya Federation Electoral Board to ensure that the delegates adhere to all Covid-19  safety directives while taking part in the national polls, slated for October 17. “There are only 86 delegates who will take part in the process. I believe, while observing all the safety and health protocols by the government, they can converge at a place like Moi Stadium, Kasarani and proceed with their mandate,” remarked Alila. Meanwhile, the former Nyanza NEC member, who will be up against Michael Ouma and Isaac Macharia, castigated a section of aspirants who labelled him and others as projects. “They should keep off the electoral process. We are candidates and they are aspirants. The train left the station long ago and they did not board,” scoffed Alila. FKF presidential candidates Lordvick Aduda and Dan Mule also dismissed those criticising their move to file their nomination papers. Aduda is one of the four presidential candidates who filed their nomination papers before the close of Monday’s deadline. The former FKF secretary general has also confirmed that he will withdraw from a joint case filed that has been filed to contest the process. “I hear some people are claiming that I have been bought. That is laughable because when we were working together with them, they did not see anything wrong with me. The fact is I am determined to go all the way and this time I will not be pushing anyone, if I win very well, if I lose, I’ll live with it,” said Aduda. “We cannot continue the grandstanding yet our clubs are supposed to get back to the field and play.  Furthermore, the rule that was locking out others has been lifted and if anyone is really serious about contesting, there is nothing stopping them,” he said. “I will withdraw from the case at the Sports Disputes Tribunal and maybe just be enjoined as an observer as my status has changed. That is the the reasonable thing to do now.” Former AFC Leopards chairman Mule also hit our at some candidates who have threatened not to take part in the exercise claiming it is biased. “The biggest hurdle has been removed and anyone who is serious should take part. We cannot have people complaining about everything and anything,” he said. “If someone cannot get a clearance from the bank or the police, then they should just say instead of bringing up none issues.”