Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has expressed dissatisfaction with the slow rate of implementation of a project in Uasin Gishu county. The CS minced no words in telling James Macharia of Machiri Contractors that she was not impressed with the progress of the Sh1.3 billion Kipkaren dam whose progress stands at a paltry 12 per cent with a time-lapse of 68 per cent. Speaking on Wednesday while on an inspection tour of the project, the CS said Kipkaren dam had historical reasons that delayed it but the challenges had been unlocked. She directed the contractor to ensure the project is implemented within the timelines that were renegotiated. The CS said her ministry would have a problem varying the timelines of the critical project considering that money was not an issue. She read the riot act to contractors delaying government projects with the hope of getting time extension. “We have seen projects being delayed because contractors have got the luxury of thinking they will get time extended. I want to tell them that time is up. I will not shy away from telling contractors implementing government projects that it was their obligation to ensure projects were completed on time so that Kenyans can benefit,” she said. The CS promised to keep close tabs on progress of the project and asked the contractor to devise strategies to ensure he recovers the lost time. The project is a national government investment in Uasin Gishu. Sicily asked the leadership of Uasin Gishu and Nandi counties to support the project that will immensely benefit their population. When completed, the water project will serve more than 200,000 residents in the two counties. Some of the estates that will benefit in Eldoret include Langas, Elgon View, Kipkaren and Kapseret. The project commenced last year and is expected to be completed by next March. Kariuki was accompanied by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Water PS Joseph Irungu, Rift Valley Water Services CEO Hosea Wendot and the incoming Uasin Gishu county commissioner Stephen Kihara. Edited by Henry Makori