The management of imprest at Mbagathi Hospital has exposed simmering differences between the health facility's top two officers. The point of departure between medical superintendent Loise Mutai and health administrative officer (HAO) Geoffrey Mosiria is specifically about who should sign warrants of imprest. On July 29, the board of management questioned, via a letter, why Mosiria signed imprests without the permission of the superintendent. “In the just-concluded full board meeting on July 27, members noted with concern that almost all imprest warrants were signed by the HAO. The regulations require that the medical superintendent, who is the hospital accounting officer, be responsible for the signing of imprest warrants,” the letter by Mutai on behalf of the board stated. The board said: “The medical superintendent may, however, periodically delegate this responsibility to the HAO. You (Mosiria) are expected to adhere to this regulation to maintain order and accountability in imprest expenditure.” The letter was was addressed to the HAO and copied to board chairman George Osewe. Mosiria responded on July 30  concerned that the HAO office was unable to discharge its duties as holders of supporting services offices reported directly to Mutai. He wanted a clarification on Mutai's statement on the delegation of the responsibility to sign imprest to the HAO. Mutai penned another letter last Monday (August 31), accusing the HAO of "gross misconduct and insubordination". Mosiria, she said, subjected the office of the medical superintendent to total insubordination, harassment and threats, "conduct utterly unacceptable" by the hospital. “The latest in your series of misconduct was on August 28, during an EEC (executive expenditure meeting) where criteria for revenue allocation to merchants were being discussed,” the hospital boss wrote. Mosiria, who was in March transferred to Mbagathi from Pumwani Maternity Hospital where he was also the HAO, is expected to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against him. The response should have reached Mutai two days ago (Wednesday) before noon. The Nairobi County Operational Manual for Management of Facility Improvement Fund of June 2016 identifies medical superintendents as the mandatory signatories and HAOs as alternative signatories. Mosiria told the Star that he had not received any letter from the superintendent concerning his conduct. He denied the issues raised on imprests and accused the management of wanting to deny him the right to sign the warrants. “The law is clear on who is to handle the imprests. I don’t get it why the superintendent wants to control everything," he said. Meanwhile, Mbagathi nurses representative Boaz Onchari has accused Mosiria of authoring an anonymous letter tainting the image of nurses. Onchari, who is also the chairperson of the Nairobi branch of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, questioned why the HAO was using past complaints to settle personal issues with the superintendent. The August 17 letter by an "anonymous nurse" addressed to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services accused the superintendent of mistreatment. “At the moment, nurses at Mbagathi, who I represent do not have any issue with the superintendent or management. The issues we raised in June were all addressed at a meeting with Dr Mutai,” he said. When contacted for comment, Mutai directed the Star to Onchari, who accused Mosiria of misusing nurses to settle his personal issues with the superintendent. Onchari said after investigations, they discovered it was the HAO who wrote the anonymous letter. “We are aware that he was the one who wrote a letter impersonating an anonymous nurse. No issue has been brought before pertaining to Dr Mutai. As nurses, we are here to work for the city residents and don’t want to be caught in supremacy battles," Onchari said. Mosiria denied the allegation and instead accused the hospital’s management of "profiling" him.  - mwaniki fm