Uasin Gishu ward reps have asked the ethics agency to investigate alleged misuse and irregularities in the disbursement of more than Sh750 million bursaries funds. The MCAs passed a motion by minority leader Ramadhan Ali to allow the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission to investigate the kitty operated by Governor Jackson Mandago's administration. Ali and nominated MCA Leah Malot said the Auditor General had queried irregularities in the use of the money allocated during the 2017-2018 financial year. “We have realised that the bursaries in our wards were not given out as per the law and the accounting officers did not give us proper reports on how the money was used,” said Malot who tabled the motion on behalf of Ali. She said there had been double allocation of funds. Many students who benefited from the county bursary kitty also got money from the CDF for the same purpose while many needy cases were ignored, she said. Ali who chairs the assembly Public Accounts and Investments committee said residents had complained over the irregularities in the issuance of the bursaries every year. The MCAs also want officers disciplined for audit queries by the office of the Auditor General. “Those who may have messed up with money should be punished because it's meant to benefit the poor,” Ali said. Ngenyilel MCA David Singoei said although many people were scared at the mention of the EACC, it was one of the agencies mandated to ensure good use of public funds and resources. “The EACC will look into the matter and where they find faults then action will be taken against those involved but they will also help the county government to strengthen its systems for prudent use of such public resources,” Singoei said. Deputy speaker Hosea Korir asked the committee to also recommend the adoption of modern technology to weed out double allocation. Korir said with a modern system in place, problems like double allocation would easily be detected. “We need to go the technology way so that we ensure ease in management of public funds and other resources and be able to quickly detect any challenges before things are messed up,” Korir said.