Although the world may have several approved Covid-19 vaccines by early next year, most Kenyans will be unable access them until 2022, legal experts have warned. They say rich countries have already purchased in advance all the doses many manufacturers can possibly make in one year. The countries have already pre-ordered more than three billion doses through secretly-signed advance purchase agreements. An analysis co-authored by Kenyan human rights lawyer Allan Maleche and published in the Lancet Journal warns such hoarding will create shortages in poor countries. "Governments that do not have the financial resources to purchase vaccines at comparable prices or engage in commercial negotiations are at risk of not having access to vaccines when they first become available and of having access delays while manufacturing capacity is fulfilled first by wealthy countries’ orders," the authors say. Maleche is a board member of the Global Fund — representing developing countries' NGOs. He is also the executive director of the Kenya Legal and Ethical Issues Network on HIV and AIDS (Kelin), a local nonprofit firm. APAs are legally binding contracts whereby one party, such as a government, commits to purchase from a manufacturer a specific number of doses of a potential vaccine even before it is developed or approved. Such governments get the first access once the vaccine is approved, leaving poorer nations to miss out or be forced to wait years. "Such bilateral legal agreements are likely to contribute to inequities and potentially extend the (Covid-19) pandemic's time frame," the report says. It is co-authored by Alexandra Phelan, Mark Eccleston-Turner, Michelle Rourke, and Chenguang Wang. Kenya is betting on an international effort to secure supplies through a joint fund called the Covax facility, spearheaded by Gavi and the World Health Organization. Covax aims to secure two billion vaccine doses in advance, with one billion to be shared by 92 developing countries and the other billion going to 75 wealthier countries. However, only key groups like health workers will get this vaccine next year. Health CAS Rashid Aman said they have also allowed the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to conduct Phase III trial of their candidate in Kenya, hoping they will reserve some doses for Kenya if it is successful. "The importance of being part of the clinical trials is that we stand a better chance when the vaccine is available for use, we stand in a better chance of being assured that we can get certain doses of that vaccine. We will continue to pursue that angle," he said. "The protocol has been approved and recruitment is going to get started very soon." The Oxford University-AstraZeneca will recruit about 400 Kenyans for their study. The manufacturer has publicly announced that it is able to make 2.9 billion doses until the end of 2021, but 2.4 billion doses have already been bought in advance by the US, Europe, the UK, Japan, Brazil, the Covax Facility and a few other purchasers. In total, wealthy countries have already signed deals to secure 3.7 billion doses from western drug-makers, according to a report last week. Edited by R.Wamochie