Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at politicians who criticise him over his tours and magnanimity, saying he will not stop. "I don't know what the problem is with some people. I really sympathise with them. When I call people to my home, they have a problem, when I go to church, they have a problem, when I give donations, they have a problem. When I give motorcycles, they have a problem," he said. Ruto went on,"If you have a problem, you will have it for a long time because I am not about to stop and I'm not about to go anywhere." He spoke on Friday during a meeting he convened at his Sugoi home with Trans Nzoia County MCAs from Jubilee, Ford Kenya and ANC. The DP went on to tell his detractors to think of ideas to implement to attract citizens rather than criticising him. "When I donate a motorcycle, give someone else a car.... don't be a perennial complainer... you are the king of complaints... when you're defeated, you complain, when in government, you complain... I have been raised by God so I can bless others and I'm not going back." Ruto's archrival and ODM leader Raila Odinga and his allies have often criticised the DP over his donations, questioning the source of the funds. In April, Raila told Ruto to take his money to the poor, following the suspension of church gatherings with the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. This week, Raila warned Ruto against taking the country to war after allies of the went personal with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his family. On Tuesday, Raila led top political leaders, including ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, in condemning 'drums of war' which they said are being beaten by reckless politicians. “We have gone to war in 1992, 1997 and 2007 and nobody should try to take this country to war again because of politics,” Raila said at a press conference at his Capitol Hill office. He went on: “We believe that this country deserves peace and unity now more than ever, war cries and beating drums of war will not work.” While Raila did not directly mention Ruto, his key ally who spoke after him was blunt. “Deputy President Ruto must stop threatening people with violence. He should not think he has the monopoly over violence,” said Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, a Raila confidant. Emurua Dikir MP Johanna Ng’eno and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi launched scathing attacks on the Kenyatta family, including ex-First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta, triggering a political storm.