A political bigwig from Western Kenya is said to be considering following former Raila Odinga aide Eliud Owalo and joining the 'Hustler movement' of Deputy President William Ruto (pictured). A little bird tells Corridors of Power the seasoned politician has been attending secret meetings convened by Ruto's think tank. He also has been seen with politicians who only a while ago were among Ruto's fiercest critics but changed their tune and ditched their various parties altogether. It is understood the politician, also one time a critic of the Deputy President, has been promised a plum position if he jumps ship and Ruto wins in 2022. A governor from Rift Valley is so beholden to a political stalwart that after he 'unthinkingly'  supported a colossal figure in the region at a function attended by MCAs, he later made a flurry of calls to an MP allied to the politician and apologised profusely. The now-meek and subdued county chief stunned MCAs in the company of the MP who was rewarded with a committee chair after the recent Jubilee purge. He had expressed remorse for making statements in support of the rival leader. The governor was recently outed for two-timing the two political leaders. He will soon become a stranger in his own home as the ground increasingly becomes hostile because of his double-dealings. Two political buddies who are playing crucial roles in their separate parties have of late fallen out and are no longer on speaking terms. The two politicos who had announced moving together in one direction in 2022 no longer accompany each other to political events as they used to. A mole tells Corridors of Power the falling out has everything to do with the push to back one of the established politicians in the country for the top seat. One of them has been secretly holding meetings with the new suitor and it is just a matter of time before he comes out publicly to announce his new marriage. A prominent businessman is headed for a clash with the residents of an estate in Mombasa over a housing project in the area. Residents are said to be collecting signatures and planning thereafter to head to the courts to stop the project, which is expected to result in the demolition of a number of houses. They claim there was not sufficient public participation, denying them  a platform to air their views on the project. They said those who have attended the meetings were not from the area and therefore did not represent them. The tycoon is, however, said to be insisting that the project would go on