Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has sent his heartfelt condolences to the family of former world marathon record-holder Paul Tergat who lost his mother. "I extend my deepest condolences to the family of my friend Dr. @paul_tergat over the loss of his dear mother Mama Esther Toyoi Kipkuna. It is a difficult and painful feeling to lose a mother and no amount of words can comfort you enough in this moment of grief," Joho tweeted. He added that he prays to the Almighty to assuage his grief and also for her soul to rest in eternal peace. Sports CS Amina Mohamed also condoled with Tergat's family, describing Mama Esther Toyoi Kipkuna, loving mother to Kenya’s Global Athletic Icon. It is with deep sorrow that I have learnt of the passing of Mama Esther Toyoi Kipkuna, loving mother to Kenya’s Global Athletic Icon Paul Tergat. She was a caring, selfless and kind mother who raised Dr.Paul and all of her children with great counsel and careful direction," she said. She added, "On my own behalf, that of @moscakenya, @CASnoor, @JoeOkudo @PS_Heritage and in solidarity with the entire sporting fraternity, I pray that the Almighty God grants Dr Paul Tergat and the entire family of the late Mama Esther Toyoi Kipkuna the fortitude to bear this loss." The late Esther Toyoi Tergat was taken ill last Sunday and admitted to Mediheal Hospital in Nakuru, where doctors had tried to save her life before she lost the battle. NOC-K Acting Secretary-General, Francis Mutuku, while sending a message of condolence, termed her death as a big loss to the family especially coming only days after Tergat had also lost his mother in law. “It’s with a heavy heart that we announce the sudden passing on of Mrs. Esther Toyoi Tergat, the mother to our President, Paul Tergat.” “As a National Olympic Committee, we join our President and his family in mourning the loss of such an icon in the family, coming so soon after the loss of his mother in law. We stand in solidarity together with him as he griefs and send our own condolences and those of the entire Olympic and sports family in this Nation,” Mutuku said.