FAILURE BY POLITICAL leaders from Kilifi county to attend ODM leader Raila Odinga’s (pictured) meetings at the Coast last week has attracted the party's attention.  Word has it that power players in the party have not taken the matter lightly and are considering the next course of action. Corridors understands the party hierarchy embarked on a blame game, pointing fingers at a senior official for failing to mobilise and for his patronising attitude. People are said to be worried about dark clouds hanging over the shilling and waning trust. Could this be a sign of departure from their traditional party? *** A REGIONAL POLICE commander has become a thorn in the flesh of junior officers. Reason? The man described as arrogant and boastful is said to have ordered all junior officers to don the new blue uniforms by end of this week, or else they be disciplined. The junior officers wonder why such a rush order was issued, though they have not been issued the new uniforms. And it's not just the uniforms order that has troubled the junior officers. The commander recently ordered the arrest of a senior officer and raised the matter on a radio call as he appeared to celebrate. There's a bitter falling out and juniors wish Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai would step in. *** A POLITICAL ANALYST who has been roving around TV and FM stations got the short end of the stick after his bid to stake out for a political maverick was bluntly rejected. The analyst, who has been spewing jaundiced opinions on his fledgling social media platforms, was given the boot due to his flip-flopping, waffling and money-oriented escapades. Things could become thick as most media houses have given him a blackout following an excruciating interview during prime time news that exposed his mental deficiencies. *** THEY SAY YOU can run but you cannot hide. Well, one 'clever' MCA from a county in South Rift, who has been on the run for the last eight years, is now on the radar of sleuths from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission.  The MCA, who is serving his second term, submitted fake academic certificates and was cleared to run in both the 2013 and 2017 elections. Our mole in the EACC has whispered to Corridors that investigations have been finalised and detectives who have been following up intend to strike at any time. The mole, who is privy to the development, said the file that had been marked as 'pending' was reopened after two petitioners wrote to the commission. They sought to have the lawmaker investigated and surcharged for the taxpayers' money he spent. 