Kenya's Covid-19 containment measures should remain in place until an apparent decline in infections is verified, the WHO has said. The agency said in a statement on Wednesday additional data and further in-depth analyses are required to verify the reported decline since mid-August. The WHO rejected reports that its statement issued on August 31 was in contradiction with the government. In that statement, the WHO had told Kenyan authorities the apparent decline in new cases cannot be taken as an outright indication of a flattening of the Covid-19 curve. “A section of the media has portrayed the statement by WHO Kenya on August 31 regarding the declining numbers of Covid-19 cases as challenging the Government of Kenya. This is incorrect,” the statement reads. “As stated by the Ministry of Health, it remains uncertain if this indicates the peak of the disease has already passed.  As President [Uhuru Kenyatta] stated, this inflection point is the most dangerous, as the curve can either flatten and de-escalate or take an upward surge.” The President in his address during the virtual meeting with the Council of Governors said Kenya is beginning to flatten the curve. WHO Kenya instead commended the government for being transparent as evidenced from daily briefings. “We do not believe the authorities are 'masking the numbers' as portrayed by the media, but that they have been quite open in sharing the available data on Covid-19 cases, deaths and laboratory testing,” the agency said. The WHO in its initial statement had faulted the government for low testing capacity and weak contact tracing, only covering about 20 per cent of the total confirmed cases. The Health ministry has said several times that because of established community transmission in hotspot counties, contact tracing is an exercise in futility. In its latest statement, WHO acknowledged that the difficulties in conducting widespread laboratory testing have been openly discussed in Kenya and said all countries are facing such difficulties during the pandemic. Because of its lack of testing kits and reagents, the ministry recently has changed its testing strategy to focus on vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and those with underlying conditions. Initially the country was aggressive in contact tracing but with community transmission, some reports indicate that more than 50 per cent of contacts are yet to be traced. Earlier, the ministry's director general, Dr Patrick Amoth, had said flattening the curve will vary from county to county as the pandemic is not evolving uniformly. Kiambu county, for example, has overtaken Mombasa in number of cases. He said the difference in transmission trends means what works in one county might not work for another. With thorough contact tracing, isolation and case management, it's easier to stamp out transmission, he said. Amoth added, “Going forward, it will not be a one size fit all." (Edited by V. Graham)