A former circumciser of girls in Garissa will receive Sh100,000 to start a business after surrendering her tools of trade to the government. Galina Gurre (not her real name) from Yumata location handed in her FGM tools to Youth and Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh during a meeting with stakeholders in Garissa town. The tools included knives, scissors, scalpels, pieces of glass and razor blades. "I vow to be an anti-FGM champion in my locality and will work closely with government agencies in sensitising other cutters to realise the harmful effects that are caused by the cut," Gurre said. Female genital mutilation has been outlawed, with President Uhuru Kenyatta setting 2022 as the target year to end the practice. Shebesh thanked the former cutter for leading the way and being a good example to other women who are still practising FGM. "I urge other women from this county to down their tools before the law catches up with them. Uwezo Fund officers should also provide Sh100,000 to Ms Gurre as startup capital for an alternative livelihood," Shebesh said. The CAS has been holding dialogues in FGM hotspot counties in an effort to encourage those practising the cut to abandon it.  Shebesh warned chiefs and their assistants against failure to deliver on the Presidential directive of ending FGM by 2022. "Your days are numbered and the law will catch up with you. Stop thinking that this is a joke, this is a presidential directive and it has to be implemented. If you find it difficult then let's find someone who will do the job to replace you,” Shebesh said. Ijara MP Sofia Abdi called on cultural and religious leaders to work with the government to ensure FGM is eradicated. Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi said they will do everything possible to ensure the "vice becomes a thing of the past". In 2011, Kenya passed a law prohibiting FGM and imposing tough penalties on perpetrators and those abetting the practice. According to Equality Now, the law not only bans the practice in Kenya but also prohibits cross-border FGM and bars medical caregivers from carrying out the practice. "In addition, the law holds that consent cannot be cited as an excuse for conducting FGM," Equality Now says. "Since this legislation was passed, the country has witnessed a decline in the number of girls who are cut, with law enforcers and other duty bearers working to end this practice." Kenya's FGM prevalence currently stands at 21 per cent having declined from 27 per cent in 2008.  Edited by P.O 