"I feigned death. I don’t know if it was God or what moved me to do it. The hippo just stood there, looking at me." These are the words of Edwin Mokuwa, the 28-year-old marathoner who was attacked and shaken by a hippo as he trained beside a river on Monday evening. Speaking from his bed at Nyahururu Referral Hospital, Mokuwa told the Star the hippo bit him and shook him up and down several times, finally letting go. Maybe the beast believed he was dead. The animal just stood there, watching what appeared to be a lifeless body, confirming the job was done. Mokuwa and his colleague Dennis Kipkosgei were training before flying to Turkey on Thursday evening to run in the Izmir Marathon on Sunday. The father of two was attacked while running along River Ewaso Nyiro in Laikipia. It was a normal run, starting at 4pm. Kipkoskei was ahead of him. At 4:30 pm, while he was running in a place in tall grass, a hippo suddenly charged at him from nowhere. He tried to flee but the hippo outran him. “It bit my left hand and chest. It continuously bit me in the same place while tossing me up and down at the same time, tearing my chest and ribs,” Mokuwa said. He was gushing blood but he played dead. He wants the government through the Kenya Wildlife Service to compensate him, as the attack ruined his chances of winning gold, or any medal, at the Izmir Marathon. His future is uncertain. “I already secured the air ticket and was to leave on Thursday. I had memories of Eliud Kipchoge running the INEOS marathon in October and I was proud to be competing in the same month. I hoped for great things. But now, all that is gone,” the runner said. He said KWS has relocated a number of hippos to Manguu Hippo Sanctuary for breeding and said, "The new hippos are the ones killing people." Mokuwa said he noticed more than 10 hippos but only one went for him while others plunged into the river. He thanked Kipkosgei and the boda boda rider who rushed him to hospital for saving his life. He was bleeding so much that he would have died without their fast action. But even as Mokuwa thanked his guardian angels, medics were pessimistic about his future on the track. “Unfortunately, due to the nature of his injuries, we highly doubt if he will continue with practice and racing," Dr Kesesi Craig said. He said Mokuwa was in and out of consciousness while he was taken to Nyahururu Referral Hospital, with multiple injuries in the axial lower and upper spine. His lungs had collapsed and his hand was broken .Surgeons inserted tubes in his lungs so they could expand and allow him to breathe “Currently he is in stable condition and able to communicate. We are going to refer him elsewhere for further orthopaedic management,” the doctor said. Mokuwa’s cousin, Tabitha Chepkurui, said the athlete is the family's sole bread winner and the government should move fast and provide compensation. Nyandarua KWS senior game warden Gabriel Kiio said wildlife attacks, especially by hippos, were on the rise, especially in Nyahururu. He said human encroachment on wildlife habitats contributed greatly to the problem. Kiio said the athlete was running along the river at a place without human settlements and he went near a spot where hippos were basking outside the water. (Edited by V. Graham)  