DPP Noordin Haji has ordered the prosecution of Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki and other county officials over a Sh34.9 million tender awarded irregularly. The tender was for the supply, installation and commissioning of a solid waste incinerator. The DPP on Friday said seven companies, many of which were associated with Njuki, put in bids for the tender. Westomaxx, which submitted fraudulent documents, won the tender. The governor is being sought alongside 16 other suspects. They include Fridah Murungi- Chief Environment Officer,  Floridah Kiende-Acting Director procurement, Highton Murithi-Finance Officer, Teresia Kagoji-Finance Officer, Arch Lee Mwenda- department of roads, Japhet Mutugi-procurement officer, Emily Nkatha-procurement officer and Mike Mwiandi -accountant. Others are Elosy Kariithi, Kenneth Mucuiya, Caroline Wambui, David Mbugua, Margaret Muthoni, Allan Murithi, Japheth Gitonga and George Miano. Haji said the fraud at the County Government was perpetuated by the county officials at the procurement department and finance department who disregarded the procurement laws and procedures. "I am satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to charge the named persons with various criminal offences," Haji said. Haji said the project was procured without an environmental impact assessment. He said an incinerator was imported at Sh3.8 million and an audit trail of money paid to Westomaxx showed it was wired to Japhet Gitonga, Kenneth Mucuiya, Caroline Wambui and Kenstar Electrical and Hardware Ltd. The statement comes after Lari MP Jonah Mburu Mwangi was earlier on arrested following over embezzlement of Sh 27 million from the kitty. He was arrested alongside Funds Accounts manager Ayaan Mahadhi, Peter Mwangi the chair Lari, Francis Gachoka, Paul Mucheru and Grace Macharia. "I am therefore satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to support charges against the following individuals," Haji said. Haji said they should be charged with conflict of interest, abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an offence of companies, dealing with suspect property, acting without authorisation. Haji said the MP and Lari CDF officials in conflict of interest received public funds from businesses that traded with Lari CDF.