You can’t sleep well if peoples’ tears and curses are upon you. These are the words of DCI George Kinoti published on the DCI magazine released on Friday. Kinoti noted that for him to be able to investigate cases that have led to the loss of public funds he has had to be guided by the true spirit behind their title DCI - Dedication, Care and Integrity. "I believe hell begins right here on earth, all actions have consequences and there is absolutely no honour in being a thief!" he said. "I see this job as God’s test. I believe that God is watching to see whether I will do good to my fellow human beings who look up to me for protection and security as a police officer." He said that he has always encouraged his team to do things that they will never regret later in life. "I also encourage them to draw lessons from their retired colleagues. Those who did this job with integrity are happy and those who went astray like taking bribes are not happy in retirement," he said. Noting that people should not cause pain to others, Kinoti said that he is a product of philanthropy. "Do not cause pain to people. Bring them relief instead. Seek blessings as investigators," he said. "Invest in peace of mind. Doing wrong as an investigator will always haunt you.I am a product of philanthropy. I am a product of goodwill." Kinoti said as a child he benefitted from caring and kind people. "Good people stepped in to educate me. I was greatly inspired by missionaries and their desire to serve humanity," he said. "They not only served as priests but also as engineers, teachers, doctors and masons. We account to God at the end of the day." The DCI noted that to improve efficiency, they have set a maximum period of investigation for each case at three months. "Our team is capable of unravelling cases and we have already proved a lot can be achieved in less than 90 days," he said. "The culture of condemning investigations as shoddy is actually one of the most unfortunate barriers to justice in our country." Kinoti said he does not tire in asking his officers to be genuine in their commitment against evil. "...and avoid blood money at all costs because the money soon turns into tears money," he said. "Never cause a member of the public to shed tears. The weak always say ‘I leave it to God’ and that can be a very powerful curse because God fights for the weak. Chungana sana na chozi la mnyonge!" In the magazine, Kinoti says that he is still in a move to bring to book the culprits who have squandered money through scams and corrupt deals involving some Sh30 billion in key state departments. The key departments that the DCI boss is focusing on are the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, National Youth Service (NYS), Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC), National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), NHIF and the Ministry of Lands. Kinoti says that the sustained war against graft and its successes has been fully backed by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has been on the forefront in ensuring beneficiaries of graft spoils face the law. DCI boss said that he already has a list of individuals waiting for the arrest once the investigations which are in various stages of prosecution are completed.