The Health ministry has pledged to put in place strategies to increase funding towards immunisation services in the country. This comes amid concerns from health stakeholders that even though the government has been improving on immunisation, there is need for increased sustained domestic financing. This is based on the fact that Kenya is a middle-income country and that donor support is, therefore, expected to decrease. Kenya has heavily been dependent on the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi) to run the immunisation programmes. Partners organised a National Health Civil Society forum on Friday to discuss the status of immunisation domestic financing and impact of Covid-19 on immunisation uptake. The forum was attended by Civil Society Organisations, officials from both the National and county governments and the Council of Governors Secretariat. From the discussion, it emerged that both levels of government have been under-budgeting for immunisation. “Gavi which is the major funder for immunisation in Kenya has been contributing the largest portion (about 97 per cent). It is clear that Gavi intends to exit come 2027,” Health NGOs Network CEO Mercy Onsando said. “Though the government has started preparing for Gavi exit through its accelerated phase, it is still below the mark on this particular funding.” The government spends more than Sh20 billion every year on treating vaccine preventable diseases, covered under immunisation which is allocated less than Sh1.5 billion. "I'm aware Gavi is the major funder for immunisation contributing Sh3.8 billion while the Kenyan government gives Sh1.4 billion, yet the target is Sh6 billion. A deficit of Sh0.8 Billion, is still evident," Dr Lucy Mecca from the ministry said. Recent data from the ministry has revealed that the program has been impinged by the Covid-19 pandemic. For instance, most expectant mothers in Kilifi and Narok counties missed vaccination in fear of contracting the virus. Children missed vaccines as most of the parents and guardians stayed away due to the same fear. Further, there have been perpetual strikes by health workers as a result of delayed salaries, insufficient stock amongst other grievances. Kenya Aids NGOs Consortiums national director Allan Ragi has urged all the partners to work together to ensure immunisation is efficiently funded and that all children are immunised to curb future pandemics. The CSOs made a declaration that they will in united to advocate for increased domestic financing and uptake of immunisation in Kenya. The Health NGOs Networks; an umbrella of health civil societies in Kenya — in partnership with Community Health Partners and Institute of Public Finance Kenya and Kepricon — have been implementing an advocacy project with the goal of ensuring increased domestic financing for immunisation both at the national and county levels. The project is being funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation through African Population and Health Research Centre. Edited by R.Wamochie