Senator Cleophas Malala has reconciled with Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi. The outspoken Kakamega legislator apologised to Mudavadi barely three months after they fell out and ANC resolved to expel him. The senator apologised for the harsh remarks he made about the party leader, saying the differences were never personal, but an expression of his political stand that did not go well with the ANC leadership. Malala told the Church of God faithful in Nairobi's Mariakani estate, South B, that he was grateful to Mudavadi for standing by his side when he was arrested last month for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols. “I know I wronged you and today at this church, I want to apologise for the awful things I said about you,” he told Mudavadi, who was also present. The senator said he could not embark on efforts to unite the community in Western before reconciling with the ANC leader. “My first step is to ask for forgiveness. I ask for forgiveness in front of the church as your son so that we can move together as a community,” he said. Mudavadi said he did not harbour any ill feelings against the senator despite what he had said about him. “Brother, it is just politics. We can agree to disagree but I shall never wish you evil. I don’t nurse grudges; feel free. I am there for you,” the party leader said. On June 26, ANC expelled the senator on account of gross misconduct following deliberations of the National Governing Council. The NGC accused the senator of prejudicing the activities of the party and of disloyalty. However, the Registrar of Political Parties revoked the expulsion over what it termed as “process gaps”. “The disciplinary proceedings were not concluded within the stipulated timelines under article 49 of the ANC constitution. The National Governing Council did not approve the disciplinary committee as reconstituted by the National Executive Council (NEC),” the ORPP stated. Malala said that as a young leader seeking to unite Western Kenya youths he needs the blessings of the ANC boss. “It would be wrong for me to soldier on with this mission before making an apology to Mudavadi,” he added. Malala was a member of the Kakamega county assembly before clinching the senatorial seat on an ANC ticket. Mudavadi said his goal, other than clinching the presidency in 2022, is to  nurture young talent and grow upcoming young politicians into leaders with the interests of all Kenyans at heart. Malala said he recognised Mudavadi as the de facto Luhya leader and pledged to support his 2022 presidential candidature.  - mwaniki fm