A CIA-backed paramilitary police unit – known as the Rapid Response Team – is at the heart of US efforts to combat terrorism in Kenya. The details are contained in an investigation conducted by Declassified UK, the Daily Maverick in South Africa and the Star. The revelations coming nine months after one US military service member and two contractors were killed in an Islamist attack on a military base in Lamu are refocusing attention on America’s expanded military and intelligence footprint in Africa. Chief Justice David Maraga has advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve parliament for failing to comply with the constitutional requirement of the two third gender rule. In an advisory, Maraga acknowledged that the dissolution of Parliament will cause economic hardship and the fact that Kenya is in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic only worsens the potential impact of the decision. "But that is the clear result Kenyans desired for parliaments failure to enact legislation they deemed necessary. We must never forget that more often than not, there is no gain without pain," he says. Primary and secondary school teachers will be the first to report back to school on or before Monday as directed by the Teachers Service Commission, their employer. Over 380,000 teachers will resume work even as learners remain uncertain on when teaching will start. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha also gave the green light to final-year science students in universities to report back. The decisions are a response to pressure from some stakeholders to resume in-person learning. The Akasha family have sued the state demanding the release of items confiscated by authorities during a raid that led to the arrest of their brothers. The Mombasa High Court has already certified the case as urgent. Najma Juma Hassan and Fatma Akasha have sued the Director of Public Prosecutions, Inspector General of Police and the Director of Criminal Investigations. They are also seeking orders to be allowed to inspect the property. Catholic bishops have joined institutions and organisations that want the Reproductive Healthcare Bill, 2019 withdrawn. The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops (KCCB) argued that the bill is inconsistent with the Constitution as it undermines the right to life, freedom and security and right to human dignity. KCCB director Fr Ferdinand Lugonzo said the bill tries to disqualify the constitutional, moral and scientific position that life begins at conception and ends at death.