Maize production is expected to increase this year in most counties in the Rift Valley despite effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on agriculture. Farmers braved strict control measures when the outbreak started in March. Experts in the counties predict an average 15 per cent increase in production mainly due to use of quality fertilisers and good weather. Countrywide, the maize production level had last year reduced to about 32 million bags from 42 million the previous year. However, this year agriculture officials in the counties estimate the harvests will exceed 35 million bags. “From the survey we have carried out in most areas, its impressive that we expect very good harvests despite the challenges that farmers faced especially the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Samwel Yego, the Uasin Gishu Agriculture executive. He said despite lack of subsidised fertiliser this year, farmers were still assisted to access quality fertiliser at fairly good prices. Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia are the highest maize producing counties in the country. The two counties are expected to produce about seven and 8.5 million bags respectively this year. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba says they had sustained support to farmers through supply of fertiliser to increase production. “Through the support activities we implement as a county, our farmers have continued to increase production which we still expect to go higher this year,” Khaemba said in Kitale. The farmers in the region are, however, worried of possible marketing challenges after harvesting because the government has pulled out of purchasing maize through the National Cereals and Produce Board. Last year, farmers did not face marketing problems after the government banned maize importation in a move which stabilised prices at more than Sh3,000 per bag. “We expect the same situation will prevail as farmers prepare to start harvesting in a few weeks' time so that the sector remains stable,” said director of Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo. The government plans to introduce the Warehouse Receipt System in October under which the farmers will be enabled to store their produce in warehouses and be issued with receipts as proof of ownership. “We have urged the government to move quickly and sensitise the farmers on the new system before its rolled out,” Menjo said.  Under WRS the farmers will store the maize as they wait for good prices before selling their produce. The receipts will enable farmers to access any other support they may require including loans and fertiliser. Edited by Henry Makori