We are all charged by his work as a result, by his presence in our lives. His power lives on and will reverberate for generations to come. These were the words of Black Panther actress Lupita Nyong'o in her powerful tribute to co-star and friend Chadwick Boseman. Lupita broke her silence on Tuesday over the shocking death of Boseman which she described as a punch in her gut every morning. The two award winning actors were very close both in their professional and social lives. Lupita who played Nakia who was King T'Challa's (Boseman) suitor in Black Panther poured her heart out admitting she was having hard time dealing with the loss. "I write these words from a place of hopelessness, to honor a man who had great hope. I am struggling to think and speak about my friend, Chadwick Boseman, in the past tense. It doesn't make sense. The news of his passing is a punch to my gut every morning," the Marvel actress wrote. "I am aware that we are all mortal, but you come across some people in life that possess an immortal energy, that seem like they have existed before, that are exactly where they are supposed to always be - here! ... that seem ageless.... Chadwick was one of those people." Boseman died aged 43 after a private four year battle with colon cancer. In a heartbreaking emotional Facebook post, Lupita described her short interaction with Boseman during the shoot of Black Panther. She said the actor maintained exemplary work ethic despite battling a fatal disease that required regular chemotherapy. "I remember being struck by his quiet and powerful presence. He put in the work with all of us. He showed up to all the rehearsals and training and shoot day with his face game on. He was absorbent. Agile," she said. "He was impeccable with words. I never heard him complain and there were definitely some things worth complaining about. I think he understood the power of words and chose to manifest power through his word." "And he used his body in every way he could," Lupita shared. "He did his own stunts, drummed at his own parties, danced many a night away, mastered martial arts... the list goes on. He loved, honored and respected that body, doing more with it than most. In so doing, he took the risk to be alive, fully alive. So it seems that it was life that gave up on Chadwick long before Chadwick gave up on life..."