I want to be the first man to win the London Marathon five times, world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge has said. The Olympic champion already has four titles in the English capital and will seeking to go one better and fulfil his dream when he parades in Sunday's showdown. "I want to be first person to win the event five times.  My training has been good and I can't wait for Sunday," said Kipchoge. However, Kipchoge is facing one his biggest threats in Ethiopian great, Kenenisa Bekele, the only man to have threatened the Kenyan's 2:01:39 world mark, falling just two seconds off. The man, dubbed the Greatest Of All Time (GOAT), has been training at his base in Kaptagat for the past three months for the rescheduled event following the advent of the coronavirus pandemic. Kipchoge, a former world 5000m world champion won the London race in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019. With 11 marathon victories to date since leaving the track in 2013, Kipchoge said this year's event will be different since it will be held in a closed circuit and without fans in measures aimed at preventing the spread of the coronavirus. "We will be running on a looped course comprising 19.6 laps which is very different from previous races but mentally I am well prepared for the event," Kipchoge added. Kipchoge arrived in the English capital on Monday on a chartered flight from Nairobi and had a light training session on Tuesday to familiarise himself with the conditions. Bekele termed Kipchoge a fierce competitor dating back to their track days in the early 2000s with Kipchoge beating Bekele in the 5000m final in Paris 2003. He, however, turned the tables in subsequent years winning nine races against Kipchoge. "Our history goes back to the track days and it was hard fought and we are very competitive," said Bekele, adding that it will be a dream come true to win the event on Sunday. He said the transition  from the track to road racing has not been easy but he is adapting. The event is the second of the Abbot marathon majors being held after Tokyo following the cancellation of the Boston, Berlin, Chicago and New York due to the pandemic. Kenya will also be represented by Rotterdam marathon champion Marius Kipserem, Amsterdam marathon champion Vincent Kipchumba, former Toronto marathon champion Benson Kipruto and Gideon Kipketer while Ethiopia will have Shura Kitata and Mule Wasihun. Defending champion Brigid Kosgei leads a strong Kenyan contingent that has 2018 champion Vivian Cheruiyot, world marathon champion Ruth Chepngetich and Valary Aiyabei.