At least 50,000 homes in Githurai and Kahawa Wendani, Ruiru subcounty, are set to get sewerage services once a Sh120 million project is completed. The 12-kilometre sewer line is being constructed under Ruiru Municipality and is funded by the World Bank through the Kenya Urban Support Programme (KUSP). The project is expected to be completed by June next year. Municipal manager Fredrick Mwangi said they received Sh484 million from the World Bank for 2020-21 development projects. Speaking after inspecting the project's progress on Friday, Mwangi said Githurai and Kahawa Wendani lack a proper sewerage system despite being densely populated. Mwangi was accompanied by Kiambu Urban Areas Programme coordinator Martin Kangiri. “These are densely populated areas and a lot of sewage is discharged from homes and plots. Septic tanks in most plots are too small to handle all the waste from the houses and that’s why residents have been discharging waste into roadside drainage and other undeveloped areas,” Mwangi said. “Some areas have been flooded with sewerage, making them inhabitable. But this will be a thing of the past once the project is complete,” he added. The manager said poor waste water disposal has led to a rise in waterborne diseases, including cholera and typhoid. “This project will ensure that the environment is clean and habitable and will reduce the risk of residents contracting waterborne diseases. It will also be a major boost for landlords who have been incurring huge expenses on exhauster services to drain septic tanks,” he said. Project resident engineer John Kung’u said the sewer line will also extend to Kahawa Sukari and Kiuu. Residents welcomed the project, terming it a godsend. They said that lack of a proper sewerage system has subjected them to untold suffering. Resident Alice Kemunto said the situation becomes worse during the rainy season as sewage spills into their homes. “Most are the times we are forced to flee our homes during the rainy season because they are rendered inhabitable by the floodwater that is usually mixed with sewage. Our children often get sick but now we feel relieved that our predicament will soon be over on completion of this project,” Kemunto said. Residents Grace Nyakio and Hellen Kiragu said the project would give Githurai and Kahawa Wendani a facelift. Kiambu Lands executive Mugo Kimani said the World Bank has also funded other projects in the area. They include construction of a storm water drainage in Chuma Mbili, rehabilitation of the two-km Kahawa-Wendani road, tarmacking of 1.5km Mumbi stage road to Mwiki Bridge in Kiuu ward and installation of street lights in Mwihoko. Edited by A.N