Agriculture CS Peter Munya has told politicians to stop reminding Mt Kenya voters of political debts saying the region owes no debt to anyone. Munya told politicians to instead focus on politics that will help better the lives of Kenyans. “Do not give us stories of owing anyone political debts. Tell us of how we can improve the lives of Kenyans and not who will be elected in what position (in 2022) because anyone can be elected in any seat,” he said. He said no political position has been set aside for any particular person adding that no political seat will be given to anyone by force. He said those who want political positions in 2022 should humble themselves before Kenyans and ask for their votes humbly instead of using intimidations. He said Mt Kenya region has no leadership vacuum but has its spokesman who is President Uhuru Kenyatta and whoever wants the region’s votes should go through him. “The same way you talked to him and you were together elected in office, you should do the same even this time around. But do not think you can ignore him and get elected here,” he said. Munya made the remarks after Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku said that the area owed Deputy President William Ruto after he supported President Kenyatta in previous elections. Thuku spoke at Othaya stadium during a consultative meeting with tea farmers at Othaya stadium in Nyeri County on Friday, a meeting that was chaired by the CS. Munya said the country should adopt the one man one vote one shilling policy so that he country’s resources can be distributed equitably. The CS said the trend where some counties have been getting the national share of money in excess while others have been starved of the resources such that they cannot even cater for simple expenses should come to an end. He said the Building Bridges Initiative should address the one man one vote one shilling issue adding that that is the stand of Mt Kenya region. East African legislator Mpuru Aburi said the country has only one president who should be respected and called on leaders to be principled, have a political stand and rallying behind the President.