....Here are Amanda and her father, Patrick, walking into the house and all I remember was my mother shout, "What are you doing here? Get out of my house and I don't ever want to see you again." What has just happened???? Her loud voice caught everyone by surprise. I was so confused and didn't understand where all that came from. I'm looking at my mother and she's breathing heavily with so much anger written all over her face. Amanda looks at me with questionable eyes but I have no answers. "Mum, calm down, please sit down," I remember trying to make her avoid doing something crazy. She was still not in the mood to stay calm and she blurted out, "Where were you when he was sick, where were you when he had to take care of everything, where were you when he died?" This whole thing is confusing. What is my mother talking about? One of my aunts asked Patrick to kindly step out because a scene was being created. He did just that but he didn't stray too far from the house. I heard him tell my aunt to kindly ask my mum to come outside so they could talk. She went back in but my mother didn't want anything to do with him. I had to do something in order to understand what exactly was going on. I pulled aunt Jackie to the side and asked her to try and help me understand the whole drama and the only thing she said was, "Your mother will explain everything, just give her time to calm down. This is her battle to fight." Battle? What do you mean battle? Are we at war? It's official; I think I'm in a movie or something. Aunt Jackie goes back to where my mum was sitting, whispers something in her ear then my mum looks at her and sighs, then she stood up. Amanda is standing a few meters from the house under a tree, looking equally confused. I walk up to her and apologize for all that drama, then ask her to give me a few minutes so that I could get to the bottom of what was happening. Before I entered the door, I met my mother walking outside. She looked at me and said that she will explain everything but all she can give out right now is that the news will not be easy to bear. “Mum, you do know you are making this even harder? What are you talking about? My brain is not functioning properly, actually, nothing is.” She looks at Patrick and asks him what he really wanted. He requested if they could talk in private but mum was not having it. So there they were, staring at each other, no one is saying anything. Patrick then says, "I'm sorry for your loss, he was a really good friend of mine and I have also lost someone important in my life." My mum literally sneered at him and said, "Oh, so now you remember he was your friend, huh? You have messed up my life and that of my family and I don't even know how I will start explaining to them what happened." Did something happen? I have voices in my head insisting to ask my mum what she was talking about. Patrick just told her to calm down and that it was not the right time to talk about what happened. Ok, I'm officially tired of all this back and forth. "Mum, what are you talking about? What do you mean when you say something happened," I asked her. She looked down and didn't say anything but started sobbing. I hugged her for a while and when she was calm, she asked me to get her a seat because she was feeling a bit dizzy. I brought the seat but we had to move a bit further from the house. Patrick and aunt Jackie are right behind us. "What I'm about to tell you is not and will never be easy to consume but you are old enough to know the truth and I will understand if you will never forgive me after this." I look at my mum then aunt Jackie, confused, not loading anything. Patrick then says, "Whatever you are going to hear is not your fault or your siblings. It's my fault." Oh, my days. Can someone just say something? I'm tired of these speeches. She then says that my father and Patrick were friends for so many years, basically the best of friends. They did everything together. "I actually met your father through Patrick and their relationship was one that you would think will never be broken, but things don't always go as planned. We would all at times meet up and just hang out and through that, your father started having feelings towards me. But he didn't know that I was actually dating Patrick." What did I just hear? She once dated my ex-girlfriend's dad? I think I'm going to faint....... (To be continued next Tuesday...)