A man caused laughter at a Nairobi court when he opened up that his wife has been caning him up for years. In his defence, the 63-year-old man who was facing assault charges, told the magistrate that it was time for him to fight back. "Sir, she has been beating me up for over 10 years. My thigh has the evidence and I am ready to show it to the court. I seek for forgiveness," he said. He said that he only beat the wife due to pressure. "I slapped him severally because of pressure, I needed to show my other strength and she never forgave me as I have been doing. I ask for forgiveness," he added. The wife, who was in court, asked to withdraw the case. "I have forgiven him and I want to withdraw the case because he is the father to my children," she said. *** Just how much do you love your favourite team? Well, a man was on Thursday charged for assaulting his friend with cooking gas following an argument over Chelsea FC new signings. It is alleged that a conflict emerged over a debate on whether Chelsea's new signings were better than any other team in England. When the friend argued against, raising the temperature, he decided to win it by other means. A police report says the victim was injured on his knees and received treatment at a nearby hospital. The suspect pleaded guilty before a Nairobi magistrate and asked for forgiveness. The magistrate directed the matter to be mentioned on September 16 for sentencing. *** Naturally, journalists expect suspects to look dull, hide their face or frown when they take pictures. However, but an Indian did it differently last week. He posed for the photo and smiled but attracted the attention of the magistrate. "Is this the same man who you expect us to grant lenient bond terms?" asked the magistrate. The lawyer apologised on his own behalf. He was slapped with as Sh3 million bond and efforts by the lawyer to ask the court to reduce it were unsuccessful. "Just ask the respective court to do it as for me, we have closed the business as the bond term is lenient," ruled the Magistrate