There is no enduring legacy as a leadership founded and based on the dictates of fair and just laws. World over, Kenya's constitution has been lauded as a masterpiece. especially the Bill of Rights and attendant sections. A constitution that does not only purport to separate the powers of the various arms of government but includes safeguards is a bulwark for the effectiveness and accountability of the state actors, checks and balances. Therefore, when sneaky attempts at rolling back such gains are made by people who swore to protect the Constitution, then it is time good people who have the interest of the country at heart have to stand up. Failure to observe the constitutional dictates is a recipe for anarchy and the events of the recent past are pointers of such wrong trajectory. We work with people in various fields and offices not because we love them, but because our goals are not personal but collective. That's what should inform the work ethics in government. Countless times I have opined that the Jubillee government is unofficially rewriting the laws of this land. So much so that those people we can't hold accountable are the ones calling the shots while those with the people's mandate are shoved aside. All these on spurious claims of imaginary wrongs by those we pay salaries to work for us yet can't be accorded space and respect. We have reached a point where you have to be liked by a certain panel of courtiers to be respected. As we abrogate the law to achieve the narrow, cheap and selfish political agenda, the country is slowly steeping to a dangerous cliff, almost snapping. The unfortunate hate-mongering back and forth is a result of undermining the clearly stated laws. Ministers are allowed to brazenly insubordinate a duly elected Deputy President. The counter-attacks from the leaders, lacking in any iota of respect and decorum to the office of the President, even entangling respected leaders who can no longer defend themselves is what we now see. We are at a tipping point. It can't get worse than that. Only constitutionalism will bring the much-needed sanity and the President must return the country to that path.  Economic and political analyst.