The Health Ministry plans to increase nursing internship slots in the country as the number of students keeps rising. The process will require making an official application to the Public Service Commission to increase the number of slots. There are 1,100 internship slots against 541 interns due for posting. They are expected to receive their posting letters in the next two weeks. “Basically even as at now, we still have 500 more slots that are empty. So we cannot say that the slots are low. However, as the number of students increases we will also work on increasing them,” Nursing Services director Mary Nandili said. “As for the posting, there was a slight delay because of bureaucracies here and there but as at now, it is concluded. They are expecting their letters either next week or next week but one. That is basically addressed,” Nandili added. She noted that more postings to different healthcare facilities for the existing slots will be done in coming weeks. This year has been dedicated by the World Health Organization to the nurse and the midwife. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has stressed the need for increased collaboration in the sector to address challenges faced by nurses and midwives. Mwangangi said this will help advance the practise. Nurses and midwives account for more than 50 per cent of the healthcare workforce. The CAS acknowledged the vital role of the health professionals in the system. She further said for the country to achieve Universal Health Coverage, nurses and midwives will be required to be at the core of the vision. Mwangangi added that during this pandemic, health professionals have been at the forefront, reinforcing the need to strengthen their capacities as they continue providing healthcare services to all. “Covid-19 has also brought to the fore the critical role played by our medics in as far as nursing the world to health is concerned. We need to come together as stakeholders towards the realisation of a vibrant nursing profession,” Mwangangi said. “Solving nursing challenges goes beyond making noise. It is important to outline the critical services that nurses and midwives offer and what the gaps are. This is something the government will well receive and execute accordingly,” she added. National Nurses Association of Kenya president Alfred Obengo urged medics to join hands to tackle matters that are important for the profession, further indicating that as an association, they are working together with other stakeholders to improve the nursing policy. “We are in the process of reviewing our current scope of practice so that we have a paradigm shift from the traditional nurse to a modern nurse who can make decisions on his/her speciality in the profession,” Obengo said. He added that improving the current scheme of work would give nurses and midwives an opportunity to advance their careers.