Burly KCB striker Enoch Agwanda yesterday laughed off reports suggesting that he had jetted to Zambia to sign a lucrative deal with an unspecified club who ply their trade in the Football Association of Zambia(FAZ) Super League. Agwanda was heavily linked with a departure from the local scene hardly a day after  Tusker's forward Timothy Otieno penned a two-year  contract with Napsa Stars. However, the former Sony Sugar man clarified that he is very much around and yet to receive any bid from Zambia or any other club. Agwanda, who is well known for his long throws, revealed that he has ten months remaining on his contract with the bankers and was looking forward to don the KCB shirt again when  football resumes. "I was shocked to read that I had traveled to Zambia to seal a deal with one of the senior clubs there. I am around and neither have I received any offer from Zambia or any other club.I still have more than six months remaining on my contract which means any club which is interested should contact my employer first," said the former Gor Mahia man Similarly, KCB's assistant coach Godfrey Oduor dismissed the reports as rumours. The former Kibera Black Stars' tactician said the club had not received any offer for the striker whom he labelled as loyal and hard working. "He is around and loyal to the club contrary to what the Zambian news agencies are saying.We are in constant communication with him regarding the training regime which we normally share with our players online," said the national U17 assistant coach. In the meantime,  Agwanda is craving to return to the Harambee Stars team once the government lifts the suspension on sporting activities. He pledged to double his efforts in a bid to secure a slot when coach Francis Kimanzi summons players in the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Stars are lined up to confront Comoros twice in the rescheduled qualifiers in November. The 2022 World Cup Qualifiers, where Kenya have been pitted against Mali, Uganda and Rwanda will be played between May 2021 and November 2021. "I have never given up in making my way back to the national team. Before the season was cut short, my fitness levels and scoring form was improving and I hope to pick from where I left," added the former Bandari player.