Expect to see more testing very soon and more confirmed Covid-19 cases. The Health ministry said on Tuesday it is expecting more testing  kits and extraction kits by the end of this week. More are expected by the end of the month. More testing is very likely to mean more cases. Because of limited supplies, testing had been limited and the focus recently was on high-risk groups, health workers and symptomatic patients. The ministry emphasised the curve is not yet flat, saying each Kenyan will have to exercise caution and take individual responsibility for heir safety. “Let it be clear that the curve is not flat. The message from this podium has been the same, the curve is not flat,” director of Public Health Francis Kuria said on Tuesday. On Tuesday, 96 new cases were confirmed by the ministry from 3,270 samples. The case load stands at 36,301. “We have some test kits that do not have extraction kits and we also hope to get some in the course of the week. Hopefully, then we are going to revamp our testing and we will start realising our figures,” Kuria said. The ministry has said testing capacity has been hit by high global demand and disruption of the supply chain for test kits and reagents. The shortage has caused a change of strategy to test only at-risk groups. Kuria added, “What we are seeing - we are reporting fewer numbers. Let those numbers that we reported yesterday (Monday) of 48 not give an indication of a flattening curve. There are very many parameters to look at when we are talking about flattening of the curve.” Similarly, Kenyans have been cautioned to take extra care and not expose themselves to the virus, after reports indicated that majority had thrown caution to the winds. On Tuesday, 10 more deaths were reported by the Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi; seven out of the 10 had no preexisting medical conditions. The total fatalties stand at 634. "This is another clear message that Covid does not spare those who have no comorbidities. You do not have to have diabetes or hypertension to pass on,” Kuria said. The total number of tests stands at 502,003. All the new cases except four were Kenyans, comprising 70 men and 26 women aged between five years and 81 years of age. Nairobi recorded the highest number of cases with 26, followed by Kisii with 10, Busia eight, Mombasa, Kisumu and Uasin Gishu seven cases each, Machakos six, Kericho five and Kilifi four. Other counties recording new cases include Samburu, Nakuru, Kajiado and Kiambu with two cases each. Bomet, Embu, Kakamega, Makueni, Meru, Trans Nzioa, Narok and Taita Taveta had one case each. On a positive note, 121 people recovered from the disease, 97 from home-based care and 24 from hospitals. This brings the total recoveries to 23,364. (Edited by V. Graham)