The leadership of the Senate has defended the House over reports of failure to approve the county allocation of revenue Bill has caused a cash crisis currently being experienced in the counties. The Bill has stagnated in the Senate after senators failed to agree on the revenue sharing formula among counties. The Bill splits the national cake among the 47 counties. Addressing journalists in Parliament Buildings on Thursday, Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kangata sought to absolve the Senate from the accusations. Kangata cited a circula by the National Treasury agreeing to disburse to the counties up to 50 per cent of the Sh316.5 billion allocated to the devolved units. Kangata also cited regulation 134 of the PFM Act which mandates the Controller of Budget to authorise the release of the funds in the event of delays in passing CARA. "A meeting was also held between the Senate, Treasury and other stakeholders and it was agreed that the funds be released. So, any reports that the failure to pass CARA in the Senate is the problem is not true,"Kangata said. The statement comes as county bosses threatened to sponsor a motion to dissolve Senate for failing to safeguard the interests of County Governments by stalling on the 3rd generation formula debate. "To this end, we hereby forewarn the Senate that a Petition for its dissolution can be initiated by any member of the public through the High Court as provided for under Article 258 of the Constitution," the statement said. The CoG had earlier on urged the National treasury to urgently release half of the County equitable share of revenue to ensure resumption of operations. The 12 member Senate committee formed to determine how counties share the Sh316.5 billion allocated to them in the 2020-21 budget is yet to agree on the way forward. The team was formed two weeks ago after a protracted standoff in the House on the formula. The Senate has failed in nine sittings to approve the formula after lawmakers whose counties will lose money in the proposal rejected it.