Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has hit the 2022 campaign trail, announcing an aggressive charm offensive to consolidate his Ukambani vote block and make forays into the Coast. Kalonzo now joins Deputy President William Ruto and ODM chief Raila Odinga, who have embarked on serious campaigns two years ahead of the general elections. Ruto has been crisscrossing the country and addressing crowds on his hustler movement in his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. On his part, Raila has been holding rallies and town hall meetings in what signals his joining the 2022 presidential contest. Keen not to be left behind, Kalonzo has stepped up the campaign to consolidate his Ukambani backyard at the same time getting set to raid Raila’s Coast support base. The Mwai Kibaki Vice-President has lined up a series of political meetings from this Friday in his lower Eastern backyard to entrench his grip on an area that has been under his lock and key for decades. His meetings appear to be in response to declarations by Governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) that they will contest the country’s top seat. The governors want to deny Kalonzo the political dominance of the region, where he has enjoyed massive support almost to a man for decades. His grip on the vote-rich region enabled him to make alliances that have kept him politically afloat for decades. The Wiper leader will also be in Taita Taveta and Mombasa counties, according to an itinerary released by the party executive director Jared Siso. According to Siso, the party plans a flurry of activities to re-energise Kalonzo's strongholds across the country as the ex-VP prepares to make a second shot at the presidency. On Friday, Kalonzo will be leading Wiper troops to inspect Konza technocity from where he will fly to Mombasa on Sunday to meet the party leadership and delegates and open a Wiper office. On Monday, Kalonzo will pitch camp in Wundanyi constituency to meet party supporters and hold rallies in a meet-the-people tour. In the Coast counties, Wiper only managed to win Taita Taveta county. On Tuesday, the former VP will be trooping back to his Ukambani backyard where he will traverse Kibwezi East and Makindu and address rallies. The Wiper boss will then embark on a meet-the-people tour in Emali and Wote en route to Nairobi. Edited by Henry Makori