A university student who lost custody of her child because of lack of income has won a legal battle. The child is aged three years and three months.  High Court judge Chacha Mwita stripped the father of full custody. Justice Mwita said the young mother is not a person of immoral behaviour and her lack of a source of income should not deny her right to custody of her child. “It was the respondent’s (father's) duty to demonstrate that there existed exceptional circumstances to deny the appellant (mother) custody of the child.  There was no evidence that the appellant was of disgraceful conduct; that she had immoral behaviour, drunken habit and bad company to disentitle her from getting custody.” He noted that the mother is being housed by her own mother who has also in the past taken care of the minor. The grandmother had indicated to the court that she is willing to continue taking care of the child. In support of her daughter's appeal, she testified in court saying she was employed with a steady income, had provided a decent home for the child, took care of the child’s needs and was ready to continue doing so. She stated that although the child's father met its educational and medical needs, her daughter as the mother was the best person to have custody of the child. The student had lost custody after a magistrate held that she didn’t have any source of income and was dependent on her mother. The magistrate had held, “Both parties strike me as capable, loving and caring parents to the child. It is their financial capability that differs. While the father is financially independent and stable, the defendant (mother) is still a student and is largely dependent on her mother and even lives with the child in her mother’s house.” Granting custody to the father, the court had said, “By contrast, the plaintiff has his own home and can independently take care of his child. Up to this point, he has mainly provided daycare fees and related expenses, while the child’s grandmother meets the other expenses. "He now wants to take up all financial responsibility and relieve the child’s grandmother of this responsibility. In a society where there are so many deadbeat dads, the plaintiff is commended for his desire to play a key role in the upbringing of the child.” However, the mother appealed saying the best interest of the child dictates that custody is given to her.  The father said he always provided for the child who was living with its mother at her mother's. He, however, experienced difficulties accessing the child leading to the institution of the custody proceedings before the trial court, he said. He said the mother had gone to the extent of reporting to the authorities that he had kidnapped the child. Edited by R.Wamochie