There will be no resistance from Kariobangi Sharks should a concrete offer be put on the table for the services of the experienced duo of Harrison Mwenda and Sven Yidah, club chairman Robert Maoga has assured. The two have attracted interest from Tanzanian giants Yanga and Maoga reiterated that the club’s policy of selling and grooming the next generation would be maintained. “Sven and Harry are experienced players so they are free to pursue moves to other clubs. As Sharks, we want to see that our players are developing and I believe a move to Yanga would be an upward step in their careers as they will be playing in front of bigger crowds regularly and that can only be good for their progression,” Maoga stated. Sven has emerged as one of the best midfielder in the country while Mwenda, meanwhile, has been a flying winger for a decade making his name with Mathare United. The Sharks’ chairman revealed that Sven and Mwenda first attracted the attention of Yanga during the SportPesa Super Cup, where the Kenyan club triumphed to earn a historic meeting with Everton, who eventually won on post-match penalties. “Yanga have been on their trail since last year. They came to us and we gave them our demands but there was no concrete offer from them. For Harry, their pursuit continued up to January this year but they are yet to table an offer. But if they do, we will consider it in the interest of the players,” he said. Maoga added that the departure of the two will not leave a dent in the current Sharks squad. “We are a versatile side capable of playing in different formations that do not necessarily rely on an individual output but overall teamwork. I think we are well capable of coping in their absence,” he asserted. Sharks have lost several key players since the start of the current season with Kenyan international Duke Abuya who left for Zambian side, Nkana their most prominent export. “This is a policy that the club is determined to see work out for our mutual benefit. We will provide a platform for the players to showcase their talent and move on to greener pastures. We will not stand in the way of their growth and development as professionals,” Maoga reiterated. William Muluya’s side is assured of a fifth successive top-flight after they arrested a worrying slump in the first half of the campaign to move further away from the relegation zone before the season was indefinitely suspended due to the coronavirus threat.