Kenya has received additional Sh705 million from the US to boost the fight against the novel coronavirus. The fund was committed by the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and is meant to support prevention, preparedness and response towards the pandemic that has disrupted all sectors across the world. These additional resources will be used for surveillance, laboratory supplies and strengthening, and surge staffing costs. The information was communicated by the office of US Ambassador Kyle McCarter which said the CDC has supported Kenya’s Ministry of Health to improve health security for more than four decades. About Sh100 million of the donation will be released immediately to support critical needs for Covid-19 response. “This funding will be used to procure diagnostic sampling and testing supplies, provide county-level support, expand surveillance of COVID-19, and support health care workers in infection prevention and control practices among other key activities,” McCarter said. Ambassador McCarter said that the US had always been committed to the health of Kenyans even before the pandemic. “However, our commitment goes beyond funding, it’s in our contribution to national policies, to investing in the healthcare workforce and to strengthening health systems. We have been working alongside Kenya’s public health officials for more than five decades and continue to stand with Kenya throughout this crisis,” McCarter said. He also said that US President Donald Trump made his first phone call to Africa this year, whereby Uhuru Kenyatta was the first president to receive a call. “That first phone call went to President Kenyatta. The reason he called President Kenyatta first is because we have a special friendship, they have a special friendship and Kenya is special to the US,” McCarter said. Uhuru has not shared with the public what the conversation with Trump was based on. McCarter said since January 2020, CDC has deployed nearly 50 Kenya based technical experts to support the country to prepare for and respond to the pandemic. The envoy said CDC employees are working side by side with Kenyan health officials at the national laboratory, county government offices, and the Public Health Emergency Operations Center in a range of activities. They include supporting training on preparedness and response measures at the national and county levels; and providing technical assistance on emergency operations, laboratory diagnostics, infection prevention and control, screening at ports of entry, risk communication and community engagement, and disease surveillance. Another activity will be supporting the training of field epidemiologists (disease detectives) and giving them the necessary skills to collect, analyse and interpret data and contribute to evidence-based decisions. On Monday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced that the number of confirmed cases in the country had risen to 363. Since the first case on March 13, 14 people have lost their lives while 114 have recovered from the virus. The country has so far tested 18,394 people as it continues with mass testing in areas where more cases have been reported.