Funerals and mourning that go on for days are supposed to bring some kind of closure, bring families and friends closer together, let them remember the departed, forgive and forget. A proper traditional send-off with all the trappings, especially a slaughtered bull for feasting. Covid-19 has upended all of that, however, for months to come. Burials must be fast, within 48 hours. The government has banned big gatherings, only about 15 family members may attend. Social distancing is mandatory. In the case of Covid-19 deaths, body bags may be required as well as coffins. There hasn't been such a funeral yet. Only three deaths have been reported, two of them on Thursday. The number of infections is about 110. Many people miss the big gatherings, the long-drawn-out eulogies, the embraces, the big crowds, the feasting --and the funeral committees that raise money for it all and take their time. Nyabitunwa Village in Kisii county is mourning a matriarch. Mama Lucy Okioma who died of cancer three days ago has to be quickly buried within 48 hours, on Friday. However, her three sons are stuck in Massachusetts, USA, without any flights to Kenya so they can bid their mother farewell. This is in stark contrast with their father, Alijah Okioma, whose burial last August brought the sleepy Nyabituwa village to a standstill for days. In fact, during Mzee Okioma's burial, a passerby would easily confuse the ceremony with a carnival of sorts, rolled out in a grand celebration for villagers. On Friday, Mama Lucy is being laid to rest not only in the absence of her sons but also in the absence of the many people who loved her and whose lives she touched. Some call it a travesty. Mama Lucy's burial is just one example of how the coronavirus pandemic has turned upside down the treasured elaborate burial rites, especially in Western Kenya, the rituals that bind communities together. The Luo and the Luhya communities are known for intricate funeral ceremonies and strict practices, such as where the grave should be, where he head should lace -- toward sunrise.. If the death occurs at home, the body is transported to the morgue as the extended family comes together to fundraise and plan on how to take care of the mourners. Occasionally, the body will lie in the morgue for weeks, before being taken home for a night's stay over. A bull must be slaughtered on the burial day. It's a whole-day event. Relatives, villagers and politicians from far and wide to attend. Last Thursday, police chased away villagers who were headed to attend the burial of a Form 2 student who died of leukaemia in Benders village in Sabatia sub-county, Vihiga county. The villagers complained that they could not be allowed to attend the funeral so they could eat afterwards. A family member sent texts that they would not be allowed. "We are doing this as a government policy, as political leaders, we should be in the vanguard to ensure these guidelines are followed," a  legislator told the Star. The pandemic has heralded a painful paradigm shift in the mourning and burial cultures. Funeral costs have been slashed drastically but no one seems to be pleased. Bereaved families are also being forced to endure the agony of mourning alone and burying their departed loved ones in deserted homesteads. The new order according to Kusii Council Elders chairman James Matundura runs counter to the community's burial traditions. "The order is strange and caught many people by surprise. We advise our people to abide by the order to avoid infection," James Matundura, head of the Kisii Council of Elders, said. The burial of retired Catholic Archbishop Raphael Ndingi Mwana a'Nzeki next week on Tuesday is the clearest signal that times have indeed changed. Thousands would have thronged the memorial venue and the burial site. Only about 100 people will be allowed to the ceremony, locking out politicians and even Catholic clergy and faithful, whom the late archbishop mentored and led for more than 60 years. Bereaved families are bearing the heaviest brunt of the government's tough measures against the virus. They have been pushed to the edge and are now begging for help in WhatsApp groups- at least from those who can accept their invites. Traditional harambees  are no longer permitted. The ban on social gatherings has by extension taken a toll on the ordinary understanding of burials for loved ones, with funeral processions and services as well as ordinary harambees suspended. Some families coming from communities with a passionate attachment to cultures like the Luyha, Luo and Kisii-- where mourners grieve for days -- the meaning of burial has changed. Burying the dead in less than 48 hours was unheard of as elaborate costly funeral programmes were drawn up. The measures have drastically changed the burial rites within the Luhya community. Chiefs and their assistants are partnering with police to stay at funerals to ensure burials happen fast and mourners stay far apart. In most cases, the burials are over by 10am. The regulations have slashed the cost of funerals as traditionally, the family has to slaughter a cow to feed mourners. During the burial of a renowned Kakamega lawyer Gilbert Imbenzi in his Nalianya village home, the 15 people in attendance were supplied with packed queen cakes and a bottle of water or soda. Under normal Luhya burials, the dead body is kept for three days for relatives to view before burial takes place. In normal times, Mama Moraa Nyambogi's burial could have been attended by thousands of mourners given that her widower -- Samwel Nyambwogi == has been a long-serving KTDA director. That is not the case, though, for Moraa's final rites on April 1 were marked by extraordinarily spare y proceedings and roiled by scores of culture lapses. At Bomagena village in South Mugirango, only a couple of relatives and neighbours were attending the burial of the wife of the ex-director of Ogembo Tea Factory. Politicians, who usually attend such occasions especially in high-profile funerals like this one, have given Moraa's send-off a wide berth. Local administrators have allowed the funeral but issued tough guidelines both on social distancing and hand washing. Authorities have also banned night vigils, funeral processions and called for burials immediately bodies are brought from morgues or hospitals. No one wants to take any chances even as the family is torn between adhering to the tough regulations and according mama a befitting send-off. At around 8.30am mourners start arriving and one after the other they walk towards water tanks that have been stationed strategically for people to thoroughly wash their hands. There are no close contacts. People mourn individually as they slowly retreat to specified sitting areas, not to listen to any speeches but a short sermon and prayer before the burial. Some old women try to roam freely, trying to find a seat but they are reminded by orderlies that they would have to abide by the provided sitting arrangement after washing their hands with plenty of soap. “We have less than two hours to make sure that all our programmes are complete and mama is laid to rest. Kindly follow instructions on hand washing and social distancing. We are sorry because that is what the government has told us,” announced the master of ceremonies. It is a rare, bare-bones funeral getting underway at the heart of one of the communities that usually roll out elaborate burial plans that include night vigils, robust speeches, and some wining and dining. Ordinarily, the Kisii community's culture could have required that mama Moraa, being an elderly wife and mother, would be buried near sunset preferably between 2pm and 5pm “We are grateful to our relatives, friends and neighbours who went out of their way to firm up a fairly respectable send off to my wife,” says Mzee Nyambogi in his vote of thanks to WhatsApp fundraising. Area senior chief David Kenyanya is on hand to make sure no government regulations are violated, including use of the microphone that is easily contaminated by many hands. No speeches, no shaking hands and no hugs. “Difficult times call for difficult decisions and extraordinary things require extraordinary solutions. We are in uncharted waters,” the South Mugirango Borabu chief said. Across, at Bomware village, another funeral is underway fora middle-aged man who died three days earlier. His funeral was simplicity itself. Young men dug the grave a night; it was ready by 9am. “We have never seen this. We just brought the body from the mortuary and buried it right away,” says James Ntabo, a brother to the deceased. This is the first time ever in the whole village that the body is buried the same day as the death.  it is brought from the morgue. Previously, night vigils have been critical in the Kisii culture. “Before we were allowed to bury him today, yesterday the assistant chief came here with police officers and gave firm instructions that there would be no night vigils or even speeches,” adds Alex Onyambu, the father. Another family in Rongo, Homa Bay county, has also been hit hard by the unyielding measures put in place to contain the spread of the virus. Ordinarily, here, where funerals are known to be expensive affairs, people could have feasted for days, nearly destroying the economic fortunes of the bereaved family. Not today. Onyango Ouma,56, died on March 30 while undergoing treatment at a local clinic. He was buried the same day. After the clinician declared him dead, the family quickly thought of finding the fastest way to lay him to rest. “We formed a WhatsApp group of friends and relatives immediately and managed to raise Sh20,000,” says Eunice Ouma, a sister. She adds that the money enabled them to buy a coffin immediately and hire a vehicle that ferried the body home for burial. Unfortunately, not all relatives and friends were available for the burial, Ouma was laid to rest by less than 15 people. Some counties have closed down mortuaries, further paining bereaved families. At least eight Rift Valley governors on March 20 asked residents to bury their relatives as soon as they die because public morgues had been closed down. On Thursday Health ministry director general Patrick Amoth said the government has unveiled regulations on how to bury people who die of Covid-19. "We have developed guidelines for any infectious diseases on body management of deceased persons regarding disinfection and the precautions to be taken by both the healthcare workers and the family," he said. He said that in terms of the contingency plans, there are body bags to be used by county teams. "If the numbers are manageable we will allow the families under the guidance of health officials, he said. If dealing with mass deaths, then the government will have to come in and take over. That hasn't happened yet. (Edited by V. Graham) 