A woman who recently delivered quadruplets in Kaloleni will return home to a decent house now being constructed by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. Mishi Kitsao delivered at home but was taken to Kilifi county hospital where the children were admitted to the high dependency unit ward until they are big enough to go home. The baby girls were born on March 17 weighing 1.29kg, 1.01kg, 0.93kg and 0.97kg. On Sunday, Kingi told journalists that he had found a mason and the construction would start promptly. Kitsao had three children before her latest delivery.  Her house was brought down by heavy rains in December last year. Nurses feared the lives of the babies would be endangered if they were released to go to a ruined house. “We have been with these babies for one month now and we do not want to release them to go to a place which puts their lives at risk. The mother has no house and she already has three children at home,” Mwanamvua Boga, the nurse in charge at the HDU, said. Kitsao's plight was highlighted by Nation Television, prompting the governor to ensure mother and the babies had a roof over their heads when they are discharged. “The medical personnel did a great job and I will also support their effort by making sure the babies go to a decent house. I have asked the hospital to hold them for about 10 days as we work to build them a house. We have the Covid-19 pandemic and even pneumonia which can be lethal when such babies are not put in a conducive environment,” Kingi said. He also promised to provide food to the family for three months. “I will also give the mother capital to start a business of her choice so that she can comfortably support her family. I will do this immediately she is able to go on with her duties,” the governor said. The house will have a toilet and water harvesting facilities. Kitsao had on Friday appealed for support. She said her family did not have the resources to support the babies as she is jobless. Her husband does menial jobs in Mombasa.“He moves from place to place looking for casual jobs. Many places where he used to get jobs have been closed due to the coronavirus,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori