Narok Governor Samuel Tunai has asked hoteliers and lodges operating in the Maasai Mara Game Reserve to pay salaries of their workers in full. Tunai said the hoteliers should be thoughtful of their staff and possibly give them advance payment for two or three months to combat the effects of the coronavirus outbreak. He said it was unfortunate that the hoteliers had opted to send their staff on leave, citing low business as a result of Covid-19. "I have received information that some camps are laying off staff for lack of business in the Maasai Mara because of Covid-19. They should remember that even when they were in full operation and making huge profits or losses, the same staff stood with them throughout,” the governor said. He was addressing reporters at the county headquarters in Narok town on Monday. The hoteliers should emulate the county which has sent workers on payable leave, he said. Most camps and lodges in the Maasai Mara have opted to close their businesses after the government banned arrivals of international visitors to curb the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. Tunai said his administration has put in place strict measures to ensure wildlife are protected from poachers.  “No person will be allowed into the game reserve without thorough scrutiny." He said the county had taken measures to mitigate the economic burden on residents while ensuring continued protection of the people from infections. “We have waived parking and stickers fees for taxis and motorcycles in all towns and urban centres in the county for a period of three months. Single business permits are similarly waived for the same duration." He directed that selected markets of foodstuff and perishable goods resume normal operations under strict regulations of maintaining the necessary hygiene and social distancing. “My administration has held consultative meetings with the leadership of Muthurua and ODM markets in Narok town and has scheduled further consultations with the leadership of other major markets across the county." Tunai directed Education and Health executive Morgan Siloma to identify schools that may serve as additional isolation centres in the event of an escalation of anticipated cases of Covid-19. He said the county had started fumigating all major markets. “Already, we have fumigated the Narok town matatu stage, Muthurua, ODM, Nairagie Enkare, Ololulung'a, Suswa and Kilgoris markets." Edited by Peter Obuya