Doctors want the hiring of additional health workers hastened and completed within a week. They are concerned that the workforce across the country is already strained. However, the process should be conducted in line with the Constitution on ethnic diversity and all cadres of medical personnel included, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union said. Some 5,000 skilled health workers were to be hired at county levels within seven days. All level four, five and six hospitals were directed to hire an additional 1,000 health workers in antipation of high rate of coronavirus infection in the coming weeks. “Kenya is slightly ahead of the curve compared to Spain and thus, we do not have the luxury of time for piecemeal employment of healthcare workers,” KMPDU secretary-general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Monday said more than 30,000 health workers have been trained in the ongoing process. Also trained are 1,000 police officers manning roadblocks as well as 1,000 National Youth Service officers, 300 prison officers and 53,000 community health volunteers using an online-based module by Red Cross, Amref and the ministry. KMPDU has called on the Health ministry to ensure that clear guidelines are developed and communicated to healthcare workers on where to present themselves for testing and results made available in 48 hours. “We also recommend that more testing centres are established at the county levels,” Mwachonda said. The medics said that while they appreciate the efforts by the government, the standoff experienced at KNH on Saturday should be a wake-up call to all public hospitals. Health workers without adequate PPEs had a standoff with the KNH administration concerning suspected Covid-19 patients. This brought to light the inadequacy of health workers protection. “We caution that even as we look into our local industry, the standards set by Kebs and regulatory authorities including safety consultants appointed by the director of occupational safety and health must be strictly adhered to,” Mwachonda said. KMPDU has recommended that N95 masks, face shields or glasses, surgical gowns and shoe covers be provided as bare minimum for frontline healthcare workers in high-risk areas. “The OSH Act 2007 section 14 (2) allows any frontline healthcare professional to leave his workplace where he has reasonable justification to believe that the workplace presents imminent and serious danger to his life and health.” Mwachonda said the union appreciates the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta that the ministries of Health and Public Service develop a comprehensive welfare package to cushion healthcare workers. “We urge that the two ministries to fast-track this process. Our proposal includes a waiver of PAYE for a year, additional emergency Covid-19 risk allowance and comprehensive NHIF insurance package.” Further, the medics want the creation of an occupational disease fund for compensation. They also want speedy resolution of the protracted labour disputes in Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Taita Taveta and Kwale counties. They cautioned the county governments against recalling and harassing doctors on study leave who are deployed in the national teaching and referral hospitals. Edited by R.Wamochie