There was a hue and cry in South Nyanza after the region’s sole top-flight club Sony Sugar was relegated from the Kenyan Premier League after failing to honour three league fixtures due to financial constraints. Thankfully, a powerhouse is emerging in the area in the shape of National Super League side, Migori Youth, whose founder Aziz Abdi hopes will join the KPL in the not too distant future. “The future can only shine brightest for Migori Youth as we project playing in the top flight within two years. Migori Youth are a community football club who have so far proved that you only need passion to light up the whole community in developing talent,” said an optimistic Aziz. The club started in 2007 as Migori Youth Talent Academy with the sole purpose of developing young talent and young prospects were identified from the community and signed into the academy. “The training in partnership with high schools that develop talents within the region, revolved around social development focusing on education, talks of peer pressure, drugs and substance abuse,” explained Aziz. Among the schools MYTA partnered with were St. Peter’s Mumias, St. Antony High School, Kitale Chebuyusi High, Masara High School and Chesamis Boys. According to the club chairman, the greatest challenge MYTA faced was lack of trust in the budding footballers from both NSL and Premier League teams. “Their career would have ended up prematurely if something was not done. That’s when the leadership registered the club in FKF Division 2 in 2015 and provided a great platform for our boys to gain the much-needed experience through playing time,” recounted Aziz. He added: “The decision to enrol Migori Youth in the lower leagues proved to be a prudent one. The team became a formidable force going 11games unbeaten and eventually getting a chance to play in the National Super League courtesy of the misfortune to neighbouring Isebania FC.” “Isebania were not able to honour their matches and after lengthy consultations between us, them and the federation, we absorbed them and became one family of Migori Youth and took up their chance in the NSL,” he said while accounting for Migori’s rise to the second tier in Kenyan football pyramid. Migori have continued to rise above expectations and challenges due to the commitment from the management and the partners. “We managed to survive relegation in our first season in 2018/2019. This season, we were lucky to partner with Bansi wholesalers, who sponsor all our away matches—inclusive of transport and accommodation. This has also added to our current spectacular form that has catapulted us to 8th position and the most improved team in the Betika Super League. We hope to finish in top five,” Aziz said. Some of the notable graduands from Migori Youth include Tobias Otieno who went to Gor Mahia, Clinton Okoth (Gor), Antony Abwao (KCB) and Enoch Agwanda (KCB) amongst many others.