Child sex work is likely to increase as Covid-19 persists, the Busia county children's officer has warned. Esther Wasige said on Monday the closure of schools due to the coronavirus exposes schoolgirls to risk especially those living in or near Malaba and Busia border towns. The towns are on the busy Mombasa-Malaba and Kisumu-Busia highways used by truck drivers ferrying goods to  landlocked Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan. “Child sex work is a challenge that needs urgent attention now that we are not in office and working from home,” Wasige said. “The courts are not working and this makes it impossible to prosecute the offenders.” Wasige said her office is working with the Child Protection Unit of the police to curtail child prostitution. The schools were closed on March 15 after a directive to do so from President Uhuru Kenyatta. She called on parents to take the lead in ensuring the safety of their children as the government and other stakeholders in the health industry battle  the spread of Covid-19. “Children are now in the hands of parents who are their first custodians. They (parents) should be at the forefront fighting against the abuse of minors,” she said. Busia and Malaba are among Kenyan towns with highest rate of sex work due to their location and the presence of transit truck drivers. Among factors that fuel sex work in Busia, according to the NGO Rural Education and Empowerment Enhancement Programme, is poverty. Low individual household income, the NGO says, pushes girls as young as 12 into prostitution. The non-profit organisation says some parents push their daughters to engage in sex with adults for money to feed their families. Busia is among counties with the highest HIV/Aids prevalence in the country. The latest Kenya Population-based HIV Impact Assessment (Kenphia) report says Busia’s HIV/Aids prevalence stands at 9.9 per cen compared to the national  rate of 4.9 per cent. It is ranked fifth countrywide after Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya and Migori. Edited by Henry Makori