The police officer who shot and killed a University of Leeds student has been granted Sh600,000 bail after pleading not guilty to the charge of murder. Constable Emmanuel Oyombe was charged with the murder of Carliton Maina. It is alleged that on December 22, 2018 at Laini Saba in Kibera, he killed Carlton Maina. He denied the charge before Justice Jessie Lessit on Thursday and through his lawyer Cliff Ombeta  pleaded with the court to release him on reasonable bail. Ombeta told the court that his client was not a flight risk and he was still serving at the national police service. The prosecution did not oppose his release on bail but asked the court to put stringent terms. However, Lawyer Dimas Kiprono, representing Carliton's family opposed his release on bail. He argued that if released, the accused may interfere with witnesses because he is an officer and has networks. Kiprono told the court that Oyombe may also intimidate witnesses He alleged that Oyombe did not follow the sixth schedule of the National Police Service rules when the shooting happened which stipulates that they should have reported the shooting incident to IPOA immediately it happened. However, according to Kiprono, IPOA found out about the shooting of Carlton through the media, and according to him, that is interference. In her bail ruling, Judge Lessit released the officer on bail and barred him from  visiting Kibera until the case is heard and determined. She ordered him to deposit Sh600,000 cash bail or an alternative bond of Sh1 Million to secure his release. Carliton, who was a student at Leeds University in the UK, had come for Christmas holiday when his life was cut short by four gunshots allegedly from Oyombe. At the time of his death, the police had claimed that he was a criminal and that was why he was killed. On their Twitter handle, the Director of Criminal Investigations said that they had arrested Oyombe on Wednesday for the murder of Maina. “Following the death of Carliton Maina in December 22, 2018 at Laini Saba in Kibera Oyombe of Kenyatta Police post was arrested. Maina succumbed to gunshot wounds believed to have been inflicted on him by Oyombe,” reads the tweet in part. However, IPOA has also taken credit for the investigations, saying the arraignment of Oyombe in court was due to their investigations which the DPP had concurred. It had also been alleged that the DCI had at some point recommended an inquest into the death of Carlton. 