Apart from disobeying the cessation order restricting cross-border movement, some Mombasa traders operate beyond curfew hours in what could be blamed on a disjointed operation among security apparatus. In some areas, there is either uncoordinated or minimal police presence. This is a weak link in the fight against Covid-19 in Mombasa. Police on Sunday arrested five residents of Kilifi at the Manjoni cliff trying to sneak into Mombasa using a boat. Kisauni sub-county police commander Julius Kiragu said the five have been sent into mandatory quarantine at St Thomas Secondary. "They are devising new ways to sneak through other counties. We are also coming up with tactics to ensure we apprehend them,” Kiragu said. A spot check by the Star at Bamburi, Mshomoroni, Barsheba, Majaoni, towards Lights, Buxton, Nyali, and even within the CBD showed few or no law enforcers. This has left residents mingling late into their night in total disregard of the curfew. At the Likoni crossing channel, the last ferry is seen with passengers a few minutes past seven. But county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said Kenya Ferry Services close at exactly 7pm. “Enforcement of curfew directive is a continuous effort and people will also want to break. Our officers need to be very consistent in implementing it,” Kitiyo said. “Some cops have bad manners. The bosses can’t be everywhere, but we try our best to ensure we correct that,” he added, in response to claims that officers receive bribes at roadblocks. The curfew and cessation of movements in and out of Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, and Nairobi have been extended for a further 21 days by President Uhuru Kenyatta. While coming from a late assignment, an officer at a roadblock demanded Sh200. The officers did not check if indeed I was an essential service provider but let me go when the Sh200 was not forthcoming. The county emergency response committee on Covid-19, with the help of chiefs and Nyumba Kumi heads, has been spearheading the spread of a message requiring parents to ensure their children stay at home. “Kindly inform parents that from Monday, if we find children playing outside, we shall take them for quarantine at their cost. Minors should not be sent to the shops as well or be allowed to roam around the estates,” the message read. At Mshomoroni, just a stone-throw from a police station, an old police lorry with a few officers was driven back to the station on Sunday past dozens of residents sitting outside, oblivious of curfew hours or the presence of the police. Shops, miraa bases, boda boda operators, small-scale traders along the roadside, including female fish vendors, operate beyond 7pm. If unchecked, and with the Ramadhan season, it is expected to get worse as Muslims stay out late. Neighbours sit in groups, boda bodas ferry people while others walk leisurely towards their destination past 7pm. Only a few people seem to be in a rush. Last week, Governor Hassan Joho blamed the existing cultural practices in the region for being a hindrance to the adherence of preventive directives, including social distancing. Edited by R.Wamochie