A husband has been ordered to pay for a return ticket from Switzerland for his ex-wife to attend their matrimonial property case. She says she cannot afford a ticket as she is unemployed and he has refused to pay for her upkeep. The couple married in December 1987 under Islamic law but got divorced in 2016 in a Kadhi's Court. They have three children. However, the woman filed an appeal at the Nairobi High Court challenging dissolution of the marriage. Justice Aggrey Muchelule ruled on April 8 (later available electronically) the man should pay for his ex-wife’s ticket so she can participate in the case in person, instead of through written submissions. The two were not identified by name in court papers, only by initials. He ruled that the dispute shall be heard through hearing and cross-examination on a date convenient to the former wife. “The applicant shall pay for a return economy ticket to enable her to come for the hearing of the case,” the judge ordered. The man has been blocked from evicting the woman from their matrimonial home in Geneva when she travels to Nairobi for the hearing. The matrimonial property case was filed by the husband who wants the matrimonial property shared out. In the course of their marriage, they acquired six plots in Kwale, plots in Mountain View (Nairobi), Kitale, Ngong and their matrimonial home in Geneva, Switzerland. The former wife opposed the distribution on the grounds that the appeal in the High Court should first be completed. She has submitted, in court papers, evidence that she said shows how she contributed substantively to the acquisition and development of the property they own. The woman claimed the application for distribution had been made in bad faith since she lives in Geneva and is unable to travel to Nairobi for the case. She does not have travel papers and lacks a residence permit for which she has applied; she is awaiting a response. “If I must travel to Kenya, I would need to ask the Swiss Government to issue me with written permission to do so and this would occasion me undue hardship. It would take a long time, thus impeding timely disposal of this matter,” she argued. She claims he wants her to travel to Kenya and then take over the Geneva home. (Edited by V. Graham)