I hear about people suffering under partial lockdown as though it's the worst thing in the world. There's a deluge of advice on what to do to keep healthy, handle stress and loneliness - deep breathing, not overeating, exercising, taking up crocheting, trying new recipes, cracking the books one has been meaning to read, keeping in touch with friends and so on. For me, I don't have sad tales to tell. I rather like working at home. I'm a workaholic anyhow and I've always lived alone, except during university and a brief marriage. If I didn't have work, it would be quite boring. Right now I'm on leave but there's nowhere to go. I had wanted to go on a safari. I spend most of my day editing stories. I call up correspondents who've left out key elements, suggesting how to improve their work, suggesting non-corona stories. I work for about eight hours a day. Sometimes it's tedious but I get a lot done. I especially liked the story about Lamu women cutting up old brassieres and using them for face masks for their families. How many men or teenage boys would be caught dead --  an unfortunate expression -- rather than wear mum's discarded bras? We finish early so people can get home before curfew but I'm already home. So I can read books I've downloaded on Kindle, watch movies. I do miss the buzz in my office but it's practically empty now, so we communicate twice a day by Zoom and WhatsApp. Still, I wish I had someone to talk to in person, a real person. Yes, I occasionally call, email or get calls and emails. I'm planning to resume my Kiswahili lessons with my teacher over Zoom. Maybe I need a cat. Occasionally I go to the chemist or the supermarket. I exercise. I walk out on my balcony, look at the trees. My laptop is set up next to my balcony so I can look outside and see birds fluttering about. I work on my plants on the balcony and at the end of my outdoor hallway-breezeway. I wish I had a garden. Occasionally I see my housekeeper. I can even make my own bed, cook for myself and do the laundry. I always used to do these things. We're spoiled here. Doing this work makes me appreciate my housekeeper. As for Easter, which used to be a huge deal in my family, I listened to Bach and Gregorian chants, hoping for a new beginning, which Easter is supposed to symbolise. Supper was scrambled eggs.