Civil society organisations have demanded inclusion in the National Emergency Response Committee and Covid-19 Response Fund Board to ensure wide participation and accountability. Under the banner of Civil Society Reference Group, the lobbies argue that their participation would broaden the focus on the response to include recovery measures post-virus. They argue that it was unfortunate that despite being an important part of addressing issues affecting Kenyans, the organisations have been “systematically excluded in the teams formed to combat the spread and mitigate the effects of Covid-19 pandemic”. “It is ironic that the national and even county governments still find it difficult to incorporate NGOs and the wider civil society sector in their governance and development processes even as they continue to claim that the law has not been suspended when clamping on those who have breached curfew and other regulations,” they said. Incorporating the entities in managing the response and resources would ensure transparency and allow public participation in the process, they said. With the inclusion of only government and private sector actors in these teams controlling enormous resources, exclusion of the public watchdogs suggests “no intent for accountability in the management and disbursement of the public funds”. Accountability needed The umbrella agency also wants the state to develop an easily accessible public information portal indicating how much money and materials such as foodstuffs it has received from local and foreign donors, how they are kept, how they have been disbursed and to whom. “[This] will enable the general public and their civil society formations to monitor and track the movement and use of such resources in the interest of transparency and accountability,” it said. The group said it was not enough for Treasury CS Ukur Yatani to announce that Sh40 billion has been set for spending without making available any publicly verifiable evidence to back the claims. “The public has every right and reason to doubt and treat such claims by the government with the biggest pinch of salt that their hands can hold because there is no oversight within the bodies that have been established to manage the resources and make decisions over their acquisition and appropriation.” It added, “Failure to include credible organisations such as Transparency International, Amnesty International, International Budget Institute (IBI) and the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) among others is only to ensure opaqueness and avoid accountability at all costs even in light of their professed commitment to fighting corruption in the public spheres.” Edited by R.Wamochie