There was zero social distancing and plenty of anger as hundreds of mourners violated a ban on gatherings to attend the emotional burial of a bandit attack victim on Thursday. National Police Reservist Chepkok Napol, 32, was ambushed and shot dead by Pokot bandits at the Kamachakwa black spot along Loruk-Yatya road on April 2. He was buried in Yata, Baringo North subcounty, on Thursday. “He was riding a boda boda carrying a customer heading to Marigat town before meeting his premature death," the eulogy read. Tugen residents led by Richard Chepchomei said they could not control the people from gathering in large numbers despite the ban on gatherings to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “Our people no longer care much about the global coronavirus. Pokot bandits are becoming more dangerous to our lives,” Chepchomei said. Therefore, he said they had to gather ina crowd, hoping to hear from their leaders and to pay their last respects to their slain loved one. They demanded the government increase security patrols along the porous borders of Loruk, Chemoe, Yatya and Ng’aratuko to protect them from Tiaty-Baringo North cross-border invasions. All county leaders and security bosses steered clear of the funeral, observing government regulations to control the spread of the coronavirus. Only five people are allowed to attend a funeral and they must be as far  as two metres apart. Yatya publication assistant chief Jackson Keitany was the only local government administrator present. He said he is waiting for his bosses to address the runaway insecurity. “My late son was the sole family breadwinner of the family, I wonder who will replace him. I only urge the government to pursue the killer bandits and ensure we get justice,” mother Teriki Napol said. She is among more than 800 Tugen residents who fled the volatile Chepkesin, Yatya, Kagir, Chemoe, Barketiew, Kosile and Centre-one villages in Bartabwa ward after Pokot bandits attacked, killing two people this week. The Internally Displaced Persons, including young children, have fled and are now spending the night in the cold in Rormoch, Karimo, Rondinin, Chapin, Barbarchuch, Sibilo, Akoroyan and Chepkowel. “The people left their homes and they are now crowded in the bushes risking death by coronavirus, malaria or hunger, Chepchomei said. He said National Police Reservists should be rearmed to help repulse the aggressors. Tension is high as armed Pokot bandits intensify retaliatory attacks, killing, injuring people, stealing livestock and vandalising public facilities. During the burial, Pokot bandits struck again,  killing 30-year old Kenneth Argut at Shakanin near Chepkesin in Bartabwa division. They broke into and vandalised Chepkesin Primary School stealing solar panels, without driving away any livestock. “These bandits are attacking us as if they don’t even care about the coronavirus. We don’t know where to run," Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said on Thursday. The violence worsened after agitated armed Tugen youths attempted to retaliate by attacking Pokots at Ng’inyang, Tiaty subcounty April 4. On Tuesday night, Pokot bandits attacked Yatya, Baringo North, at about 8pm and stole 65 cows and goats belonging to one family, Thomas Kiburet and his mother Sokome. “Our officers engaged the bandits in a fierce exchange of fire until 3am. We managed to overpower them and recovered all the animals,” subcounty police commander Fredrick Odinga said. “We wonder why the security officers, Pokot chiefs and elders are always keeping silent every time the Pokot bandits attack us the Tugens,” he said. However, Baringo county Commissioner Henry Wafula reacted over the shooting of a Pokot herder, saying since he assumed office two years ago, he has known the Tugens as peaceful people. “Yes, Pokots have been known for frequent attacks but we cannot bomb them. Our security officers have had a way of frustrating them until know they have moved from livestock theft to highway robberies,” Wafula said. He said Tugens should stop arming themselves against the Pokots as it will only aggravate the situation. He praised the Pokots in Tiaty for returning at least 12 illegal firearms when the government embarked on peaceful disarmament last month. “We haven’t collected any illegal firearms from either the Tugen or the Ilchamus communities,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)