As trouble continues to dogged the Jubilee Party, Cotu secretary-general Francis Atwoli hosted the ruling outfit's vice-chairperson David Murathe on Monday. Also in attendance in the meeting that sources described as political at Atwoli's Kajiado home was ODM leader Raila Odinga. Interestingly, Atwoli's home is outside the Nairobi Metropolitan area which has movement restrictions in line with measures to tame the spread of Covid-19. Murathe, Raila and other leaders allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta were flagged through the Isinya border despite restrictions on movement in and out of Nairobi save for essential services providers. After the meeting, it emerged that the troubles in Jubilee were part of the discussion with Murathe saying that Deputy President William Ruto can have the party for himself. Speaking after the meeting, Atwoli and Murathe said that they were alive to the possibility of new political formations ahead of 2022. Murathe claimed that Ruto only "woke up" when he "felt his position in Jubilee is threatened." "It is not like we cannot move on. And if it is the party that they want, we can leave it to them. People can expect new formations in the future. We can move on to a bigger house which will be bigger than Jubilee," Murathe said. The meeting came as the war in Jubilee hots up after changes were made to the National Management Committee - a key organ of the party. Secretary-General Raphael Tuju claims the changes were sanctioned by Uhuru in consultation with Ruto. However, Ruto wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties claiming that the changes were illegal and fraudulent. At least some 140 MPs allied to him and scores of Jubilee members have also written to the RPP opposing the changes gazetted last Friday. NMC is an offshoot of the National Executive Council and has a role in the day to day running of the party. However, under the Jubilee Constitution,  the Party Leader cannot make changes to the national officials without consulting the Deputy Party Leader. Uhuru and Ruto are the party leader and deputy party leader respectively. Murathe further claimed that the country may need a government of national unity after dealing with Covid-19. "This country needs a government of national unity post-Coronavirus. To bring people together so that all can focus on rebuilding the country," Murathe said. The Jubilee Vice-Chair who has just made a comeback after announcing his resignation more than a year ago also told off Ruto over the control of the party. "This country cannot work when you have this kind of antagonism and when you have some people whose only focus is 2022." Atwoli said that people should not be surprised when they see leaders meeting and claimed that Ruto was sidelining himself from other political players. "Normally in Kenya, you know that formations are obvious. And even if William Samoei Ruto was excluded, there is nothing wrong with that. But he is excluding himself and has automatically run away from the head of his Jubilee Party," Atwoli said.