The rainfall in several parts of the country will persist into the weekend and part of next week, the latest forecast shows. Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said Western, Central, Nairobi and Coast regions will receive heavy rain of more than 30mm in 24 hours. “It is expected to spread to the South East, North East and North West region of Kenya on Saturday, April 18,” she said. Aura said the heavy rainfall is projected to continue up to Sunday. “The intensity is likely to reduce by Monday, April 20,” she said. The director said strong winds of 20 knots and large waves of two meters will accompany heavy rainfall at the Coast. The areas likely to receive the heaviest downpour include Kwale, Kilifi, Mombasa, Lamu, Tana River, Taita Taveta, Nairobi, Nyeri, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Murang’a, Embu, Meru and Kirinyaga. Tharaka Nithi, Isiolo, Samburu, Turkana, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, Garissa, Busia, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho, Bomet, Nakuru, Narok, Migori, Trans Nzoia, Nandi and West Pokot are also to get heavy rains. Others regions are Baringo, Uasin Ngishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Vihiga, Bungoma, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya, Kakamega and Nakuru. Aura urged residents in areas affected by heavy rains to be on the lookout for potential floods. “Residents are advised to avoid driving through, or walking in moving water or open fields or not to shelter under trees and near grilled windows to minimize exposure to lightning strikes,” she said. Aura said the heavy rains, large waves and strong winds offshore may result in storm surges along the coast, hence fishermen and all in the marine industry should be on high alert. She said those in landslide-prone areas especially over the slopes of the Aberdares ranges, Mount Kenya and other hilly areas over the Western region should be vigilant. “All are urged to continue listening to local media as updates will be provided if conditions change significantly,” Aura said. The department is following the progress of weather events and will issue further advisories. (edited by o. owino)