What are our scientists and professors doing? Waiting for others to find a cure for Covid-19? These were the words of Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua who bashed Kenyan professors even as Kenya grapples with containing the spread of coronavirus. So far Kenya has 59 confirmed Covid-19 cases since its outbreak on March 13. Globally the death toll has surpassed the 40,000 mark with over 800,000 confirmed cases. "Are you sitting in the lab trying to come up with a cure for Covid-19 or you are just seated at home? Because we have very educated people here with papers, they teach people until they get PHDs," he said. In a video shared on his Twitter handle on Wednesday, Mutua said professors and PhD holders should get out of their comfort zones and find a cure. "Professor mzima, where are you? Where is the solution you are giving to the world? Or are you seated here waiting for other countries to come up with a cure then import them here?" he posed. "If you are at home and you are a full professor and you can be in the lab..shame on you....shame on you...shame on you...get out..do something to get a cure don't just sit there waiting for importation." Mutua asked why Kenyans must rely on imported medicines from other countries and yet Kenya had the potential to look for a cure. "Why not buy our own medicines? We must start thinking that Kenya and East Africa... we must find a cure and a homegrown solution for ourselves. We have trees and plants ..why can't we get to our labs and work?" he posed. But he noted that the government was willing to fund the process. "If you are working tell us we fund you because most of you will give excuses that you don't have money... I challenge our educated people..unafaya nini kuchangia hii janga.. please don't sit at home," he said. A clinical officer in Nairobi became Kenya's first health worker to contract coronavirus in the line of duty. The clinician was taken ill last week at Ngara Health Centre in Nairobi, where she works. Different groups representing health workers now say they are exposed to the virus in their daily work and it is possible hundreds of them and their families will become victims of the virus. Experience from other countries shows that frontline health workers bear the brunt of infections. For instance, of the 85,195 infected people by Tuesday in Spain, 12,300 were frontline health workers, mainly nurses.