Workers of bars and eateries in Murang’a want the county government to give them weekly stipends following the closure of their workplaces. They also want food to cushion them during this Covid-19 period. The workers, most of whom are women, said their families have been going without food because even casual work is hard to find. The county administration closed all bars when the coronavirus pandemic hit the country to prevent revellers from contracting and spreading the virus. Eateries, on the other hand, were allowed to sell only take-away food and many waiters were sent home. “It is very painful watching our children go to bed hungry and knowing there is nothing much you can do to help them,” Bernice Ngima said. The workers who had congregated outside the county government’s offices in Murang’a town on Wednesday said they are suffering and require the urgent attention of the Governor Mwangi wa Iria-led administration. Mary Wambui said they have been reduced to begging to feed their families. She said they go for days without finding any casual labour as more and more people chose to stay at home. Wambui said workers should be included in the weekly stipends issued by the government to the vulnerable. On April 16, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that disadvantaged households would receive weekly stipends to cushion them from the effects of the pandemic. The President said the programme was piloted in Nairobi, where households were identified and provided with stipends, and that an additional Sh5 billion was sent to county governments to help them undertake similar initiatives. “The government took away our only source of income and left us helpless. We are asking to be included in the relief programme,” Wambui said. Last week, a group of beauty and barbershop operators held protests in Murang’a town, asking the county government to revoke an order issued to close down their premises. The workers said they had exhausted their savings after staying home with their families for two weeks and that they would require relief food if their shops were not reopened. They said they were ready to follow all guidelines issued by the government to protect themselves and their customers from the virus. Edited by A.N