At least six clinical officers in Kenya have tested positive for Covid-19, according to their union. One doctor is also reportedly infected, according to unconfirmed reports from medics attending to patients. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary general George Gibore has blamed this on the unavailability of surgical masks to prevent transmission as they come into close contact with patients. This follows reports of the rising number of health workers being infected with the virus. Gibore spoke on Friday at a media briefing on the protection of health workers as they deal with the virus. He said the union conducted a survey to evaluate the working environment and the level of preparedness within the health system and found out that 90 per cent of the respondents have only received gloves and 57 per cent have surgical masks. “The trend on the availability of surgical masks is worrying considering the main mode of transmission of Covid-19 is close contact with infected persons. This poses a great risk of infection,” he said. The survey was conducted between April 3 and April 6 in 46 counties. The respondents were frontline healthcare staff, including clinical and medical officers, nurses, and laboratory and pharmaceutical technologists. "We have noted with great concern that 68 per cent of our respondents have not been trained on Covid-19. This is a wakeup call to all employees and both levels of governments to train their staff. The more worrying finding was that 68.4 per cent of healthcare workers have not been taught on how to don and doff the PPEs, while 58 per cent have not been provided with the requisite PPEs at their workplace,” Gibore said. He added that 85 per cent of the facilities are not giving patients with respiratory conditions face masks as they get into their facilities. “Now that we are producing the PPEs locally, they should be made available immediately to all levels of medical facilities,” he said. The union wants the government to employ at least 2,000 clinical officers as the 500 to be recruited will translate into 10 per county, a number not even enough to address the shortage that was there before the pandemic. The union also urged the government to set up separate isolation facilities in all medical centres where patients with respiratory symptoms can be treated. They would also hold suspected coronavirus patients. “In addition, the state should streamline the Covid-19 referral system to avoid relapses, hence ensure there are clinical psychologists attached to healthcare workers to ensure their psychological wellbeing,” he said. They also want the government to waive all the PAYE tax for health workers during the period of the outbreak to show appreciation of the risk they face.