Ugunja MP and Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi has slammed the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for opposing additional allowances to health workers. The commission last week wrote a letter to the Council of Governors warning them against paying additional allowances to health personnel fighting Covid 19. Wandayi said the warning was 'mechanical and insensitive' to the plight of the medics who are working hard to save lives. “The latest statement by the SRC Chairperson on allowances for the health workers is not only insensitive but depicts the Commission as an outfit that has either lost touch with the reality or is totally idle,” he said in a statement on Sunday. The ODM secretary for Political Affairs asked SRC to be innovative if it is to 'regain some iota of relevance.’ “What is so difficult in allowing the county governments to adjust the allowances payable to these workers during the period of the crisis occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic?” he posed. The legislators said there was nothing in rewarding the workers provided the budgets of the counties allow them to do so. Some governors have announced additional packages for their health workers to motivate them as they fight to save Kenyans suffering from the disease. Last week, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said all health workers will get allowances ranging from Sh5,000 to as much as Sh20,000 depending on qualifications. He said his administration recognised and appreciated the sacrifice the workers are making in the fight against the coronavirus. He lauded county governments that have taken the initiative to motivate the health workers by way of enhanced allowances or remuneration. “In any case, the sacrifices being made by these employees, who are on the front-line in the war against the COVID-19, can never be compensated for enough,” he said. The MP called for the income tax waiver for health personnel for some period as the national budget is being realigned to accommodate their enhanced remuneration in the long term. “I will pursue this particular route when Parliament resumes sittings next week,” he said.