Ten boda boda operators in Kisumu accused of killing two riders and leaving another four with serious injuries have been arrested. Batons, bows, arrows, and motorcycles were recovered in a raid conducted by police and members of the public. Eight were arrested at Briliant area on Friday afternoon while two leaders of the group were nabbed by police on Thursday night. The suspects were taken into the police vehicles. The suspects are members of a CBO registered under the Kisumu county boda boda association located in Nubian estate. One of the notorious suspects known as Mrefu was among those arrested. The suspects on Thursday evening attacked seven riders for carrying two passengers, killing one on the spot with six sustaining serious injuries. One succumbed to injuries on Friday. Four are still admitted at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Witnesses said a rider was spotted carrying two passengers and a group of people known as ‘CBO’ acting as head of operators within the region confiscated the motorbike in a fight. Boda boda riders from the Manyatta Shule went to their offices in Nubian to know why the motorcycle was confiscated and in the process, they engaged in a fight. The CBO members later went to Manyatta Shule base where the fight continued. One person was killed during the incident. "Who gave the group powers to beat and confiscate motorbikes belonging to others claiming to implement government directives yet we have the authority around,” Kondele MC Joachim Oketch said. This prompted riders and residents led by their area leaders to storm the Nubian office where they arrested some of the members. Before the arrest, the riders led by Oketch stormed Kondele police station demanding immediate arrest of the suspects. Locals termed the group a ‘well-organised militia’ which has been terrorising riders and residents for long. The gang usually armed with knives, pangs, bows, and arrows attack victims. “They are part of criminal groups terrorising and robbing residents at night. It is a well-organised gang. We know them,” one of the riders said. The suspects, he said, have tortured some of his colleagues for failing to pay a registration fee. A woman who sought anonymity said the CBO members have turned into debt collectors as well as torturing family members. “Some people use them to collect debts on their behalf. When they stormed your house, they beat you, collect your households and even rape you,” she said. At one point, they seriously beat up a man who had issues with his wife. Oketch said the group must be disbanded. He questioned the motive of the CBO saying it must cease being operational. “We want to know those behind it and why it was started. It is being used to terrorise and kill citizens,” Oketch said. Richard Onyango, 21, a survivor said he was attacked by two members of the group in Manyatta estate. He was last week stabbed in the stomach and was rushed to JOOTRH for failing to pay Sh3,000 to be a member of Lake Breeze base in Kondele. Kisumu OCPD Martha Ngetich said they are investigating the incident. She said the suspects will be charged.