President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced the country has recorded seven new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. Speaking on Saturday from State House, Nairobi, the President announced the extension of the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale and Mandera by another 21 days. In accordance with the advice of the National Emergency Response Committee on the Coronavirus Pandemic, Uhuru also said the nationwide 7 pm to 5 am curfew has been extended for another 21 days. Kenya's death toll from the virus remains at 14. “We extended our appreciation to the health and security personnel standing at the forefront of the war against the coronavirus pandemic. While we mourn the 14 who have succumbed, we celebrate the 98 recoveries we have seen so far,” he said. The President warned that the government will not delay in escalating the measures put in place if the need arises. "Kenyans let us unite and fight the pandemic together, as a Government, we don't want to announce more strict measures for Kenyans but if need be, we will not hesitate," Uhuru said. He said the counties of Mandera, Kwale, Kilifi and Mombasa have registered an increase in the number of infections and if this trend does not reverse, more stringent measures will be taken in consultation with the respective county governments. The President said the country has been spared the more terrible human cost so far because the Government followed the advice of medical experts and acted quickly to stop this disease spreading and killing large numbers of Kenyans. "I thank the millions of Kenyans for showing discipline and responsibility. Your attitude is saving thousands of families from grieving for those who would otherwise be lost to the coronavirus," he said. Uhuru said the security services will upgrade their alert and response measures in every border area. "This is to ensure that porous borders and security threats do not compromise our response to this pandemic," he added. The President thanked the National Assembly forapproving his tax relief measures. "Thanks to our legislators, we will now ensure that employees have more of their earnings available to them to spend and reduce the corporate tax burden as an incentive to the business enterprises," he added. Uhuru was joined in the briefing by Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Amason Kingi (Kilifi). The governors reiterated the national government's call on self-hygiene, hand washing and social distancing in order to curb further spread of the virus. The President also thanked Parliament for approving the government's tax relief measures. "We will now ensure employees have more of their earnings for them to use," he said.