Determined to raise forest cover to 10 per cent in two years, the Kenya Forest Service has encouraged Kenyans to plant trees on their farms and gardens. The country's vegetation cover is 7.2 per cent. KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau made the appeal on Wednesday during observations to mark Earth Day. "It is crucial for Kenyans to rally together to heal Planet Earth by planting trees so it can heal us in return," Kamau said. The CCF planted a mugithia seedling; the tree is known for its medicinal value. "By planting this medicinal tree, nature will heal, and in the same breath, it's my prayer that the same healing spirit will heal Kenya and indeed the entire world from the coronavirus pandemic," Kamau said. Green Belt Movement chair Marion Kamau also urged Kenyans to plant trees on their property The Constitution envisages 10 per cent forest cover in two years; to achieve that Sh48 billion is required. The country needs to plant and protect 1.8 billion seedlings between now and 2022. Earth Day is an annual global event to demonstrate support for environmental protection. Experts warn the outbreak of pandemics such as coronavirus could be associated with the damage to the environment. They say halting biodiversity loss and tackling climate change will pave the way for a new normal in the age of the coronavirus. The United Nations Environment Programme said the pandemic is a stark reminder of the vulnerability of humans and the planet in the face of global-scale threats. UNEP said the unchecked damage to the environment must be addressed. CCF Kamau and Wangari Maathai founded the Green Belt Movement in Kenya. Earth Day was marked at the Wangari Maathai Corner in Karura Forest. Fifty indigenous tree seedlings were planted to mark the 50th Earth Day. Participants wore masks and observed social distancing, as well as handwashing.  Fifteen people at a time planted seedlings. Tree planting will help mitigate the adverse effects of climate change, such as floods and mudslides taking place in deforested areas in Kenya and worldwide. The Kenya Meteorological Department said the ongoing rains are the perfect opportunity to plant trees. The Met said the rains will intensify on Thursday and decline on Saturday in Western and Central Kenya. (Edited by V. Graham)