Members of the National Assembly on Tuesday voted to alter the regular House calendar following the constraints of the coronavirus pandemic. The lawmakers will now hold sittings only on Wednesdays, with numbers limited to 53 members including the leaders. The changes present a race against time for crucial budget bills whose deadline has affected by the disruption. The House will adjourn sittings from Wednesday, April 15, until the next Wednesday, April 22 at 10am. Normally, MPs hold four sittings in a week —Tuesday afternoon, Wednesday morning and afternoon and on Thursday. However, the sittings, following a motion by the Business committee, will be spread to each Wednesday until May 6, when members will break for a short recess. Leader of Majority Aden Duale moved that the House would resume its sittings for the second part on June 2 — depending on how the emergency situation would pan out. The changes would mean fewer hours for members’ motions and bills as well as legislation that is not considered part of Covid-19 response. Speaker Justin Muturi’s rules restrict committee meetings to nine participants and only in rooms marked in line with the Health ministry guidelines. Already, committee chairs are lamenting the difficulties of setting up a physical meeting, their situation worsened by the lack of a framework for virtual sittings. This is especially the case of the Budget, National Administration, and Finance committees. They have a crucial role in the ratification of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reliefs. Muturi intimated to the Star that the week-long interval was arrived at following a Health ministry advisory. “Public health officers advised that we consider a four-day interval between the sittings to allow for disinfection of the chamber before use by other members,” he said. Key deadlines are for the Senate to pass the Division of Revenue Bill, in concurrence with the National Assembly, by April 30. Should it reject the bill, mediation would follow, as was the case this financial year, a sitting whose numbers exceed the set space for nine. MPs are required to pass the Finance Bill and Appropriations Bill by June 30, failure to which the government would face a cash crisis. The House is also expected to approve the second supplementary estimates by the end of this month — ideally. The proposals have to be reviewed by the Budget and Appropriations committee for subsequent approval in a plenary. Before the March recess, MPs concluded business on the Budget Policy Statement and Division of Revenue Bill. But committees are likely to suffer constraints as they have to discuss some of the budget discussions in May and June. The discussions terminate at the Committee of Supplies which is expected to generate the Appropriation Bill by June 30. Members’ bills may suffer a setback in terms of time allocated to them in the constrained business hours. Among the legislation is the one rooting for the merger of Kenya National Human Rights Commission and Gender commission. At stake are also amendments to the PFM Act for MPs to approve foreign debts sought by the National Treasury. Various reports by committees — for instance, the one on Gaming Bill, 2019 — are also pending and would have to be expended. Most of their deadlines were adjusted in line with Tuesday's resumption date – meaning they will have to be concluded once the sittings begin. Edited by E.Kibii