 Five samples that were taken for testing for Covid-19  in Meru have returned negative results, Governor Kiraitu Murungi has said. Speaking when he held a response committee meeting to review the status and preparedness of the county on coronavirus, Kiraitu said the results don’t mean the county is immune to the disease. Health executive Misheck Mutuma said the five were discharged to join their families. Kiraitu said his administration has set aside Sh36 million for additional public awareness, protective gear for health workers, purchasing ventilators and oxygen cylinders. "My administration increased budget allocation as a precautionary measure. The money will be used to buy fumigation equipment and chemicals, enlist fumigation volunteers and intensifying public awareness campaigns through various media outlets." The governor ordered stern action be taken against traders still selling second-hand clothes (mitumba) which were banned to stop the spread of the virus. “We have suspended the sale of mitumba clothes until further notice. There should be no idlers in our markets. It is our duty to protect the lives of our people," Kiraitu said. Mutuma raised concerns about people travelling from Nairobi to the county, urging the national government to ban the movement. Nairobi has been listed as a high-risk county after recording the most cases of the virus. “People should be limited because we have many elderly citizens in the villages and people share a lot including utensils. We intend to transfer congested markets to other areas," the executive said. "We will use force on those not complying." County commissioner Allan Machari said it was regrettable that residents were ignorant of the social distancing directive. Machari said the committee will enforce laws to ensure people obey the directive. He said club owners were running their businesses behind closed doors despite government orders barring them from operating and warned of arrests and prosecution. Edited by R.Wamochie