Isiolo has unveiled a six-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and a High Dependency Unit (HDU) with seven beds at the Isiolo County Teaching and Referral Hospital. Commissioning the facilities on Saturday, Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti said that his government was committed to provide all Isiolo County residents with high standards healthcare. Kuti stated that the ICU and HDU have ventilators, suction machines, and dual flow oxygen concentrators. “The facilities I have commissioned today are a testament of my administration’s commitment to provide every resident of our county with high standard health care," he said. We are not doing this only because of Covid-19 because even before it we had made several other investment in our hospital like the bio-safety laboratory, oxygen plant and CT-Scan,” he said. Kuti is the health committee chair at the Council of Governors and has been closely working with the Ministry of Health ever since Kenya reported its first case on March 13. Isiolo’s department of health is also making a follow up with the Ministry of Health for approval of a bio-safety laboratory to be a regional Covid-19 testing centre. Governor Kuti said he has also directed the training of 200 health workers and 100 Community Health Volunteers on Covid-19 management. This is to prepare the county in case of coronavirus cases and also to provide education and awareness of how to prevent the spread of the disease. Kuti urged all residents to be vigilant and keenly observe government advisories and directives to avoid coronavirus infections. He his administration will use all available resources to ensure residents are better sensitised. Kuti called on all political leaders to channel their resources in the fight against the disease. On Saturday, the Ministry of Health said at least 7,000 people will be tested for coronavirus countrywide after the ministry received testing kits from Roche Diagnostics. Director of Public Health Patrick Amoth on Saturday said the machines have been placed at various facilities. “The beauty of what you're going to deploy is that now you're able to do more tests in a shorter time,” he said. The mass testing will start in the quarantine centres and for healthcare workers and thereafter across the different institutions. So far, 191 people have been infected with Covid-19  countrywide. Some 491 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours. Amoth explained that the Kobus 8800 machine can do two to three-hour tests in about one hour. The ministry, however, said the mass testing will only face a setback considering the availability of testing kits, based on the global supply chain challenges. The director assured that the ministry was putting efforts to procure more kits to utilise the machines to reach a bigger population. “By testing, we shall be able to tell for sure where we are in terms of winning the battle,” he said.  