Soccer stakeholders across the country now want former Cecafa secretary general, Nicholas Musonye to vie for the Football Kenya Federation top seat in the forthcoming election. Former Kakamega Homeboyz and Chemelil FC coach Alfred Imonje said Musonye was not only ripe but was the right candidate for the seat considering his performance at the regional level. "He is the right person to streamline football in the country and bring back sanity in the wake of the current controversy that has rocked the sport," he said. He said: “The current management of soccer in this country is worrying and therefore as the stakeholders in the football industry, we want to urge Musonye to consider vying for the top seat." He said Musonye's achievements at Cecafa was there for all to see and was very adorable. "Musonye has really done great work by building a good network that has even seen Cecafa events become some of the most recognised tournaments by Fifa. “Through his leadership skills, we have seen the wide gap that used to exist between East Africa and West African teams narrowing. Unlike in the past, we are seeing many teams in the region competing in Caf organised tournaments,” Imonje reiterated. He added that the state of football in the country at the moment was at the lowest ebb and if this trend continues, it will affect the local football badly and this could demoralise the players who are key in the industry. He also observed that the rate at which sponsors are walking away from football due to lack of transparency was so worrying and it was only Musonye who could salvage the situation. " He has done it with Cecafa and there is no reason why he can't do it locally. He has the capability of bringing sponsors on board and restoring faith in the investors." “We believe Musonye is the only person who can change and improve Kenyan Soccer and we hope and believe he will consider our challenge,” said Imonje. His sentiments were supported by Fred Lugalia who said it was high time for Musonye to transfer his good leadership skills to his native country as he seeks to extend his legacy in football. After the COVID-19 pandemic more candidates are expected to come out and seek votes from the delegates as the race begins to shape up in the near future.