The family of the Covid-19 victim buried hurriedly in Siaya at night has filed a petition to exhume the body and give it a proper send-off. James Oyugi Onyango was buried in his Kamalunga village home, Ukwala division, Ugenya subcounty in the wee hours of April 12. According to the petition drawn and filed by Odindo and Company Advocates, the  petitioners are his sister Joan Akoth Ajuang and son Brian Thomas Oyugi. The two want an order made that upon exhumation of the body, an autopsy be conducted in their presence or their nominees to ascertain the cause of death and in particular whether Oyugi died of Covid-19. The respondents are listed as Simuor Kondiek location chief Michael Owuor Osodo, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and the Attorney General.  The Law Society of Kenya is indicated as an interested party. The petitioners want the deceased’s body re-buried immediately in a decent ceremony in accordance with the World Health Organisation guidelines on the safe management of a dead body in the context of Covid-19 (if confirmed that the deceased died of the disease), the Constitution and cultural requirements. Ajuang and Oyugi further want a declaration that the rights of the deceased to a decent burial under international law, the Constitution and Luo culture as well as the rights of  the petitioners together with the deceased’s loved ones were violated by the respondents. They ask the court that the immediate and/or extended family of Oyugi be allowed to designate a maximum of 15 persons to witness the exhumation and re-burial. The Ministry of Health should provide the necessary protective gear for the 15  representatives of the deceased’s family during the exercise. The petitioners have stated eight grounds of the petition among them that the decision by the first and second respondents to inter the remains of the deceased devoid of any Luo customs with regard to burials was in complete contravention of the petitioners' rights under Articles 27, 32 and 44 of the Constitution. The manner in which the respondents ordered the interment without their input had caused them untold anguish and pain since they were denied the right to bury their loved in a decent manner. “The manner in which the deceased was buried devoid of the Luo customary traditions has occasioned the stigmatisation of the deceased's family members since the petitioners together with other relatives of the deceased are already being shunned by the larger society,” the petition reads. The applicants state that this will have the ultimate effect of causing stigma in the general Kenyan population since the recording of how the deceased was buried has been circulated on social media and news outlets. “Further, the deceased was buried in an extremely shallow grave and the same can be easily opened up upon weather elements acting on the grave or wild and/or stray animals dig up the grave and lay bare the deceased’s remains, which in itself is a public health hazard." The petitioners say the burial was shrouded in secrecy and misinformation and an autopsy was not conducted to ascertain the cause of death, leaving the family grappling with unanswered questions. Edited by Henry Makori