Football Kenya Federation (FKF)  have admitted being desperate and running out of time ahead of the  April 24 deadline set by Fifa to pay former Harambee Stars' coach Adel Amrouche FKF were instructed by the global governing body to pay the streetwise Amrouche a whooping Sh 109 million for unlawful dismissal and barely a week to the deadline, a cloud of uncertainty hangs around Kandanda House The federation's chief executive officer, Barry Otieno, said their efforts to mobilize funds from other avenues after the Ministry of Sports declined their request to help them compensate the Algerian-turned-Belgian tactician has not yielded fruits. Otieno revealed that after their quest to convince the government to pay Amrouche hit a snag, they turned to Fifa for leniency owing to the coronavirus pandemic but Zurich is yet to respond to their request even as the clock ticks closer to the deadline, increasing fear among FKF honchos. Defying the ultimatum may prove costly as Fifa is likely to punish Kenya by expunging Stars from the 2022 World Cup qualifiers but Otieno is hopeful their toil in the remaining days will bring forth finances. "We are yet to source the money meant to pay Adel neither are we seeing light at the end of the tunnel. "The deadline is fast approaching and our efforts to clear with Adel seem not to bear fruit. We haven't heard from the government concerning the matter even after writing to them in good time. "We, however, understand fighting coronavirus is their top priority. We did a letter to Fifa explaining that we were unable to meet the deadline and we are hoping that they will respond and spare us the wrath, " said the former communications chief at Kandanda House. Meanwhile, Nairobi City Stars players will have something to smile about after the club confirmed their commitment to pay their salaries in full. "We have not reached a point where we can effect a pay cut to our players. They will continue earning as usual but if the current situation persists, then we are likely to make some changes as far as salaries are concerned," said the club's CEO Patrick Korir. "City Stars are owned by a foundation which at the moment is not making profits. I encourage the players to continue working from home and remain disciplined," he added.