More than 10,000 people could be displaced in Busia if rains presently being experienced in Western Kenya persist. Those projected to be affected are residents living along Rivers Malaba and Nzoia and along the shores of Lake Victoria. County Disaster Management department director Joseph Ekisa said on Sunday that an assessment done by the department shows River Malaba could flood because of the heavy rains being experienced in Mount Elgon where it originates. Tributaries flowing into river Malaba particularly in swampy areas are also feeding the river with water sufficient to trigger flooding, he said. He said subcounties likely to be affected by floods include Bunyala, parts of Samia, Matayos, Teso North and Teso South. Ekisa said his department is partnering with the Devolution ministry to ensure residents set to be affected are moved to safer grounds and given basic items including food and bedding. “We have written to the Devolution ministry for assistance because of our weak financial power,” he told the Star. The letter signed by Disaster Management chief officer Ezekiel Okwach and copied to Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi calls for quick intervention because of the on-going rains accompanied by strong winds, hailstones and thunderstorms. The rains have damaged social infrastructure including roads, homes and crops, the letter reads. Already, over 4,000 people have been displaced in Bunyala South Ward in Budalang’i. Those primarily uprooted from their homes are residents of Rugunga sub-location. Rugunga Disaster Management Committee chairman Geoffrey Wanjala told the Star on Sunday that displaced persons have been accommodated in neighbouring schools and churches. He said the displaced people’s numbers are being monitored to ensure they conform to regulations by the Health Ministry on Covid-19. On Wednesday, the Water Resources Authority warned that at least 25 rivers and dams, among them Rivers Malaba and Nzoia, may break banks as rains continue. Lake Victoria, the authority also warned, is likely to experience a backflow and flood areas around it. “Due to the magnitude of the on-going floods, most water resources including rivers are at critical stages in terms of threatening to break their embankments,” WRA chief executive officer Mohamed Shurie said. “The public is, therefore, notified to move to higher grounds and adhere to relevant flood alerts given through various media channels and community forums to avoid further destruction of lives, properties, the spread of water-borne diseases and loss of biodiversity.” Among other water sources expected to flood in Western Kenyan include rivers Yala, Nyando and Nyamasaria in Nyanza. Busia Disaster Management department has been grappling to implement some of its activities following the shooting down of the more than Sh50 million Supplementary Budget for 2019-20 that it had presented to the county assembly. Farmers in areas expected to experience floods are projected to suffered massive crop loses. Edited by R.Wamochie