An inmate was set free on Friday last week by the appellate court because his right to a fair trial had been violated. This was the second appeal that Joseph Munyao Makau filed after his first appeal at the High Court was dismissed by Justice Ojwang Odero in 2010. He was convicted of robbery with violence charges and had served 12 years. In 2018, he filed the case at the Court of Appeal arguing that during the trial at the magistrate court, the case proceeded even though the court was aware that he had no witness statements. Justices D. K. Musinga, Gatembu Kairu and Agnes Murgor allowed the appeal ruling that indeed Makau's rights to a fair trial were violated. The appellate court said Makau’s lawyer was right in complaining that his right to a fair trial was violated. As already noted, the duty of disclosure is a continuing one during the trial. “The trial court erred in taking the view that Makau had in effect waived his right to the witness statements on account of the first prosecution witness having testified without his witness statement being supplied to him,” the court held. The judges further added that they were satisfied that there was merit in the appeal by Makau which was rightly conceded by the DPP with the state counsel agreeing with Makau’s lawyers that his rights were violated. However, they said they would not order for a retrial due to a number of reasons including the 12 years that he had already served, so they set him free unconditionally. “And considering also the impact that might be occasioned in locating witnesses for purposes of a re-trial, as well as the fact that the appellant has been in custody since that time, we are inclined to allow the appeal,” they added. In the case,  it was alleged that in March 2008 at Kichaka Simba Village in Kwale county, Makau robbed John Maundu of a red wallet, a travelling bag, three T-shirts, a pair of shoes and Sh700 and that he used a knife to threaten the victim. The prosecution called four witnesses and after the conclusion of the case, he was convicted and sentenced to death. He then moved to the High Court where the appeal was dismissed on September 7, 2010. He then moved to the Court of Appeal arguing that this right to a fair trial was violated and even though he requested to be supplied with witness statements to enable him to conduct his defence, he was compelled by the trial court to proceed without the statements. He argued that he also had no lawyer. Makau had told the appellate court that the death sentence meted out was harsh considering the circumstances under which the alleged offence was committed. Edited by R.Wamochie