Several passengers and motorists were on Monday night left stranded after they were barred from entering Nairobi county. The passengers and motorists were denied entry to the Capital at the Athi Bridge on Kangundo road, which is the border for Nairobi and Machakos counties. The move comes after President Uhuru Kenyatta declared the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties for 21 days. The cessation of movement starts in Nairobi Monday at 7pm, while that of the other counties will begin from Wednesday. Uhuru said a majority of people who have contracted the disease are Nairobi residents, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. The President said 82 per cent of Covid-19 have been in Nairobi and 14 per cent have been in the Coastal counties. "The movement within the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and the Counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa shall continue subject to the nationwide curfew," Uhuru said. Uhuru said there shall be a cessation of all movement by road, rail or air in and out of Nairobi Metropolitan area as well as the counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. "This virus doesn’t care about the size of your wallet... In defeating it, we should face the enemy standing side by side. Our unity is demonstrated by each Kenyan going the extra mile," he said. "Make no mistake, we are at war and we must be together if we shall win this war." According to Uhuru, the Nairobi Metropolitan Area is designated as Nairobi City County, Part of Kiambu County up to Chania River Bridge (Thika), including Rironi, Ndenderu, Kiambu Town; Part of Machakos County up to Athi-River, including Katani; Part of Kajiado County including Kitengela, Kiserian, Ongata Rongai and Ngong Town; and all other areas as set out in the Order. "Any person, passenger carrying bicycles, motorcycles, scooters, automobiles, vehicles, vessels, railway wagons or air crafts shall not be allowed in and out of the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and the counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa," he said. The head of state said the movement of food supplies and other cargo will continue as normal during the declared containment period through road, railway and air. These additional measures do not in any way vary the existing restrictions and measures, including the daily Nationwide Curfew from 7pm to 5am  in the entire territory of the Republic of Kenya.