He waited for nine months to add one more to his family, but coronavirus and curfew came, and he lost two. Mati Nyamai’s wife Vidia Nduku was nine months pregnant as of March 29 and was due for delivery any time. She was to add a seventh child to their family, and the expectation was palpable. But two days earlier, the dusk-to-dawn curfew had swung into effect and the police had zealously enforced it, patrolling even deep into villages. Mati and his family live in Makueni county, and officers had just clobbered those they found outside during curfew hours, instilling intense fear. Nduku, 41, was a farmer while Nyamai, 45, works as a constructions labourer in the area to feed his family. On the night of March 30, the labour pains started at around 9pm, and without any contact for emergency ambulance, he opted for boda boda operators but they declined, fearing the clobbering by the police. “These officers had beaten people the previous day even into their bedrooms, and so people were very fearful,” he said. With no help coming, the wife endured the pain, hoping the morning would break fast. It was the birth water and blood that came first by around midnight. The bleeding would persist and in increasing intensity. By morning, she was in a pool of blood and with no energy as Nyamai found means to rush her to Kibwezi subcounty health centre. At the hospital, Nduku got rushed to the theatre. Through surgical means, the doctor succeeded in delivering the child, but it had died. "The doctor said the excess bleeding affected the child as he had breathed in blood and water, killing him," Mati told the Star on Sunday. With the bundle of joy he had hoped for gone, Mati and his family members around him hoped to at least go back home with his wife. But this would not be, he said, as the doctor returned back with a report that Nduku had lost so much blood and she needed to be added some pints urgently. They urgently needed blood donors to help. "The doctor told us the only blood available was at a bank in a Voi hospital. An ambulance was then sent immediately," he said. Around 20 minutes into the wait, he said, the doctor again emerged with the report that Nduku was no more. She had died. "I felt deflated. I had really hoped to carry my child across my arms alongside my wife back home. Even without the child, I never imagined my wife would go ahead of me," he said, amid sobs. The only help the doctor suggested, he said, was expediting the issuing of a burial permit so he could quickly bury his dead within the 48 hours directed by the government. With no alternative, he said, he collected the two bodies and took them back home. "I could not afford mortuary bills. I took the two bodies home and we preserved them through traditional Kamba ways in readiness for burial within the required hours," Mati said. They would then find a single coffin and have their dead buried together, he said. The experience of Mati highlights the toll and pain that the highhanded manner the police enforcing the curfew has exerted on the people, especially those living in rural and slum areas. Nduku's death adds to the number of those who have died as a result of the curfew.