Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has appealed to residents to strictly adhere to drastic measures put in place to prevent Covid-19 from spreading. He said coronavirus was no joke and that it was the responsibility of every citizen to help combat the disease. “It has killed thousands of people in the world," he said. In a video recorded in Luo language, he warned residents against violating the directives. The governor warned residents to avoid places of worship and social gatherings as directed by the national government. Funeral homes and mortuaries, both public and private, remained closed, he said. “Hospital mortuaries will only be used to keep bodies of in-patient cases, but strictly for less than 48 hours in order to allow for families to make burial arrangements,” he said. The county chief directed that all burials will strictly be for family members who must not exceed 15. “Let us avoid travelling to attend burials. That is not allowed now." He advised matatu operators to adhere to the new number of passengers to carry or face stern action. Nyong’o said anybody who disobeyed the orders will be arrested and charged under the Public Health Act. He also urged residents to embrace high levels of hygiene by washing their hands with soap and running water and sanitise their hands. Nyong’o further asked residents to be patriotic and avoid spreading false information about the virus. He also appealed for a change in attitude towards the fight against the virus. Already, the Kisumu bus park and Kibuye open-air market have been decongested and closed respectively. “We want those buying food to keep their distance. Let us stay at home if you have no business in town unless you’re seeking medication,” the governor said. Kisumu main bus terminus has been closed to enforce the social distancing directive.  The main entrance to the terminus was barricaded on Tuesday night. A massive cleanup and fumigation of the terminus have been going on for the past week. The exercise was spearheaded by the city management, Kibos Sugar Company and bus park users. Nyong’o has also set up a rapid response team at the county's Health department to support the Covid-19 coordination committee. The team which comprises partners from the health sector will be involved in the frontline response to cases reported in the county. Already, the multi-sectoral coordination committee co-chaired by Nyong'o and the county commissioner has intensified the training of health workers for effective response. Nyong'o said they have so far trained 433 healthcare providers and sensitised 790 more across the county. “We have commenced the procurement of infection prevention and control equipment for healthcare workers to supplement what we have received from the national government." Surveillance has been enhanced with new suspected cases immediately reported, he said. Edited by R.Wamochie