The recovery rates for Covid-19 patients in Africa are slower than those in Asia and Europe, the World Health Organization has said. WHO regional director for Africa Dr Matshidiso Moeti said that healthcare system problems have hampered mass testing and early diagnosis of the virus. “The 9.4 per cent recovery rate for Africa is much slower than that of other areas. In most countries, the testing centres are centralised in the capital cities. We are concerned about what might happen when the virus starts to spread geographically within those countries,” she said. Moeti also warned that various countries may start to record huge numbers of infections in the coming weeks as community transmissions increase. “Africa started to record positive cases much later after Asia and Europe. Already, we have seen certain countries start to record double figures per day. If the trend continues, certain countries will begin to record peak numbers in the coming weeks,” Moeti said. She added that it is too early to conclude that countrywide and partial lockdowns have helped reduced infection rates in sub-Saharan Africa. “We cannot say for sure whether it has moderated the upsurge in infections. Lockdowns must be accompanied by strict adherence to preventive measures and mass testing of people.” IOM East and Horn of Africa regional director Mohammed Abdiker noted that people are still migrating across borders despite lockdowns. ”Migrants are exposed to infections because people are still crossing over borders using illegal routes despite lockdowns. There are also many migrants dumped in the desert in West Africa after countries closed their borders,” Abdiker said. WHO also cited poor working conditions of health workers as a challenge in the fight against the virus. “We are concerned about the working conditions of health workers in most African countries. Their safety on the job should be prioritised and that of their families,” Moeti said. Abdiker added that maintaining physical distancing has become impossible in many refugee and Internally Displaced Persons camps. Apart from the International Organization for Migration and WHO, the briefing brought together representatives from other international organisations including the World Economic Forum and Unicef. Edited by R.Wamochie