The travel ban into and out of Nairobi county without cushioning PSV  operators is devastating the industry, costing Sh2 billion daily. That's what PSV operators are saying, adding that the ban due to the outbreak of coronavirus has cost more than 70 per cent of their revenue. Losses are caused by both the night curfew and the ban sealing off the Nairobi Metropolitan Area, Mombasa and other coastal counties. Passenger numbers are also restricted to maintain social distancing. Bus Operators of Kenya Association chairman Edwin Mukabana told the Star the sector loses Sh 2.1 billion daily. Most operators have been forced to ground their vehicles. About 18,000 matatus operate within Nairobi daily, he told the Star. Mukabana said 14-seater matatus to upcountry are losing Sh66 million a day, while 33-seaters lose Sh264 million per day. “Fifty-seaters to upcountry are set to lose Sh80 million while the 62-seaters will miss out on Sh115 million a day,” Mukabana said. Sh450 million will be lost per day within Nairobi city alone, he said. Mukabana said the cashless system will help bridge the existing gaps. He said his figures are conservative,  adding that travel by car and boda bodas is also forbidden. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai also deplored the loss of revenue. Kimutai said the sector cannot meet operating costs. “Almost 70 per cent of our revenue is gone. The matatus are even utilising their capital and it is hurting logistics." The government also ordered PSVs to carry fewer passengers to observe social distancing to limit the spread of the virus. The 14-seater matatus were ordered to carry eight passengers, 25-seater buses to carry 15 and 30-seaters and above to maintain 60 per cent occupancy. The 21-day movement ban into and out of hotspot counties - Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale - were announced on Monday by President Uhuru Kenyatta, throwing everything into disarray. All matatu crews must wear masks and gloves, sanitise commuters and wash their vehicles several times a day. These requirements were already in effect. Kimutai said some of the directives have crippled their operations. Matatu operators fear they won't be able to meet maintenance costs, insurance and servicing and purchase disinfectants, masks and gloves. He, however, acknowledged the importance of the measures. “As we focus on reducing the spread of the coronavirus, all industries are running at a loss, not forgetting our children are also at home,” Kimutai said. He urged operators to adhere to all directives. The MOA boss, however, urged passengers to take responsibility and follow government directives. Kimutai condemned the Ministry of Transport for targeting only the matatu owners, forgetting that the commuters also have a role to play. “Why should a commuter board a matatu that is already full, yet we are being blamed for the failure of complying?" he asked. Operators that have grounded their vehicles include the Guardian Company. Guardian dispatch officer Eugene Mutei told the Star on the phone that the company has grounded more than 80 vehicles. “All our vehicles originate from Nairobi and go to other parts of the country. Those in Nairobi are grounded just like those in other parts of the country,” he said. The operator plies the Nairobi-Nakuru-Kericho-Kisumu-Mbale-Kakamega-Nairobi route. The company was to increase its routes this week to cover  Kisii, Kisumu, Ugunja and Maseno among others. Mutei said more 800 workers have been affected, mostly laid off. Easy Coach buses and others have also been grounded. The ban on movement has thwarted plans of millions of people who had planned to travel to spend the Easter holidays with their families. More than 400 unregistered saccos are operating in the city. City Hall says there are 692 registered matatu saccos in Nairobi, meaning 420 are not registered by the NTSA. The ban has also hurt PSVs from outside that travel to the four affected counties. That traffic was huge. Nairobi, with a population of 4.39 million people, heavily depends on PSVs. The National Transport and Safety Authority registers 7,000 vehicles monthly, about 90,000 a year, in the capital. The number of vehicles in Nairobi is likely to be 1.35 million by 2030. (Edited by V. Graham)