A Kakamega woman has been awarded 30 per cent of her ex-husband's land parcel for her companionship and child-care during their 11-year marriage. The man told the High Court in Kakamega that the property was not matrimonial because he bought it in 2009 when his ex-wife was a jobless homemaker. The couple lived together from 1997 and was married in the church in 2004. They lived in Kakamega town until their separation in 2015. Their marriage was dissolved by the court a year later. The woman said the property was bought jointly in 2009 and it was registered in the man's name in trust for both of them. “They proceeded to establish a matrimonial home on the property.  Later on, they developed irreconcilable differences and she filed for divorce,” court papers read. They separated in 2015 but the marriage was dissolved by the court on November 1, 2016. The woman admitted that she neither made a direct contribution to the acquisition of the property nor its development. “She based her claim on contribution in the form of companionship that she offered to the respondent during the subsistence of their marriage and taking care of their daughter,” court documents read. The woman claimed that she was entitled to a share of the property and urged the court to grant her half share of the plot. The man testified that between 2009 and 2011, he enrolled his ex-wife into a secretarial course in Kakamega town and sponsored her computer studies. “He started building a house on the suit property in the year 2014 without the support of the applicant and he completed it in October 2015,” court documents read. He moved into the house in the absence of the woman as she had left him in September 2015.  Before building the house, they stayed in rental houses. The man produced a receipt for rent for September 2015 to prove that the woman failed to contribute. The court concluded that the woman had provided companionship to the man for several years before the property was bought. She was also at the time taking care of their daughter, now in university. “The two roles of providing companionship and child care were sufficient contribution on the part of the applicant.  I, therefore, hold that the suit land was matrimonial property and that the respondent held the land in trust for the applicant,” Justice Jesse Njagi ruled. (edited by o. owino)