The government’s quest to achieve a 10 per cent forest cover has received a boost following the commissioning of Green Zones Development Support Project. The project which is in the second phase is financed by the government and African Development Bank. It is implemented by Kenya Forest Service in collaboration with other stakeholders. KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau said the project is being implemented in 15 counties. “These counties are around critical forest ecosystems of Mau, Aberdares, and Mt Kenya over a six-year period from 2019 to 2025,” Kamau said at KFS headquarters on Friday. He said the project targets to support the production of 10 million tree seedlings in the current financial year at a cost of Sh35 million. "So far, over four million seedlings potting materials have been purchased and distributed to the Counties. Another five million potting materials will be distributed in the current month (April 2020) for seedlings support while 1 million seedlings will be raised using innovative methodologies in the field," Kamau said. Kenya has been implementing various measures to enhance the country’s forest cover from the current 7.2 per cent to 10 per cent as envisaged in the constitution. Kenya needs to plant at least 1.8 billion trees, a budget that needs Sh 48 billion Under the project, Kamau said, 850 hectares of degraded natural forest will be rehabilitated and 250 hectares of the commercial plantation will be restocked in the current financial year. On the community farmlands, Kamau said the project aims to establish 100 hectares of woodlots,250 hectares of agro-forestry and 80 hectares of fruit orchards. In addition,30 hectares of community hilltops will be reforested through the project support. Kamau said in the first half of the financial year, a total of Sh60 million was used to support the tree-planting effort. "In the current rains a further Sh51 million will be utilized to achieve the set targets," he said. Kamau said the counties the project is being implemented include Meru,Embu,Machakos,Tharaka-Nithi,Kiambu,Murang’a,Kirinyaga,Nyandarua,Nakuru,Baringo,Kericho,Bomet,Nyamira and Kisii. “The African Development Bank has extended a USD 50 Million concessional facilities for the project, with the Government of Kenya providing USD 5 million as counterpart funds,” Kamau said. He said the goal of the project is to improve forest conservation and community livelihoods for sustainable forest management in the country. The CCF said the specific objectives of the project are to enhance forest conservation and livelihood support for climate change resilience; and to develop timber, bamboo, and horticulture and cereals value chain for improved household incomes. The CCF flagged off 500 Wheelbarrows, Watering cans (500), Digging hoes(500), Fork Jembes (500), shovels (500), mattocks (500), ground rakes (500) and 500 slashers. Kamau said raising high-quality seedlings is a pre-requisite to a higher survival rate upon planting. “Kenya Forest Service is leading the national effort to raise tree seedlings for afforestation and reforestation efforts. In line with this, Green Zones Development Support Project Phase II is supporting 15 counties with nursery tools for tree seedlings production, which will be distributed to 22 forest stations in these counties,” he said. Kamau said these implements are necessary for raising seedlings through preparing seedbeds, seed sowing, weeding, watering and maintenance of seedlings in the nurseries. Kamau said the project had earlier provided resources for engagement of local communities as casuals to raise seedlings in these nurseries. This is one way of creating rural employment, and the Service is focusing on youth and women in this endeavour, he said. Kamau said KFS has partnered with communities in forest conservation efforts through Community Forest Associations And as a way of motivating them to engage in conservation matters, the project is supporting Income Generating Activities for the associations. Kamau said such activities also acts as an alternative livelihood thus reducing pressure on forests. In the current financial year, a total of Sh4 million from the project will support community Income Generating Activities. So far, Uplands CFA in Kiambu has been supported with Mushroom farming, Ruthumbi CFA in Meru has benefited from fish farming, Dundori CFA in Nakuru was supplied with a Greenhouse for horticulture production while Londiani CFA  in Kericho has benefited from dairy farming, Kamau said. The CCF said the project has taken cognizance of rural communities’ over-dependence on wood energy which directly contributes to forest degradation. As a mitigation measure he said, communities will be assisted to embrace either alternative energy sources or energy-efficient technologies. The CCF said in the era of climate, one of the most important ways to mitigate the adverse effects is tree planting saying they welcome every support. Kamau said the service has rolled out tree planting for the 2020 long rain season in counties already experiencing adequate rainfall. He said tree-planting is mainly taking place within gazetted forests. "Tree-planting is taking place in full consideration of the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The necessary measures are in place including ensuring social distance in all tree planting operations, and the staff have been provided with safety gear gloves, face masks and sanitizer," he added. Kamau said waterpoints with soap are provided at planting sites. He urged Kenyans to take advantage of the rains to plant trees, particularly in their homes and farms. He said tree-planting requires2.5meters spacing equally allowing for social distancing.