Kenya is among 41 African countries that are likely to benefit from a Sh210 million grant by the African Development Bank to combat coronavirus. The bank announced the grant on Wednesday. The money will be channelled to the countries through the World Health Organization regional office for Africa. “The grant, which is in response to an international appeal by the WHO, will be used by the UN body to equip regional member countries to prevent, rapidly detect, investigate, contain and manage detected cases of Covid-19,” the bank said in a statement. The WHO Africa region office will use the funds to bolster the capacity of 41 African countries on infection prevention, testing and case management. The bank said the funds will also boost surveillance systems, procure and distribute laboratory test kits and reagents, and support coordination mechanisms at national and regional levels. “This grant will enable regional member countries to put in place robust containment measures within 48 hours of Covid-19 case confirmation and also increase public awareness in communities,” the bank said. The grant will contribute toward a $50 million WHO Preparedness and Response Plan, which is also supported by partners including the United Nations. It is estimated that Africa will require huge amounts of money to cushion residents against the impact of the disease as many countries scramble to put together contingency measures, including commercial lockdowns to contain the virus. Globally, factories have been closed and workers sent home, disrupting supply chains, trade, travel, and driving many economies toward recession. The bank said it will soon be unveiling a financial assistance package that will enable governments and businesses to undertake flexible responses to lessen the economic and social impact of the pandemic. Meanwhile, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday chaired the first meeting of 10-member Emergency Response Fund board through video-conference where he assured them that senior government officials and governors will remit their pay cut pledges. The team led by East African Breweries MD Jane Karuku was put together by the President to rally Kenyans in raising resources to support government efforts to mitigate the effects of Covid-19. Karuku assured the President they will do everything possible to marshal the funds. “We will work closely to ensure we achieve the mandate that this fund has been created for. We will pool our brains and resources to ensure every Kenyan is cushioned,” Karuku said. The initial funds to the kitty will be drawn from the Exchequer including voluntary salary cuts from members of the executive led by the President, Deputy President William Ruto, the Judiciary, Legislature and the county governments. The bulk of the money will come from development expenditure which is understood will be slowed down or suspended completely in the coming days depending on the magnitude of the coronavirus pandemic. Kenya already has 110 confirmed cases with four recoveries and three deaths. 