The Ahero-Katito road in Kisumu county has been reopened for motorists after its closure last month. The closure was meant to allow the construction of the bridge at Ayweyo, Nyando subcounty by Kisii-Ahero road contractor, the Third Engineering Bureau of China City Construction Group Company Limited. The road is 84.1km. President's Delivery Unit director Sylvance Osele on Friday said the route has been reopened as promised by the contractor that the bridge works would take 10 days. However, only vehicles weighing 10,000 tonnes and below will be allowed to use it in the meantime. The road links Kisumu, Kisii, Nyamira, Homa Bay and Migori counties. “As per now, heavy vehicles are not allowed to use the road. This is to allow the curing of a section of the bridge,” Osele said. Osele was accompanied by colleague Melkizedek Ochengo and resident engineer Harrison Gakuo. The reopening of the road was a relief to motorists and residents as it is used to transport fresh produce to different markets in the five counties. “We are aware during the building of the bridge vehicles were forced to use longer routes, making Kenyans to dig deeper into their pockets. That has ended,” Osele said. The former Kabondo-Kasipul MP expressed the satisfaction of the ongoing works at the site. The works include rehabilitation of Kisii-Ahero (A1) road and construction of feeder roads at a cost of Sh9.5 billion. Its jointly funded by the African Development Bank, the European Union and the government. The feeder roads include Oyugis-Kendu Bay road (19km), Oyugis-Rangwe road-Rod Kopany (30km), Oyugis-Gamba road (7km), Misambi-Ekerenyo road (15Km) and Sondu-Nyabondo-Nyakach Complex road (11Km). The roads are to be tarmacked. Gakuo sought to assure residents of high-standard construction.“We have built 14 cell box culvert in place of the 24 Armco cross culvert at Km 4 along Ahero- Kisii (A1) road. It will ease the flow of water,” Gakuo said. The Ahero-Kisii road was built in 1969. Gakuo projected that the rehabilitation will be completed by August if there is no prolonged rain. Initially, it was set to be completed by June 8, 2020. The works started on May 9, 2017. Osele said senior government officials, including Transport CS James Macharia, get daily briefings on the status of the road. He added that the contractor had worked on another access road to allow motorists to pass but it became impassable following downpours. Motorists briefly used the Awasi-Katito road before it also became impassable. They now use Kericho road and onwards to Sondu. The longer distance covered has led to increased fares. The fare from Kisumu to Kisii increased to Sh700 from Sh400, while Kisumu-Homa Bay passengers have been paying Sh800 instead of Sh400. Those headed for Migori from Kisumu part with Sh1,000, Sh500 more than they had been paying.