The battle of names between the Law Society of Kenya and the newly registered Chama Cha Mawakili is far from over after the court ruled that the decision to deregister CCM was illegal. CCM was registered in December 2018 as a company limited by guarantee, However, the Registrar of Companies wrote to them on January 9 last year, indicating they had received reservations and objections from the LSK about their names being similar. CCM was consequently deregistered. But the High Court faulted the Registrar of Companies for deregistering CCM without giving them a chance to defend themselves. CCM moved to court challenging the decision by the Registrar of Companies, arguing it was a violation of Articles 10, 36 and 47 of the Constitution. “A declaration is hereby issued that the second respondent’s decision dated January 9, 2019, violated the petitioner’s right to fair administrative action guaranteed by Article 47  of the Constitution and the Fair Administrative Action Act, 2015,” the court ruled. Judge Korir further quashed the decision by the Registrar ruling that any action taken in respect of the matter after January 9 amounts to nothing. However, according to the court, the Registrar must, if he so desires, commence the process of deregistering CCM afresh. The judge did not delve into the issue on whether CCM and LSK share the same meaning. “In my view, any finding on the third issue identified in this judgment will prejudice the parties and embarrass the second respondent [Register of Companies], who will be bound by any finding of this court regarding the correctness or otherwise of his decision to direct the Petitioner to change its name,” the judge ruled. CCM has maintained that their name does not mean the same thing as LSK had claimed. They even called an expert from the University of Nairobi, who explained to the court that the names are different. Speaking to the Star, CCM director Georgiadis Majimbo says they will not change their name because it’s not the same as LSK. The Registrar defended the decision to deregister CCM, noting they had called a meeting on January 25 The Registrar attempted to rectify the error in law by holding meetings between parties on January 25, 2019, and February 4, 2019, to find an amicable solution in light of the objections raised. “In my view, the fact that the Registrar held collaborative meetings to find an amicable solution on the matter does not sway me,” Korir ruled. “Firstly, the meetings were held after the matter was brought to the court’s attention. Secondly, the decision complained of was the one made on 9th January, 2019, without a hearing, and not that of September 23, 2019.” Edited by E Kibii