The government has ruled out any plans to evacuate Kenyans stranded in China and instead proposes creation of Diaspora Fund to cushion them. Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau told a parliamentary committee of the logistical challenges that will make it impossible for mass evacuation as is being proposed by some Kenyans. He said a number of Kenyans living in China have not registered with the Kenyan embassy, which makes tracing impossible. Kamau, however, acknowledged that the Covid-19 outbreak has greatly impacted on the health and socioeconomic welfare of Kenyans and other foreigners living in China as well as other parts of the world. The PS said the majority of Kenyans in diaspora are safe, except the five who have succumbed to Covid-19 in the US. “We are happy that we have few unfortunate cases so far. We have lost five Kenyans in the US, while one Kenyan is in ICU in Sweden, and another one in critical condition in Germany after he was transferred from Italy,” the PS said. To help those affected, he said the ministry is considering establishing a Diaspora Fund, which will respond to the pressing needs of Kenyans in foreign lands. Kamau was appearing before the National Assembly’s Departmental Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations chaired by Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito. The officials had been invited to furnish members with information regarding the plight of Kenyans in the diaspora. There have been allegations of mistreatment of Africans living in China. The MPs heard that the mistreatment of immigrants in China had been ignited by an immigrant of African origin who tested positive for Covid-19 and upon being admitted in hospital on mandatory quarantine, assaulted the medical staff in an attempt to escape. Members were also informed that the risk of community infections among African immigrants is very high, since most of them share rooms. The PS assured the team that they were working closely with the African Union, African Missions in Beijing, the Chinese Embassy in Kenya and Chinese authorities in Beijing and Guandong Province to remedy the situation. Edited by A.N