Any person with a complaint or claim on the use of blood, blood products, or supply against the government will now be required to submit it to the National Advisory Committee. The multi-disciplinary committee, which was inaugurated on Monday by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, will be chaired by former Kenya Red Cross boss Abbas Gullet. The team has been tasked with assisting, identifying, designing and implementing cost-effective blood utilisation management initiatives for optimised patient care. Operating on a one-year term, it will advise on matters pertaining to blood supply, including those directly affecting the practice of transfusion medicine. Other members are Peter Kibet, Elizabeth Wala, Bharat Thakrar, Patricia Murugami, Bitange Ndemo, Joe Wang’endo, Charles Rombo, Kiprono Chepkok and Thuranira Kaugiria. The secretariat of the committee will be based at Afya House, the Health ministry headquarters. “A critical review of the blood situation in Kenya shows a huge gap and to ensure we can respond to our patients, we need to address this issue with the utmost seriousness that we can garner,” Kagwe said. The committee will be required to design a data management framework with the capability of computing the blood needs of every hospital or health facility, develop a system to resolve the perennial shortage of blood and blood products and have institutionalised blood management in support of county governments’ participation. “When people are dying because we don’t have blood for them, that to me is an abuse of Article 10 [of the Constitution]. I take this opportunity to urge members of the public to submit their views to the committee for us to come up with a solid rock that is going to exist in perpetuity,” Kagwe said. The Gullet-led team will also be expected to monitor and set standards in respect of blood donor recruitment, collection, testing, processing, storage, imports, exports, issuance and distribution of blood and blood products, as well as disposal of waste blood. The team will be expected to draft legislative and regulatory reports setting out rules, regulations, orders and other measures required to give into effect the proposed reforms, including a bill of Parliament on the proposed Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service. “We should create a clean register of donors to enable us to know who our regular supporters are. We should incentivise our blood donors through modern forms of recognition and appreciation, including branding and levelising, so that people know what level of blood donor they belong to,” the CS said. "We should monitor our blood supply levels complete with requisite alerts on deficiency and all oversupply, and manage supplies in relation to needs, including the needs to redistribute blood between hospitals and counties.” In addition, the team has been tasked to draft a reform action plan and roadmap for the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service, detailing and initiating key reforms and development of data structure and framework for blood management, information, and logistics system. Edited by Francis Orieny