Two Kenyan youngsters, Michelle Luhunga and Irene Were are among the top ten performers in the United States of America Virginia State Western Conference high school championships. The duo, both students at Norfolk Christian School, Virginia excelled on the court in only their first year. Were was voted seventh and Luhunga eighth. Luhunga made it to the all-star team in their conference. She also received the team’s best defensive player. The juniors were identified during a FirstCoach.In clinic conducted at YMCA Shauri Moyo last year by American coach Mike Farris. According to Evelyne Kedogo, who is working closely with Farris in the East African region, Luhunga and Were are also doing well in academics. “The girls are currently doing very well both in class and basketball. They have been nominated among the top ten in their conference,” a beaming Kedogo said. Luhungu, from Tigoi Girls and Were, from Butere Girls, left the country last October, sponsored by Urban Discovery Ministries. Kedogo said following successful coaching courses in Kenya, Uganda and South Sudan last year, FirstCoach.In will return this year. The Nairobi clinic is scheduled for August 3-7 while dates for the Kampala and Juba tours will be announced later. Kedogo, who is also the Eagle Wings coach, revealed that coach Faris is keen on building on what he started last year. “FirstCoach.In is looking to empower more mini-basket coaches by identifying those who will be taken for further training in Virginia during the international mini-basketball instructors' network,” Kedogo said. Faris, a coach at Norfolk Christian Schools, also conducted a similar course in Uganda and South Sudan. The Nairobi course attracted over 80 participants. Farris said he was impressed with the many young coaches in East Africa who want to be mentored and learn how to coach children with excellence. “I see FirstCoach.In providing them with the knowhow to make East Africa mini-basketball the world-class model of success that will become replicated globally,” he noted. He invited Equity Bank coach Carey ‘T9’ Oketch and a Ugandan, Albert Asiko, to the USA,  for training. Oketch returned home last month. The USA tactician said that arrangements have been made with South Sudan Basketball Federation and Luol Deng Foundation to have nine basketball coaches attend the Nairobi course.