The government has challenged the inclusion of lawyers and police oversight authority (Ipoa) officials’ inclusion in the list of essential services. The state has filed an intention to appeal the ruling by Judge Weldon Korir on the petition by LSK and Ipoa for inclusion. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, and the Attorney General Kihara Kariuki want the decision reversed. “Take note that the respondents herein being dissatisfied with the judgment of the High Court on April 16, intends to appeal to the Court of Appeal against such part of the decision as decides that…,” the notice reads. The government has also challenged orders which required Matiang’i to amend the schedule with list of essential service providers within five days effective Thursday. Judge Korir agreed with the lawyers, Ipoa, Fida and Kituo cha Sheria that the state tends to overreach in a time of crisis. LSK had told the court that failure to exempt legal services from the curfew order violates the rights of arrested persons to access a lawyer. They further argued that their non-listing went against the right to fair hearing and fair trial as spelled in Article 50 of the Constitution. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho had brushed off the request saying that courts operate during the day. But Judge Korir is his ruling held that the work of advocates is not limited to court work. “They also attend to persons arrested by the police. There is therefore merit in the contention by LSK that its members should have been exempted from the operations of the curfew order,” the judge said. “The Petitioner’s concern becomes more important when the manner in which the curfew has been enforced is taken into account.” The Judge gave the orders in agreement with the lawyers, IPOA, Fida, and Kituo cha Sheria that the state tends to overreach itself in the time of crisis. Korir said it was “necessary for defenders and upholders of the rule of law to be extra vigilant whenever the State exercises emergency powers.” “In that regard, an order shall also issue exempting the police of the police service from the operations of the Curfew Order,” the judge said. LSK was joined by IPOA, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Fida, and Kituo cha Sheria as interested parties. The lawyers also prayed for an extension of time of the start of the curfew from 7pm to 10pm. 