Kenyans are mourning the death of veteran Swahili journalist and author Ken Walibora. The author was involved in an accident on Friday, when a matatu ran over him on Landhies Road. The family had been looking for him since Friday, when he went missing. Many have described him as a calm and humble person. Speaking to Word Is, Leonard Mambo Mbotela, a close friend and a former workmate of Ken, said the news came to him as a shock. "I am still in shock that Ken is no more. I worked with him at KBC he was a good translator," he said. "His work was exemplarily good and, therefore, loved by many at wherever he worked." Leonard also said he is saddened by his demise since he has left his book unfinished. "He came to my home some days ago and interviewed me. He was writing my book that will be launched in May this year," he said. Leonard says he last talked to Ken two weeks ago to discuss the progress of the book, in which he assured him they will launch it in May as agreed. "To the family, I want to send my heartfelt condolences and may God see them through these hard times," he said. Investigative journalist Dennis Okari described Ken as a calm and humorous person. "Ken always followed up my investigative stories when I joined NTV and he was working for our sister station QTV. He would be the first to call and say, 'Kaka, kazi safi kama kawaida yako,'" he said. To his family, I pray God gives to give them grace to bear the pain. Ken was a gift to us who loved Swahili stories in school," Okari said. Linus Kaikai urged the family to take consolation in the lasting contribution Walibora made to society. "Ken’s work will outlive him and his place in our scholarly spaces in Kenya is permanent. He lives on," he said. One tweep posted the photo of the accident scene. Another Twitter user going by the name @True_Legendary paid tribute to the Swahili author. “Dr Ken Walibora, a polished and leading Swahili writer and journalist dies in a road crash. Go well, Ken,” the tweep wrote. Adding, “You lived your academic life to the brim. You were one of the rare men whose humility always rose with even more accomplishment – from TV news to high-level global forums.” Ken is famed for his popular Swahili novel 'Siku Njema', published in 1996, 'Kidagaa Kimemwozea' and 'Ndoto za Almasi'. Leonard says his work will always be a great memory. Before his death, Walibora announced the new translation of the novel in English with the name 'This Day'. The novel was translated by Dorothy Kweyu and Fortunatus Kawegere. Taking to social media at the time, Walibora said, “Hapa nawatangazia kwa heshima zote kutolewa kwa tafsiri ya Kiingereza ya Siku Njema! Natumai mtaifurahia kazi ya watafsiri waliojaribu kuhawilisha mawazo yangu ya kibunifu kutoka kwa Kiswahili hadi kwa Kiingereza."