The Independent Policing  Oversight Authority will finalise its report next week on the alleged shooting by police of a  13-year-old boy playing on his balcony in  Kiamaiko, Nairobi. "We have everything required to file a case and believe it will be a strong case," an investigating officer told the Star, requesting anonymity as he is not authorised to make official statements. Investigating officers said they were analysing the information collected so they can build a strong case against the suspects. Yassin Moyo was shot dead 20 minutes before the 7pm curfew on Friday March 27. His balcony is on the third floor of his house. This is after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the 7pm to 5am curfew to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Ipoa officials told the Star on Tuesday that they have collected enough evidence to piece together the series of events that led to the killing. Communications manager Dennis Okech said investigations are at an advanced stage. "On completion, if culpability is established, Ipoa will make recommendations for the attention of the Director of Public Prosecutions or any other appropriate state agency," Okech said on the phone. Yassin's father, Yusuf Moyo, told the reporters at the time of the killing that two shots were fired at his building. One struck his son in the stomach. “I was watching the news at a friend’s house, while Yassin and my wife who was feeding our one-year-old child were seated on the balcony. Then I heard gunshots,” he said. Moyo heard his wife screaming and rushed to his house where he found Yassin wounded, gasping for breath. With help from neighbours, he took him to Mama Lucy Hospital at around 8pm when he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit. Yassin died at 3am while undergoing surgery and was buried on the same day according to Islamic rites, at Kariakor Muslim Cemetery. The boy was a candidate for this year’s KCPE exam at Valley Bridge Primary School in Nairobi. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai directed DCI chief George Kinoti to investigate the death and conduct a forensic analysis of all firearms held by police officers on duty withing Huruma. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji ordered police to forward the file to him after the investigation for action. (Edited by V. Graham)