Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has announced Kenya has confirmed 16 more coronavirus cases. This now brings the country's total number to 142 with four fatalities. 15 of these are Kenyans while one is a Nigerian national. Speaking during the daily coronavirus briefing at Afya House on Sunday, the CAS said the 16 additional cases came after the government tested 530 samples in the last 24 hours. To date, the government have tested a total of 3,836 people. Mwangangi said 11 have had a history of travel while five of those cases are locally transmitted. "Nine cases are from quarantine facilities and seven are from contact tracing. Contact tracing is ongoing," she said. Out of the 16 new cases, 12 are from Nairobi, three from Mombasa and one from Kilifi County. Mwangangi said nine were male while seven were female. The CAS said those who die from the virus must be buried in 24 hours. The burials will be restricted to less than 15 close family members. She added that all persons visiting open spaces such as supermarkets, markets and using PSVs should at all time wear face masks to curb the spread of Covid-19. The CAS warned private hospitals that are overcharging Personal Protective Equipment. "It has come to our attention that there are private hospitals overcharging Kenyans for PPEs. This is immoral and unacceptable. The Medical Council has taken up this issue," she said. Transport CS James Macharia at the same time said the Government has extended the suspension of international flights for another 30 days. The extension of the ban on international flights will take effect from April 6. The CS, however, said evacuation and cargo flights are exempted from this ban. However, evacuation flights must give an advance 72-hour notice. The government also extended the suspension of prison visits by 30 days in a bid to tame the further spread of the coronavirus. On Saturday, the number stood at 126 after the Health CS announced an additional four cases. The CS announced new measures to curb the Covid-19 spread urging any person visiting a supermarket or any other open-air markets to begin wearing a mask immediately. The CS said the Ministry of Health has operationalised the Kenyatta University Hospital and already 20 Covid-19 patients have been admitted. He announced the country's laboratories, particularly Kemri, are already involved in serious research that would see Kenya manufacturer testing kits locally.