The High Court has declined to refer a case challenging the creation of a transport agency to Chief Justice David Maraga. In the case, Wanjiru Gikonyo had claimed that her petition raises substantial questions of law, hence ought to be determined by an uneven number of judges. Her petition seeks to quash the creation of the Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Authority (Namata) by President Uhuru Kenyatta. But in dismissing an application filed by Gikonyo, Justice Weldon Korir said the constitutional power granted to a judge does not require that all matters which raise novel or complex issue deserve the constitution of a bench to hear a matter. The application had sought to have CJ Maraga constitute an uneven number of judges to handle the matter. “The fact that the petition raises issues of public interest does not necessarily mean that a bench should be constituted to hear the matter. The decision is left to the discretion of the judge,” he said. Korir termed it evident that the matter is novel as it concerns the establishment of an intergovernmental and intercounty authority for purposes of a joint shared transport function. But factors such as whether an application will cause a delay in conclusion of a case ought to be considered before it’s sent to the Chief Justice. According to court documents, the application for referral to the CJ to constitute a bench had been brought before the court just after the parties had filed their submissions. The matter had been scheduled for a hearing. Korir faulted the activist for failing to prefer any explanation as to why she waited until the matter was ready for hearing before filing her application. He said the delay in filing the application was indicative of the fact that she had complete faith in the ability of a single judge to determine the case. “It is not lost upon this court that the decision of an uneven number of judges carries the same weight as that of a single judge. In my view, allowing the application will only end up in delaying the disposal of the petition,” he said. He said that although the petition raises novel issues which are of public interest, those are the kind of matters that confront judges on a regular basis. He subsequently dismissed the application for lack of merit. Gikonyo also wants the court to declare Namata unconstitutional, saying the agency usurps the powers of the county government. The petition further questions the constitutional validity of Namata making appointments to the authority for violating constitutional provisions of intergovernmental relations. Some of the questions of law include if or not the establishment of the Namata authority upsets Kenya’s federal constitutional design. But the state and the Ministry of Transport said if the order was granted it would delay the final determination of the petition and prejudice public interest as Namata was established to fulfil a mandate towards the greater benefit of the public. The ministry deemed the application an abuse of the court process amounting to forum shopping and delay of justice, as Gikonyo failed to raise at the earliest stage her intention to have a bench of an uneven number of judges hear the petition.