The International Organization for Migration has warned of a heightened risk of xenophobia and stigma against migrants across the East and Horn of Africa. “Migrant workers in EHoA are losing their jobs, their only means of economic survival. Reports of stigma and xenophobia directed at migrants accused of spreading the Covid-19 infection are surfacing,” IOM regional office for East and Horn of Africa said in its situational report for April 2020. The warning comes amid public fury against China over claims that Africans in Wuhan city – including Kenyans – have been evicted from their apartments and denied access to essential services. Videos on social media showing Africans from different countries sleeping on the streets have set Kenyans on Twitter (KOT) abuzz. Despite calls to evacuate Kenyans from Wuhan, which is the  epicentre of a pandemic that has thus far killed over 150,000 people globally, the Kenyan government has refused to do so, noting that it is logistically challenging. Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Ambassador Macharia Kamau said the Chinese evictions of Africans were part of efforts to enforce social distancing. “The authorities did not want many people living in one apartment. It was not about evictions but about social distancing. Sadly, it took a turn and became racial,” Kamau said. The explanation has done nothing to cool tempers with certain quarters – including politicians - calling for deportation of Chinese from Kenya. Whereas Kenya insists that its citizens will remain in Wuhan, Ethiopia  with the assistance of the IOM has returned 3,000 nationals to the country from different locations worldwide. The situational report recommends the inclusion of migrants in national Covid-19 response plans in each of the 10 countries in the EHoA region. “Migrants and displaced communities are disproportionately exposed and vulnerable to the negative impacts of Covid-19 due to limited access to health and medical services and the fact that these groups often reside in densely populated and cramped conditions,” the agency said. The regional office has been working closely with national governments in the region on preparedness and disease surveillance. In Kenya, it is collaborating with the Department for Immigration in Covid-19 rapid assessments and preparedness at border points including Busia, Wajir, Malaba,Namanga, Lunga Lunga and Isebania. Edited by Henry Makori