The Makueni county assembly on Monday criticised Health executive Andrew Mulwa for 'trivialising' the Covid-19 pandemic. Led by Speaker Douglas Mbilu, the MCAs accused Mulwa of failing to present himself before the Budget and Appropriation Committee to show how part of the Sh45 million proposed for preparedness and prevention of the spread of coronavirus will be spent. The money has been proposed in the supplementary budget. During a special sitting outside the chambers on Monday, Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Dennis Musyoka told the House that Mulwa has not explained how Sh20 million of the money would be used in the management of Covid-19. Only Sh25 million of the Sh45 million had been broken down in Mulwa’s proposal. Musyoka said the committee had invited Finance executive Mary Kimanzi and Mulwa to give a complete breakdown on the use of the funds. Only Kimanzi turned up. When asked about how the money would be spent, Kimanzi said she had no details on how the Health department planned to use the Sh20 million in the proposed budget. Musyoka said when Mulwa failed to appear, they decided to break down the Sh20 million guided by the Public Finance and Management Act. Musyoka, who is Kako/Waia MCA, said the Health department had not factored in pertinent issues such as transport for county law enforcers. “The ECM's proposal in the budget presented to the committee has not even factored in how our markets are going to get a constant supply of water and sanitisers. We also expected the ECM to show how the funds will cater for necessities such as food for Covid-19 patients should we have some in the isolation centres,” he said. Some MCAs said the executive has not been responding to issues raised by ward representatives in a WhatsApp group formed to deal with urgent matters after the house adjourned last month. “The Covid-19 is not a something somebody should joke with, the ECM did not even send an apology,” majority leader Kyalo Mumo said. Kathonzweni MCA Francis Mutungi said it is not the first time that Mulwa has defied assembly summons. Assembly speaker Douglas Mbilu said out of the 10 departments in Governor Kivutha Kibwana’s administration, the Health department is on record for consistently defying assembly summons and invitations. He said Mulwa would be summoned and compelled to clarify how money proposed in the supplementary budget would be spent. “We cannot leave him to determine what is done at his interest. He must give responses on the issues surrounding the funds and if he defies, he will physically be presented before the committee by the inspector of police and the sergeant at arms,” Mbilu said. Edited by A.N