As the debate to have the 2019-2020 season cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic gathers steam, National Super League side and promotion hopefuls Nairobi City Stars are calling on relevant bodies to ensure the competitions run to the last match. The season, the first after Football Kenya Federation synchronized their calendar with that of Caf and Fifa is set to expire next month and City Stars who are on the verge of returning to the top flight after four years want the league to complete in the interest of fairness. With ten matches to go, Stars sit at the top of the table with 64 points—10 ahead of second-placed Bidco United and argue that calling off the season will work against the spirit of fairness and sportsmanship. The club's chief executive officer, Patrick Korir, challenged the league body to consider squeezing the remaining rounds in a period not exceeding two months to fairly determine the champions, promotion candidates as well as relegation-bound sides. "The situation we are facing at the moment is beyond our control and I don't see the need to make hurried decisions. We have ten matches remaining and once normalcy returns, we can play them in one and a half months. Last season, we used to play almost three matches in a week and we can replicate the same in a bid to complete the season," said the seasoned sports journalist turned administrator. He added: "Cancelling the season will draw varied reactions from teams in different cadres and some will feel shortchanged should we take that decision. To ensure fairness to all the season should be completed. It will also be unfair to various sponsors and individuals who have invested heavily in teams." In the meantime, Korir suggested that in the event of a prolonged break which will warrant the voiding of the season, article 2.6 of the FKF statutes should be applied to determine winners, promotion and relegation. The article says: " Where the league format due to circumstances of force majeure fails to be completed within the season, the league winner shall be determined as follows; "2.6.1.1. Before each and every club has completed its first round fixture the league shall be declared null and void." "2.6.1.2. Where all the Clubs in the league have completed the first round fixture but less than 75% league games have been played, the table standings at the end of the first round shall be considered as the final table standings of the league." "We have played at least 73 per cent of the matches  hence the only option we have is to use the first leg results to put the matter to rest," added Korir.