Kenyan music group Wanavokali has bagged Sh10 million after being crowned the winners of the first season of Old Mutual’s Amazing Voices singing competition. The group has been in Johannesburg, South Africa, where the competition has been taking place for the past few months. The group, which comprises six members, emerged top of the continental competition on Sunday, taking home Sh10 million. Moments after their win, the group took to social media to thank their fans across the globe for the overwhelming support. “Guys, we won! Thank you so much for the votes and support, 100,000 USD is coming home!!! #wanavokali #amazingvoicesafrica,” the group wrote. The talented Acapella group comprises of Chep, Lena, Mella, Riki, Sam and Ythera. The six started off their musical Journey as background vocalists for various artistes in Kenya then officially came together in 2018 at Safaricom Twaweza Live to form a group. Band member Ythera also took to social media to express her gratitude to fans for voting. “I don’t even know where to begin yaani. Amidst all this uncertainty right now, all the struggle… comes a win. And not just for @wanavokali but for Kenya," she wrote. "The fact that Africa and the world get to hear what Kenya has to offer means a lot to us, to me! This, for me, is a culmination of 5 years in this industry and I’m damn proud of the journey! "Of where the road is leading me even though it can be a path clouded with doubt and solitude. But these guys here are my team! They have my back! Even when I want to give in @wanavokali make me want to push further and harder and do better . "I’m so happy manze. So happy!! My heart is full leo. I can’t even begin to say thank you enough to everyone who has supported us. Mmetushika mkono in a way we never expected. Thank you Kenya, thank you AFRICA ♥ #wanavokali #amazingvoicesafrica.” The group received massive congratulatory messages from all over the world. Old Mutual South Africa wrote, "Thank you for sharing your voice with Africa and here’s to doing more great things every day. Thank you, Africa, for your votes."