The Michuki Memorial Park is undergoing rehabilitation before a takeover by the Kenya Forest Service. Situated a few metres from Globe Cinema roundabout, the park is frequented by drug users, street children and other idlers. It was established in 2012 in honour of the former Environment Minister John Michuki for his contribution to the protection of the environment. The late Michuki’s efforts towards environment won him admiration and accolades locally and from across the world. In 2009, Michuki received international recognition for his efforts to redeem the Nairobi River. UNEP presented him with a certificate recognising his efforts to clean the river, which had been choking on human and industrial waste. Since then, the park has been neglected by authorities. KFS Nairobi head of conservancy Charity Munyasia told the Star on the phone that all are set for the takeover after the facelift is complete. “It will be managed by KFS as the Nairobi Arboretum. We are currently cleaning it,” Munyasia said. Munyasia said proper tree specimens were being identified. She said that 58 tree species have been identified but they expect about more. “Any tree species to be planted in future should be the ones that are not in the park to ensure diversification. Munyasia said the park will be fenced off to fend off idlers and enhance security. She disclosed that five rangers have already been posted to the park to enhance security. To ensure sustainability, Munyasia said, a community forest association will be formed for the park. According to forest management laws, local communities play a critical role in managing forests. Munyasia said awareness will be raised among those neighbouring the park such as National Museums of Kenya, the University of Nairobi among others. The Ministry of Environment, National Environment Management Authority, Kenya Water Towers Agency and Nairobi Metropolitan Services are key agencies with a role to play. Munyasia said the idea to fence and give a facelift to the park had been proposed by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. She said the Michuki Park is set to get new lease of life, citing Karura forest that now has an active community forest association. Karura also attracts hundreds of visitors daily. Munyasia said following the facelift of Karura, the value of plots surrounding it went up. The upgrade of the Park will help KFS generate income. Munyasia said Nairobi residents are set to have a place to walk, relax or even picnic after the successful facelift of Michuki Park.