Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has hit out the people whom he perceived as a stumbling block to his work of leading Nairobi. This comes after recent clashes with the new Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director-General Mohamed Badi as well as County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi. Sonko's sentiments also come after reports that his security detail had been withdrawn. Through his social media pages, the governor said that gone are the days where someone would be humiliated for associating with someone. The governor was frustrated for being called an ally to Deputy President William Ruto after a recent meeting between the two. “Kwani being invited by the DP to his office is what you call Tanga Tanga? When Raila went with the DP to Tuju's house, does that mean Raila is in Tanga Tanga?” Sonko posed. He said that when he had been invited by ODM party leader Raila Odinga to the former PM's office, the public was calm about the matter. “If any leader be it Kalonzo, Mudavadi, Wetangula, or even the DP and Raila again, invites me for a meeting, I will honour that invitation for the respect I have for all our leaders,” the governor added. Sonko said that he will continue meeting with different leaders since the Constitution provides freedom of association. “We have democracy and freedom of association in Kenya. Musiniletee Bwana the dark days…are over. This frustration, humiliation, and embarrassment won't last forever.” Last week, the governor admitted that he made a blunder by handing over the four critical county services to the national government. He alleged that he was hoodwinked to sign hand over documents at the State House, Nairobi even without understanding its details. “I was not given sufficient time to even read the draft. I was just told it is a good thing on service delivery to the Great people of Nairobi (sic) as I deal with my court cases,” Sonko said. His claims came following the suspension of daily fumigation of estates and slums, distribution of food, masks and sanitisers which was carried by the Sonko Rescue Team. The governor blamed a section of top officials in the government for giving orders to the police who vandalized sanitization booths under Sonko Rescue Team in Kibra, Kencom and Buruburu. In February, the governor county health services, transport services, public works, the county planning and development service to the national government. Sonko said that he was earlier persuaded that the transfer of services will be of good help to Nairobi residents. President Uhuru Kenyatta named Major General Mohamed Abdalla Badi as the NMS director general and Enos Onyango Momanyi as his deputy.