The government needs Sh150 billion to cushion vulnerable persons and sectors from the health and economic effects of Covid-19, the Parliamentary Budget Office has said. The office said that the measures announced so far by President Uhuru Kenyatta have left out the most at-risk populations and sectors that drive the economy. It said the money should be channelled towards helping laid-off workers and eligible self-employed persons in the informal sectors. Critical sectors and business that were not properly captured in the President’s measures include tourism, airlines, flower farms and hotels. The PBO said those categories require an intermediate financial stimulus and social support. It proposed that the government either explores other sources of financing or borrows an additional Sh150 billion to support them. The PBO is an independent office that provides MPs with professional advice on the budget, finance and the economy. The office advises that Sh40 billion should be allocated to the Big Four programmes with Sh10 billion going to the Universal Health Coverage. The money should be used to employ more health staff, expand facilities and support local manufacturing firms to scale up medical and protective supplies. The office projects that Sh70 billion is required for social transfers to vulnerable persons, entrepreneurs and those rendered jobless for the next three months. “The Ministry of Interior and other agencies including local administration to identify beneficiaries,” reads the PBO document titled, Special Bulletin on Covid-19. The panel proposes a Sh30 billion kitty for direct and indirect support to most affected sectors and businesses through payroll support and interim credit plans. The sectors include hotels, restaurants and entertainment facilities, professional and support services, transport and storage, the flower industry and affected Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in various sectors. The office said budgets of ministries and departments should be cut and allocations used towards combating the pandemic. Ministries, departments and agencies should absorb the full impact of revenue collection deficits amounting to Sh122 billion in three months, the PBO says. “Non-essential services in the recurrent expenditure should be revised downwards through the introduction of supplementary estimates in the National Assembly,” it says. PBO has also recommended to the government to restructure its debts, reduce budgets of non-essential services and amended of the Division of Revenue Act, 2019 and the cash mopped up used to support the war against the pandemic. “There is an urgent need for a framework between the national government and county governments on the distribution of agricultural inputs including certified seeds and fertilisers." The analysis further shows that the implementation of the measures announced by President Kenyatta will occasion revenue loss of about Sh122.3 billion in the final quarter of the 2019-20 financial year. The Sh122.3 billion is occasioned by the 100 per cent tax relief for earnings below Sh24,000, reduction of PAYE top band from 30 to 25 per cent, reduction of Corporate Income Tax from 30 to 25 per cent, reduction of turnover tax from three to one per cent for SMEs and the reduction of VAT from 16 to 14 per cent. The National Assembly was to resume sittings on Tuesday and discuss the Tax Laws (Amendments) Bill, 2020, whose adoption will put into effect the tax reliefs announced by the President. 