Did some senior security officers collude to foil the arrest of some senators who were having a party despite the government's ban on social events because of coronavirus?  Reports indicate meticulous Health ministry officials who were informed of the social event alerted security officers and planned a raid on Sunday night. After everything had been put in place to storm the party, security officers who had been ready to pounce developed cold feet and withdrew. It's not clear who issued the order to call off the raid but there were suggestions of a higher hand. The nasty situation has exposed loopholes in the curfew order as well as enforcement of social distancing. Maybe Health CS Mutahi Kagwe should ask around. It is just a matter of when, not if, for a former senior government official. The man was involved in so many wars with the powers that be. It’s said his relationship with the line CS has deteriorated greatly. There are allegations his proxies even began sending information to anti-graft detectives to tarnish the name of the people he had fallen out with. The bad blood, the accusations and counter-accusations have given fresh fodder to the anti-graft agencies already probing many issues in the government department. Yesterday we told you of the behind-the-scene intrigues in the push to impeach a female governor. Sources whisper to Corridors there is already infighting among those pushing for the same. First, there is a feeling that the timing is wrong because the country is dealing with the coronavirus. Second, senators are yet to be lobbied to “understand why the governor should go”. The fear is that the vocal governor who is seen as a potential presidential running mate in 2022 has overwhelming goodwill from the political honcho’s – President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. Impeachment, it’s said is largely a political process and not necessarily a legal one.  So did the MCAs underestimate what they were getting themselves into? Just who is protecting a brewer of fake alcoholic beverages delivered to various homes in Kisumu and its environs after bars were shut? Well, the man who is said to be well-connected to a senior politician has been bragging that he is untouchable. He says even a senior Interior ministry official is in his pocket. He tells whoever cares to listen how he won’t be affected by any operation against illicit brew. Angry residents want the man called out for brewing and distributing fake expensive whiskeys, some of them sold at alcohol depots in town. They want Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to probe  the illegal business.