A charitable children's institution has lodged complaints about claims that police officers on Tuesday night raided the home and assaulted five children. Liberty Children’s Home director Shalom Naomi said three officers from the Mlolongo police station in Mavoko, Machakos, stormed the children’s dormitory at around 9pm while drunk and physically assaulted the children. "Yesterday at around 9pm, I received a call from my brother who stays here at Liberty that police officers had entered the compound and were beating some of the boys for no apparent reason," Naomi said. Naomi and the alleged victims - three boys and two girls - recorded statements at the Mlolongo police station. “I called the matron who confirmed that the police officers were here. One was in civilian while two others wore police uniforms. The girls who had come from washrooms outside their dormitory were ordered to sit down on the ground within the compound by the officers as they beat the male children,” she told the Star at the home on Wednesday. Mlolongo OCS Jackhim Kangangi said he wasn’t aware of the incident until the director made a formal complaint but promised to get to the bottom of the matter. “I hadn’t heard of these claims before Naomi came complaining to me in my office. I will personally take the matter seriously and find out if those who assaulted the children were our officers,” Kangangi said. He cautioned police officers from being used by civilians to settle their differences. The children said the officers whipped them using a pipe, then rained blows and kicks on them. "Yesterday after taking supper, we heard ‘Shosh’ quarrelling in the girls' dormitory before police stormed our room and started beating the three of us. They ordered us to get out of the dormitory, the one in civilian is the one who pushed us out of the dormitories,” one child said. Shosh is the mother of the home’s deceased founding director Godfrey Kivanze, she lives at the home. The children said the officers were accompanied into their dormitory by a person they know. They did not name the person. "One of us who refused to get out of the dormitory was handcuffed. The handcuffs were later removed from his hands after the officers called in a fourth police officer who came with its keys. They then left the compound,” another child said. The home demanded to know why the officers stormed the home at night while drunk and assaulted the children causing panic. Naomi said justice must be done to the assaulted children who are now psychologically affected. "They are traumatised," she said.