Police in Matungulu on Wednesday impounded two matatus transporting passengers to Nairobi. Matungulu deputy county commissioner Mohammed Abbas said the operators were violating the law after President Uhuru Kenyatta barred movement into and out of the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Abbas said nobody is supposed to travel into or out of Nairobi unless they have a genuine reason. He also warned that boda boda operators ferrying people into the Nairobi Metropolitan Area using shortcuts, commonly known as panya routes, would be arrested. Abbas said GSU officers have been deployed to all corners of Matungulu subcounty and around the Koma Hill Junction roadblock to monitor boda bodas movement. "We will be arresting boda boda operators who are encouraging people to use panya routes," he warned. Abbas urged Kenyans to adhere to the measures put in place by the government and the Health ministry to contain the spread of the coronavirus. "We are requesting the members of the public not make the situation unmanageable for us. Let's all work together to win this war." This came a few hours after Interior CS Fred Matiang'i relocated the Athi Bridge roadblock from Kangundo Road to Koma Hill junction in Matungulu. Matungulu subcounty police commander Kipkemoi Kirui said officers stationed at the new roadblock, which is 20 kilometres from Joska, have been facing challenges monitoring the movement of passengers. "We are trying to contain the situation but there are so many shortcuts that  motorbikes are using to cross over," Kirui said. He requested the government to add more police officers to control the situation. A source told the Star that passengers were sneaking in from Kandafu near Koma around 200 metres from the roadblock, before boarding vehicles heading to Nairobi. After alighting from matatus coming from Machakos, they walk about 200 metres to Kandafu where a temporary terminus emerged to carry travellers to Nairobi county. On Monday, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua banned the operations of all PSVs from Machakos to Nairobi. But despite the ban, matatu operators have been ferrying passengers and offloading them a few metres from the roadblock in Athi River. Those found walking near the roadblock lie that they are going to their homes. Athi River subcounty police commander Catherine Ringera said she was forced to instal two additional roadblocks to make sure no one sneaks into the Nairobi Metropolis. "We have been having a hard time controlling these people. They don't understand that whatever the government is doing is for their own good," she said. Ringera faulted boda boda operators for helping passengers escape the roadblocks. Edited by A. N