Veterinarians have demanded to be listed as essential services providers in the war against Covid-19. They plan to audit farms countrywide to minimise the risk of human to animal transmission of diseases. Kenya Veterinary Association says the country needs to apply the WHO-recommended 'one health approach' to combat coronavirus. The approach looks at the interaction between humans, animals and the environment to address diseases, particularly the ones that spread from animals to people. KVA chairman Samuel Kahariri told the Star vets will be auditing farms across the country to sensitise people. In some farms, animal keepers dangerously sleep in the same rooms with animals like sheep, goats, calves, chickens, piglets and even adult cows. "Animals are known sources of coronavirus secreted from their nostrils or in their faeces. The latter can contaminate human food of any kind and even water and precipitate human infections," Kahariri said. He said that although the Ministry of Health had brought in veterinary epidemiologists and vet doctors, they still face police harassment. "Some of us have letters that enable us to move freely but the process of getting them is long and we're dealing with emergencies," he said. The list of essential services provided should now include the veterinary services, he said. Last week, the ministry pleaded for animal doctors to help as cases of coronavirus continue to rise. The Department of Veterinary Services, based at Kabete, is in the process of identifying vets to deploy to the Ministry of Health. Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache explained that Kenya's situation was projected to worsen in the coming weeks and there will be a shortage of health workers. The vets are not expected to treat people but will help the ministry in tracing those who might be infected and testing the samples. "Based on projections of disease progression, there is a specific need to focus on the critical gap in human resource for health needed for the response," Mochache said on Wednesday in a letter to Harry Kimutai, PS Department of Livestock. "The purpose of this letter is to request you to second health workers to the Ministry of Health for the period of the Covid-19 response," she said. Mochache requested for vets with training in health systems, epidemiology, public health, statistics and laboratory scientists. The surge in demand for diagnostic testing of human samples for coronavirus is expected to stretch the currently available capacity. Veterinary laboratories are well positioned to fill the gap because they have experience in quality assurance, safety and control of infectious diseases in animals. "Additionally, veterinary services can provide expertise in the fields of epidemiology, risk assessment, training and risk communication," says the World Organisation for Animal Health. Edited by Henry Makori