A landlady in Eldoret, who owns apartments at Maili Nne, has reduced rent by half to help her tenants during the ongoing fight against Covid-19. Rachel John said she understands the difficult situation all Kenyans are going through, with stagnation of business and other activities due to spread of the coronavirus. Rachel is urging landlords to stop evicting tenants in the current situation. “As the government has clearly said, this is not the time to be selfish and money minded. Covid-19 can affect all of us and money will be of no use if we reach that situation,” she said. She said some of her tenants have families including young children who should not be exposed to further suffering. “Many families have already lost income and can hardly afford essential needs. I have discussed with my tenants on the best way we can help each other during the Covid-19 situation,” said Rachel. She has more than 50 houses charging between Sh6,000 and Sh15,000 monthly. Last week, hundreds of tenants in Eldoret protested after they were thrown out of their houses due to nonpayment of rent. Landlords in several estates including Huruma, Shauri, Mwanzo, Kidiwa and Kamkunji locked out the tenants despite the ongoing fight against the coronavirus and the curfew. Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa says the government will take action against such landlords, whom he termed as inhuman. He says provincial administrators have been sent to investigate the matter. Most of those evicted are small-scale traders whose businesses have closed. One of those evicted was a woman with her one-month-old baby who were force to sleep in the cold after a landlady in Eldoret demolished the roof of their rental house to force the woman pay Sh500 rent arrears. Jane Bosibori had paid Sh3,500 as rent last month but remained with a Sh500 balance, which she says her husband, a boda boda rider, was unable to pay due to poor business. Bosibori says she pleaded with the landlady to spare them because the curfew at night and other measures on coronavirus but the landlord ignored her cries. The landlady sent workers to remove the roof on the semi permanent house at Huruma estate. Residents of the area condemned the action by the landlady.