More than 320 people have been arrested and put into isolation in Uasin Gishu county for defying the curfew orders and other Covid-19 control measures. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said most of those arrested were brewing and drinking illicit alcohol, especially chang'aa and busaa. They are being detained at the Kaplelach isolation centre where they will be tested for Covid-19 and educated on the importance of obeying safety regulations. Then if they test negative, they are released. “We have to enforce the law fully and ensure we are all home by 7pm every day as directed by the government," Jaldesa said. He said most of those arrested were picked up from drinking dens. “They have been congregating in the dens, defeating the purpose of social distancing and violating the ban on gatherings to help stop the spread of the coronavirus," Jaldesa said. Two chiefs and a police officer were injured last week as they tried to stop those engaging in illegal brewing. Jaldesa said they would be severely punished according to the law for injuring law enforcement and administration officers. Governor Jackson Mandago also warned that those defying virus control measures will be dealt with ruthlessly. Police have been deployed at the Kaplelach isolation centre to ensure no one escapes before they complete 14 days. Residents of Eldoret, meantime, have expressed fears over increased crime in the town during curfew hours, citing robberies and burglaries. The worst-affected crime areas include Langas, Kimumu, Munyaka and Munyaka slum areas. Jaldesa said security teams are patrolling those areas but residents led by Rev Paul Mburu of Lasngas Estate said gang attacks have increased at night. “We thought that by forcing us to be home during curfew, only the police would be out there protecting us. We wonder if the police are committing crimes. Who are those people operating at night during curfew? Mburu asked. Jaldesa said they had received reports of increased crime in some areas and said police would ensure criminals are arrested. Curfew enforcement was almost 100 per cent successful, he said, except for those crowded in drinking dens. (Edited by V. Graham)