Nairobi and its environs will continue to experience heavy rainfall until Monday, the Metorological department has said. According to the five-days weather forecast, rainfall is expected to continue over most parts of the country. Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Transnzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Counties are likely to receive heavy rainfall at the beginning of the forecast period. In an interview aired on Radio Jambo on Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta urged Kenyans to adhere to the early warnings to avoid loss of lives due to heavy rains. So far, more than 20 people have been affected by the heavy rains which have wreaked havoc in parts of the country. Six people have died in Nyanza and South Rift Valley, while the death toll of the Saturday night mudslide at the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet has risen to at least 12. About 20 others are still missing, with some presumed dead, according to Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya. Uhuru said the government was working with the county governments hard hit by the heavy rains and the Kenya Defence Forces to assist those affected with food and other basis items. “Kenyans should be ready because we do not know what other disaster will befall us due to the heavy rains,” Uhuru said. He warned those in landslide-prone areas like Murang'a to move to higher ground and those near rivers and dams such as Masinga dam, Kitui and Tana River where the water may start spilling over to move to safer places. “We are in a difficult time of disasters and what has happened in West Pokot can happen in other places. People should be on alert and go to safe areas to avert more problems,” he said. A report from the Kenya Red Cross shows above normal rainfall was experienced in Kisumu, Baringo, Kericho, Samburu and Nandi, last weekend leading to floods and landslides in some counties. "Several villages were affected by flash floods. Maembe, Ahero school, Kamidumbi and Oketha villagers were affected. Some of the displaced are camping at the District Officer's office. KRCS Kisumu and multi-agency team are conducting assessment to determine number of households affected," says the report. 