Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has appealed to the county assembly to reconsider its decision to reject her nominees to the County Public Service Board. Waiguru has said the board is needed to urgently recruit medical staff and interns to complement the efforts of the existing medical team in the fight against Covid-19. In a press statement, she said she has written to the assembly to vet and confirm the four nominees. "I'm asking MCAs to put aside their interests and avert a potential loss of lives by relieving our overwhelmed medical staff," she said. The term of the immediate members of the board recently expired. Waiguru nominated their replacements. The names were, however, rejected by the MCAs, who claimed they did not represent the county’s diversity. Meanwhile, two suspected cases of Covid-19 have turned negative. The county chief said they pair were treated and discharged after tests. "I commend our medical team for ably handling the two patients who exhibited coronavirus-like symptoms from screening to referral, isolation and sending of samples for testing," she said. Waiguru said medics, including doctors, nurses and lab technologists, have been trained in Covid-19 prevention and handling of protocols such as screening, referral and treatment. The county has purchased protective gear for the medics and sanitiser has been distributed to all health facilities. The county government has also set up a 14-bed isolation ward at Kerugoya Referral Hospital. Additionally, the county administration has identified six boarding schools that can be used as isolation centres in case health facilities are overrun. They are Karoti Girls, Kagio Boys, Mwea Boys, Kerugoya Boys, Kianyaga Boys and Baricho Boys secondary schools. Some 100 water tanks have also been distributed to shopping centres to suppo0rt regular hand-washing. The county boss on Tuesday flagged off sanitiser and other medical equipment to aid the war. "The county government has established public handwashing points in markets, bodaboda and matatu termini with refillable water dispensing tanks and soap," Waiguru said. Markets and shopping centres are being fumigated in an exercise that will be repeated until the virus is wiped out. Some such as Kagio that attract traders from as far as Mombasa have been decongested to enable social distancing. Car parks and unoccupied public spaces near the markets have been marked for use by traders, the governor noted. “Our teams have been going around the county ensuring that prevention guidelines are adhered to and carrying out a continuous public awareness campaign,” she added. (Edited by F'Orieny)