The Wajir government has allocated Sh50 million to tackle Covid-19 in the county. Governor Mohamed Abdi said the county anticipates more support from health partners. Abdi said they have established a County Emergency Response Committee on Covid-19 chaired by himself and the county commissioner Jacob Narengo. The committee has so far conducted two meetings and is scheduled to meet on Thursday for the third time. “We have established isolation wards at Wajir County Referral Hospital, Habaswein, Bute, Eldas and Griftu subcounties although there are some challenges which we shall address going forward,” the governor said. Technical emergency response teams have been activated and trained at the county and subcounty levels, he said. Abdi said the Ministry of Health supported the county with personal protective equipment and they have also procured more. “As we all know, Covid-19 is not a myth and it is with us. So far 50 persons are infected by the disease in our country and we must, therefore, heed each and every advise and directive given by the Ministry of Health and the respective county departments of Health,” he said. The county has also distributed 40 handwashing facilities at Soko Mjinga and livestock markets, mosques, county and national offices and hospitals. The county health teams have also been sensitising religious leaders, chiefs and prison wardens. They have also been holding talk shows at local FM stations during prime times for the public. Other measures include screening at the Wajir International Airport and Leheley for public service vehicles plying the Nairobi-Mandera route. Abdi said plans are underway to also set screening points for the vehicles entering the county from Mandera and Moyale. “We have trained healthcare workers at the county and subcounties on the pandemic and there are more training opportunities lined up,” he said. He, however, called for more resources to reach out to the entire population of the vast county. Health officials say isolation wards with ventilators, dialysis machines, oxygen cylinders and ICU bedside monitors should be a priority in case of infections. On Wednesday, Abdi participated in virtual extra-ordinary Council of Governors meeting on counties' Covid-19 preparedness. (edited by o. owino)