An Embu lorry’s driver on Friday evening battered a traffic policeman for reportedly attempting to arrest him before curfew time, before his colleagues rescued him. The unarmed policeman was allegedly controlling traffic flow near Christmist Hotel along Embu Kiritiri Road in Embu Town at approximately 6.30pm as motorists and pedestrians rushed to beat the curfew hours’ 6pm starting time. According to eye witnesses, the Tipper lorry’s driver who was travelling towards Kiritiri side arrived before the policeman flagged him down for unknown reason but the driver who was in a traffic jam continued moving on and thus agitating the cop. The witnesses said the composed and determined policeman insisted that the driver must stop and continued emphatically flagging him down but he defied and carried on moving ahead shouting vociferously and gesticulating with his hands to indicate he had not broken any law to warrant arrest. The infuriated policeman who was at this juncture apparently determined to discipline the driver for disobeying him reportedly dashed ahead of the lorry as the traffic moved slowly and tried to block the driver from moving further. The witnesses said the irate driver was not at all moved by the cop’s new tactic of trying to arrest him and instead moved on and almost ran over him but he escaped unhurt and then jumped on the lorry’s door to try to ignite off the lorry as they argued heatedly. The driver finally drove the lorry off the road and parked it in front of a hardware shop and jumped out as the officer who was yelling at him with rage reportedly suddenly descended on him with heavy blows. The driver is said to have countered him and within no time knocked him to the ground, sat on his abdomen and rained blows on him as a big crowd of onlookers applauded him. Fortunately for the cop the curfew time was up and thus other policemen who had arrived to enforce it dispersed the crowd before trying to arrest the driver but he escaped. The officers plucked out several stickers from the lorry’s windscreen to enable for his arrest any he drive without them.