The Lamu Technical and Vocational Training Institute will commence the manufacture of at least 100,000 face masks to be distributed free to residents in the war against coronavirus. Though Lamu has yet to record any case of Covid-19, county health CEC Anne Gathoni said the government was not taking any chances. Speaking in Lamu town on Sunday, Gathoni said mass production of masks shall commence next week with a daily target of at least 4,500. The move is in line with the county government’s strategies to fight the killer flu that has ravaged the globe. Last week, six individuals who had been isolated at the Mpeketoni subcounty hospital over fears that they could be sick were released unconditionally after their blood tests returned negative. Gathoni asked members of the public to continue observing the safety precautions laid down by the Ministry of Health, including social distancing, sanitising, use of face masks at all times, washing hands with soap and staying home. She urged the public to be vigilant and report any suspected cases of coronavirus for prompt action. “The county government has entered into a partnership with the Lamu TVET for mass production of face masks which will be distributed free to members of the public. This is to enhance our emergency and preparedness capabilities. Production starts next week and we expect to do at least 4,500 a day,” Gathoni said. She said the Health department had also procured hand sanitiser distributed to the public for free. “We’ve initiated double fumigation of public spaces. We’ve also been able to create hand washing points in high traffic towns countywide,” Gathoni said. The announcement came just days after women in some parts of Lamu who were unable to afford expensive face masks were spotted donning bras. Despite the directive by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe requiring that face masks not be sold beyond Sh20, local manufacturers in the region have taken full advantage of the situation to exploit members of the public. In Lamu, the masks retail for between Sh100 and Sh200, which way out of reach for many families who can barely afford to put meals on their tables. The Lamu county Covid-19 task force headed by county commissioner Irungu Macharia lauded members of the public for cooperation and following guidelines to keep safe from coronavirus. He warned that there would be dire consequences for anyone found breaching the precautionary measures for Covid-19. Edited by Henry Makori