Uefa will discuss the fate of this season’s Champions League and its other competitions that have been suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic in a video conference meeting today, European soccer’s governing body said in a statement. All Uefa competitions have been halted because of the flu-like virus that has killed around 34,000 people, while this year’s European Championship has been pushed back to 2021. “Uefa has invited the general secretaries of its 55 member associations to a video conference on Wednesday, April 1... to discuss options identified with regards to the potential rescheduling of matches,” Uefa said. Player transfers and contracts will also be discussed at the meeting, it added. Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin said over the weekend that the current season could be lost if it is unable to re-start by the end of June, although he did not rule out extending it into the next season. Meanwhile, sixty-six non-league clubs have sent an open letter to the Football Association, calling for it to “urgently” reconsider the decision to expunge their seasons. Some MPs have also told clubs they will write to the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport asking for intervention in what one described as a ‘disappointing’ decision. It was announced last week that football in England below the National League’s three divisions would end immediately with results expunged. It means there will be no promotion or relegation in these 91 leagues. The same applies in the women’s game below the Women’s Super League and Championship level. The decision is yet to be ratified by the FA Council. Sport has been decimated by the coronavirus pandemic, with fixtures suspended earlier this month. The letter says: “Our concern is grounded primarily in the needless and inexplicable haste exercised in reaching the decision, coupled with a total lack of substantive dialogue or consultation with affected clubs. The decision also disregards the millions of pounds invested and countless hours expended collectively by clubs, and so has critical financial implications.” “In writing this joint letter, we recognise that the decision to expunge results for the 2019-20 season still pends official ratification from the FA Council. However, we believe it is unacceptable that such a decision has been handed down to us in this manner. We urgently seek constructive dialogue with the FA with the aim to have the decision reconsidered.” BBC Sport has seen communication between clubs and their local MPs demonstrating that they have written or will be writing, to the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport on this issue. The letter says that if there is no consensus reached with the clubs, they will “embark on potential legal recourse”. In a statement, the FA said: “The decision taken to end the 2019-20 season across steps 3-7 of the National League system, the women’s football pyramid and the wider grassroots game, was made by committee representatives for the respective leagues and was supported by the FA Board and the FA Women’s Board.” “It will now go to the FA Council for ratification. We fully support the decision they came to during these challenging and unprecedented circumstances for English football.”