This idea that women are only good when they say things that resonate with us is so tiring. (Yawn) People can say what they want, agree with who they want to and defend what they like. Everyone, and dare I include women. (Yes, I said it) I am sure this has come as a surprise to many a man, that women are part of everyone. This past week social media was a mess. There is a good number of men who do not like women. I do not understand why. Maybe they like their fellow men or farm animals, I do not really know. But that really is no reason to disrespect and bully women. In case you missed it, it started with one woman who claimed she had recovered from coronavirus. Apparently there were some inconsistencies in her healing, sickness and everything in between. Fair enough. She came out in the public with that. We can question, that. But then someone decided he would spice everything up and leaked some creative pictures she had taken for an audience of one. Then a television anchor, in her right, decided to give her own opinion, which was not grafted into the law by the way, it was just an opinion that you could agree with if you wanted to and if not, keep it neat and moving. Also if you wanted to challenge the opinion, I am sure you can give your own views, on the matter at hand. All seems very clear and straightforward yes? You do not agree or like what I say, we argue, debate and disagree even on the topic at hand. This only happens though when you are dealing with people with an IQ higher than a statue’s. Body shaming, sex-shaming, financial shaming any shaming really is what is thrown at women. Is it that some men are not equipped with enough vocabulary to give their point of view? I mean how can someone give a well-thought-out and well-articulated view and then your rebuttal is mentioning the size of her breast? What is the difference between you and a village madman who finds people discussing a weighty topic at the village square and needing to feel validated and seen he drops his trousers and shows everyone his bum and then runs away? Why are some of you so ducking stupid? Who raised you? Part of being a grown-up is realising that we cannot all hold the same view. Part of being a responsible citizen is protecting your right to have an opinion no matter how unpopular you feel it is. Part of being a reasonable human being is being able to express yourself in a manner that shows you respect yourself first and foremost. This emerging culture of a woman expressing her view or even goofing and instead of us discussing the issue at hand, we go off to dig up irrelevant information needs to stop. It is as unbecoming as it is unfortunate. Listen, you may need to sit down for what I am about to reveal to you. Women have sex lives, wild downright freaky ones for the most part. Women get married even as tenth wives, they have been ever since Luanda Magere and beyond, calm down. Women have relationships of all types, ask Mary mother of Jesus. And the biggest shocker, I hope you are holding on to something, with men! Fancy that! Now that we have discovered the ‘secret lives of women’, can we now have grown-up conversations? One of these days one of you is going to go digging and you will find your father's nudes. Instead of taking all this time sticking your nose where it does not belong, try reading the dictionary, watch a Ted talk maybe do a sit up. Build yourself. Stop trying to tear down other people. Women especially. They used to say you can take a villager from the village, these days the village moved online and the villager became a madman. This social media market has too many village madmen. Wash your hands. Sanitise. Observe social distance. Stay safe. fellyoyuga@gmail.com