Amani National Congress has dismissed reports the party could be angling to team up with Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. Deputy party leader Ayub Savula said reports suggesting that his boss, Musalia Mudavadi, could be silently planning to work with Ruto were “totally misleading.” “We do not have any arrangement of working with Ruto should he pull out of Jubilee. There is nothing of the kind on the table,” he affirmed. Insiders in Raila Odinga’s ODM party have talked of plans for a coalition between the Orange party, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee and Gideon Moi’s Kanu and others ahead of the next General Election. Jubilee deputy secretary-general Caleb Kositany, an ally of Ruto, dismissed the claims but pointed out that they still had options of joining other parties. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, also an ally of the Deputy President, nonetheless said Raila would be in for a rude shock since Uhuru will back Ruto. Savula said ANC had never discussed anything about working with Ruto at any forum. “What we are reading in the newspapers is misleading because Musalia does not have plans to work with Ruto,” the Lugari MP added. In June last year, Mudavadi ruled out working with the Deputy President in the 2022 elections, saying he was also eyeing the presidency. Vowing to succeed Uhuru, Mudavadi said that it would be absurd to expect him to once again shelve his bid in favour of someone else. And in September last year, Ruto speaking in Sabatia constituency in Vihiga county urged Mudavadi to join him to form a political pact that would help them form the next government. Mudavadi rejected the offer. Yesterday, Savula said ANC should not be seen to sabotage Uhuru when the party leader criticises the President’s administration. “We will advise Uhuru as the Opposition and give him a constructive opinion. We are not interested in fighting Uhuru as ANC,” he explained. “You have seen how Musalia has been assisting Uhuru on various issues. He has been by his side to fight coronavirus and has offered advice on issues to do with the economy.” Savula said ANC would not engage in any acts of sabotage and will support Uhuru until he completes his term in office. Reports in a local daily said architects of Raila’s plan believed that the ODM leader could ignore Musalia and his Western backyard hoping that he still has the sway he once had in the region. Edited by Henry Makori