Most residential settings in Kenya do not have the space to accommodate today’s office furniture, nor do most people invest in it, especially if they do the bulk of their work in the office. Working from the office is the norm not only in Kenya but globally unless for those who are self-employed and work from home. Mostly, these people have an office space just slotted for them within the house. But for those who are self-employed but are struggling and are still working from home, they have to make space for their laptops or desktops to ensure work is done. But with thousands staying at home during this pandemic, most people are either using their computers on a regular table or using the laptops in bed as they work to meet their daily professional needs. Some people also use a lounge chair on their balcony as they breathe in fresh air across the estates. But the worst mistake and the bad news is that you may be on the road to potentially hurting your back or injuring your neck. For you to avoid this; You are expected to follow these tips to still remain healthy during this time Avoid using your laptop in bed Unless you sit straight on the side of the bed, sitting in the sleeping position may injure not only your back but also your neck and shoulders. If a bed is your only option, put a pillow behind your back to rest against the headboard and put your computer or a laptop on a cushion in your lap. One is also advised to get a low table for the laptop to go over your legs so you can type at a comfortable height without straining. Sit straight on a chair Don’t try to sit upright and don’t hunch forward in your chair as your lower back curves in toward your belly. You should ensure that your arm is at your side and that your nerves are not being compressed. If your nerves are compressed the more your neck and shoulder will be strained. Make sure that you can sit back on your chair so some of your body weight is being supported by the chair back and sit close enough to comfortably reach your keyboard. Raise your legs When sitting, rest your feet flat on either the floor or use foot support. For those who have recliner seats, you can recline to ensure that your feet are up there. This will not only allow the flow of blood on your entire body including your feet but will also enable you to sit down comfortably. Avoid prolonged standing for computer work Standing to work requires more energy than sitting and puts a greater strain on the circulatory system and on the legs and feet. Standing for extended periods of time also increases the risks of varicose veins. To avoid this, sit, stand, stretch and take a 10-minute exercise before going back to the seat. Do not stand for it will not only injure your back but also it will affect the flow of blood. View any documents with a straight neck. Don’t read from an iPad or papers that are flat on your table or your head will constantly have to move up and down. If you need to go back and forth between a laptop or computer screen and separate reading material, use a vertical document holder or put iPad on a stand.