The High Court has ordered Kenyatta National Hospital to reinstate a nurse it interdicted for allegedly planning a strike at the institution six years ago. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Byram Ongaya ruled that the interdiction of Stephen Kaburia by the Staff Disciplinary and Advisory Committee was unlawful. "An order is issued lifting the interdiction of the claimant conveyed in the letter dated December 20,2013, and all processes flowing from that letter and the claimant be allowed to resume his duties without loss of benefits," Justice Ongaya said. He told Kaburia to resume work not later than May 2  at 8am for assignment of duty by the hospital’s chief executive officer. There will be no break in his tenure of service, the judge said. Kaburia will also be compensated for all financial losses including salary from when he was interdicted at Sh35,496 per month, health worker extraneous monthly allowance of Sh20,000 and health risk allowance Sh3,850 per month. The dues must be paid by August 1. “The order that any bad record that might have been placed in the claimant’s file in relation to the unlawful interdiction letter are hereby expunged from the claimant’s records of employment," Ongaya said. Kaburia sued the hospital for wrongful dismissal in 2016. He said due process was not followed to terminate his services and that the hospital ignored  interim orders by another judge stopping his dismissal. He was employed as a nursing officer III on December 24, 1998. At the time of the dismissal he was earning a monthly consolidated pay of Sh70,992. His sacking letter was issued by Justus Kimathi for allegedly calling the employees of the KNH board on strike. He was summoned by SDAC on August 29, 2014 and sent home "maliciously and without due regard to my rights and welfare". He questioned the legality of SDAC and his Interdiction by  an "unauthorised person". Kaburia said the interdiction had caused suffering, great financial loss, psychological torture and social disintegration, career stagnation and damages. The KNH board did not file a defence or call witnesses. The court had noted the interdiction letter said that it had come to the hospital management that Kaburia was spotted on December 19, 2013 between 8pm and 10pm distributing undated leaflets urging KNH health workers to join the strike by county health workers. The letter said the strike had been declared illegal and unconstitutional by the courts. It accused Kaburia of violating the Labour Relations Act of 2007. “In view of the above and considering the seriousness of the offence, it has been decided that you should be and are hereby interdicted from duty with effect from the date hereof," the letter said. Kaburia argued that Kimathi had no legal mandate to write the interdiction letter and as such the disciplinary process arising from that letter was unlawful. Further, neither the KNH board nor a committee duly constituted by the hospital sanctioned the interdiction, he maintained.  - mwaniki fm