Western politicians are crisscrossing the region distributing food, sanitisers, face masks and gloves to maintain contact with supporters after the ban on public gatherings to stop the spread of Covid-19. This is a strategy effected by both sitting and aspiring MPs and those angling for county seats to remain politically relevant. MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) as well as Shinyalu MP aspirant Anthony Lusuli, Kakamega gubernatorial aspirants Samuel Omukoko and Fernandez Barasa have been distributing food and protective gadgets to residents in the last three weeks. The donations are disguised as support for government efforts in the battle against spread of Covid-19, but political connotations are clear as the supplies bear the names and portraits of the benefactors. The politicians are using the donations to keep track of their supporters since crowding is banned. Jeremiah Okova said the donations were welcome but cautioned that there should be a clear structure for any impact to be felt. "This is the moment when everyone needs to play a role in protecting our people from hunger and the virus. But there needs to be a clear arrangement to reach the vulnerable because we cannot manage to give every Kenyan food," Okova said. He said those handing out face masks should should do so to everyone and not only family members. "You should protect yourself by protecting others. The masks will be a waste of time if only one or two members of a family have them on and the rest don’t," Okova added. Kakamega Jubilee coordinator Raphael Welimo supports the politicians. "The issue of branding doesn't matter as of now as long as people are assisted during these hard times. I am surprised that the most vocal politicians who claim to have the interest of the people at heart have gone mute. They are waiting to come with rhetoric once the situation normalises," he said. Bungoma Council of Elders official Patrick Chaka noted that politicians are taking advantage of the pandemic to reach their followers because the BBI rallies and church harambees are no more. "Everything at the moment is corona and most elected leaders have gone underground. We appreciate what the few on the ground are doing," Chaka said. Edited by Henry Makori