Acting Director-General of Public Health Dr Patrick Amoth has revealed that out of the 208 confirmed cases, 142 involve people with special needs. Amoth said this ranges from breastfeeding mothers to those with physical disabilities. "Out of this number, 140 are in stable condition, two are in critical condition on ventilators and one of the two is also on dialysis," he said. Kenya on Monday announced 208 people have so far tested positive of Covid-19. Since the first case was reported on March 13, the country has so far lost 9 people with 40 having recovered. Amoth said the patients are taken care off just like other patients but with a consideration to their respective needs. So far 1,882,306 positive cases have been reported globally with 117,400 deaths and 37,311 recoveries. In Africa, the number of reported cases stands at 15,363 with 798 deaths and 2,989 recoveries. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the government will now embark on targeted testing as opposed to mass testing as had earlier planned. Kagwe said targeted testing is bound to yield effective results. "Going to test for instance staff from an institution where an employee tested positive is more effective. Going for a cluster in one of the estates would save more time compared to just going for anybody," he said. Kagwe said with such targeted testing, it will even be easier to trace those that have been in contact with any patient that might test positive. "If we ease off on measures that we have already put in place, we are likely to have a wave that we have never seen," Kagwe said. "A little success should not be construed to mean a lot of success. It is true our projections were higher than it is but we are nowhere near out of the deep waters," he added. Kagwe said the ministry has monitored 2,306 contacts out of which 1,687 have been discharged.  Some 619 contacts are being followed at the moment. The CS said the economy has been adversely affected as a result. "Jobs and livelihoods have been lost but we can turn around the situation if we fully adhere to guidelines put in place," he said. Kagwe said so far the government has spent Sh140 million on Personal Protective equipment- PPEs and over 8,000 tests done across the country. He said 500 ventilators have been mobilised across the counties and millions of litres of sanitisers distributed. "We have sensitised over 100,000 health workers and community workers on the disease, and established 1,664 isolation beds across the country," he said.