Details have emerged of how the government intends to adjust the country’s budget to raise funds for emergency response to the coronavirus pandemic. In the changes unveiled by the National Treasury on Wednesday, the government intends to reduce development spending by Sh98.7 billion. Recurrent spending will, however, increase by Sh24 billion if the National Assembly approves the second supplementary estimates tabled on Tuesday. As a result, ministries, state departments and agencies have lost Sh74 billion in reduced spending in the current financial year. The proposed cuts have affected the Executive, Judiciary, Legislature as well as independent constitutional commissions. The Judiciary is tipped to lose Sh1.7 billion of its budget for the financial year 2019-20 in the changes. The National Treasury is to give up Sh35 billion of its Sh113 billion budget for the current financial year. If implemented, Parliament will have its budget adjusted downwards by Sh3.49 billion, being Sh2.5 billion from the National Assembly and Sh1.4 billion from joint services. The Interior Ministry is proposed to slash Sh6 billion, Devolution (Sh4 billion), Defence (Sh6 billion), Planning (Sh10 billion) and Health (Sh12 billion). A number of energy projects are also at stake with the proposed cuts of Sh21 billion for the sector. Foreign Affairs is proposed to let go of Sh1.2 billion while President Uhuru Kenyatta’s vocational training agenda has been hit by Sh3.1 billion cuts. Developments around the new curriculum have also suffered a setback, with proposed Sh3.9 billion cuts in respect of the Basic Education department. Road projects and ongoing works at various transport hubs stand affected by the proposed Sh21 billion cuts for the Transport department. The Big Four housing agenda is at stake with the proposed Sh5.5 billion cuts which will see the Public Works department shed Sh2.4 billion. Yatani intends to get Sh7.4 billion from the Water docket, Sh3.4 billion from Environment and Sh7.8 billion from CS Joe Mucheru’s ministry. The Fisheries department will get Sh2.4 billion cut, Industrialisation Sh2.8 billion, Labour Sh1.8 billion and Petroleum Sh2.4 billion. Sports will lose Sh244 million. Treasury wants the IEBC budget reduced by Sh233 million and the Auditor General’s by Sh287 million. The Registrar of Political Parties will lose Sh54 million. Yatani also proposes to take away Sh64 million from the Judicial Service Commission, Witness Protection Agency (Sh11 million), Commission on Revenue Allocation (Sh75 million), Public Service Commission (Sh46 million) and the National Police Service Commission (Sh7.6 million). President Kenyatta ordered the cuts among measures to cushion Kenyans from the virus’s adverse effects on the economy. Treasury has been grappling with a Sh172 billion budget hole following the President's Covid-19 stimulus package. Treasury said Kenyans should prepare for the worst. The Parliamentary Budget Office  had advised that Treasury borrows Sh150 billion to cushion Kenyans from the expected losses. Money raised from the proposal will be deposited in the Covid-19 Emergency Fund account for subsequent allocation of the reliefs. In the proposals, the President said Sh10 billion would be spent on cash transfers for OVCs and elderly persons. A total of Sh1 billion from the Universal Health Coverage allocation was to be spent on hiring additional health workers to bolster emergency response. Edited by Henry Makori