AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda has sounded warning bells to the members against being duped to invest in the unsanctioned AFC Leopards Holdings, an idea championed by the club's former chief executive officer,  Richard Ekhalie. Shikanda pointed an accusing finger to Ekhalie for advancing his plan to modify the club to a limited company without the blessings of the Executive Committee and the members. Shikanda said his office had not consented to the scheme and warned the members against investing in it. The former player blasted Ekhalie for using the idea for alleged selfish gains. According to AFC Leopards Holdings twitter handle, the club's branches will transform into subsidiary companies. "The person behind the AFC Leopards Holdings train has been the club's CEO for two terms and did not achieve much during his tenure. I want to warn our members against supporting his ideas for they stand to lose. He did not approach my office before launching it either have we endorsed it. His agenda is to destabilize and disfranchise the club but we will not accept that to happen," claimed Shikanda. Shikanda conceded that his office was keen to seek legal intervention and stop Ekhalie from minting millions from unsuspecting members who may be enticed to invest in the unapproved venture. He also accused the former administrator of using the club's name and brand for his own commercial gains. "I can confirm that plans are underway to initiate legal measures against the guy. He is not an elected executive thus, he can not transact any business on behalf of the club. It is unacceptable and against the laws to use the club's name and brand for selfish gains," said the former Kenyan international However, in a rejoinder, Ekhalie claimed that Shikanda was dishonest as he had shared the blueprint with his office. He, however, acknowledged that the latter did not give his proposal a clean bill of health, stating that it was the prerogative of the members to endorse it. "Transforming the club from a society to a limited company is something I have been envisaging for quite some time. I will present the proposal to our members in June this year. This will help us mobilize money from the fans who will be our shareholders. I think Shikanda is being dishonest when he alleges that I did not approach and discuss the way forward with him. He said the plans were good but it will be upon the members to either endorse it or object it," he said.