Several Nairobi City Stars players have gotten a welcome reprieve to recover from various injuries due to the unforeseen coronavirus enforced break. Defensive midfielder Charles  Otieno, strikers Jimmy Bageya and Vincent Otieno, defenders Wycliffe Otieno and Edwin Buliba are some of the players who would have otherwise missed games had the Corona Virus disruption not arrived. Otieno natural deep-lying midfielder suffered a knee injury which diminished his performances to an extent he had been asked to sit out the rest of the season. “Chale may not be fully fit on time as his case is about managing the injury and pain. With strengthened muscles around the injury he may get to a point where he can play with rehab and physio,” said trainer Grace Wangodu on the clubs official Portal. Teenage striker Vincent had an acute knee injury during a friendly game in early February which saw him off the squad for a month. He was to start normal training in readiness for league games. Buliba suffered patella tendonitis and IT band syndrome on his left knee during a crucial game against Nairobi Stima. He did not complete the match and has been undergoing physio sessions since then. Big defender Wycliffe Otieno has been playing while on rehab to mild-Achilles tendon pain. Chances are he would have missed some games to fully recover. First choice keeper Levis Opiyo and striker Ezekiel Odera are expected to fully recover from minor concerns suffered from recent games; patella tendonitis and mild Achilles, respectively. Away from those five cases, two other players keeper Levis Opiyo (patella tendonitis) and striker Ezekiel Odera (mild Achilles) are expected to fully recover from minor concerns suffered from recent games. Collectively, and barring any new developments, the seven players are expected to be on an equal footing to contest for playing places once the league resumes at the end of the sporting lock-down due to coronavirus. Right-back Kevin Okumu, who missed out the last two games, had only recovered from grass burn around the knee and hip area and was raring to reclaim his position in the team. Striker Ebrima Sanneh, the club’s top scorer had only featured once in four games but came off the bench to power in a winning header for his ninth season goal during the last game against Nairobi Stima. He had fully recovered from patella tendonitis that had slowed him down since the turn of the year. In that game, Davis Agesa clocked a full 90 minutes for the first time in a month following the full healing of soreness and swelling around his knee. Though league games were brought to a halt due to the coronavirus pandemic, the new situation brought about by the forced break has since turned out to be a blessing in disguise for players seeking to recuperate.