A legislator has raised concern over the movement of children in estates and villages despite the order to stay at home to flatten the curve of Covid-19 infections. Limuru's Peter Mwathi urged citizens to accept and heed the government's instructions to help in reducing the spread of coronavirus that is ruining human health and global economies. He regretted that primary and secondary school learners keep in groups in the villages to engage in storytelling and play. Mwathi urged parents to engage their children with school work revision and other activities to reduce movement. He says by doing so, the learners will not lose focus on their studies and also not aid in the spread of the virus that had by Wednesday infected 81 people in the country, killing one. Three have recovered. "It is sad that our children are being noticed visiting each other. Our parents should ensure they engage them as much as possible with school work and telling them how serious the disease is," Mwathi said. The MP, who spoke to the Star by phone on Thursday, urged the Ministry of Education to come up with a learning strategy for both primary and secondary schools to complete the syllabus on time. "The government should urgently put up learning programmes for all public school students through e-learning. This way  they will not lose learning time and they will at the same time also be productive." Mwathi urged the public to heed the government's directives pertaining  to the control of the spread of coronavirus, including avoiding urban-rural movements. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday said Kenyans should prepare for stiffer government measures after the number of Covid-19 patients rose to 81. He said the 22 new cases reported on Wednesday were the country's highest to be confirmed within a day. The first confirmed case in Kenya was on March 13. The 22 were among 300 tested in various laboratories across the country. “We cannot emphasise enough what is likely to be ahead of us unless and until we adhere to the rules that we have established such as social distancing, washing hands and observing what the the government is saying," the minister said. “This disease knows no boundaries; national, political or social, we are all affected in the same way." Edited by R.Wamochie