The Kenya Plantations and Agricultural Workers Union is talking to flower farms that have dismissed workers over the Covid-19 outbreak to chart the way forward. KPAWU secretary-general in Naivasha Ferdinand Juma said they are keen on a win-win solution for both workers and employers. He said hundreds of workers have been sent home on one-month paid leave as the employers monitor the situation. “KPAWU has started to engage employers on the way forward in regard to the current situation, and we have several options over the crisis,” he said. Juma said among the options is sending the workers on unpaid leave or half salary, adding that sacking is not an option. “We have had several meetings with the employers and the workers' representatives, and all understand the magnitude of this problem, which has paralysed various sectors,” he said. Meanwhile, the government has moved in to profile hundreds of flower farm workers in Naivasha who have been laid off due to Covid-19 with a view to supporting them. Also set to benefit from the programme are hundreds of poor families around the lakeside who have been adversely affected by the virus. Naivasha hosts over 50 flower and fresh produce farms, from which thousands of workers have been sent on unpaid leave or had their contracts cancelled. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo said they are working closely with the farmers in supporting the affected persons. He said flower farms are the most affected as those involved in fresh produce are still exporting their products. “Nearly all flower farms have been affected, unlike the fresh produce farms, which are still exporting,” he said. Mathioya said the floriculture sector is critical to the economy of the country and the town, with over 100,000 families benefitting directly and indirectly. On the vulnerable families, the commissioner said chiefs are assisting in identifying them ahead of the government’s plan to support them. “We are also working with the county government, which is also keen to assist the vulnerable families in Naivasha,” he said. Mathioya said the county security team met with evangelical leaders, who agreed that Easter church sessions would only be held online. “We agreed that as per the government directive, we shall not have any church service during this period,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie