The Kenya Ports Authority has advertised the position of a managing director, just over a week after Daniel Manduku resigned. The advertisement signed by KPA board chairman Joseph Kibwana asked interested candidates to apply by April 24. The application should be done online. Kibwana told the Star last week that the board would advertise the job and let Kenyans apply. He spoke after the board appointed long-serving engineer Rashid Salim to act in the position. “We shall advertise the position as soon as possible so that they appoint a substantive managing director,” Kibwana said. Manduku resigned in a letter to Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia before the board resolved to have Salim take over his position. Salim has worked at the parastatal for 38 years. Sources hinted he could be considered for the job. KPA said it was looking to recruit an individual with a high degree of integrity and professionalism, impeccable administrative capabilities and strategic orientation. “The person should be a holder of a Bachelors and Masters Degree in one of the following: Port Management, Maritime and Shipping Logistics, Engineering, Business, Social Sciences, Public Policy or Science and Technology from a recognised institution,” the advert read. The candidate is expected to have at least a year of relevant work experience and must have served for not less than eight years in a managerial or leadership role in a large organisation. Candidates who have an understanding of the port industry and naval operations will have an added advantage. “An attractive remuneration package and benefits determined in line with prevailing public sector guidelines awaits the successful candidate,” Kibwana said. The appointment is on contractual terms for an initial period of three years and is renewable for another term based on performance and business. The position has in the past seen several MDs fired, resign or unceremoniously leave office before the end of their term. For the last 11 years, KPA has sacked four managing directors. Since 1979, the position has been held by 15 people, Salim being the latest in an acting capacity. Since then, seven bosses have been sacked, while four were forced to resign. Reasons for their sacking have ranged from graft allegations, incompetence, embezzlement of funds to sabotage and witch-hunt, infrastructural developments, port privatisation, unscrupulous dealers and political meddling. Edited by Peter Obuya