The outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic has exposed all the glaring inadequacies of Kenya's capital city. The ban on movement in and of the city has made a bad situation worse. The city county lacks a proper cemetery, enough clean drinking water, proper housing, proper waste disposal and enough sewer lines. Twenty years ago, Lang'ata Cemetery was declared full and authorities were not prepared to acquire a new site. Health executive Hitan Majevdia said, "It has been full for years and the county has not yet found an alternative," he said. “That is why we advise the public to either bury their loved ones upcountry or use private burial sites, some owned by organisations," Majevdia said. Bodies must be disposed of within 24 hours after death. Those without rural homes and who cannot afford private cemeteries will have to cremate. “In Lang'ata Cemetery, we have unmarked tombs not frequently visited by families. In some circumstances, we might have bodies buried there," Majevdia said. Also in Lang'ata, some graves have no claimants and are very old. They might be used again. The CEC recommends cremation as the best and most affordable way. The charge to cremate an adult is Sh16,500, while children are cremated for Sh15,500. But will his advice be heeded? Burial is an ancient tradition. Where's the water? The city has for years been grappling with inadequate clean drinking water. Despite heavy rains and the current long rains, rationing persists in some areas, though the reservoir is full. With a population of 4,397,073, the city gets most of its water from Ndakaini Dam in Murang'a county. The dam can store 70 million cubic metres at full capacity. About 526,600 cubic metres are pumped per day. The demand is 800,000 cubic metres per day, leaving a shortfall of 273,400 cubic metres. Authorities say the water will be distributed fairly and more boreholes will be drilled, giving a regular supply to several slums. Planners have faulted authorities for failing to upgrade infrastructure to accommodate a growing population. Experts advise washing hands with soap and clean running water for 20 seconds as the major way of stopping the spread of coronavirus. Nairobi Metropolitan boss Mohammed Badi acknowledged two weeks ago the magnitude of water scarcity. Badi said each of the 17 subcounties is set to have at least three water bowsers. “Water is an essential service and during this time it is necessary to observe hygiene," he said. Proper housing The city is also grappling with a lack of proper housing. Millions of people have been condemned into small one-room shanties made from old iron or plastic and mud. The houses are crowded, and proper social distancing cannot be observed, meaning once the virus takes hold, it can spread fast since it is transmitted by droplets of saliva from coughing and sneezing. Only 30 per cent of Nairobi is connected to sewer lines. (Edited by V. Graham)