Human rights groups have called for the formation of an independent team to monitor the enforcement of the dusk-to-dawn curfew by police officers. Amnesty International, International Commission of Jurist, Haki Africa and 17 other NGOs want the special team to document the missteps and excesses of police officers to ensure accountability. They said the monitoring will ensure individual police officers are held responsible for their actions. "A special team be established at Jogoo House to document and act on complaints against police officers alleged to have perpetrated violations against members of the public," they said in a statement on Saturday. They gave seven guidelines they want to be adopted as the practice of social distancing gets entrenched to curb the spread of Covid-19. The proposal came after widespread condemnation of the excessive force used by the police in enforcing the curfew that started on March 27. At least four victims of the brutality succumbed to their injuries. Yasin Moyo, 13, is among the victims. He was hit in the stomach on March 31 at the balcony of their house in Kiamaiko in Nairobi's Mathare constituency by officers enforcing the curfew. On the first day of the dusk-to-dawn curfew, videos of officers brutalising citizens including journalists, women and children dominated the social media space. Police spokesman Charles Owino, however, defended the officers, saying they acted professionally and with discipline. He said Kenyans should be individually held responsible for failure to obey the curfew. The lobbies want the special team to include people with expertise on gender-based violence, the right of persons living with disability as well as children's rights and safety. They also recommended that the team be required to submit a daily progress report to the Inspector General and share it with the Independent Police Oversight Authority, Internal Affairs Unit and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. "The working of this team will be in liaison with the entities of police oversight that already exist including IAU and Ipoa to ensure as many mechanisms of oversight as possible are enabled to capture as many cases," the groups said. The lobbies also encouraged officers to 'refuse unlawful orders' as 'the compensation for rights abuses may not in all cases be borne by the state but also by officers who are found to be criminally liable'. "Should an officer choose to knowingly execute unlawful orders, such orders shall not serve as an acceptable defence." Edited by Peter Obuya