A Nairobi court has freed a Bomas of Kenya supervisor charged with stealing metal bars valued at Sh500,000 for lack of evidence. Evanson Maina was also charged with another count of handling stolen goods. The offences were allegedly committed on January 31, 2015. Maina denied both charges when he was arraigned and was released on bond. During the trial, the prosecution called nine witnesses. The complainant John Wambua told the court that he had erected the billboard at the Bomas of Kenya. He received a call from the property manager, a Mr Njoroge, informing him that a person had been arrested trying to steal the billboard. “The manager also told me that a vehicle that had been procured by the accused person had also been impounded,” he told the court. Bomas of Kenya employee Elizabeth Amboso told the court that she was a security officer in 2015 when the alleged offence took place. She had worked at the place for 13 years. Amboso testified that she saw the accused cut the iron bar but was told it belonged to him. She said she saw the accused person park the items into a lorry. On enquiring from the supervisor, she learned there had been no permission to cut the iron bars. The guard said after some time, a Mr Abdi came with police officers and arrested Maina. The investigating officer and other six witnesses also testified in the case. Maina said he sought permission from the person who was in charge of the property, security, maintenance and housekeeping. He said Bomas had disposed of some scrap metals in 2012 and it is these that he borrowed and was given the go-ahead to take. He got a car to park them and his colleagues assisted him in loading the scrap metals. He denied any wrongdoing. In her ruling delivered on Skype, Kibera senior resident magistrate Renee Kitagwa said the prosecution depended on hearsay but failed to prove the case. Kitagwa said most evidence in court was not genuine as they posed more doubts. “How could it be that since 2012, the owner of the said metal bar never thought of putting the same up,” she said. She acquitted Maina and ordered his cash bail refunded. (edited by o. owino)