Visa and Safaricom are today (April 22) expected to announce a strategic partnership that will bring their money platform together in enhancing the use of cashless payments globally. The partnership will allow the telco’s over 23.6 million active M-Pesa customers and users to make transactions at more than 61 million merchants throughout Visa’s global network. “Through the partnership, Visa and Safaricom will enable global payments and remittances to the M-Pesa mobile money service through Visa credentials,” the firms note. Visa is being led by general manager (East Africa) Corine Mbiaketcha, in its quest to tap more of the cashless market, a time when bank notes are being shunned over coronavirus. This is through its advanced global processing network, VisaNet, which provides secure and reliable payments around the world, and is capable of handling more than 65,000 transaction messages a second. Safaricom has equally claimed its position in the global digital commerce space as the world continues accept mobile money and digital payment modes. The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) listed firm pioneered commercial mobile money transfer globally through M-Pesa, which was launched in March 2007, becoming the most successful service of its kind. It has over 176,000 M-Pesa Agent outlets countrywide. M-Pesa accounts for 98.8 percent of the 28.9 million active mobile money subscriptions which the country had as of December–Communication Authority data. The platform accounted for Sh9.709 billion of customer to business transactions in the second quarter of financial year 2019/20, CA notes. The deal comes at a time when Safaricom is expecting a Sh5.5 billion ($51.64 million) hit to its revenue from M-Pesa in the three months from mid-march, after it adjusted prices because of the coronavirus crisis. The foregone revenue, equating to 7.3 per cent of the mobile money platform’s annual earnings, will be caused by the removal of all charges on small peer-to-peer transfers to facilitate cashless payments to help to contain the coronavirus pandemic. The company, which is part owned by South Africa’s Vodacom and Britain’s Vodafone, is however not worried by the projection, said CEO Peter Ndegwa, who took the helm on April 1. “When Kenya gets back on track, our business should get back on track,” he told Reuters,“We are in a good place to be able to weather this storm, but our business is linked to how the country comes out on the other side.”