Counties have not violated any rule in payment of the allowances to health workers, the Council of Governors has said. CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya was responding to a letter by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, which, through chairperson Lyn Mengich, advised the devolved units on their proposals to offer incentives to health workers in the fight against Covid-19. On April 9, Mengich said such awards are not only unlawful but may also cause inequality in remuneration across the sector, a situation she said may lead to instability. She said counties had not consulted the commission. But the Kakamega county chief said they are guided by regulations from their respective public service boards. The commission chairperson said counties should instead channel the funds towards the purchase of Personal Protective Equipment for the safety of workers. “Whereas the commission is cognisant of the challenges faced by health professionals in the fight against Covid-19, it is concerned that due process has to be followed in the introduction of any new allowances by way of seeking an advisory from the commission as required by law,” Mengich wrote. However, Oparanya defended the move by counties saying the allowances are a short-term measure to boost health workers’ morale so they can double their efforts in saving lives and combating the spread of the virus. “Such incentives are key motivators to the health personnel who are overwhelmed during this period when all eyes are on them to tame the spread of the pandemic,” he said at a press conference in Kisumu. Oparanya urged the SRC to support programmes put in place by county governments to improve the welfare of their personnel. Meanwhile, the governor said they have observed with concern the way Kenyans, including students, are mistreated in China in the aftermath of coronavirus outbreak. “We are asking the Kenyan authorities to move with speed and stop the plight of Kenyans in China and ensure their safety,” he said, adding that China and Kenya have had a cordial relationship, which might be undermined by such racial discrimination, hence the need to fix the problem. He also appealed to traders not to take advantage of the demand for food items to raise their prices. “This is the time we require everybody’s sacrifice in the fight against Covid-19,” Oparanya said. “We, therefore, urge more well-wishers to provide assistance to Kenyans to cushion them from suffering as they observe the rules and regulations by the government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.” (Edited by F'Orieny)