Save Lamu, a community-based organization in Lamu has launched handwashing centres across the region in a move to reinforce awareness on Covid-19. The mobilisation has seen installations in Mokowe, Manda Maweni, Matondoni, Mtangawanga, Shela and Faza. This is after it was established that many locals in remote villages have no idea what coronavirus is and how to prevent it. This also comes just days after the Boni minority community accused the county and national governments of leaving them out of the Covid-19 discussion. Elders from the Boni community said they have been left of out of the rigorous campaigns concerning coronavirus as no one has been to their villages to enlighten them on what it is and what to do. It’s in this sense that Save Lamu has moved in to fill the gap by teaching members of the public in some of these remote villages the importance of handwashing, social distancing and staying at home in as far as the war against coronavirus goes. Speaking in Lamu, Save Lamu chairperson Abubakar Alamudy said the objective was to build trust amongst the community to work with both local and national governments in helping reduce cases of infections of Covid-19 in the region. The organization is also planning to have similar installations in terror-prone areas like Basuba, Milimani, Mararani, Mangai and Kiangwe. “It is our responsibility as Kenyans to work with our leadership to reduce cases of infection within the country. The government has called each one of us to follow stipulated guidelines and as Save Lamu, we have partnered with our county leadership to ensure that the message is passed to everyone," Alamudy said. "This pandemic calls for everyone to engage and ensure that we are all playing our part in defeating it.” He said the inception of the initiative came as a response to the gaps identified like misinformation, the need to amplify the government’s response and as a responsibility of Save Lamu to its community. This initiative is also a follow up to Shani ya Lamu campaign that advocates for protecting the biodiversity of the island and its resources, sharing Lamu attributes and why it needs to be protected. “If we protect its people from Covid-19, the county will not only achieve 100 per cent virus-free but provide the community with resources to continue building this nation," said Is'haq Abubakar, board member of Save Lamu. "We as Save Lamu are working to ensure that this pandemic is contained. Lamu has so much to offer beyond tourism as our way of life speaks to protecting each other and the Island.” Lamu is celebrated for various reasons including its solid culture, fishing, tourism and many more that are now affected and by the pandemic. The campaign provides a platform for Lamu residents to participate in ensuring that proper response to Covid-19 is achieved and most importantly that the community will be well informed on how to tackle this pandemic and influence behaviour change. Save Lamu’s aim is to engage communities and stakeholders so as to ensure participatory decision-making, achieve sustainable and responsible development and preserve the environmental, social and cultural integrity of the Lamu community.