East Africa’s most popular professional golfer Dismas Indiza now hopes to feature more on international tour circuit despite missing out on two key events due to issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Mumias-based pro, who is famous for his long-hitting antics, was hoping to grace the Magical Kenya Open as a precursor to his invite to the US Senior Open after winning the Safari Tour locally. But the pro, better known as ‘Baba Yao’ in golfing circles, is disappointed that the mission to grace US event came a cropper owing to COVID19 issues. “Plans were at an advanced stage and the participation fee of US$3000 was also ready. Sadly, the Kenya Open didn’t happen as scheduled and the U.S. Senior Open will not happen this year,” said Indiza. The event was meant to be Indiza’s maiden tour of the United States, where he was scheduled to play in pre-qualifier in pursuit of coveted main event’s slots. In addition to the postponement of the U.S. Open earlier in the month, the United States Golf Association also made the decision to cancel the U.S. Senior Open and Senior Women’s Open Championships for 2020. The 41st U.S. Senior Open had been scheduled for June 25-28 at Newport Country Club in Newport but will now be played at Omaha (Neb.) Country Club from July 8-11, next year. “Considering the ongoing health issues related to COVID-19, it was inevitable for organisers of the event not to run it.” “I have been to Manchester, where I attended the Tour School some years back. But playing in the Senior event would have been a great opportunity given the big names that have participated in the event,” Indiza said. With his invite failing to come to fruition, Indiza has continued to shape up at the depleted Mumias course and he is hoping to play more in the Sunshine Tour events if possible. “Although the course in Mumias is a pale shadow of its former self, one can still train there. This is to ensure that I am not very rusty by the time life returns to normal. I have been hitting the ball well and trying to keep the swing intact,” he s said. The U.S. Senior Open is one of the five major championships in senior golf, introduced 40 years ago. It is administered by the USGA and is recognised as a major championship by both the PGA Tour Champions and the European Senior Tour. The lower age limit was 55 in 1980 but it was lowered to 50 for the second edition in 1981, which is the standard limit for men’s senior professional golf tournaments. The world’s greatest golfer of all time Jack Nicklaus has won the US Open four times thus 1962,1967, 1972 and1980 and won the Senior Open twice in 1991 and 1993.