This is a tricky subject and mixes sport and politics which always stir debate and argument. Fans of Newcastle are delighted that the end of owner Mike Ashley and his company Sports Direct is on the horizon with the club very close to being sold. The problem is with the new owners. Saudi fund boss Yasir Al-Rumayyan is one of the most powerful men in his oil-rich country. He heads mega-rich Saudi Aramco Oil which is the biggest natural resource company in the world. He is also boss of the Public Investment Fund (PIF) with assets of £250billion. I have discovered the contents of a 350-page document which outlines the Saudi plans for Newcastle and it will make music for the club supporters “Toon Army”. The document outlines plans to invest hundreds of millions into the football club, negotiate new sponsorship deals and re-organise the management structure. They intend to use part of this money to upgrade St James Park, invest in top player talent and build a new academy for younger players coming through. Current owner Ashley is delighted that the deal will be financed with cash and not shares and promissory notes. For this reason, he dropped the price from £340million to £300million. Now for the big problem which stands in the way of a deal…Whenever a league club is purchased, the new owners have to pass a detailed check called “fitness to run a club” and this is where the Saudi consortium could come unstuck. Yes, they will have the smartest and most expensive lawyers arguing their case but human rights issues in Saudi Arabia are going to be difficult to defend. Amnesty International has become involved and pointed to the ruling regime’s abuse of citizens during their current rule. Saudi beheaded 37 people in a single day last year and there have been a reputed 800 executions since the ruling family came to power. It is also alleged that there is a link between the Premier League pirate broadcasts of a company called beoutQ and the Saudi government. However, there is little doubt that money usually wins the day and no one in the world has more hard cash. There is no doubt that with the world’s richest people behind them, Newcastle could become the new Manchester City who have risen to the top tier of football also using Middle Eastern oil money and the Toon Army are waiting for their chance to relive their glorious past. Three names in the frame for Newcastle job If the Newcastle takeover goes ahead, there are plans to eventually replace Steve Bruce with a more high-profile manager. Two names have been given to me—The ex-Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino and firm fans favourite Rafa Benitez—who left 10 months ago to manage in China. Pochettino has made no secret of his desire to manage once more in the Premier League or Spain’s La Liga because he considers them to be the best two leagues in the world. Benitez only left Newcastle because he could not agree on the investment strategies with current owner Mike Ashley. Ex-Juventus coach Max Allegri is, I understand, also in the frame but is definitely No.3 choice. Steve Bruce is aware that his job is possibly coming to an end. However, he is likely to remain in position until this season is finally wrapped up. Real backing away from Kane interest Harry Kane’s departure from Spurs is still very speculative but the rumours keep circulating. The latest twist is that Real Madrid are cooling their interest which leaves Manchester United clear favourites should Harry decide to move on. However, in a further twist to the story, I have also been told that United’s approach to transfers this summer is being revised and as I write this column, big signings might be impossible because of the current loss of revenue due to the coronavirus lockdown. The problem for Spurs is that this would reduce Harry’s eventual transfer fee because it would no longer be an auction fight between two of the world’s richest clubs. Spurs need as much money as possible to make interest payments on loans taken out to fund their state-of-the-art new stadium. In recent years, Real have bought two of the best players ever to come from Spurs in Gareth Bale and Luka Modric. Although Real Madrid players have agreed a 10 per cent pay cut because of the coronavirus, the lockdown period and the associated financial consequences have forced the Spanish giants to admit that there is little chance of them making any big signings at the end of the season. A conversation with United’s Wan-Bissaka Manchester United’s Aaron Wan-Bissaka believes that his extra training sessions have propelled him to become one of the best defenders in the Premier League. There are some ready to argue that he is already the best one-on-one defender in the world. Aaron’s impressive form has brought him to the attention of England manager Gareth Southgate. In a conversation with the 22-year-old last week, Aaron said the United coaches have spent a lot of time showing him the way forward. He said, “I stay out after training to do extra sessions so that I keep improving all the time and I have been consistently able to play at my maximum every week. Sometimes we play five at the back and sometimes four but I don’t have a preference. The five at the back allows me to get forward more times during a game. I came to this club to win trophies and I truly believe we can achieve that.” Latest from Arsenal and Chelsea I have picked up two hot tips this week regarding possible upcoming transfers. Arsenal have made contact with Valencia about their striker Rodrigo Moreno. The Gunners two frontmen—Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alex Lacazette—are uncertain about their futures with the former out of contract in 14 months and talking about leaving before that. Lacazette has received interest from Atletico Madrid. Moreno has a £110million buyout clause in his contract but with the current coronavirus affecting player values, this figure could be halved. Meanwhile, Chelsea are looking at 16-year-old centre-back Zeno Debast who plays for Belgium team Anderlecht. The youngster is valued at £2.5million and he is currently training under former Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany. Borussia’s plan to keep Sancho Borussia Dortmund have put a very large obstacle in the way of Manchester United signing the Bundesliga club’s Jadon Sancho. They are offering him a huge pay rise to stay in Germany and his salary could go up from 6million euros to 10million euros a year. Borussia are confident that Sancho will stay with them and the increase repeats the tactic which worked when they persuaded both Robert Lewandowski and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to remain for a further 12 months when they were due to leave. Everton chasing Napoli midfielder Word from inside Everton centres around the Napoli midfielder Allan. He originally established himself as one of the best European midfielders with 124 tackles won in the 2014/15 season, which was 43 more than any other player. He was guided in his career by first ex-Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri and then Everton’s Carlo Ancelotti. However, last November, Allan was involved in a heated dressing room row with club vice-president Edo De Laurentiis which resulted in a £171k fine and since then, he has fallen out with current manager Gennaro Gattuso. This is why Napoli are prepared to sell him for around £50m this summer and Everton are first in the queue for the 29-year-old. Villa could lose top three players Centre back Tyrone Mings played for my team Ipswich (no jokes please) a few seasons ago. He was frankly a step above the rest of the team and was destined for regular Premier League football. Aston Villa were the eventual lucky recipients of the England international defender and he has become a rock in their defence. However, he could move to another club this summer if manager Dean Smith’s team falls back into the Championship League. Mings has benefitted enormously from having ex-Chelsea captain John Terry on the training staff and readily admits that he has improved beyond all expectations. If he does leave, Villa will be looking to double their money and ask £40million for the 27-year-old who they bought from Bournemouth after he left Ipswich. He is also becoming the main player for England manager Gareth Southgate. If Villa are relegated, Mings would be expected to take a 50 per cent wage cut along with the rest of the team and he will not accept that given his high standing. Southgate has also said he will only consider players who regularly appear in the Premier League. Villa have three players who will be on many club’s shopping list: Mings, Jack Grealish and John McGinn.