The Mombasa government has opened a Covid 19 clinic at the Technical University of Mombasa. It already has 300 beds and four ambulances. Speaking during the launch, Governor Hassan Joho said they had partnered with private hospitals and donors to fight the virus. He said the clinic has a 500-bed capacity but only 300 beds have been received. The county chief said the clinic has all the medical equipment required. The ambulances will be used to transfer patients with severe conditions to other facilities. The governor reiterated his call for a lockdown, saying it will help reduce the number of positive cases in the region. "People are arguing about the lockdown due to economic challenge but we can always recover economically but we will never recover health-wise and that is why we are pushing for it,” he said. "We've agreed on a structured shared human resource private plan where doctors from private hospitals will contribute to giving treatment to our patients." Joho said Mombasa has a dedicated workforce to fight Covid-19. “We have people who have called our number but they don't want to cooperate." The residents are urged to come out for treatment in case someone feels that they have symptoms or they have come in contact with Covid-19 positive individuals. "Covid-19 is real and serious, the number in Mombasa are unbelievable and is rising at a high rate," Joho said. Some 600 out of 7,000 KPA employees have been tested. Of the 300 results received, 23 patients tested positive. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said it feels frustrating when efforts are put in to control the spread of the virus but the numbers keep increasing. He expressed concern that the biggest challenge Mombasa county faces is the way of life, adding that residents used to doing a carefree attitude and do things casually. “Covid-19 is a serious disease, it is killing and it will continue to kill, we must stop it by changing our way of living,” Kitiyo said. He urged residents to stay home, change their behaviour, listen to medical advice and take necessary precautions.