Deputy President William Ruto has come out to explain his conspicuous absence from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s functions as the country battles Covid-19, arguably the country’s biggest threat since Independence. Ruto said having the President and his deputy together at this time of the pandemic was a serious national security threat. “Maybe just to remind you, you may want to ask yourself why the President and his Deputy cannot travel in the same equipment at any one time. In a situation like this, the answer to that question may help you understand why we have the situation we have at the moment,” Ruto told reporters. Days before the virus hit the country, Ruto staged the most audacious attack yet on the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, accusing it of being used for political reasons “to discredit and destroy” his 2022 Presidential bid. He said the "system" was being used to put roadblocks on his path to State House, a remark some interpreted as an indirect jab at the President himself. “Those in this scheme are boasting that I will not be there soon...Since the system cannot elect anybody, they can only kill. But there is God in heaven,"the DP said during the burial of Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei, the murdered police officer who worked at his Harambee House Annex office on March 7. Days that followed saw tension hit a crescendo in government. Ruto skipped many presidential functions including the first press conference where Uhuru closed schools. However, at  a press conference at his official Karen residence yesterday, the DP said it was an agreement that Uhuru  personally takes charge of the matter while the Health Ministry handles all communication to Kenyans. “President  Kenyatta has taken personal charge of this situation and mobilised government  at both levels, together with development partners, the private sector and friends of Kenya to accomplish a number of objectives,” Ruto said. This, however, differs from President Uhuru’s earlier directive that the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi-led Cabinet subcommittee will lead the Covid-19 coordination in the country. Kenyans have questioned Ruto's whereabouts after conspicuously missing from recent state press conferences especially at a time the country is facing a potentially devastating public health crisis. In recent days, President Kenyatta has been addressing the nation accompanied by Cabinet Secretaries and top government officials but not his principal assistant. Since the first case of the virus was confirmed in the country, Ruto has only been seen once in public – during the national inter-religious prayer day convened by the President at State House, Nairobi. But the DP emerged yesterday, explaining why he could not be near his boss at this time the country is battling a global health disaster. But according to political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi, Ruto was out to reclaim his position in the government after being sidelined and pushed to the periphery. “To understand Uhuru Kenyatta, read his eyes. To understand DP William Ruto read his body language. Today (yesterday) it is combative and defiant. He has appointed himself co-President and is giving a statement from his co-Government. This bold,” Mutahi tweeted minutes after Ruto’s address. The DP allayed fears that he had been relegated to the periphery as the real power wielders sail the country amid a storm created by the coronavirus which to date has infected 179 Kenyans, claimed six lives and another nine have recovered. “Operations of government are a preserve of the people in government. We took a decision that this being a national pandemic, all of us are going to read from one script. The President is going to take the lead and the ministers responsible in the various dockets will do their job. “As a matter of operations in government we are making teleconferencing and videoconferencing a big portion of government operations to facilitate social distancing and to avoid the necessity to be in meetings physically.” Ruto further denied claims that his relationship with the President had gone to the wire, revealing he consults with President Uhuru on a daily basis on the happenings in the country especially on the country’s steps to contain the virus. “We consult regularly almost daily with the President and all the ministers that are carrying out the various tasks in the management of this pandemic and that is the position of Jubilee administration,” he said. The DP stated they had embraced technology in most of the consultations even with various Cabinet Secretaries whose dockets were crucial in the anti-Covid fight. He at the same time made a passionate appeal to employers to go slow in sending employees home but look at innovative ways that will ensure workers don’t lose their sources of livelihood. “As government makes efforts to mitigate the suffering of the people through a raft of measures already announced, I wish to appeal to the private sector to be compassionate, understanding and forbearing with our people and particularly to employers to make necessary adjustments on non-core expenses to safeguard jobs and to endeavour not to lay off staff.” Edited by Henry Makori