Some Kitui MCAs have said a total national lockdown in a bid to curb Covid-19 spread will bring the country’s economy on its knees. Following rising cases of positive coronavirus cases in Kenya, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has told Kenyans to prepare for tougher measures in the fight against the virus. However, Kitui ward reps feel the already set measures to contain the virus are enough and any addition would have adverse effects on Kenyans and the economy. Led by Kitui Majority leader Peter Kilonzo, the MCAs said almost 50 per cent of Kenyans earn below Sh200 a day thus the impossibility of the lockdown. “If 18 million Kenyans live from hand to mouth, what will be their fate if they are told to completely stay indoors?” Kilonzo posed. He said since the pandemic struck, most sectors have been negatively affected. Instead, Kilonzo said the counties with increased cases of Covid-19 cases should be locked down and not the whole country. “The only measure that will save Kenyans is a kind of lockdown where people do not travel and term some counties as no go zones,” Kilonzo stated. The Athi ward rep also said the dusk to dawn curfew rule will reinforce the stay-home policy thus slowing down the pandemic. Kyome-Thaana MCA Alex Wambua a lockdown should be enforced on counties that have recorded high numbers of positive cases. “A lockdown is a noble idea but on county borders,” Wambua said. Phillip Nguli of Migwani ward said a shutdown should be the country’s last option as it has adverse effects on socio-economic welfare. “Let every Kenyan be hopeful that this dark cloud shall come to pass soon,” Nguli said. Majority Whip Stephen Makau, however, said a total lockdown was the only solution to curbing the coronavirus spread. “Some cases call for sacrifice and I propose a total lockdown for the healing of the country,” Makau said. Mumoni MCA Johnson Kanandu said if the situation persists, then the government will have no choice but to lock the country down. However, the ward rep expressed his fears over the country’s preparedness to handle a lockdown. Kanziku’s John Munuve said the lockdown will come automatically depending on the increase of Covid-19 cases. “With the trend, the positive cases are taking, a total lockdown is inevitable,” Munuve said. 