Palm Sunday celebrations were muted as most Kenyans stayed at home in adherence to the government’s directive against large gatherings. For the second week, most churches led no services to prevent the transmission of coronavirus. Most of them turned to the Internet and broadcast platforms to beam sermons to their faithful. “On a day like this, this cathedral would normally be full of people. This is because of Palm Sunday, which is a special occasion in the Christian calendar,” All Saints Cathedral Provost Rev Sammy Wainaina said. Palm Sunday commemorates the day on which Jesus Christ entered Jerusalem to a rousing welcome from the city’s residents. It also ushers in the Holy Week in the Christian calendar, which includes Jesus’ trial and crucifixion on Good Friday and culminates in his resurrection on Easter Sunday. The celebrations are often characterised by processions of faithful carrying palm leaves in a rendition of Jesus’ welcome during which people placed palm leaves on his path. In place of filled-up seats and church décor of palm leaves, most online services were attended by not more than 10 people, including the preachers, service leaders and choirs. But Anglican Church of Kenya head archbishop Jackson ole Sapit expressed optimism that life would return to normal. “Let’s not kill hope. Soon, the virus will end and we will go back to our normal lives and the economy will recover. We will be able to go back to our workplaces,” ole Sapit said. Similar sentiments were expressed by the Archbishop of Nairobi Diocese of the Catholic Church John Cardinal Njue during a Holy Mass at the Holy Family Basilica. In a press statement issued after the service, Cardinal Njue also expressed the church’s support for the government’s measures to curb the spread of the virus. The Palm Sunday week is also usually characterised by journeys to upcountry areas as well as holiday destinations ahead of the long Easter weekend. In contrast, the government has sought to dissuade Kenyans in urban areas from travelling upcountry for fear of spreading the virus and expose elderly people to the disease. 