President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Kenyans living in flood and landslide-prone areas to move to safe grounds. He was referring to residents living in Tana River, Kitui, parts of Makueini, Murang’a, Kiambu, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Nyando areas that are prone to landslides and where the water may start spilling over. Uhuru said so far, 29 Kenyans have died due to the heavy rains which have caused havoc in parts of the country, especially in West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. He said the government was working with the county governments hard hit by the heavy rains and the Kenya Defence and National Police Forces to help those affected with food and other basic items. “I urge Kenyans to adhere to the early warnings from the Interior ministry and the Meteorological department to avoid loss of lives due to heavy rains. We are in a difficult time of disasters and people should be on the alert and go to safe areas to avert more problems. We will and can get out of this challenging period,” he said. The weatherman has warned that rainfall will continue over several parts of the country. According to the five-day weather forecast, rainfall is expected to continue over most parts of the country. Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties are likely to receive heavy rainfall from today till Wednesday. Others are Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi. But the rainfall amounts may reduce over several areas towards the end of the five-day forecast period. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya said about 20 other people are still missing, with some presumed dead after last week’s landslide. The Kenya Red Cross Society indicated that above-normal rainfall was experienced in Kisumu, Baringo, Kericho, Samburu and Nandi last weekend leading to floods and landslides in some counties. "Several villages were affected by flash floods. Maembe, Ahero School, Kamidumbi and Oketha villagers were affected. Some of the displaced are camping at the District Officer's office. Red Cross Kisumu and a multi-agency team are conducting an assessment to determine the number of households affected," the report reads. Red Cross regional coordinator Hassan Musa urged residents who live in low-lying areas in Kilifi county to move to higher grounds to escape the effects of severe flooding. The heavy rains that continue to be experienced in parts of the Mt Kenya and Aberdares regions have led to an increase in the volume of water being spilt by the Seven Fork dams. Motorists heading to Nairobi from Homa Bay, Kuria, Migori, Kisii, Bomet and Narok have been told to use the Kericho-Nakuru route. Edited by R.Wamochie