With 59 cases, Kenya is now in the red zone after recording more than 50 positive coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Health yesterday announced nine more patients, who were confirmed from 234 samples analysed in various laboratories from suspected cases. A total of 1,668 close contacts have been traced, out of which 508 have been discharged after completing the 14-day quarantine period. The virus is now being transmitted through community transmission, to mean it is no longer imported but spread locally. “Tracing of the contacts of the 59 cases is ongoing,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said yesterday. Five hundred and eight suspects have since been discharged, with 1,160 being monitored closely by the various teams from the Health ministry. On Sunday, the government embarked on mass testing of the 2,050 passengers who jetted into the country last week and were put under mandatory quarantine at various hotels and isolation facilities in Nairobi. “Earlier this month, we launched Mbagathi Hospital as our main isolation centre for patients who test positive for Covid-19 disease. The hospital has a bed capacity of 120 beds and continues to play a key role in terms of testing and isolating those who are found infected with the virus,” Mwangangi said. Plans of equipping the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, a 300-bed capacity facility along Thika  Superhighway, are ongoing. County governments have been directed to identify boarding schools that can be used in boosting capacity if the situation gets out of hand. “The national government continues to work closely with county governments and is effecting the President's directive in equipping level 4 and 5 facilities in response to Covid-19 cases.” On Monday,  Health director general Patrick Amoth said the government was already running out of stock for personal protective equipment, a move that has forced the state to relook at the possibility of local manufacturing. Some of the equipment are single-use, a challenge that has been worsened by the fact that there is a deficit due to global supply challenges. “By Sunday we were running out of PPEs. We have identified local capacity, especially Rivatex, who are trying to manufacture locally made PPE on a trial basis, which we are going to analyse for suitability for use,” Amoth said. "If this one happens and they meet the quality criteria by the ministry, it will be a game-changer in terms of availability of PPE in the country,” he added. The bulk of this equipment will go to Nairobi and Mombasa, which have been identified as hotspots. Amoth also noted the government will be exploring the possibility of using stadiums, including Kasarani and Nyayo, as holding and isolation centres in the event that the situation in the country becomes worse. The country recorded its first Covid-19 death last week. The government has been putting in place a series of measures aimed at slowing the spread of the virus in the country, among them, declaring a 7pm to 5am curfew that started on Friday. Other sectors that have seen changes are the matatu sector, as PSVs are supposed to ferry not more than 60 per cent in capacity, while riders are required to carry only one passenger, at the same time wearing face masks to prevent the transmission of the virus On Monday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe urged Nairobi residents to stop travelling upcountry to protect the elderly from exposure.