Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has dismissed claims he opposed the construction of the Sh40 billion Koru-Soin dam for flood control. Koyoo termed the allegations baseless and called for public participation and compensation before construction. The project stalled in 2016 when the contract was awarded. “I want my constituents relocated to where they can safely build homes,” Koyoo said. He spoke on Saturday when he visited flood victims at the Nyandega evacuation camp in his constituency. Residents have complained that public participation was not properly carried out. The dam, Koyoo said, was the best way to control the perennial floods that have displaced thousands of people and caused massive property damage. He assured residents their views would be taken into consideration. Last year in Koru, President Uhuru Kenyatta assured residents of compensation. He appealed to the community to withdraw court cases holding up construction. "Let's engage in dialogue with the national government to allow construction of the dam. It is for our own benefit,” the MP said. Muhoroni and Soin residents had rejected the dam until proper engagement is carried out. Charles Otieno, secretary of the Soin-Koru dam committee, claimed residents were not involved in public participation. Otieno said they are not against the project but want proper engagement and compensation. “We have not received a list of people and parcels to be affected, as well as the Nema report,” he added. The project is on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties. It is expected to supply as much as 70 million litres of water. The dam, to be located five kilometres upstream on River Nyando from Muhoroni town, is expected to end water shortages in Kericho, Nandi and Kisumu. The dam will also control flooding in the lower Nyando area, supply water for industry and generate hydroelectric power. It was initially planned in the 1980s. By acting as a sediment trap, the Koru-Soin dam will reduce sediment loading and deposits downstream, which is the main cause of flooding. National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority acting CEO Geoffrey Sang said a feasibility study had been done and the designs finalised. He told the media that money budgeted for the dam would include compensation for people who will be displaced. During a stakeholders' meeting in Kisumu, Sang said they were waiting for allocation from the national government to start implementation. The project will also have a treatment plant. Water will be supplied to Muhoroni, Koitaburot, Koru, Chemelil, Awasi, Miwani, Ahero, Rabuor, Riat Technical College and Mamboleo. Kisumu city will also benefit. Special Economic Zone chief executive officer Meshack Kimeu said the Soin-Koru dam will be relied on to implement the 1,000-acre project in Miwani. (Edited by V. Graham)