Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George  Natembeya has said he is ready to step down if he will not end the ongoing skirmishes between Siria and Uasin Gishu clans. He blames many of the Maasai community leaders from Trans Mara West, among them Narok County Governor Samuel Tunai, for giving a blind eye to the fights. Dozens of youth have been killed since the conflict began, with more others maimed in the four decade long conflict. The clans are contesting demarcation along the common boundary, dividing them with the Siria, claiming part of the land was adjudicated to the Uasin Gishu clan. Last week, two people were killed after after gun-totting militia from Siria stormed Ol Doonya villages Thursday dawn. Five family members also escaped with gunshot wounds during the skirmishes. More than 20 houses were also torched as the skirmishes intensified. One student was shot dead a fortnight ago by GSU officers deployed to quell the violence. Natembeya, who visited the region on Friday, has since ordered a curfew starting from 4pm to 7am in a drastic move aimed at stemming further killings. And speaking to the Star by phone on Sunday, the regional security chief said it is now do or die in the efforts to end this blood-letting. Consequently, more police units have been deployed to the troubled Enorateet - Nkararo border and Ol Doonya villages to stop the violence, he told the Star. He said they will not leave until the killings end. "They are under firm instructions to put this violence to rest and give peace a chance," stated Natembeya. At least 30 houses have been razed down for the last three weeks following the incursions. Yesterday, Natembeya also put the area chiefs on notice saying their have a role to play in ending the violence. He also urged Governor Samuel Tunai, himself a Siria, and area MP Gideon Konchella, to reign in on their people and forge unity. Natembeya said he is ready to resign if the skirmishes persist. "I have said this, and today I reiterate, that if this will not end under my watch I will go home, but before I go I must push on to ensure this conflict comes to an end and people go back to their farms," he said. Natembeya said maximum force will be used if that is the language the residents will understand. "We are ready to deploy big guns if that is what they want. This senseless war must end," the regional commissioner said.