The clergy has called on the rich and the privileged to take the cue from state officials taking pay cuts to support the poor in the society during the coronavirus outbreak. Under the umbrella House of Clergy Association in Kenya, the religious leaders cautioned that thousands of poor Kenyans are faced with acute hunger after their daily businesses were interrupted by the measures announced to curb the spread of the disease. Bishops Elizabeth Thuiya  (Delata Remnant Jesus Christ Ministries) and Hudson Ndeda (Bethel Christian Pentecostal Church) said it is the time to borrow a leaf from the government institutions and stand with poor Kenyans. They expressed fear of possible starvation and death as a result of hunger if nothing is done urgently to the majority whose source of livelihood has been affected by Covid-19. Ndeda said the majority of those affected live on a hand-to-mouth basis hence urgently need to be cushioned during harsh economic times. Thuiya called on local companies to also join the initiative and offer food to be distributed to the poor. They want the donation to take the model of Kenyans for Kenya initiative of 2011 where corporate leaders and humanitarian body Red Cross rallied Kenyans to help during a famine in Turkana county. “We bring to the attention of the entire nation that whereas all measures are being put in place to contain this disease, hunger is now the greatest challenge for poor Kenyans. It will kill more Kenyans than the virus,” Thuiya said in a statement. “Time has come when the rich and the privileged must come out and stand with the starving brothers and sisters in the nation, we appeal to them to take this seriously. All companies operating in Kenya to offer food so that it can be given to the poor and the needy." The clergy also called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue an order to all landlords – whom he has cushioned through negotiated bank loans – to extend the same to tenants by either suspending rent for three months or effecting a 50 per cent reduction. “Why would they expect life as normal when everybody has been affected? We can’t leave everything to the government, it is not practical,” Thuiya stated. She urged Kenyans to continue praying for God’s intervention as they observe social distancing, washing of hands with soap and water and to staying at home unless they absolutely need to leave. Edited by R.Wamochie