 The fifth anniversary of the Garissa University terror attack was marked in a low key affair, thanks to directives to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Unlike in previous years when thousands gathered at the institution the celebrate the lives of 148 people massacred by al Shabaab militants, last week's celebrations were attended by just a handful. The April 2, 2015 dawn attack remains the worst terror raid on Kenyan soil. But only a few university staff, students and the clergy gathered to celebrate the lives of those killed. The coronavirus pandemic has forced many countries into lockdown and Kenyan authorities have banned social gatherings and imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew to curb the spread of the virus. All schools and colleges have been ordered closed and markets and bars also shut. However, those who turned up for the celebrations offered prayers for the departed souls. The university’s vice chancellor Ahmed Warfa said the prevailing circumstances could not allow for a big population to converge at the institution because of social distancing. “As you are aware, our country and the world at large are fighting the coronavirus outbreak. This has complicated matters. As we have been told to keep social distance, the chances of contracting the virus could have been higher,” Warfa said. He added, “I, however, want to thank the few of you who turned up including the clergy. We managed to pray together and as I have always said before, we will forever remember our departed heroes for as long as we live. We shall continue praying for their families and ask God to continue giving them the strength to overcome the loss.” Most of the victims were university students who were sprayed with bullets. Hundreds suffered serious injuries. Since the terror attack, the university has taken several measures to strengthen security including building a security wall and having a police post within the institution. The police post has armed officers who are permanently stationed inside the university. There are also CCTV cameras mounted in strategic places within the compound and a biometric register at the main gate where students identify themselves.  Edited by Peter Obuya