Butali Warriors' right-back Dave Makori is ready to fight for his position as he plans to make his debut for his star-studded side when the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) league resumes. Makori was signed from Kenyatta University vultures at the beginning of the 2019 season but did not play as Butali had signed six players contrary to the union’s rule of having five maximum new signings by a single club. Arif Shah, Francis Kariuki, Moses Ademba, Calvins Kanu and Amos Barkibir were all signed alongside Makori. The utility defender, however, has been training with teammates and he is keen to dislodge Maxwell Fuchaka, who they share the position with. Makori wants to settle quickly once the league resumes and targets at least five goals this season. Even though Fuchaka is currently indispensable, building on match fitness will be the player’s first priority. “The registration and signing of players rule locked me out last season. I am really excited about the opportunity to play for Butali. It was really hard last season because of what happened but I remained patient and now I feel much stronger mentally and physically and I hope to grab the opportunity when it comes,” said the 22-year-old. “I want to fit in perfectly and become a key member of the team. Obviously, Fuchaka is a top player because he has played for a long time and made the position his own but nothing is impossible. I have scored goals previously and possibly, I will do it again this season,” observed the former Kakamega High School player. To earn his place, Makori said hard work, discipline and determination will be required in order to achieve the objective. “I train during all sessions. Personal discipline game-wise and following instructions and other team duties remain paramount. I have room for improvement and learning from senior defensive figures Kennedy Nyongesa and Constant Wakhura gives me more hope that I am destined for greatness.” The above-mentioned duo is the club and national team captains respectively.