The Government has urged Maasai locals conducting business along Kenya Tanzania border in Narok County to end it so as to lower chances of contracting the coronavirus. Narok County Commissioner Samuel Kimiti and Governor Samuel Ole Tunai emphasized the need for residents to heed to government calls on hygiene to curb further spread of Covid-19. Kimiti spoke during the inauguration of Philip Gumba as the new Assistant County Commissioner Kereito Division in Transmara West Sub County. The commissioner reminded the Sirria and Uasin Gishu clans at the Nkararo boundary that the curfew will only be lifted on condition that all illegal firearms are surrendered. Kimiti noted as the deadline to surrender arms elapses, the Government will move in to disarm those in possession of the firearms as it was illegal. He further reminded all administrators to arrest anyone found not wearing a face mask or is doing so wrongly. The administrator warned of mandatory quarantine to parents and their children who are found playing outside in the open. Kimiti warned those taking advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic to sexually exploit minors that they will be arrested and persecuted. Area MP Gideon Konchellah called on the administration to push for implementation on the need to wear face masks. Governor Tunai on his part reminded locals of the situation in Tanzania where the Covid-19 infection rate has doubled in the past few days. He warned locals to heed to the closure of markets with porous border points which make it easy for human trafficking. Common Border points with neighbouring Tanzania in the area are at Karime with Kuria Angata Barikoi in Olpusimoru, Olderkesi and Loita. Member of County Assembly Kimintet Ward Kuyo Kijabe thanked the Government for its peace efforts and called for the surrender of illegal firearms. So far nine firearms have since been surrendered by two clans elders who vowed to end the clashes which have so far claimed several lives, destruction of property and left several injured at the boundary. 109 illegal firearms were surrendered two years ago in a ceremony that was graced by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi. The function at Nkararo Maranatha Assembly Church grounds was carried out under tight security attended by representatives from the Sirria and Erruasi Enkishu clans. The two clans vowed to coexist and honour the Government directives on peace.