Fondly referred to as Boldy or Flying Singh in racing circles, Baldev Singh Chager is not a morning person. He wakes up like a diesel engine that has a hard start but once he gets going, he’s fine for the day. Hardly does he do breakfast; just some juice, preferably carrot or something from berries. “I’m always late getting out of the house so it is all a rush to get to work. I don’t drink tea or coffee and I have not since I was a child;  never really liked any of those drinks. Once I’m at work, it gets busy and hectic with our line of business which is service-based. Sorting out e-mails and then follow up on what is happening in the garage. I’m a person who likes to get my hands dirty and do whatever is necessary. I hate my mobile phone as it will always have to ring as soon as my hands get dirty or when I’m concentrating on something technical. Once the day is over I’m back home and working on my rally car which I prepare at home as it’s too hectic at work to concentrate on rally car details.” Boldy’s social life is jammed with friends as he has very few immediate families in Kenya. “Most of my family members from my side have migrated. The most social thing I do every now and then is get together with my friends and have a meal or koroga (Asian Chicken Curry) or just a few drinks to catch up. I like to cook for my friends sometimes, mannerism I picked from my elder brother Raji (Chager).” Asked what makes him tick in the cockpit, he explained: “First, you have to overcome the fear of speed. If you can’t do this, then forget motorsports. With time, concentration becomes sharper and as a human being, you have very limited years for the peak level your body and mind can take. “I believe from the age of 25 to 35 is when you can hit this target. The modern rally cars are so smooth and have power steering 4WD good suspension etc and this automatically helps your brain to concentrate on the road with little struggle to keep the car in some sort of direction as it used to be. Playing games like squash also helps you improve your reflexes,” he said. “At the steering wheel, it’s you and the car and you have to have some sort of communication with the car as it has its ways of communicating with you. You got to be an alert driver to really feel this. Even a normal car driving down the road is always telling you something. For example, cars pulling off to the left could mean tyre pressure is low or alignment is off or wishbone is bent. Cars talk to whoever drives them.” Chager belongs to a special group of second-generation drivers in Kenya most of whom come from farming and mechanics backgrounds. “Farmers have the advantage of being off-road and driving a lot in the farms in all sorts of conditions. “This, I believe helps them judge the roads better and generally are at home being off-road. They are also technically skilled as this is very important in the running of farming machinery. “All these put together turns them into seasoned drivers. Mechanics like us also are very technical and know the cars they drive inside out and always have a fear of some form of mechanical failure at the back of their heads and the dire consequences. But generally, being second-generation motorsports family, the knowledge handed over to me is so vital and priceless. It is like having stepping stones placed for you from the time you are born.” The Chagers have been in racing for donkey years and it’s little wonder that ‘Flying Singh’ has remained formidable since making his KNRC debut in 1998. “My family has been involved in all aspects of motorsports. My dad (Daljit) has done a lot of circuit and motorcycle racing in the past and had various titles to boast about. His eldest brother Manjit Chager was one of the top navigators back in the day and he has co-driven for old names like Assa Singh and Ashok Pattni and also for my dad. My dad’s younger brothers Ranjit and Manori were also active participants in track racing and rallying,” he noted. “Ranjit has won a few titles over the years in track racing and rallying while Manori was very good on the track too and briefly started his rallying career before migrating to Spain. “My brother Raji is no new face and has been actively racing in the Formula 2 category. He too grew up with motocross riding. My sister Avinder has co-driven in the Safari Rally with my very good friend Kuku Sagoo. She also tried her hand in Go-karting at the Solai while my mum and other sister Harinder have also been involved in motorsports but more at the organisational level. My first cousin Param, son of Manjit also had a go briefly at co-driving before also migrating to the UK. The rest of my cousins have also been involved in motorsports in all other aspects like preparation of cars or being service crews.” Chager reckons that rallying is a bad disease. “If you’re not doing it you’re thinking of it or if not thinking of it, then you’re watching it,” he noted. “Once it’s in the blood, it never leaves and there is, honestly, no cure or medicine for it. It has brought down names and also brought up names in this country. It is definitely like a drug,” he noted 