Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has warned Kenyans against defying the curfew and cessation of movement directives, saying they will be arrested. The IG read the Riot Act on Wednesday at the police headquarters in Mombasa before starting a tour of police road blocks in Coast. Mutyambai said police officers are under strict instructions to enforce the directives as a way of curbing the spread of coronavirus. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week announced the cessation of movement into and out of Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties, which took effect last Wednesday. A cessation of movement was also ordered into and out of Nairobi Metropolitan Area, which was expanded. However, some Kenyans have been using panya routes to access other counties, increasing the risk of spreading the virus. So far, Mombasa ranks second in the country with 34 confirmed cases of the coronavirus. Mutyambai said security officers have to lead from the front and ensure compliance with set directives. Curfew hours run from 7pm until 5am every day. “The buses that flouted the rules and were impounded and returned to Mombasa, have been grounded, and the drivers' licences revoked. We cannot encourage impunity,” Mutyambai said. The IG said he was to tour the road blocks to ensure there is uniformity by police officers, and enforcement of directives set out by the government. “I am happy to note that both police and journalists have complied with wearing masks. It is now a requirement, as gazetted, to wear masks at all times while in public,” he said. Mutyambai maintained that not wearing masks while in public attracts a fine of Sh20,000 or six months in jail. The police boss will be accompanied by the regional commissioner John Elungata, and  Governor Hassan Joho, in the road block tours. “I call upon wananchi to cooperate. Police are in the front line to ensure compliance with these directives,” he said. Mutyambai also warned that residents found accessing other counties through panya routes, will be penalised and prosecuted. “We will not tolerate indiscipline. If one does not adhere to regulations, the law will have to take its course,” he said. In Coast, some panya routes that have been notoriously used by residents have seen them accessing Kinango, Kilifi and other counties outside the allowed regions. Mutyambai called upon the business community to ensure that they make affordable masks.