No one will be allowed into and out of Mombasa county from 7pm starting Wednesday, county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo has said. The cessation of movement in and out of the county will last 21 days. There has been confusion on whether there will be inter-county movement between Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale following President Uhuru Kenyatta's Monday declaration of the cessation of movement in the three counties. On Monday, government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna had said on Citizen TV that Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi will be taken as one unit. This, according to Oguna, meant that there will be inter-county  movement in the three devolved units. However, Kitiyo on Wednesday said this will not be the case. He said residents will remain in their respective counties. “If you are a resident of Mombasa, you will not be allowed to move out of Mombasa from 7pm tonight and for the next 21 days. If Wednesday 7pm finds you in Kilifi, you will have to remain in Kilifi for the next 21 days,” he told reporters at his Uhuru na Kazi building office. He clarified that essential service providers will be allowed to move between the counties provided they meet certain prerequisites. Essential service providers include cargo-carrying trucks, medical personnel, journalists, security officers and national government administration officers. For cargo-carrying vehicles, the goods must be visible or the driver must have documentation of proof of loaded cargo. Police will check the cargo. “In the case of unloaded cargo vehicle, the driver shall bear such documentation of proof of either being mobile to collect cargo or after dropping off of cargo,” Kitiyo said. The driver of the cargo vehicle must have a maximum of three assistants who must have letters from the vehicle owner indicating their names and details, origin and destination of the journey and the nature of cargo on board. In Mombasa, there will be six major roadblocks to enforce the cessation of movement and to ensure smooth flow of traffic. The roadblocks will be at Bonje in Mombasa West, Shanzu in Mombasa North, Ngomeni in Mombasa South and Mwakirunge, to restrict movement in and out of the county. A roadblock around the ferry area and another at the Nyali bridge will be mounted to ensure smooth traffic flow. Kitiyo said security personnel are adequate to ensure the cessation of movement is observed. “We will also seal all the panya routes, some of which we have identified." The county commissioner said other shortcuts will be identified  "because Kenyans, being Kenyans, will use them and then boast on social media about them. Kenyans have no secrets. They will post on social media. We will know them and seal them." The administrator said all the roadblocks will have a NGAO, police officers led by an OCS, medical personnel from the Health ministry and National Intelligence Service officers. Medical personnel will be checking the temperatures of occupants of vehicles allowed to go from county to county. Edited by R.Wamochie