A former convict was killed on Monday morning and his girlfriend assaulted in a sour love triangle in Kakrao village of Suna East constituency. On Sunday night, Felix Ayodo, 24, is said to have assaulted his girlfriend after accusing her of having an affair with their neighbour while he was in jail. Ayodo, a convicted drug dealer, was among prisoners recently released from Migori Prison in the government’s measures to decongest prisons to curb the spread of the coronavirus. A Nyumba Kumi elder only identified as Alfred came in to help. “Ayodo was fighting with his girlfriend and the other man when a Nyumba Kumi elder came in to separate them. Alfred took the woman to a local dispensary after she was left bleeding from assault wounds,” resident Samuel Onyango said. He said when Alfred came back, he beat Ayodo to death. Villagers called Suna Lower assistant chief Wilfred Onyango expecting the elder to be arrested but police only took Ayodo’s body and refused to arrest anyone. They engaged police officers in running battles as they pelted them with stones baying for the blood of the woman, Alfred and the lovers’ neighbour. Police lobbed teargas canisters and shot in the air to disperse angry villagers who had repulsed them with stones and other crude weapons as they torched three houses. Traffic along the busy Migori-Kisii highway was stalled for hours as villagers blocked roads to prevent police vehicles from accessing suspects’ homes. They unsuccessfully tried to torch Onyango’s home and office. They were accusing the chief of using his Nyumba Kumi elders to assault and intimidate villagers. “In the confusion, police let the three people to escape forcing us to burn down their three homesteads with everything in them, we demand justice for Ayodo because even if he was in jail he did not deserve such a cruel death,” a villager said. Suna North location chief Goretty Duya and his assistant called for reinforcement to contain the villagers before they torched Onyango’s home and office. “Residents complaining of rising insecurity and harassment should have left the police to do their work, we will seek the arrest of the woman, her lover and the elder. Those who incited villagers will also be arrested,” Duya said. She termed the incident as unfortunate insisting they will increase patrols until calm is restored. Edited by R.Wamochie