The government seeks to establish an office of an ombudsman dealing specifically with land matters. The Complaints Reviewer is set to process and resolve all complaints relating to land registration and surveys. The officer will be appointed by the Lands Cabinet Secretary for a three-year term, renewable once. An advocate of the High Court with at least 10 years’ experience – and compliant with Chapter Six of the Constitution, qualifies to occupy the office. The proposal is contained in a Bill due for second reading and sponsored by Majority leader Aden Duale (Garissa Township MP). A reviewer, the Bill states, will provide a free, effective and impartial complaints review mechanism’ at the Lands Registry and Survey of Kenya. The officer will recommend actions to remedy complaints relating to land - titling; and provide advisory opinions or proposals on improvement of the process. The Complaints Reviewer will, however, not take complaints from matters that are before the courts. They will also not deal with complaints from decisions made by the land registrar or director of survey, including recruitment terms. “The Complaints Reviewer shall only consider complaints that have been fully considered within the internal complaints procedures…and complainant received a final response and is dissatisfied,” the proposed law reads. It gives the Lands CS power to remove a Complaints Reviewer for gross misconduct, violation of any law, physical or mental incapacity, incompetence or bankruptcy. The Public Service Commission will employ staff for the office under terms the commission may determine from time to time. “The Cabinet Secretary, upon request of the office of the Complaints Reviewer, shall second such number of public officers as may be necessary,” the Bill reads. Should it come into force, Lands CS Farida Karoney will be expected to draw regulations defining the procedure for lodging and handling a complaint. Duale, in the memoranda, says the proposal is geared towards ensuring effective delivery of land registration and survey services. “…by giving the public an avenue of lodging complaints and having the same resolved effectively,” the memo reads. The proposal comes in the wake of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s bolstered efforts to recover over 2,700 acres of grabbed public land. Lands officials recently repossessed some 1,600 acres in Ruai amid indications that dozens who have benefited from illegal allocations risk arrest and prosecution. Records show that areas in Kariobangi, Karura, Karen, Kabete and Kahawa West are being looked into. This is amid concerns that grabbers have left the government with no space to expand public utilities, hence staging unnecessary project delays. Land issues top complaints at the Commission on Administrative Justice with others lodged directly with the Lands ministry. In the meantime, the Lands ministry - in a public notice - announced that it has established a Public Complaints Committee. “…to deal with land complaints arising from land administration and management,” the notice reads. “To ensure and guarantee execution of its mandate, this committee is completely independent,” the ministry said. Bribery, delay in service delivery, staff conduct, lost documents, unmanned service points and missing files are among some of the cases the team will deal with. Apart from the Public Complaints and Resolutions Committee, the concerns by the public will be looked at by customer care officers, departments and regional offices. Edited by R.Wamochie