The Covid-19 pandemic has forced President Uhuru Kenyatta to abandon some of his key legacy projects better known as the Big Four Agenda. The outbreak has forced the President to shift budgetary allocations from development priorities to emergency services. The legacy projects are now at the risk of stalling, accumulating pending bills which earn interest, or worse, being abandoned. The President had listed food security, affordable housing and healthcare and industrialisation as part of the Big Four Agenda to be achieved before he exits State House. However, the countrywide roll-out of Universal Health Coverage, the National Housing Development Fund and the Nairobi Commuter Railway project have been stopped indefinitely. Also stopped is a venture to boost electricity supply through high voltage transmission lines and substations, water and ICT connectivity projects. According to the latest supplementary budget, the Sh3.6 billion that was set aside for the railway line connecting Nairobi’s estates has been dropped. At least Sh4.7 billion set aside for the Housing Fund has also been dropped, scuttling the President’s plan for 500,000 affordable units in the Big Four plan. Mombasa Port development is set for a Sh2.4 billion funding cut with another Sh225.8 million to be deducted in allocations for transport sector support programmes. Development expenditure is to reduce by Sh91 billion if the estimates — to raise funds for Covid–19 emergency response, are adopted by the Parliament. Records show that the National Treasury will also not disburse Sh5.8 billion in Equalisation Funds for the current financial year. The estimates drawn by Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani further show that CDF allocation has reduced by Sh10 billion. The countrywide roll-out of the Universal Health Coverage has been affected by cuts amounting to Sh9.4 billion. A further Sh500 million to support the project has been dropped. UHC was piloted in Kisumu, Isiolo, Machakos and Nyeri counties. Treasury said the monies will be used for hiring more front-line health workers and purchase of equipment for use in Covid-19 emergency response. Ventilators and personal protective equipment for health workers will be prioritised. The government has also postponed plans for a health management information system (HMIS) which had been allocated Sh2.6 billion. Expansion works at Wajir Level 4 Hospital has run short of Sh72 million with another Sh400 million to be drawn from the East Africa Centres of Excellence. Sh113 million for projects on clinical waste disposal will also not be disbursed. Another Sh250 million for a cancer centre at Kisii Level 5 hospital has been cut. The Treasury seeks to allocate – from the savings, Sh1.4 billion for setting up imaging equipment and Sh2.6 billion for Covid-19 emergency response projects. But Yatani seeks to deduct allocations from Global Fund proceeds for malaria (Sh395 million), TB (Sh306 million), and HIV (Sh400 million). ICT connectivity to Konza Data Centre and Smart City will not take off with the Sh1.8 billion deduction. Also affected is connectivity to Dongo Kundu SEZ (Sh7.9 billion), Kenanie Leather Park (Sh10 million), Naivasha SEZ Textile Park (Sh10 million), and health facilities (Sh459 million). Projects in primary and secondary schools are also headed for uncertain times following the proposed cuts amounting to Sh3.84 billion. Of this, Sh2.2 billion was meant for secondary school laboratories, dormitories, administration blocks and other projects. A proposed Sh657 million cut will affect primary schools. Some Sh150 million for upgrading national schools and Sh659 million for secondary schools infrastructure improvement will also be slashed. Yatani wants the budget for ICT integration in secondary schools slashed by Sh31 million, Sh102 million for construction of county directors offices and Sh10 million for computer labs. Several construction contracts at public universities are also likely to stall amid the proposed Sh2.5 billion cuts in development spending. Allocations for projects have been reduced at TUK (Sh28 million), Egerton (Sh62 million), Jkuat (Sh138 million), Moi (Sh306 million), and Tom Mboya (Sh144 million). Others are Laikipia whose development budget has reduced by Sh162 million, Meru (Sh89 million), Multimedia (Sh92 million), Machakos (Sh119 million), Kirinyaga (Sh60 million) and Dedan Kimathi (Sh107 million) among others. The Commission on University Education is tipped to shed Sh272 million of its development cash, monies to be channelled to the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund account. For foreign affairs, the construction and renovations in Mogadishu, Washington, London, Dar-es-Salaam, Kinshasha, Addis Ababa, New York, Lusaka and Brussels have run short of Sh807 million. Plans to purchase a chancery and residence at Geneva will also not continue this year in the face of the proposed Sh409 million budget cut. In the energy sector, cuts involve Sh3.4 billion set aside for electrification of economic zones, food processing plants (Sh353.7 million) and government housing schemes (Sh126.4 million). Part of the Sh21 billion to be deducted from the energy budget are Sh250 million meant for street lighting projects and Sh2.8 billion for works at Olkaria I and IV. The Olkaria – Lessos – Kisumu high voltage line will be subjected to constraints of a Sh450 million funding; Turkwell-Ortum (Sh110 million) and Menengai Geothermal (Sh633 million). President Uhuru Kenyatta’s electrification initiative, dubbed the Last Mile Connectivity, will also be hampered by the proposed Sh1.2 billion funding cut. Customers seeking new electricity connections will likely pay more with the proposed Sh332 million funding cut for connectivity subsidies. Sh375 million which was set aside for the installation of transformers in constituencies is also to be slashed as well as Sh500 million which was for off-grid solar projects. At least Sh250 million of funds allocated for substations will also be cut as well as Sh350 million for electrification of healthcare facilities in counties' Level 3 and Level 4 hospitals. Sh2.5 billion set aside for Nairobi 220kV ring has been dropped as well as Sh6.7 billion for the Eastern Electricity Highway Project (Ethiopia-Kenya Interconnection). Water projects affected by the cuts are Kaimenu II Dam (Sh1.1 billion), Homa Bay supply improvement (Sh100 million), water harvesting (Sh300 million) and cross-county bulk water services (Sh500 million). Yatani, however, has proposed Sh200 million for drilling boreholes and installation of water tanks in Nairobi and Sh1.2 billion for water pans in arid areas. The Malka Galla water project is to get Sh40 million. Development budgets for the presidency have increased Sh1.2 billion and Infrastructure at Sh48 billion amid fears of deficiencies in donor funding. Budgets for Lands increased by Sh917 million, Crop Development (Sh2.8 billion), Cooperatives (Sh1 billion), Trade (Sh660 million), Youth (Sh2 billion), Northern Corridor (Sh700 million), Parliamentary Service Commission (Sh513 million), and DOJ (Sh46 million). About Sh250 million for the refurbishment of seven regional stadia will not be disbursed, neither will Sh100 million for the Kenya Academy of Sports. (edited by o. owino)