Some leaders from Kakamega county plan to sue the management of Mumias Sugar Company over failure to clear tax arrears. The struggling miller, currently under receivership, has been asked by the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) to deposit Sh100 million bond before it could continue to sell ethanol produced at the factory. The move by KRA could paralyse plans to revive milling operations in the next two months as ethanol production has been the miller’s only source of revenue, presently. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said legislators from the area and the county administration met on Friday evening and resolved to sue the miller over its failure to meet its tax obligations. The meeting was chaired by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and attended by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and MPs Tindi Mwale (Butere), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Elsie Muhanda (Kakamega Woman Representative) and Kakamega county commissioner Pauline Dola. Savula argued that the miller has been making enough money from the sale of ethanol to start paying tax arrears. “Ethanol is being used to make sanitisers and Mumias Sugar Company has been receiving back-to-back orders lately,” he said. Last week, the miller said it had produced 340,000 litres of ethanol, which was sold locally to different firms. The fate of 300 casual workers hired by the receiver manager hangs in the balance if the miller will be forced to halt ethanol production. Savula claimed that there could be a plot to run down the factory and later sell it to an investor at a throwaway price. “We had a meeting of MPs from the county and Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Friday where we discussed Covid-19 intervention measures and Mumias Sugar. We vowed not to allow the factory to be run down just so that it can be sold cheaply,” he said. The miller indicated that it had requested to be allowed to raise Sh10 million but KRA officials rejected the proposal. Receiver manager Ponangipalli Venkata Ramana Rao said he was making efforts to address the issue. KRA issued a notice to bankers in September last year restricting transactions on accounts of the cash-strapped miller in a bid to recover Sh10 billion in unpaid taxes. The miller has appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Oparanya to intervene in the issue so that ongoing plans for the revival of miller are not disrupted. The amount being demanded by the taxman has been outstanding since 2012. KCB Group placed the MSC under receivership following the execution of a lenders agreement deed dating back to September of 2010. The bank, which features as the primary lender to the struggling sugar miller, installed Rao from the Tact Consultancy as the substantive receiver manager.