David Ochieng, a tailor in Nairobi's CBD, specialises in making African wear. It is a passion he has pursued for the last five years. However, the outbreak of coronavirus and its subsequent spread to Kenya has turned things upside down. Ochieng, 30, can no longer concentrate on his passion because people are not buying. Financial experts have advised that money is spent wisely only on essentials as the world battles Covid-19. That leaves tailors like Ochieng with very few customers if not none. But the pandemic has provided tailors with another option. Face masks are required in huge numbers. In fact, the government has made it a mandatory requirement that everyone wears a face mask outdoors to curb the spread of coronavirus. Ochieng, like many in his trade, have now resorted to making face masks to keep the business moving. Face masks are now the hottest selling piece of cloth, thanks to the coronavirus pandemic. Ochieng and his business partner Fred Onyango are located at Agro House along the busy Tom Mboya Street in the central business district. He said they had to switch from making African wear to making the masks because that is what is in demand. “We wanted a business which was selling fast and keeping us busy like we used to. At least for making face masks, we would still make use of the machines in our shops," Ochieng said. There has been a shortage of masks following the Ministry of Health's directive that those in public places including supermarkets, matatus, pharmacies and on the streets wear face masks. Onyango said the virus outbreak was hurting businesses. "The imposed curfew has made it worse because most of our customers preferred to pass by the shop after work hours. That is very difficult now because people don't have the luxury of time. Everyone is rushing home to beat the curfew,” Onyango said. He said they came up with the right material to produce the masks after seeking advice from different pharmacists. He said such consultation was important for assurance so that they can sell items that guarantee customers’ safety. “We visited at least 10 pharmacists around the CBD and all recommended we use the soft cotton fabric. It is important to do the best for your customers so you can win their loyalty,” Onyango said. The cotton material is hypoallergenic, breathable and washable. The masks are fitted with different layers depending on their prices. For wholesale, they sell masks with two layers at Sh20 and three layers at Sh30. Individually, a mask goes for Sh70. “The fabric is not easily accessible therefore we have to at least sell at a reasonable price so we balance between making a profit and not hurting the pockets of the customer,” Onyango said. Last week, the Kenya Bureau of Standards warned that some cloth coverings being used as masks might not guarantee protection against coronavirus. Kebs said reusable cloth coverings made of woven fabrics may offer limited protection against the virus as there were no facts on their effectiveness in filtering bacteria and viruses during coughing or sneezing. Onyango said they were making 100 face masks per day. That takes about one elastic roll of about 33 metres. A few masks were being sold on the ground floor entrance with customers directed to the stall upstairs. “For now we don’t do deliveries because of cutting down on costs. We prefer the customers to come to us. We also have some hawkers who buy from us and go sell in the streets," Onyango said. With no end in sight for the coronavirus pandemic, Ochieng and Onyango are satisfied that making face masks remains their only source of income. Edited by Peter Obuya