A new supplementary budget is due to be tabled in the  Nairobi County Assembly to, hopefully, end the week-long stalemate over the Sh15 billion transferred to Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS). On Friday, Governor Mike Sonko said in a statement that the county Treasury had come up with a supplementary budget for the assembly to discuss and approve. It was on the same day that the disputed Supplementary Appropriation Bill was to be effected after the expiry of seven days provided for in the law. It had been resubmitted by Speaker Beatrice Elachi after she refused to acknowledge Sonko’s memorandum on the same Bill. There has been a push and pull between the governor and speaker over the Bill. According to Elachi, the Supplementary Appropriation Bill had taken effect although it is yet to be published. She had advised Sonko to submit a second supplementary budget after consultation with the NMS. "We only have one month left before the financial year ends and I wish Sonko could accept the guidance that the assembly is giving him for the sake of the city residents. The best he can do is to do a second supplementary budget since this one has already been passed into law," she said. Finance chief officer Halkano Waqo on Monday confirmed that a new supplementary budget had been drafted and submitted to the office of the speaker for presentation to the Finance, Budget and Appropriation Committee. “What was presented before the House last time is totally different from what the executive shared with the Budget Committee. But we have now made some adjustments to it and it is our hope that it will be it passed." Finance, Budget and Appropriation committee chairman Robert Mbatia told the Star: “I have heard about a new supplementary budget but it is yet to be presented before the committee.” The decision of a new supplementary budget was arrived at after an emergency meeting on Thursday evening attended by two State House officials, Sonko, a representative of the Majority leadership and, a representative from the Budget Committee, some chief officers, CECs and the acting county secretary. Sonko’s spokesperson Ben Mulwa confirmed that the meeting took place and that another one will be held this week between the county government and NMS officials on the budget. Badi at work Meanwhile, the NMS work has proceeded uninterrupted.  On Friday, Director-General Mohammed Badi published in a local newspaper a list of 800 inspectorate officers seconded to a newly established office. The list included 759 workers from the Inspectorate department, 21 from the investigative department, 14 from sub-county administrators and six from the administration department. “The staff have been seconded to Nairobi Metropolitan Services with effect from April 22, 2020, and are hereby notified to report to their respective sub-counties/duty station on Monday, April 27 and Tuesday between 8am and 4pm for documentation and collection of letters of secondment,” Badi said in the newspaper notice. The 800 bring to 6,852 the total number of county staff now under the NMS.