Kenya Sevens players’ contracts have been terminated by the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) due to the coronavirus pandemic. The players' contracts are traditionally set to end in July after World Sevens Series but this has been brought forward due to the pandemic. The next Sevens tournament is set for September this year. Also on the line could be salary pay cuts for the Shujaa outfit when the team resume training in July. These are part of a raft of measures in the restructuring process being undertaken by the union. Following the move, head coach and technical director Paul Feeney has jetted back to New Zealand on four-month unpaid leave as the union grapples with financial challenges that have dogged them for the past couple of years. The team will most likely resume training in July with a mini pre-season of eight weeks before embarking on the final four legs of the circuit in September. The four include Paris and London in September and Hong Kong and Singapore leg October. A source familiar with the proceedings at the union termed the changes necessary due to the pandemic. “The union has to look at ways of keeping the team afloat both in the short and long term. Tough decisions have to be made if the team has to survive during this period,” the source added. The budget for the Kenya Sevens outfit in a year is roughly estimated between Sh60-70 million including salaries, wages, training camps, supplements, gym fees and other miscellaneous expenses. The payment structure at the team is in three bands with the experienced players led by skipper Andrew Amonde, talisman Collins Injera, Oscar Ouma, Willy Ambaka and Billy Odhiambo earning the highest salaries due the years served in the team. The second band features players who have been in the team for 7-8 years seasons including the likes of Dan Sikuta, Nelson Oyoo, Bush Mwale, Alvin ‘Buffa’ Otieno, Sammy Oliech and vice-captain Jeff Oluoch. The third band of players are the new call-ups like Johnstone Olindi, Vincent Onyala,  Daniel Taabu, Herman Humwa and Geoffrey Okwach amongst others. The team currently lies in 12th on the log with 35 points having made it to two Main Cup quarterfinals this season. They have largely blown hot and cold in a lacklustre campaign.