Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to constitute a team to start working on post-Covid-19 economic situation in the country. Citing small enterprises in Gikomba Market, Kalonzo said the government should  start working on modalities and ways at which they will rescue such businesses after this outbreak since many families survive on these investments. Speaking from Karen on Friday, Kalonzo noted that there might be a possibility that in the next two weeks, businesses in Gikomba might close, thus staring at bankruptcy due to Covid-19 pandemic. "There are businesses that are going to close in the next two weeks, there are businesses staring at bankruptcy, these are small enterprises, and we need to help them. How do we help our jua kali artisans who find it difficult to make a living from Gikomba today due to this pandemic?" Kalonzo asked. He stated that concrete strategies should be put in place to cushion these hard-working Kenyans once the pandemic has passed. On Friday, Kalonzo received food and non-food items donated by friends of the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation (KMF) in Karen offices, which will, in turn, be handed over to Covid-19 Response Fund for distribution. "I am honoured to commission the KMF Food Basket Initiative whose aim is to mobilise food and non-food commodities which will be handed over to the Covid-19 Response Fund Team for distribution," he said. In addition, Kalonzo urged Kenyans to be mindful and more caring to their fellow Kenyans during this pandemic period, promising that through the foundation and friends, he will continue to mobilise food and non-food items for distribution. "We would like to share the little that we have with fellow Kenyans during these difficult times as we explore more ways to reach out to those who have been calling and texting us in desperate need of assistance," he stated. The Wiper leader urged legislators to look into the Constituency Development Fund (NGCDF) Act and make the necessary amendments so that it can be responsive when the need arises "and we might have to feed our people". (Edited by V. Graham)