Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to take responsibility as Head of State and evacuate Kenyans in countries highly hit by coronavirus. The government said on April 18 that Kenyans living in China and willing to fly home at their cost should file their details with the Kenyan Embassy in Beijing as quickly as possible. But Wetang’ula said it is the responsibility of government to ensure the safety of its citizens. He spoke on Saturday at the burial of activist Okiya Ontatah’s daughter Maryanne in Busia’s Teso South subcounty. “President Uhuru we want to see that Kenyans who are crying for your attention, for your support and for action actually receive your attention, support and your action and be airlifted back home to stay with us in quarantine areas until such a time they are free to join their loved ones,” the Bungoma senator said. “It will not take Sh20 million to airlift Kenyans from China particularly and bring them back home. We have enough facilities to quarantine them until we are satisfied that they are free of coronavirus. The Kenyan government must take responsibility by flying in Kenyans who are stranded abroad and want to come home.” On Saturday last week, officials at the Kenyan Embassy in Beijing issued a notice telling Kenyans ready to buy tickets out of China to relay their details online to be helped to leave the Asian country via Guangzhou, China’s commercial city. The embassy said only Kenyans will be flown out provided they can shoulder the expenses of their travel. But Wetang’ula said it is the duty of the Jubilee administration to secure the Kenyans who are said to be mistreated on the basis of their skin colour. “We are surprised to hear the government saying that they will be flown back to the country at their cost. What is the government then?” he asked. “I want to urge the government to be responsive to its citizens. The duty of any government is to take care of its people internally and externally. That is even why countries go to war when they hear their people are mistreated in foreign countries.” Citizens willing to fly to Kenya at their cost, according to the Kenyan officials in Beijing, are expected to prove that they are free of coronavirus before cleared at the airport for travel. This means they will be screened by Chinese medical authorities. They would also be quarantined for 14 days after landing in Nairobi. The embassy said anyone ready to travel under the set conditions would scan a QR code for 14 days upon arrival in Nairobi. Wetang’ula said “abandoning” suffering Kenyans abroad portrayed a bad picture of the government. “They are being beaten and thrown out of their houses. They deserve to come home.” Edited by R.Wamochie