Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has refuted claims he caused crowding failing the social distancing rule meant to curb Covid-19 spread. He blamed his nemesis for “hiring goons to cause the commotion leading to crowding”. On Thursday, the governor came under criticism for allegedly violating directives set by the Ministry of Health and holding a crowded meeting in Maua town. Igembe North MP Maoka Maore and MCA Elias Murega accused Kiraitu of endangering lives and demanded that the governor and his officers be arrested and put under forced quarantine. Maore said miraa traders from all over the country meet in Maua town. "I condemn today's act of Governor Kiraitu launching Covid-19 infections in Maua under the pretext of public awareness. The government has banned public gatherings including churches/mosques and burials,” Maore said. “Why would Inspector General of police Hillary Mutyambai and CS Fred Matiang’i put under quarantine a miraa driver with two passengers but allow a crowd of hundreds with impunity?” He asked. But the governor has said his opponents were behind the large crowd. "The function did not proceed as planned. Despite our pleas for social distancing, many people, who included some rowdy youths surrounded us. Some shouted they needed food, not masks. We understand that these youths were sponsored to heckle us. The situation got out of hand and it was difficult to implement the social distance rules," Kiraitu said. He castigated leaders allegedly inciting people on social media by claiming we had an evil scheme to launch Covid-19 infections in Maua. “We are genuinely doing everything possible to fight coronavirus in Meru county. Our focus is one; to save the lives of the people of Meru," he said. He said is very inhuman and primitive to play dirty politics with coronavirus. "No amount of noise, political propaganda or social media insults will distract us from our tireless efforts in the fight against coronavirus in Meru. We shall allocate even more resources.” Kiraitu was in Nyambene region with team of county and national government officials distributing protective gear, fumigation equipment, fumigants, handwashing water tanks and sanitiser to special interest groups. Edited by R.Wamochie