  Kiambu county faces a crisis due to lack of a cabinet and a public service board to hire medics to handle the spread of coronavirus. The county does not have an executive committee after the previous team was voted out following the impeachment of Ferdinand Waititu as governor. Governor James Nyoro nominated a new team but the nominees are yet to get the approval of the MCAs although they have been vetted. As such, the county does not have a health executive to address and coordinate anti-coronavirus response. County hospitals are understaffed with patients crowding health facilities. The hospitals also lack drugs. “We are in a bad position since the county can’t hire and doesn’t have a health executive to lead preparations against Covid-19,” Ndenderu MCA Solomon Kinuthia said. Kinuthia was responding to speaker Stephen Ndichu, who told MCAs that the county will adopt the strategy that the National Assembly will pass instead of holding an urgent sitting. “We, therefore, observed that since Parliament is about to discuss the VAT legislation, we wait and see how it will handle the matter then we exploit that and copy and paste their action,” Ndichu said. Currently, Kiambu doesn’t have a public service board to employ new medics to address the coronavirus pandemic. “I, therefore, implore your able office to recall the house to debate and ratify cabinet nominees for appointment as substantive officeholders to facilitate a smoother and seamless response to the coronavirus pandemic,” Kinuthia wrote to Ndichu on Thursday. He said that the assembly should be recalled to pass laws that will equip all dispensaries and health centres with the requisite personnel protective equipment (PPE). The MCAs wanted to also put in place measures to train and equip community health volunteers with the necessary gear to limit the spread of the virus. “We also want to pass a resolution to supplement the emergency and disaster response funds allocation to mitigate the spread of Covid-19,” Kinuthia said. He added, “We want to debate and ratify County Public Service Board appointees to enable the county to comply with the presidential directive of March 25 on the hiring of more health workers to enhance our compliance with our Covid-19 disaster response capability." But Ndichu said they were exercising caution so that they do not hold meetings. The government has banned gatherings to promote social distancing as a measure of curbing the spread of the virus. “We are there. No sooner shall the National Assembly do it than we shall swing into action and do our bit,” Ndichu said.  Edited by peter obuya