SRC is overstepping their mandate over health workers special allowances, Machakos governor Alfred Mutua has said. Last week, Mutua promised to give its workers a special allowance of up to Sh20,000. This was to help them during this coronavirus pandemic. But in a notice on April 9, SRC Chairperson Lyn Mengich said the due process was not followed adding that such an award is 'unlawful and causes inequality' in remuneration across the country. "...each county has its own priorities. If Machakos decides to pay its health workers and another county thinks otherwise, we are all free to proceed in our preferred direction," Mutua said. "It is absurd to force counties to be doing similar programs. This undermines the spirit of devolution." In a statement on Sunday, Mutua said SRC are 'overreaching in a very bad way' at the wrong time and at the wrong individuals. "We may need as a country to reconsider whether we need the Salaries and Remuneration Commission or whether it is just adding to the confusion and bureaucracy that is slowing down development in Kenya," he said. "Kenya is not just for the rich who can afford to be treated in private hospitals... I therefore want health workers in Kenya appreciated and motivated because it is good for all Kenyans." Noting that Machakos will continue to provide allowances to employees, Mutua said he will go ahead and look for other ways of motivating them. "I will not be cowed by letters from people who are not in touch with the reality on the ground. We are within the law and we will continue exercising our constitutional rights without fear or favor," he said. "This challenge is not only a health sector challenge, it is one which afflicts various sectors in our country. The problem we have in this country is not tribalism, political differences but economic inequality." On Saturday, National Nurses Association president Alfred Obengo told off SRC over claims that counties should seek permission before awarding health workers special allowances. "While we appreciate it's statutory obligation, the timing and the language of the circular from SRC is uncalled for. The Commission Chairperson may be working normally probably from her comfort zone at home," he said. 