Kenyans should prepare for stiffer government measures after the number of Covid-19 patients rose to 81 Wednesday. Twenty-two new cases were confirmed by the Ministry of Health yesterday, the largest to be recorded in a single day since the first confirmed case on March 13. The 22 came from at least 300 tests conducted in various laboratories. It was the largest number tested since the first case. “There are a lot of skeptics who even today doubt whether the disease is here. I would like to state very clearly that the disease is spreading widely in our society,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said Wednesday. The President also announced the full recovery of two patients - Brenda Ivy Cherotich at Brian Orinda. They had turned negative after two consecutive tests. Orinda had come into contact with Cherotich. Out of the 22 patients announced Wednesday, 13 are men while nine are women. All but one were from those in quarantine. “That tells you the importance of the exercise we have been carrying out. It is lucky that we have found 21 people being quarantined because by now the 21 would also have passed it on to other people,” Kagwe said. The other case is in Mombasa Hospital. All the patients are in good condition except for one who is under intensive care at the Aga Khan University Hospital. Eighteen out of the 22 are Kenyans from eight counties. They include seven in Mombasa, two in Kiambu while Nairobi, Murang’a, Kakamega, Kilifi, Machakos and Nyamira have one case each. The remaining four are two Pakistanis and two Cameroonians. “We cannot emphasise enough what is likely to be ahead of us unless and until we adhere to the rules that we have established. Distancing, washing hands and observing strictly what the government is saying. “This disease knows no boundaries national, political, rich and poor we are all affected in the same way. I would like to persuade our leaders in and out of Parliament that if you speak don’t speak in a manner that brings division,” Kagwe said. The textile industry in Kitui has already been cleared to start the local manufacturing of personal protective equipment to help address the issue of shortage. Approvals have been made with the production expected to start today. The clinical officers on Monday claimed there was a shortage of protective equipment and lack of training among a majority of healthcare providers. One of the clinical officers has since been tested positive for the disease. The CS has called all those who have a travel history or those who are feeling unwell to self-quarantine. Plans are also in place to ensure all city residents to have a constant supply of water. “We are aware there are very many private sector people including the Kenya Pipeline working towards the supplying of water in highly populated areas.” The national government through the Water ministry is also supplying water tanks in various corners. Kagwe said that no one should be disconnected because of water or electricity bills unless the shortage is a result of other factors such as burst pipes that can be repaired. “We are not saying that if you are able you should not pay, but you should have pity on Kenyans so that you also feel the pain that they are going through,” he added. He warned against those planning to increase prices of food and other essential products as food movement is still allowed despite the ongoing curfew. “We owe our responsibility to Kenyans especially those in vulnerable groups to ensure we protect them under any circumstance,” Kagwe said. (edited by o. owino)