President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the Covid-19 pandemic risks stalling or at worst, rolling back the gains made in the fight against malaria in Africa. He said if the pressure the pandemic has put on our health systems, if not well managed, has the potential to disrupt the provision of not only malaria services but also other important healthcare interventions. “Therefore, as we confront this new global health challenge, we are required to strike a balance between our response to Covid-19 and sustaining our efforts against existing health threats such as malaria. Failing to do so risks creating a situation where an upsurge in malaria cases could overwhelm our already overburdened health systems,” Uhuru said. “We should, therefore, continue strengthening our health systems especially at the sub-national and community levels by considering an integrated approach to managing Covid-19 whereby malaria services are offered as part of the essential health package,” he said. As the world marks this year's World Malaria Day, Uhuru has told African leaders to reflect on the progress made in the fight against malaria even as we continue implementing interventions to end the disease in Africa by 2030. Uhuru, who chairs the African Leaders Malaria Alliance (ALMA), said malaria has ravaged communities for decades and is considered to be largely an African problem with sub-Saharan Africa accounting for 93 per cent of global malaria cases. In many African countries, malaria is the leading cause of hospital visits which exerts unbearable financial pressure on households. Global malaria statistics indicate that in 2000, approximately 839,000 deaths were a result of malaria infections. In the last 10 years, however, through increased resourcing, the world has been able to cut these deaths by 50 per cent, an indication that malaria can actually be defeated. Kenya has significantly lowered malaria prevalence from six million infections to 4.6 million over the last 10 years. This progress is largely a result of support and cooperation between the government, development partners and health providers. The President said Africa continues to proactively implement programmes aimed at lowering the prevalence of malaria with the ultimate goal of wiping out the disease by 2030. “We are doing this through increased investments in community health education, environmental rehabilitation and increased access to treatment facilities. These interventions have helped to improve prevention and recovery capabilities leading to the reduced malaria deaths on the continent,” President Kenyatta said. “While we are very proud of the progress we are making in dealing with the malaria challenge, we are aware that as a continent, we still have a long way to achieving our target of wiping out the disease by 2030.” The President said Kenya continues to scale up malaria prevention efforts through the distribution of over 15 million treated mosquito nets this year to cover 25 million vulnerable Kenyans. “I reaffirm my commitment to continue working together with my colleagues, African heads of state and other stakeholders in mobilising resources needed to defeat malaria on the continent.” He said ALMA is focusing on protection of the gains made in malaria control through prevention, treatment and the rollout of interventions such as the malaria vaccine which is under phased implementation in Kenya, Ghana and Malawi. “Boosting Africa's purchasing power and local manufacturing of critical medical supplies through regional partnerships and collaborations, increasing the engagement of our youth, “Malaria Army”, in the deployment of interventions in offering community service, surveillance, health education and advocacy; and, building on technology platforms and data capacity to combat Covid-19 and sustain the gains made in the fight against malaria,” he said. “In line with this year’s World Malaria Day theme ‘Zero malaria starts with me, you, all of us’, we are all called upon to play our part in maintaining our own health and that of our communities,” President Kenyatta said. “For our continent to win the battle against malaria and indeed the many health challenges we face including the Covid-19 pandemic, we must continue to cultivate close stakeholder collaboration and to invest more political, financial and social resources in our healthcare systems.” Edited by R.Wamochie