Former Nairobi Catholic Archbishop Raphael Ndingi Mwana a’Nzeki will be buried on Tuesday in a crypt at the Holy Family Basilica. The crypt also houses the remains of previous archbishops who served in the same diocese. The brief burial will be presided over by Archbishop John Cardinal Njue. It will, however, be markedly different from previous funeral rites. “The ceremony will begin at 10am and take roughly one hour," Fr Simon Peter Kamomoe, the administrator in charge of Holy Family Basilica, said. "Other than the few people who will be attending, there will not be much change from previous burial ceremonies. The other funeral rites and requiem mass will remain the same.” Those expected to attend include Catholic bishops from around the country, family representatives and Archbishop Hubertus Matheus Maria van Megen, the Apostolic Nuncio to Kenya. “I do not know of any famous personalities who will be attending the ceremony, although there are government representatives who have been invited,” Fr Kamomoe said on Monday. Ordinarily, because of his public stature, Mwana a’Nzeki’s funeral would have attracted thousands of faithful and important dignitaries. However, in light of the Ministry of Health’s directives on social distancing, only 100 mourners will be allowed as part of measures to cut down on the transmission of Covid-19. Other mourners will be able to follow the proceedings through live broadcasts from various media outlets. A mass celebrated in his honour last week was equally a low-key affair, which was conducted by Kakamega Catholic Bishop Joseph Obanyi at Radio Waumini offices. Catholic cardinals, archbishops and bishops are often interred in the basement crypts of dioceses where they last served before retirement or demise. The only exception was Cardinal Maurice Otunga, who was interred at St Austin’s Cemetery, according to his last wish. The crypt resembles a cabin with two doors leading to a lower chamber, in which coffins bearing the remains of the bishops are placed. Beside the coffin will be a slab containing information about the deceased, including personal details, details of ordination and date of death. Mwana a’Nzeki, 89, died last Tuesday at the Mater Hospital. He had battled dementia since retiring. The church is yet to announce the cause of death. In his heyday, the cleric was among voices that criticised the government for the 1992 inter-tribal clashes in Molo and condemned its clampdown on advocates for the repeal of section 2 (a) of the Constitution. He retired in 2007.