School closures are unlikely to significantly slow the spread of the coronavirus, a UK-based science body has reported. The research, led by Lancet and University College London, is the first to look at the evidence behind many governments’ decisions to shut schools and keep pupils and students at home to slow the virus's spread. Unesco says more than 400 million learners have been affected by closures. But how much has it helped? The study released in April finds that school closures could have a relatively small impact on the coronavirus’s spread. It said that closures typically flatten the peak of outbreaks but have only modest effects on the eventual number of cases. Children appear to be at very low risk of severe outcomes from coronavirus but can be infected and infect others. “Children who stay out of school have half the number of daily interactions with other children but are more likely to mix with children from other schools," the study reads. However, the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association said despite the lack of evidence on schools' contribution to spreading the virus, school congestion could pose a challenge in containing the virus. Kenya's schools are very congested, especially its secondary schools. “Social distancing is a very important measure in mitigating against the spread of coronavirus. This is not the case in our schools and therein lies the problem," Kessha chairman Indimuli Kahi said. Despite supporting the move to reopen schools, Kahi said utmost care should be taken to ensure the safety of learners. Not all affected countries have closed schools. Singapore, which has been heralded for its initial response to Covid-19, decided that closing schools would do more harm than good. “If schools remain open, officials could enact measures to limit any potential spread among children and staff. All students could be checked daily for fever, a possible sign of Covid-19 infection,” Kahi said. “More attention should be given to hand washing and reminding children not to touch their faces. Monitor and isolate those with coughs, temperature and flu-like symptoms,” he added. He also recommends schools rethink seating arrangements to keep children six feet apart. (Edited by V. Graham)