Public service vehicles found ferrying passengers from Nairobi using illegal routes will have their licences cancelled and the vehicles confiscated. This comes as Nakuru county security committee identified and closed several panya routes that motorists were using via Kiambu to Naivasha to get out of Nairobi. On Monday, the government announced a lockdown in four counties including Nairobi but hundreds of passengers have managed to find their way out. County commissioner Erastus Mbui said they had taken measures to stop those from Nairobi using the illegal routes. He noted that they had forced several private and public vehicles to return after they were found trying to ferry passengers through the routes. “We have identified the panya routes that the drivers are using and we are warning anyone nabbed that they will face the full wrath of the law." Mbui was speaking in Naivasha during a visit to establish if the town had put in place measures to fight Covid-19. “We have arrested some traders found selling liquor behind closed doors and we want to make sure that all directives are adhered to,” he said. He was accompanied by Viwandani MCA Eric Gichuki, who praised residents for complying with rules and regulations issued by the state in the fight against coronavirus. In nearby Gilgil, more than 200 traders have declined to relocate to the town's stadium as ordered by the county government. They said the stadium was unfit to hold any business due to perennial flooding and lack of bathrooms. Their secretary, Joseph Mwangi, said they were not involved in decision-making and that their current location is spacious. He said the stadium was flooded and there was a risk of cholera outbreak if the traders moved to the facility. “There is an ulterior motive in this move to push us out of town to the stadium and we shall not move out." Another trader, Veronicah Wangari, said the market supported hundreds of residents and relocating it would lead to a crisis. “We shall lose our source of income if this market is relocated to the stadium which is currently in very poor shape and uninhabitable." Edited by R.Wamochie