More than 4,000 health workers have been trained to handle Covid-19 in the eight counties in the North Rift region. An additional 8,000 community health workers have also been activated to help in the mobilisation, community education and sanitation activities. Most of the trained health workers have been put on standby to serve at the 350 isolation centres which have been identified and are being equipped. Regional governors said in a statement that all the Covid-19 isolation facilities will be supplied with essential drugs. The eight governors from the region led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu said all the isolation facilities would have been operational by April 9. “We are continually upgrading the capacity of the facilities we have so that they are able to handle the coronavirus situation as per the arising needs,” said Mandago who is also Chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (NOREB). Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said more staff are being trained to handle the outbreak. The referral hospital has been coordinating the training doctors, clinical officers, nurses, public health officers and other support staff. “We are also working with private hospitals to ensure they are on board because they are entry points for patients and cannot be left out,” Dr Aruasa said. He said they are also training additional staff from the private hospitals to assist in handling the situation. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba said counties still lack adequate capacity and resources to effectively fight against the spread of the coronavirus. Khaemba said the counties should train more staff, deploy many ambulances and provide material required for the staff to operate effectively. The county boss said they are working closely with the Treasury in the fight against the virus and hope the situation will not worsen. “We are however coordinating very well with the Ministry of Health and even Treasury so that where we need support it will come in quickly,” Khaemba said. He said the counties were already hiring additional staff who will support the healthcare system in the region. The isolation centres in the region have so far handled more than 400 people who had been quarantined to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Dr Aruasa says social distancing remains one of the main challenges in stopping the spread of the disease. He said Kenyans should adhere to all the prevention measures outlined by the state as the most effective and cheapest in helping to stop the spread of the virus. “It’s cheaper to prevent than treat and that is why we are asking Kenyans to adhere to handwashing, social distancing, using face masks among other measures,” Dr Aruasa said. (edited by o. owino)