  We are concerned that the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic is not dynamic enough. The government must constantly be assessing the situation and addressing all challenges associated with this pandemic. What Kenya can and must do is to continuously limit the negative impacts of the disease, including by keeping infections to the lowest minimum possible. The non-health dimensions of this disease, including school closures, reduced business activities and limited freedoms have destabilised many families and must be addressed. School closures and limitation of individual freedoms have created pressure on poor families who have to dig deeper into their pockets for survival at a time of drastically reduced incomes. This is the time for the government to come to the aid of poor families in accessing basic necessities like food, medicines and rent. Poor families have also been left out of the distance-learning platforms being rolled out by schools and colleges through television, radio and the internet. Given the fact that many families cannot afford computers and the internet, learning institutions should take equity into consideration in implementing distance learning. The KICD and the Ministry of Education should ensure that distance-learning platforms being rolled out are as comprehensive as possible. Timetables from KICD and MOE have very short lessons that do not provide sufficient delivery of meaningful curriculum. While digital learning is a temporary solution, learners must be protected from cybercrimes during this crisis. This is especially important since most learners access the internet through public cybercafes. However good technology is, it is fraught with many challenges and cannot replace classroom teaching. The Ministry of Education and the Kenya National Examinations Council must immediately postpone the national examinations this year. The anxiety that has gripped the school system will not allow exams to be done on schedule. Globally, major events earlier scheduled this year, such as the Olympic Games, have been postponed. Learners and workers who have lost or will lose their loved ones in this pandemic will require psychological support. The government must liaise with  other institutions to provide this. The government’s recommendations regarding thorough hand-washing, cleaning of open surfaces and social distancing will help curb Covid-19. The Kuppet secretary general spoke to the Star