The Dock Workers Union has threatened to disrupt operations at the Port of Mombasa should the management fail to put in place measures to protect workers from Covid-19. Union general secretary Simon Sang on Tuesday accused the Kenya Ports Authority management of implementing only 30 per cent of the directives issued by the government to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said social distancing at the port has not been fully adhered to. Already, two workers at the port have died from the disease. Sang said at least 45 others have been quarantined. “Workers are at risk. So far, the port alone accounts for over 30 per cent of the coronavirus cases in Mombasa county,” he said at the union offices. Sang said the KPA management should introduce new measures in the next three days, "else we will ask our workers not to go to work.” However, the authority has defended itself saying it has done its best to ensure the disease does not spread. In a statement by acting managing director Rashid Salim hours after the Dock Workers Union’s presser, the authority highlighted a raft of measures it has taken to control the spread of the virus. Salim said KPA has seven confirmed Covid-19 cases since the pandemic started. Four of these cases involve KPA staff while three are contracted cleaners working in the Port. “Unfortunately, we have since lost two members of staff to the disease while all those who had contacts with the patients have been identified and are being monitored in quarantine within Mombasa,” Salim said. Salim said they appointed a committee of senior managers to plan, manage and coordinate the authority’s preparedness to combat the virus. The authority has put up 107 handwashing points with antiseptic soap. It has also placed sanitiser dispensers in various areas. “These include all entry gates, buildings, offices, and operation areas, and most importantly the staff is regularly issued with face masks. We now have screen notices at the Port entrances especially at gate 24 which prompt everyone to wear a mask before entering the port compound,” Salim said. The port management has enabled online cargo documentation processes to facilitate customers to clear cargo electronically and decongest human traffic within the Port. “Fumigation has also been carried out especially in offices occupied by staff found to be positive or suspected to have contracted the virus and plans are underway to extend this to cover the entire port,” Salim said. He said surgical gowns have been acquired for clinical staff and those with close interaction with vessels such as pilots, security officers among others. “To ensure compliance, isolation rooms have been set up at Bandari clinic where suspected patients are temporarily held waiting for public health officers to pick them up. More rooms are being prepared for this purpose,” the acting MD said. The union also wants the KPA staff to be given priority when mass testing for Covid-19 starts. Sang said the port is visited by thousands of traders from East and Central Africa and this poses a great risk. He said so far, three departments have been hit by the Covid-19, including the clinic, the terminal, and the administration. “Each of these departments has at least 15 workers who have all been quarantined,” Sang said. One of the Bandari clinics was closed and its staff placed in isolation. Salim, however, assured staff and the entire port community that no efforts shall be spared to ensure the port remains a safe working environment. “The Authority shall also continue supporting the national and county government efforts in the war against coronavirus,” he said. Sang said workers at the port are entitled to a risk allowance just as health workers because they are exposed. “KPA does essential services like health workers. We are exposed. We should also be getting a risk allowance,” said Sang. The union also wants its staff accorded the same special permission as Kenya Ferry Service and other agency staff. Sang said it is not in order for workers at the KFS to be given special passes when crossing the ferry while KPA staff have to line up with thousands of others. “We are also an essential service provider. We are not asking for special treatment, we are asking for equal treatment,” said Sang. The union said they are in contact with the family of their former colleague James Oyugi, who is said to have succumbed to Covid-19 and was hurriedly buried in the wee hours of Sunday morning. Sang said the undignified burial is unaccepted and they are working on a way to rebury the body in a more befitting manner. Already, they have engaged three lawyers who will be suing the Matibabu Foundation hospital, the Siaya county government, the Attorney General, among others for the manner in which Oyugi’s body was treated. Edited by A.N