Kenya has reported 11 new cases of Covid-19, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said on Monday. This now brings to 281 the total number of coronavirus cases in the country. Seven are from Mombasa while four are from Nairobi country. The new cases are aged between 11 and 80 years. Six are male while five are female. Seven of the cases were from quarantine centres while four were picked by the ministry's surveillance teams. Kagwe on Monday reported two new discharges, bringing to 69, the number of those who have recovered in the country. Out of the two who have recovered, one is a doctor. The CS said there were no new deaths reported in the last 24 hours, with the fatalities remaining at 14 in the country. Kagwe said up to date the government has tested a total of 13, 872 samples. Speaking during the daily coronavirus update at the Kenyatta National Hospital, Kagwe said Kenya has now adopted the Covid-19 global mantra of test, isolate, treat and trace. The CS during his address outlined the government's measures in containing the pandemic. Kagwe said the country has 33 active quarantine centres. The CS said the government has quarantined 455 people for defying the nationwide curfew. Over 1,000 police officers have been trained especially those manning roadblocks. "We are today launching a specially designated isolation facility for our health workers," Kagwe said. The CS said the government will bear all costs for treatment at the facility which was built in collaboration with Amref and the Rockefeller Foundation. As per the Sunday update, the number of fatalities in the country stood at 270. On Sunday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi had announced two new deaths to the virus. She said out of the reported 270 cases, 56 per cent were imported while 44 per cent have been locally transmitted. Mwangangi expressed disappointment at those mocking the government's calls to observe social distancing, wash hands and keep good standards of hygiene. "Some have taken to mocking our repeated warnings and calls for self-discipline. Others are looking at us, the Government, to fire the silver bullet for normalcy to resume," she said.