@ppcheti Tailors in Lamu are doing brisk business arising from a spike in demand for face masks in the county. Residents afraid of a Monday directive by county commissioner Irungu Macharia that those without masks will be quarantined are buying in numbers. Chemists and other outlets sell face masks for between Sh150 and Sh200 a piece but the tailors' products go for Sh50. The residents are opting for locally made cloth masks from the tailors to protect themselves. Following the announcement, many tailors have seen long queues of customers seeking to acquire the masks in bulk for their families. Police are under strict orders to enforce the directive and arrest those found without masks in public places. Macharia said similar treatment will be accorded to those who flout the curfew. Spot checks in Lamu Town, Mokowe, Hindi, Mpeketoni, Witu, Faza, Pate, Kizingitini and Kiunga on the border with Somalia found crowded tailor shops. Renowned Lamu town tailor Mwene Bakari said his clientele had risen 10 times since the beginning of the week. Bakari said many people were placing bulk orders for their families and friends. “When the coronavirus pandemic hit Kenya we used to sell about 20 to 50 face masks a day but now the demand is so high. In just a few hours, we are selling more than 200,” Bakari said. Another tailor, Ahmed Mwalimu, said because of the sudden surge in demand, many are being forced to make prior bulk bookings. “This has never happened before in this business. I have been booked till next week just to make face masks. Many of these people have already paid me in advance,” he said. Locals are calling on the county and national governments to issue them with free face masks. Many are poor and can’t afford to part with Sh50 daily to buy the cheapest masks, they say. “We hear the county government set aside Sh60 million for coronavirus. This is the perfect time for them to put that money to good use by buying and distributing free face masks and other gear required to keep safe,” Aboud Shukri said. (edited by o. owino)