A new campaign is encouraging men to take up roles such as cooking, cleaning, and taking care of children to ease the burden on women during Covid-19. The campaign started by UN Women's HeforShe movement was launched last Wednesday to invite men to share how they are helping at home. "The impacts of Covid-19 are profoundly gendered. In response, we are launching the HeForSheAtHome campaign, which aims at highlighting the unfair burden on women and encourage men to do their equal share," wrote UN women in a tweet. In the campaign, men are encouraged to share selfies showing how they are helping in the house and taking care of the elderly. Many men stay clear of roles traditionally viewed as meant for women. A United Nations Policy brief on the Impact of Covid-19 on Women stated unpaid care work has increased, with children out-of-school, heightened care needs of older persons and overwhelmed health services. School closures have put additional strain and demand on women and girls. According to UNESCO, 1.52 billion students (87 per cent) and over 60 million teachers are at home. "As the formal and informal supply of childcare declines, the demand for unpaid childcare provision is falling more heavily on women, not only because of the existing structure of the workforce but also because of social norms," read the brief. "This will constrain their ability to work, particularly when jobs cannot be carried out remotely. The lack of childcare support is particularly problematic for essential workers who have care responsibilities." Data from UN Women also shows that in Kenya, women spend 11.1 hours on care work compared to 2.9 hours by men. "It's more likely that as infection rates rise, most cases will have to be managed at home increasing women's burden of care and vulnerability to infection," UN Women said. A World Health Organization report on addressing sex and gender during epidemics shows gender influences the patterns of exposure to infectious agents and the treatment. "Typical gender roles can influence where men and women spend their time, and the infectious agents they come into contact with, as well as the nature of exposure, its the frequency and its intensity," the report says. The World Bank states that despite unpaid care work contributing to about 13 per cent of global GDP, it remains largely invisible, unrecognized and absent from public policies. The UN has committed to tackling the issue of unpaid care work by increasing the visibility of unpaid work and includes policy measures to alleviate the care burden and better redistribute it between women and men and between families and public or market services. "The UN advocates for sufficient and affordable water, sanitation, and hygiene services as well as electricity supply to rural and remote areas to support women productive and unpaid care and domestic work," read the policy brief.