A law firm associated with an advocate who portrays himself as a saint is under the scrutiny of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, headed by Twalib Mbarak. A source tells Corridors that the firm was contracted to provide legal services by a parastatal under the Ministry of Health. For nearly nine years now, however, the firm is yet to deliver on a key task assigned to it. But it has been billing the parastatal. The Auditor General has for some years now been calling for action to be taken against the law firm. Discrimination against local doctors and nurses at a certain private hospital has gone to another level. A worker at the hospital, which has sizeable branches across the country, says management has told local health staff to take pay cuts in the wake of Covid-19. However, the salaries and allowances of foreign doctors and nurses in the same job group are untouched. Management even went ahead and told them they were lucky their salaries were reduced as the original plan was to send them home. A parastatal chief is reportedly pleading with his side chick day and night to relocate to a less expensive estate in Nairobi. A mole in the parastatal told Corridors the man had rented the damsel a house in Kileleshwa but with the effects of Covid-19 hitting many hard, the man is pleading his case. To make matters worse, President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked top government officials to take a pay cut. The man is asking the woman to look for an affordable house in Eastlands or along Thika Road. The relocation will be temporary and she will be back in Kileleshwa when things go back to normal, he explains. Some church leaders are up in arms against an MP in the North Rift. Reason? They say the legislator has of late been issuing bouncing cheques to churches in his constituency. He recently issued a cheque for Sh300,000 that bounced when the leaders of the church went to bank it, embarrassing them. The legislator is also being accused of making false promises on the education of orphaned children. The peace-loving church leaders, however, say they won't go after him but will leave everything to God.