Teso North MP Oku Kaunya has threatened to sue over a video footage whose contents claim he gave boda boda riders condoms instead of face masks. He wants to take legal action against those who appeared in the video and those who shared the footage. In a statement read by constituency manager Ronald Ochalu on Sunday, Kaunya said the shooting and subsequent sharing of the video on social media was an act of political propaganda to tarnish his image. He, however, said he will not be intimidated and would carry on with the implementation of his development agenda in the constituency. Last week on Tuesday, the legislator launched the distribution of face masks, water tanks, sanitiser and soap to help Teso North residents in the fight against the spread of Covid-19. But a day after the launch, boda boda riders in Malaba town held demonstrations alleging that officers from the MP’s office gave them condoms instead of face masks and hand sanitiser. In the video, riders at Roadblock Stage in Malaba town are seen protesting while condemning the MP for distributing condoms instead of face masks at a time every Kenyan is busy fighting to contain the spread of the virus. The protesters are seen carrying packets of condoms telling the MP to stop undermining the commercial motorcyclists. “If condoms are all the help we can get from our leaders, we still appreciate them and will use them,” one of the motorcyclists is heard saying in the video that went viral last week. Another one asked, “Is this the sanitiser we are supposed to receive?” But the MP said those behind the shooting of the video will be held responsible for their actions. “We at no time held any function at Malaba Roadblock to give out condoms. I condemn the persons appearing on the video in the strongest terms possible,” the MP said. “We have reported this matter to the police. A statement has been recorded by one of our officers to ensure that those who were involved in this propaganda can be held responsible for such propaganda.” The statement he issued is copied to Teso North deputy county commissioner Justus Musau and OCPD Wilson Muraya. Kaunya, a first time MP also warned a local radio station that ran the boda boda protests’ story without seeking for comment from him or his office. Edited by A.N