The fight against Covid-19 in Homa Bay may be slowed down following complaints by doctors that their salaries have delayed. More than 50 doctors said they found it hard to fight for their livelihoods and serve county residents at their workplace. The medics began their salary parade on Tuesday in an attempt to get the attention of the Homa Bay government, which they accused of violating an earlier agreement on timely salary payment. However, Health executive Richard Muga said his office was not aware of any salary delays. He said they normally pay salary at once to all employees. “All monthly salaries for employees are paid once. I am not aware that our medics haven’t received theirs,” Muga said. Through Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentist Union liaison officer Amos Dulo, the doctors said a number of them were unable to reach their work stations due to lack of fare. Dulo said they agreed with their employer to pay them salaries by the fifth of every month. “It is now a month and two weeks before we get salaries. Some of us can’t go to our respective work stations because we lack money,” Dulo said. The medic accused the county government of delaying their salaries every month. They also complained of inadequate preparedness to handle coronavirus. Dulo said some of the union members never went through adequate training to care for patients with Covid-19. He further said some of members in remote health facilities had not received personal protective equipment to cushion them against the virus. “The majority of us went through theoretical training. It would be important for all frontline health officers to get trained on how to use the equipment and handle the virus,” he added. Last week, the Homa Bay government purchased PPEs worth Sh3.8 million. But Dulo on Tuesday said not all his members had received the PPEs. Doctors Ochieng Otana and Ben Otieno appealed to their employer to stop neglecting them, noting that they needed to fight Covid-19 collectively. “We should pull together as we fight the war against coronavirus. Let the county government motivate workers to avoid wrangles,” Otieno said. Edited by Henry Makori