Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has urged the national government to close the Kenya-Tanzania border at Lunga Lunga to contain the spread of Covid-19. The governor made the call after the county registered a second case of the virus—a Kenyan woman who travelled from Dar-es-Salaam on April 23. Another 19 residents have been placed in mandatory quarantine. Mvurya said it will be impossible to control the spread of the disease if activities at the border went on as usual. “The second patient came from our neighbouring country although she is our resident. It tells us a lot that things are not good on the other side too, hence, the need to consider closing the border if we are to properly contain the virus,” he said. Tanzania was slow in announcing measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The number of infections in the country has risen to 284, with 10 deaths. According to BBC, President John Magufuli has been widely criticised for encouraging the public to continue gathering in places of worship, rather than imposing stringent restrictions to mitigate the spread of coronavirus. The government has closed schools and universities, but Magufuli has refused to lock down Dar es Salaam, the country's commercial capital and a virus hotspot. Speaking in Matuga constituency on Tuesday, Mvurya said a border patrol unit should be established at Lunga Lunga to check Kenyans coming back home. He said the county had joined forces with a multi-agency team to ensure all travellers are tested and observed for not less than 14 days. Mvurya said 26 samples had been taken to Kemri laboratories in Kilifi. The governor advised public health officers to be keen, saying the second patient had no symptoms of Covid-19. Mvurya warned ward administrators against stealing relief food. He said the county government had taken serious action against some officers accused of hiding food. Meanwhile, 18 foreigners who were trying to sneak in through the Horo Horo checkpoint have been deported, Lunga Lunga deputy county commissioner Josphat Biwott said. Edited by Henry Makori