 Rural populations should be given priority in the distribution of food during the coronavirus crisis, Ijara MP Sophia Abdinoor has said. The MP said the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund Committee chaired by Jane Karuku must consider the rural populations because they are also affected by the economic meltdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Karuku's team has been urged to prioritise dwellers of informal settlements when they begin for distribution to the most vulnerable. But Abdi on Monday said those in the villagers must be given the same attention. She said most residents of Northeastern depend on livestock yet prices have dropped drastically owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. “When you visit the livestock markets in Garissa county and across the region you realise that the prices have drastically dropped. This is directly linked to coronavirus which has definitely affected the population since they are making losses,” the MP said. She spoke at Masalani town when she distributed food and non-food items including face masks, personal protective equipment, gloves, water tanks fitted with taps for proper hand-washing, sanitizers among others through her Sophia Foundation. The lawmaker said families were forced to sell their livestock at throwaway prices to get food. “By the time we are through with this pandemic, most of the families will have very little or nothing to support themselves. It will be disastrous,” she said.   The MP miraa traders who are mostly women and the providers for their families have equally been affected. She said such people need the support of the government. She, however, appealed to Kenyans to follow the health guidelines even when distributing food to curb the spread of the virus. “While we endeavour to do our best to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19, I urge  the people of Ijara and Kenyans at large to observe the safety and precautionary measures set by the government through the Ministry of Health to prevent the spread of the virus,” Abdi said. Ambia Abdi, a miraa trader in Ijara town, said rumours that miraa could be spreading the virus has worked against them because most of their customers were shying away from buying. Speaking separately, the Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey said the national government should come up with ways of cushioning the farmers. “Most of the farmers may not recover unless they are assisted to get back on their feet. The economic effects of coronavirus are evident. By the time the disease is managed our farmers will be out of business,” Amey said.  Edited by Peter Obuya