Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has appealed to the government to reconsider its suspension of payment of outstanding dues. Mudavadi urged the government to revisit the matter and issue a clear statement that is sensitive to the plight of suppliers. “I also urge the government to strive for more clarity in policy and in its communications,” he reiterated. On March 25, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed government entities to clear all outstanding payments within three weeks of the communication. The directive was part of Uhuru’s measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, which has ravaged economies across the globe. He asked all ministries and departments to make payment of at least of Sh13 billion of the verified pending bills. He also encouraged the private sector to clear all outstanding payments among themselves to improve liquidity in the economy and ensure businesses remain afloat by enhancing their cash flows. However, an internal memo dated March 31 issued by Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang’o indicated the National Treasury would only process payments for government employees. The letter said the government had put on hold all commitments, payments and claims as the country mobilised resources to fight Covid-19. The move dealt suppliers a huge blow as most were relying on the payments to cushion themselves from the economic impact of the disease. Mudavadi said the first communication from the President was received with great relief by various suppliers to both the national and county governments. “The ink had hardly dried on the paper on which the directive was written, when the controller of budget issued another directive, effectively cancelling the President’s earlier communication,” he said. In his Easter message to the country, Mudavadi termed the decision as “both confusing and painful to suppliers”. He, however, said the government had given the country useful guidelines which, if followed, would minimise the impact of the virus. “Naturally, it is painful. It is going to bring many things to a standstill over the next three weeks, at the very least. Yet this is part of the price we must pay in pursuit of the greater goal of saving our country from the scourge of coronavirus,” he added. Mudavadi urged Kenyans to strictly follow the guidelines that have been given by the government. “This is good for us individually, for our friends and families, and for our country. Please let us all abide by the guidelines.” Edited by Henry Makori