The government has approved the testing of the coronavirus at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said they received reagents and other requirements from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority last Friday. The hospital laboratory will be carrying out 960 tests every eight hours. “The results of all tests will, however, be announced through the usual single channel that is the Ministry of Health,” Dr Aruasa said. The tests will be carried out free of charge. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said they were also preparing for rapid tests in the region. “Following support and approval from the Ministry of Health, MTRH has now operationalised its testing capabilities for Covid-19 with effect from Wednesday, April 15,” the North Rift Economic Bloc said in a statement. Counties in the region will submit to the hospital samples for patients evaluated and found to meet the Ministry of Health case definition for Covid-19. Mandago said the tests at MTRH would reduce the time spent to take the samples to the National Influenza Laboratories in Nairobi. The county chiefs said MTRH would continue to support training for health workers and private hospitals. The move is to enhance the preparedness of front-line officers to handle Covid-19 patients and those in critical condition. “We also agreed that MTRH treatment team shall disseminate the various practical protocols it has developed and customised to our local setting, on handling mild, medium and severe Covid-19 cases in line with national and international guidelines,” Mandago said. He said the bloc would also continue to ensure patients suspected to have the virus or those testing positive for Covid-19 are given the best medical care. “Community sensitisation efforts shall incorporate messages on non-stigmatisation of patients,” Mandago said. During the NOREB virtual meeting, counties reported that PPEs supply especially by Kemsa is a challenge. Eldoret-based Rivatex was urged to prioritise the supply of PPEs to MTRH and the counties once certification is granted for the equipment it is manufacturing. (edited by o. owino)