Member of the National Assembly on Tuesday voted to ratify the regulation setting the VAT at 14 per cent. Lawmakers gave the National Treasury the legal authority to implement the VAT regime in all transactions that attract the tax. This was, however, with caution that the move would have negative effects on the economy amid projections the country would lose Sh49 billion in revenue every quarter. The High Court in the case of Okiya Omtatah versus the National Treasury declared that collection of tax before an Act is in place is null and void. In this regard, the Treasury did not have legal grounds to reduce the tax before MPs’ resolution to adopt the report of the committee on delegated legislation. All businesses and individuals are set to benefit from the two per cent reduction as approved by the Gladys Shollei-led committee. This came as an MP sought to have the government set aside Sh100 billion to be channelled to Kenyans living below two dollars a day. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina said the effects of the coronavirus outbreak has seriously hurt millions of Kenyans living hand-to-mouth as they find it hard to put food on the table. The first-term MP said the government stipend should run for three months to enable the majority to comply with the stringent measures put in place by the government to help curb the spread of the Covid-19. “It is time the government must come out with a strategy to ensure the poor who cannot afford a meal are supported even as we battle coronavirus,” Wainaina said. The MP said each vulnerable household should receive Sh1,000 every week for basic needs. He lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for reducing VAT and corporate tax but noted the same might not benefit the majority of Kenyans because of the loss of jobs. In Parliament, Minority leader John Mbadi called on businesses to effect the VAT change immediately to reduce Kenyans’ burden. “I want to appeal to businesses to be considerate to our consumers,” Mbadi said, adding that the reduced VAT would help improve cashflow. But Budget Committee chairman Kimani Ichung’wa sounded the word of caution that for every action, there would be an equal and opposite reaction. The Kikuyu MP holds that the VAT reduction will be counterproductive as the country would lose Sh49.5 billion in one quarter. “Would we rather have the Sh49 billion and provide rations? Let us encourage the Executive to ensure we don’t shoot ourselves in the foot,” Ichung’wa said. Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu asked, "The question we want to ask, as Kenyans, is that if we reduce the price of an item, would it have the same impact if the money is a target to the taxpayer in mass collections or to the individuals? “We are not doing justice to this country. In the future, we must think about revenue targets." Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya said there was a lot of mismatch in the implementation of the tax adjustment considering the tax measures that would follow. He argued that VAT is a consumption-based tax meaning that if one doesn’t have money to consume, it doesn’t benefit the taxpayer. “The rich will have more money to consume, yet will not pay much tax. It is a populist move but in another two or three months, the Treasury will realise it made a mistake. “You can’t lower tax of goods in a country where prices are liberalised. We are not sure there would be any benefit to the ordinary Kenyan,” Kimunya said. Separately, Leader of Majority Aden Duale called on Kenyans to appreciate the place of the National Assembly in cushioning them against the effects of Covid-19. The Garissa Township MP took a swipe at his Senate counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen for his remark that 'Parliament is dead'. “Kenyans now know that what the President directed can only be implemented by this House. They are now best placed to know which House is dead.” Mbadi (Suba South) called on Kenyans to understand that Parliament undertakes a lot of its tasks through committees. It was not business as usual as members resumed the sittings in the wake of the pandemic that has disrupted the norms of many institutions. Parliament is usually characterised by a buzz of activities on ordinary days, a situation that was swept by the eerie feeling at the precincts. Only 53 members were allowed into the debating chamber, others followed virtually from the waiting lounge, and raised points of order. For the first time in the country’s history, MPs were spaced out one-and-a-half metres apart in adherence to requirements for social distancing.  There was only one officer at the clerk’s desk.  There are always three persons. Speaker Muturi kept encouraging members to adapt to the "very unusual circumstances". In another development, MPs want funds saved from budget cuts ring-fenced for the construction of a national health facility for the management and treatment of infectious diseases such as Covid19. The National Assembly targets a 1000-bed capacity hospital in the review of the current financial year spending by the Budget and Appropriations Committee. Lawmakers also want funds deducted from the Legislature, Judiciary, and Executive budgets used for the purchase of medical supplies used responding to the pandemic. The members in a motion moved by Leader of Majority Aden Duale want the monies spent on the purchase of ventilators. They also prioritized spending on personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers as well as testing and medical equipment. Duale said there was the need to cushion the country from both the short and long-term effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Parliament commended healthcare workers and service providers “for their selfless efforts, commitment to service, care, and compassion towards persons infected or affected by the virus".