Deputy President William Ruto's allies now want Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju barred from issuing public statements unless sanctioned by a party organ. The DP's lieutenants also want party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy to convene a Jubilee National Executive Committee meeting. The infighting in the ruling party could deepen after the deputy secretary-general Caleb Kositany said any communication by Tuju must be accompanied by minutes. In a lengthy letter to Jubilee Party members, Kositany — a key Ruto ally and Soi MP — told the public to ignore any statements issued by Tuju not supported by party organs. “Members are advised that any communication coming from the secretary general, national chairman or any other party official must be accompanied by details of the relevant organ that sanctioned it,” Kositany said in the public statement. Communication must include the date when the decision was made, the attendees and the constitutional provision authorising it, Kositany said. However, Article 9 (55) of the Jubilee Constitution makes the secretary general the spokesperson of the party. The SG is also in charge of all correspondence and communication on behalf of the party and is the custodian of the party records. The DP's allies want NEC convened so that it can resolve the tussle over the membership of the National Management Committee. “The secretary-general having failed to convene any NEC meeting in accordance to article 9 (2), the party leader and the deputy party leader should as soon as reasonably possible in current circumstances convene NEC to undertake its executive duties in resolving the objections raised by party members,” Kositany said. Tuju and national chairman Nelson Dzuya signed the letter to the registrar of parties to change the membership of the NMC, a move that triggered a political fight with Ruto's wing. Tuju has, however, maintained the changes were made on directions of President Uhuru. On Monday, Kositany, who was among hundreds of the DP's allies who petitioned registrar Ann Nderitu over the illegal changes, warned Tuju against purporting to speak on behalf of the President. The registrar of political parties last week ordered the Jubilee party to handle the dispute internally. “No party official should purport to be speaking or acting on behalf of the party leader or the deputy party leader. Tuju must, therefore, not hide behind the party leader or the deputy party leader to cover up this massive fraudulent scheme,” the Soy MP said. Details have emerged that Tuju's team submitted to the registrar minutes of the NMC to replace Fatuma Shukri, Veronica Maina and Pamela Mutua as members of the organ. Lucy Macharia, Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso, and James Waweru would take their places. But Kositany said on Monday that the purported NMC meeting that allegedly happened on February 10 when the country was mourning former President Daniel Moi, never took place as the organ has never been constituted. “Substantive members of the NMC by office like the national treasurer confirmed that no notices were issued for any meeting,” Kositany said. According to the lawmaker, the national organising secretary also confirmed that he never attended any meeting despite Tuju's minutes indicating he was present. “David Murathe despite being listed as an attendee to the 'meeting' is not and has never been a member of the NMC,” Kositany said. According to Article 7 (33) of the Jubilee Constitution, members of the NMC include the national chairperson, the secretary general, the treasurer and the organising secretary. Others are six committee members appointed by the National Executive Committee from amongst the membership of NEC and the Executive Director who shall be an ex-officio member. (edited by o. owino)