Nakuru county assembly has suffered a blow after one of the most vocal MCAs died in a grisly road accident along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. Lakeview MCA Karanja Mburu died after his car veered off the road and crushed into a tree near View Point 10kms from Gilgil town on Sunday morning. The MCA who was close friend of DP William Ruto and Senator Susan Kihika was alone and heading to Nakuru from Naivasha when the accident occurred. Hours after the accident, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, county Speaker Joel Maina Kairu and a host of MCAs visited the scene as they mourned the death of youthful MCA. Confirming the accident, Gilgil OCPD Emmanuel Opuru said that the tree crushed on the deceased vehicle covering it and making it impossible for other motorists to see it. "There was an accident early in the morning in which Lakeview MCA in Naivasha lost control of his vehicle which rolled and hit a tree and in the process he passed on," he said. The first time and vocal MCA was a member of the disaster committee which is currently involved in distributing food relief to families affected by Covid-19 pandemic. The news of his death was met with shock by area residents who described him as a fearless man who did not shy from criticising the county executive for poor service delivery. Naivasha MP Jane Kihara termed the news shocking, adding she was trying to come to terms with the death of the astute leader. “We have lost a promising leader in Naivasha and I take this moment to send my condolences to the family and people of Naivasha,” he said. A colleague Eric Gichuki, who is also Viwandani MCA, said that they had been in talks with the deceased the previous day discussing issues of development. “Karanja never shied from telling any leader how they were performing and this is one of the saddest days for the people of Nakuru county,” he said. Former Naivasha MP John Mututho was among the first to send his condolences, terming the deceased as a youthful leader who had a bright feature. "Karanja kept the county government on its toes and it’s a sad day that we are mourning him when he was at his peak," he said. The body has been taken to Gilgil mortuary while the mangled wreck was towed to Gilgil police station.