Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has formed a county emergency team to address the coronavirus pandemic. This follows a consultative meeting between the Council of Governors Health Committee, Ministry of Health and County Executives for Health on March 4. It was resolved that every county should form an emergency team to deal with the pandemic. Sonko said that Nairobi is a critical entry point into East Africa and it was important for such a team to be formed. Currently, Nairobi has been marked as a hot spot, leading with 37 Covid-19 cases. The team comprises 13 members, with the governor being the chairperson. Other members are Justus Kathenge ( Acting County Secretary), Hitan Majevdia (CEC for Health), Allan Igambi (CEC for Finance), Mohammed Dagane (CEC for Roads), Lucia Mulwa (CEC for Education),  Peter Mugo (Chief Of Staff),  Sahal Mohammed ( Chief Officer for Health), Anne Mwenda (Chief Officer for Disaster Management),  Lucia Koyio (Director for Health),  Florence Mworoa  (Nairobi County Commissioner),  Benard Mulwa and Magdalene Ndawa as secretariats. So far, the county's public health department together with the Ministry of Health have been fumigating Nairobi. Over the weekend, the team went to Eastleigh estate, where first and second avenues were fumigated. Fumigation has already taken place in open-air markets; Gikomba, Muthurwa, Burma, Wakulima markets and City market. City traders in Nairobi have been applauded for complying with the government directives as health officials intensify the war against coronavirus through the ongoing fumigation exercise across the capital. In the CBD, Aga Khan Walk, General Post Office (GPO), public resting areas around Hilton Hotel and National Archives, Kencom Bus Stage, Jeevanjee Gardens, Hakati Road, Tom Mboya Stage, Muthurwa Market, Ronald Ngala Street, Mfangano Lane have been fumigated. As measures put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus in Nairobi, more than 7,800 city residents have been voluntarily screened within the CBD in the past two weeks. Data from the office of the County Executive for Health indicates that at least 675 health workers from 200 health centres have been trained on preventive measures against Covid-19 in Nairobi county. As part of preventative measures, traders found operating within the dusk to dawn curfew in Nairobi risk having their licences withdrawn. This comes as Nairobi county has been mentioned by the Ministry of Health as the epicenter of the coronavirus. Majevida has warned all restaurants, bars and businesses to respect the curfew to avoid having their licences withdrawn. “Restaurants and business must adhere to the law, be responsible and exercise high levels of discipline during this trying time. Everyone's business in the county is going at a loss but we have to bring in measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he said.