"I am watching the minute hand on my clock tick by. It is 11.34am and has been for a while now. Time hardly moves nowadays," she says soon after answering a call from the Star. "I have been aimlessly flicking channels, it is surprising how many stations we have, but nothing is interesting so I keep returning to music. All news channels are about coronavirus," she says. Sarah Wangui knew about a memo asking all employees in her department to stay at home, long before she opened her mail. Even though Wangui, 29, a child rights officer working for a local NGO, was happy about taking a break from work, she did not anticipate it would go on for weeks. “There was a certain excitement in the air and my colleagues formed small groups expressing the relief from work. The year had been so intense and most of us were under pressure,” she explains. The isolation is weighing heavy on many people including introverts like Wangui who says she is tired of lone time and could give anything to have her normal life back. Her days start anytime and end in the same way. With the uncertainty of the coronavirus pandemic, she does not know when things will change back. “In the morning, I open my eyes, look around and close them again. There is nothing to do in the house. All I do is sleep,” she says. Wangui lives alone in a one-bedroom apartment in Donholm Estate in Nairobi. She does not know most of her neighbours since she spends most of her time at work. “I have watched many movies during this period than I have in the last 10 years. I prefer watching horror movies but this time, I have watched comedy, drama, action and even animation.” Unlike many people who have been worried about how much weight they have gained during this period after making many trips to the kitchen, Wangui is worried she might lose so much. “I am used to eating together with people, when left alone, I barely eat. Most days, all I have is bread and tea and fruits in between. When I start getting worried about my unhealthy eating style, I make a properly balanced meal and eat a meal every day,” she says. Wangui explains that there is never any urgent work to do around the house because she lives alone. “I cannot clean the house daily, I put on the same clothes for days so I have no laundry. I barely cook so there are no dishes to wash. I’m often left to my misery,” she says. Reading online materials gets her eyes heavy and she dozes off after a few chapters. She keeps a dozen of books which she says she has already read. “I have tried reading online for so long but it remains problematic. I cannot focus long enough so I drift to online window shopping, admiring art and style before I get bored and doze off,” she tells the Star. She has been sleeping so much that she recently found herself researching the effects of too much sleep. “It just gets into your head that you are doing something wrong. You ought to be doing some work. If this goes on too long, we shall have a huge challenge readjusting to work,” she says. Wangui says she understands the benefits of social distancing and keenly follows the guidelines for keeping safe. “I am honestly tired, but I believe boredom is part of it. A small price to pay for a healthy nation.” Edited by R.Wamochie