 Residents of Mwingi have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to reduce curfew hours so they can do business for longer. They said the curfew hours can remain in the coronavirus hotspot counties of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale but relaxed in other areas. President Kenyatta on Monday banned travel in and out of the four counties to curb the spread of coronavirus. Mwingi traders on Thursday said business has slumped and income decreased owing to the curfew. Most of the traders rely on supplies from Nairobi and the coastal counties that have been put in partial lockdown. Mwingi town businessman Maliti Mengi asked Uhuru to consider rescheduling the start of curfew time and push it back to 9pm. “Now that some counties are no-go zones, I plead with the President to extend curfew hours so that we can have more time to do business,” Mengi said. Mengi said the partial lockdown of Nairobi and the three coastal counties has reduced the number of clients because people cannot move. “I mostly depend on commuters in my shop that is within the bus station but now the flow of customers is minimal,” the shopkeeper said. Hawker Mary Munyoki said her business has been adversely affected by the curfew. The mother of two who hawks soft drinks, biscuits, water, among other products said the business was hurting. Mary said she is now the family's sole breadwinner after her husband’s work was closed until further notice due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The government should formulate a way of cushioning Kenyans during this time of the pandemic," Munyoki said. John Marawa, a bus driver on the Nairobi-Garissa route said the President ought to have given Kenyans notice before implementing the travel ban to allow families to reunite. Buses on the Nairobi-Garissa route often take a 15-minute break in Mwingi town when passengers can relieve themselves and eat. Marawa wondered how he was going to survive for the 21-days of partial lockdown, saying he solely depended on the transport business. “How will I survive yet I have a family to take care of,” he said.  Edited by Peter Obuya