 Residents of Wajir have been told take seriously government directives to curb the spread of coronavirus and adhere to all requirements. Governor Mohamed Abdi on Saturday said Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus was real and urged people to be alert. "Basic hygiene starts with handwashing. It is therefore prudent that every resident avoids crowded places to forestall the possibility of ending up in a hospital bed with an infection," Abdi said. He spoke during a tour of the Wajir County Referral Hospital to check on the facility's preparedness to handle Covid-19 patients. He was with county commissioner Jacob Narengo and senior national and county officials. He said Wajir was adequately prepared to handle patients but stressed the need to prevent the spread of the disease, saying the virus has proved difficult to contain in the case of an outbreak. He said Covid-19 was a global pandemic and even the best-equipped hospitals across the world have been overwhelmed by patients. “Covid-19 is a serious threat to the health and livelihood of our county and country that must be treated seriously by all of us so that we can slow the spread of this virus," Abdi said. He added, "We must adhere to state directives to keep our people healthy and get our lives back to normal as soon as possible. We can do this by staying at home as much as possible, avoiding gatherings and crowded places or any unessential activity.”   He said the virus has ravaged the most powerful and developed countries in the world and continues to kill their citizens. "It knows no status, race or religion," he said. He said residents should densities one another and use their social media platforms to spread the message. "We’re all in this together." Despite the ban on miraa two weeks ago, the stimulant continues to be sold secretly in some areas. The traders claimed the county has not set aside any alternative source of livelihood for them. Abdi urged those involved in the business chain from transporters to consumers to cooperate with the authorities noting that the measures were hurting businesses in one way or another "but was for the good for the general public including the traders themselves." Narengo urged residents to stay safe and stay at home unless necessary. There have been growing concerns with a section of residents accused of holding reckless gatherings such as weddings.  Edited by Peter Obuya