The much-awaited bus rapid transit is set to be delayed again due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Nairobi Metropolitan CEO Francis Gitau told the Star the plans have been put of hold as the country focuses resources in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The BRT was progressing well with the metropolitan authority planning on the procurement of buses. “The tender documents for infrastructure are with the Attorney General and the Treasury. The next is the procurement of buses,” Gitau said on the phone. Kenya has so far confirmed 59 cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by coronavirus. Wananchi have been urged to stay at home, wash their hands and keep social distance to curb the spread of the virus. A 7pm to 5am curfew has also been imposed to restrict people's movement. The government floated the BRT tender in November last year. The project is aimed at improving the infrastructure of the Thika Superhighway to accommodate special buses that will carry more commuters at ago. The improvement will be undertaken as a design and build contract with a construction period of 18 months. Gitau said the project will be carried out in two phases under one contract. The first section will be between Clayworks to the Nairobi central business district while the second phase will start from Clayworks to Ruiru. Bidders were encouraged to associate as construction firms and consultancy firms to enhance their capabilities. A mandatory pre-bid was held on December 10 last year. All bids were to be accompanied by security comprising an unconditional bank guarantee of Sh10 million from a reputable bank. They were to be received by December 19 last year. In June last year, Gitau told the Star the piloting phase of the project was to be rolled out between September and December. That was delayed. The coronavirus outbreak has now caused another delay. The government is betting on the project to provide reliable commuter transport in the Nairobi metropolis. Authorities say the project will decongest the central business district, ease transport woes and reduce travel time and air pollution. "We are on course for piloting on Thika Road. The infrastructure is being done, especially the demarcation of the corridor and the establishment of a bus park," Gitau said last year. The authority was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a counties. It is mandated to establish an integrated, efficient, effective and sustainable public transport system The Institute of Transportation and Development Policy says the project will need Sh100 billion to be fully operational. Traffic snarl-ups in the Nairobi metropolis is estimated to cost the country Sh2 billion annually. For the city to have an effective transport system, it requires about 900 buses. Gitau said five corridors have been identified to decongest Nairobi roads. The corridors are to be marked in red lines.  Edited by Peter Obuya