The Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund on Thursday received a Sh25 million donation from First Chartered Securities Limited and its insurance businesses ICEA Lion and East Africa Re. The fund was established by President Kenyatta to mobilise resources to help in the fight against Covid-19. The donation is aimed at supporting the government in its efforts to supply relief materials and critical healthcare facilities as it battles to contain the coronavirus outbreak. The insurance and companies offering financial-related services under the ICEA Lion Group and re-insurer East Africa Re are subsidiaries of First Chartered Securities Limited, a private investment holding company with interests in financial services, logistics, real estate, manufacturing and agriculture. “The boards of directors, management and staff of these organisations are greatly honoured to be part of this noble effort to ameliorate the impact of Covid-19 on the communities we serve,” FCS chairman James Ndegwa said. “It is our wish that these funds are channelled towards humanitarian efforts and food relief.” The Covid-19 Fund board chaired by Jane Karuku has put up an M-Pesa pay bill number and a bank account that Kenyans of goodwill, corporates and multinational institutions can use to send their donations. The board’s aim is to reach out to corporate entities, development partners and multinational institutions for contributions. “It is vital that corporate entities such as ours — as responsible citizens and stewards of the economy and in the spirit of patriotism — contribute meaningfully to this critical national endeavour,” Ndegwa added. The FCS chairman recognised that the Covid-19 and robust measures taken to slow down the rate of infection had a massive detrimental effect on the Kenyan economy and the lives of its citizens. “It is in this regard that our group proposes its contribution to be allocated to funding food purchases and necessary sustenance for the most vulnerable amongst our fellow citizenry.” All the 47 counties will benefit from the project targeting the sick, vulnerable groups and medical workers. Edited by Henry Makori