On Tuesday, Njeri* packed her bags and made the tough decision to close her hair salon which doubles as her home. “Maisha imekua ngumu (Life has become difficult),” she said as she tried to fix a hair drier into the pickup she had hiredto move her possessions. Knowing rent was due and there hadn’t been much business over the past two weeks as more Kenyans opt to stay at home to avoid catching the quickly spreading coronavirus, she opted to move in with her sister who also runs a small business in Ngong’ town. This, she said, would help them both as they could cost-share on rent and the purchase of food items during these tough times. Majority of hair salons and barbershops in the area are closed as they are not essential services according to the Kenyan government. “Hii corona itatuonesha (This coronavirus will show us),” Njeri said with one final glance at the premises where she had ran her business for the past five years. It was a look of despair and uncertainty. Even though local health officials are yet to mandate any restrictions on hair salons - they are considered high risk in the spread of COVID -19. Njeri says the nagging feeling that she needed to do more to protect herself and her clients and help contain the spread of the novel coronavirus outweighed her concerns about being able to financially support her family. As the state ordered restrictions on bars, restaurants and other businesses to stifle the spread of COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, hairstylists and barbers have been left to take the personal decision on whether to continue operating their businesses. For those that close, it's a decision that will cut off their only source of income for what could be weeks or months to come. Salon owners and barbers who spoke to the Star described how difficult it has been for them and others in the industry to decide whether to stay open. Some have opted to continue operating until the state forces them to close while doing what they can to maintain a clean workplace. On the other hand, others have chosen to shut down hoping that the disease is a passing storm that will soon weather out. "Since there's no business, why not just stay home so we can help contain this thing," Eunice Wainaina said. Still, some salon owners and barbers are continuing to cut and style clients' hair because of financial concerns or out of the belief that closing isn't necessary to protect public health until the government gives a directive. Stan, a barber situated in Ngong' sits outside his shop all day waiting on his regulars to pass by for a haircut. Before the first case of coronavirus was detected in the country on March 13, Stan says he made an average Sh1,000 per day. "Right now I'm even lucky if I make Sh300 a day," he said. Stan said since last Thursday, he's been forced to sneak customers into his barbershop to try providing for his family. "Some of them have my number so I do house calls. The risk is that you don’t know whose house you’re going to" he said "you could go there and catch this disease. It's very tricky." Jennifer Mueni, a salon owner in Nairobi's CBD also says business has been down. She said she is now keeping her shop open in the hopes that one or two customers will pop in by chance. "We just open by faith. You come here and fares have been hiked, your children need food at home. It's difficult," she said.