Magarini MP Michael Kingi wants the government to change the police leadership in the subcounty to restore order following increased cases of harassment. Kingi said AP officer Chrispus Katana, referred to by residents as Kunguru, is used by his seniors to extort money from residents. The officer was captured on camera threatening charcoal transporters as he brandished his pistol. The video went viral on social media, with Kenyans demanding his sacking. Kunguru has been interdicted but will be charged in court. But according to Kingi, police bosses in the subcounty assign their cars to junior officers "to go and hunt for money", hence they should also be punished. He condemned the frequent harassment of boda boda riders, particularly those transporting charcoal in Marafa. Kingi said a worse incident was witnessed last year when a boy ferrying charcoal on a motorbike was shot by police in Magarini. "The incident is not new. Last year, a boy, Juma Shanga, was shot. We took the case to the Cabinet Secretary, Ipoa and Parliament, but now the boy can barely walk because of the injustice. We don't know if the officer involved was interdicted or not," he said in Malindi. The lawmaker said the subcounty Administration Police boss should also face legal action given that his official vehicle has been used for many months to extort money from the charcoal transporters. Marafa MCA Renson Kambi termed the incident as sad, especially at a time when the country is fighting the global Covid-19 pandemic. He said officers who should be maintaining law and order are busy terrorising residents. Kambi questioned why the officers should spend their time harassing residents who are struggling to survive. "We want serious action to be taken against the officers who threatened the charcoal transporters. It is a shameful act," he said. Riders in Marafa said Kunguru has been demanding no less than Sh200 “and had a tendency of threatening people with the pistol”. David Hare, the vice-chairman of boda boda riders in Marafa, said he saw the officer chase the two riders carrying charcoal and he almost hit one of them. The two tried to fight him, prompting him to brandish the gun. He said the other officer was heading home when he found the scuffle and tried to restore calm but Kunguru turned against the colleague angrily under unclear circumstances. Martin Tsuma, a youth leader, said he was also threatened with a pistol by the same officer last year on August 28 but his efforts to get justice proved futile. In the latest incident, Kunguru pulled out a pistol after one rider confronted him with a rungu. Another officer who appeared drunk intervened and asked him to leave the riders alone. But Kunguru, who is the driver of the subcounty AP commander, asked his colleague not to interfere with his work, saying he was on duty. "Who are you? Are you GSU or police? Go away, you drunkard. If you are off-duty, remain in the station, don't bring your drunkenness here," he said. Kunguru further warned one of the riders not to be incited by the police officer “as he was in the wrong”. He said no one can cross his line, and threatened to deal with his colleague for trying to prevent him from taking bribes. But the rider said he had already given him a bribe and asked why he blocked them again on the road. Magarini OCPD Elisha Cherono said the two police officers had been arrested. He said one of them belongs to the CIPU, while the other is from the National Police Service. "All of them have been arrested and investigations are going on before any administrative measures are taken," he said.