Former Africa cross country champion Leonard Barsoton wants senior athletes to guide their young counterparts navigate the waters during this difficult time when everything is at a standstill. Barasoron said young runners are not only facing both financial and boredom crisis during this period, but they are also confused. "This is dangerous especially to the inexperienced runners and they need guidance now than ever before. Otherwise, we risk losing them to social vices," he added. Speaking at his Nandi home, Barsoton, who in February ran Kolkata 25km in a course record of 63:05— lowering Kenenisa Bekele’s record f 63:45 — said the young runners used to get help from camp administration and fellow runners while in camps. However, camps across the country have been closed and everyone gone back to their respective homes. “The young runners are really suffering. Most depended heavily on training camps meaning they have nowhere to go and have nothing to do,” said ago. The former world cross country junior silver medallist said, unlike the upcoming stars,  established and elite runners can still survive for long since they have invested their earnings. Asked how he copes with boredom in the wake of the lockdown, he said farming keeps him busy. “My main work as an athlete has always been running since childhood. I wake up to run. Nothing much compared to what I am doing presently courtesy of coronavirus,” he said. “If the younger runners are not assisted, we risk losing them to other social young social vices. This generation can easily give up running and take up other things. Remember, they are young with a lot of energy," he added. The 2015 Africa Games 10,000m silver medallist said he conducts individual training to remain fit as he looks forward to coronavirus to clear. “Since there are no races, I just train in Iten to keep fit. I do some long runs like 20km and gym work,” he said. Barsoton was in the team selected to represent Kenya at the postponed World Half Marathon alongside defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor, Barcelona Half marathon winner Victor Chumo and national cross country champion Kibiwott Kandie. “For the World Half, I was so prepared to bring gold for Kenya but all that now hangs in limbo. The whole training and preparations for the event were trashed just like that. If they say we run in a few days, it will be hard to start again,” he said.