Four people in Mwingi succumbed to mob justice out of the nine deaths recorded in April by the police. On April 4, a man named Justus Makau was killed by a mob for allegedly stealing goats. The suspect was pronounced dead at Migwani Level 4 Hospital. A week later, another suspect who attempted to steal a woman’s personal effects was beaten to death by a mob at Neema in Mwingi town. When the police and DCI visited the scene, they found a knife. The victim had head injuries. On the same day, a man identified as Justus Kavindu was walking with his daughter towards Garissa bus stop when he suddenly collapsed and died after complaining of severe chest pain. Two days later, a woman called Margaret Mutinda found a body along the Mangoloma River and informed the police. The deceased, identified as Francis Mutisya Kitondu, had head injuries suspected to have been caused by a blunt object, cut marks on the right foot; two right-hand fingers had been chopped off and placed 100 metres from the body. The motive behind the killing of the 42-year-old man remains unknown. Five days later, Mwambui assistant chief Munyoki Mutemi reported to Mwingi police station that a 70-year-old man, identified as Francis Kyang’as Muthangya, had committed suicide by hanging himself with a rope in his brother’s house. That same day, a man was beaten to death by a mob at Katuluni, five kilometres from Mwingi town, after he tried to break into a shop belonging to Shadrack Mutunga. Neighbours rushed to the scene after Mutunga raised the alarm and beat the suspect to death. On April 21, a mechanic identified as Moses Mwamba was found dead in his house at Mwingi town. He was shot in the right side of his chest with an arrow from a close distance. The circumstances surrounding his death are unknown. According to the police report, the 65-year-old had apparently pulled out the arrow before his death. It was recovered from the scene. On April 24, an elderly woman drowned in River Thunguthu, Ngomeni, on her way from receiving cash for the elderly in Mwingi town. She was in a Toyota Probox together with three other occupants when the river swept away the car. Her body was retrieved a day later and was moved to Kyuso Level 4 Hospital mortuary. The other occupants are in hospital. On April 29, a thief tried to break into a shop near Mwingi Catholic Church but was accosted by a mob. Residents woke up after the watchman raised the alarm and beat the suspect to death. His three accomplices escaped. Mwingi central subcounty police commander Peter Mutuma said the cases have increased because courts are only handling capital offences. He added that following the presidential directive to decongest prisons to control coronavirus spread, 54 prisoners were released from Waita Prison last month and this has partly contributed to the rise in crime. Edited by Frank Obonyo