Traders at Kongowea market in Mombasa on Wednesday woke up to a rude shock after their kiosks were razed. More than 500 kiosks were destroyed. They support about 2,000 traders, including food vendors, tailors, brokers and dhobis. Property worth about Sh5 million was destroyed. The traders pointed an accusing finger at the county government, saying a county bulldozer was seen demolishing their kiosks under the supervision of county askaris. “We don’t know what our governor’s intentions are. There was no word, no warning, nothing! We just woke up to this rubble,” said Tom Okode, a mitumba trader who has operated from Kongowea for more than 20 years. “First, they burnt our kiosks. We rebuilt. Now they have razed them. Where do they want us to go? They should provide an alternative ground for us then.” On January 26, a mysterious fire gutted the mitumba section amid a tug-of-war between the traders and the county government, which wanted to construct a road to the market. The traders had been uneasy about recent events over the market. They suspect senior officials in the county government have sinister motives. “We don’t know what their intentions are. The recent events here at the market have made us feel someone somewhere wants to get us out of here so they can benefit from this land,” said Tobias Sule, the mitumba section chair. Sule accused the county government of mistreatment. “We are business people who pay taxes to the county government like any other businessperson. We are here legally, not illegally. Why should we be treated like criminals?” Sule said. The traders and the county government have held talks to get an amicable solution to problems arising in the market. The mitumba section chair said they were allocated the kiosks using allotment letters. The same means should have been used if the county government wanted them out, he added. “If they wanted us out, they should have approached us and we agree on the way forward. We are not against any development. “They wanted a road, we moved and paved the way for construction. Why do they treat us inhumanely like this? We are Kenyan, not Ugandan,” Sule said. However, Kongowea market manager Salim Hamumi said the traders were given three months' notice to vacate and pave the way for construction of a road to the new stalls. Hamumi told the Star on phone they pledged to take them to an alternative area to trade from. “They refused. I am a neutral person. I am only three months old here but the things I have seen from these people can make one get high blood pressure,” Hamumi said. He said the contractor wanted to get to the site and start construction, prompting the demolition. “We have taken their details so that when the new stalls are complete, they will be given priority and be relocated there,” Hamumi said. The market manager said the traders should support the county government so that they are given the best service. “This road will also help in times of crises like a fire breakout. Right now when there is a fire, the fire brigade cannot access the market easily,” the manager said. Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said the demolition was for health reasons. He said the traders defied the ban on mitumba sale and hawking, which the state said should not be done during the coronavirus pandemic. He said Kongowea was not the only place where demolition occurred, citing Likoni area where some kiosks had been demolished. “If we don’t do that, this disease will spread to every part of Mombasa,” Kitiyo said, adding that more demolitions should be expected. “We want them to keep distancing.” However, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, in whose constituency the Kongowea market is located, said it was unfair for the county to destroy people’s livelihoods during the Holy Month of Ramadhan, especially during such tough times brought about by the coronavirus pandemic. “If it is something genuine, why would they do it at night when there is a curfew? These county askaris are behaving like a militia, which is wrong,” Ali said. The MP said there should be a clear structure of communication, which involves the leadership of an area before anything is undertaken. “This area has an MCA and an MP. Why not involve them before doing anything that will destroy lives? There are certain people being targeted and this is wrong,” Ali said on the phone. Kongowea MCA Mohamed Abrari said in a meeting with the county officials, it was agreed that the county issues protocols to be observed while the traders are left to work. He said the traders were ready to adhere to any of the protocols that would be issued by the county. “However, since then, they have been coming up with many excuses whenever we inquire why they do not issue the protocols to be observed,” Abrari said. Edited by Henry Makori