Countries around the world have set aside $8 trillion (Sh800 trillion) to cushion the economy against the effects of Covid-19. International Monetary Fund (IMF) chief Kristalina Georgieva said fiscal policy actions taken by several countries could serve as a useful guide for others. She spoke at the lender's 2020 Spring Meeting yesterday. Kenya is among countries that have announced monitory and fiscal measures to shield the economy from the effects of the virus. "For instance, households and businesses hit by supply disruptions and a drop in demand could be targeted to receive cash transfers, wage subsidies and tax relief, helping people to meet their needs and businesses to stay afloat," Georgieva said. For those laid off, she said, unemployment insurance could be temporarily enhanced by extending its duration, increasing benefits, or relaxing eligibility. "Where paid sick and family leave is not among standard benefits, governments should consider funding it to allow unwell workers or their caregivers to stay home without fear of losing their jobs during the epidemic," she said. According to the international lender, the pace of economic recovery will depend on policies undertaken during this crisis. "If policies ensure that workers do not lose their jobs, renters and homeowners are not evicted, companies avoid bankruptcy, and business and trade networks are preserved, the recovery will occur sooner and more smoothly, " Georgieva  speech read. IMF estimates that member countries could potentially need emergency financing worth $100 billion of which $50 billion is already under active consideration. It explained that the demand is subject to considerable uncertainty. "In particular, demand for new IMF financing arrangements involving Fund-supported programs could lead to rapidly higher demand in the months ahead," it said. The Fund had by yesterday received over 90 emergency financing requests or expressions of interest. Roughly 60 per cent are low-income countries and 40 per cent are from emerging markets. The lender is soliciting $1 trillion to support members in managing the economic and social fallout of Covid-19. So far only a fifth  of the Fund’s capacity has been committed.