The government should involve local researchers and scientists in the fight against the spread of coronavirus, a food and analytical chemistry professor has said. Prof Charles Lumumba on Tuesday said there is need for the county and national governments to involve local researchers to come up with homegrown solutions to prevent more infections. "We appreciate what the government is doing to galvanise the country and ensure the pandemic does not adversely affect the country. However, we want to participate in clinical trials and their design as academia so that in the end, the solution is local," Lumumba told the press in Kakamega town. He said Kenyan professionals don't want to be learned people who wait for solutions to be developed abroad and brought to them because they have been involved in research whose outcomes have worked elsewhere in the world. He said the trials about the use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 was because it contains zinc, which boosts the immunity to prevent the virus from replicating in the body cells. "If we're going to quarantine people in facilities, it's not enough to wait for them to develop the disease but make interventions to prevent deterioration of the problem, minimise the impact or magnitude of the problem and try to reduce the duration for which people are put under quarantine," he said. Travellers placed under quarantine on Sunday complained of the poor environment and the high bills, especially after the government extended their quarantine by another 14 days. The government said the extension was because most of the recent cases confirmed in Kenya came from the quarantine facilities. Lumumba said local scientists are capable of developing intentions that utilise nutrition support. He said the virus capitalises on weakened body immunity and that is why the elderly are at high risk of contracting it with minimal chances of recovery. "Let's sensitise communities on what they can do to boost their immunity by eating food with certain elements that stimulate their immune system," he said. Edited by E.Kibii