Coronavirus has made the world come to a standstill. It's a virus that doesn't know the rich or poor. No one is immune to it. We have been advised countless times to use personal protective equipment (PPEs). But what do you know about PPEs and when should they be used or how? From masks to gloves to hand sanitizers. These are some of the necessities that prevent everyone from contracting the virus. But do you know how they work? Personal Protective Equipment is divided into different categories based on the degree of protection given. These are the different ways one can protect themselves from contracting the virus Masks We are all required to wear masks but how are you supposed to do it? Masks need to be worn above the nose and cover the mouth. The mask needs to be above the nose and just close to the eyes, but you have to make sure that your mouth is well covered as well. Glasses For those working in healthcare facilities, glasses play a crucial role in protecting eyes from any flying objects or anything that would splash and enter eyes. Gloves You might wonder why gloves are so important because the virus is contracted through droplets. Gloves come in handy when handling things or products that have been touched by other people. The gloves are well treated and protect you from contracting any bacteria or virus. Scrubs This is protective gear that is worn with a cap, mask and surgical glasses. Scrubs are meant to protest from contracting disease. Doctors, nurses and medical officers in general use scrubs to prevent them from contracting anything that is dangerous. The skin has a thin layer that is easily exposed to diseases hence the importance to stay indoors to avoid being exposed to the virus via droplets. Here is some information on common elements of the PPE ensemble; Respiratory It is advised that responders should use appropriate respirators to protect themselves against health effects caused by breathing air that is contaminated. Eye and Face Wear a mask at all times. If you can access surgical glasses, the better as they will help protect your eyes and nose from catching any virus. Skin Avoid going outside as your skin is quite sensitive. If someone sneezes or coughs towards you, the droplets are likely to land on your skin hence spreading the virus. Coronavirus is dangerous and has no vaccine so far. It's important to pay attention to all directives given by the government. Remember to always wash your hands with soap and water and also sanitize. Stay home and stay safe.