A trade unionist could not hide his shame when he was confronted by employees of a chemist in Nairobi’s CBD for taking his VIP status a bit too far. The vocal man had used his guards to block other Kenyans from walking into the chemist while he was there. Staff asked the man if Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai was aware that he was using his officers to bar Wanjiku from accessing essential services. Our mole told Corridors that one of the employees said to the man: "You have only come here once. Our customers are loyal and they always come. Are you more important than our everyday customers?” The man had to order his guards to allow other customers in. A well-known political broker within Jubilee ranks may soon be smoked out. The businessman, who received a lot of favours during Jubilee's first term, faces auctioneers. Despite making a fortune from the Jubilee contracts, the man known for his love for gambling stares at poverty. Auctioneers have announced that they intend to auction his firm's properties over a Sh2 billion bank loan. A popular MP who used to work closely with the businessman has also panicked as he was a guarantor in some other unpaid loan with a micro-finance firm. The lawmaker has been making frantic efforts to convince the businessman to negotiate a repayment plan for the loan. A state officer kicked out of a strategic government docket can't seem to catch a break. A bird whispered to Corridors that the man was arrested quietly at his home by detectives last Friday and taken into custody before he was later released in unclear circumstances. It remains unknown what prompted the latest arrest of the man in Nairobi or whether it is linked to the charges he is currently fighting in the courts of justice. A governor in Western who is under investigation for allegedly flouting procurement rules wants to use an officer in his administration as a sacrificial lamb. A bird whispered to Corridors that the county chief has instructed the officer to take the blame and resign. The officer is said to have, however, opted to stay put or go down with the governor. The scandal has also put the governor at loggerheads with the MCAs, who are now demanding that he carry his own cross. The reps have vowed not to rest until justice prevails.