A row is brewing between Mathira leaders and the county government over the dumping of garbage from Nyeri town in the constituency. The row resulted in the arrest and release without charge of Konyu MCA Eric Wamumbi on Wednesday. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said the MCA was arrested after he and members of the public stopped county government workers from dumping garbage at Karindundu in the ward. The county government said the ward rep was arrested for threatening a CEC. The MCA is seen on social media video ordering county government officials, including Environment executive Beth Karimi, out of the Karindundu dumpsite. “I want you out of this place now with your people. And this is the last time you should come here. This is my ward and there is nothing I am benefiting from, with the dumping of garbage here. You can dump it in Nyeri town,” Wamumbi is heard saying. He complained that the CEC and the county government had refused to listen to him. This was disputed by the CEC and Governor Mutahi Kahiga. On Wednesday, an altercation between a man and the MCA almost degenerated into a fistfight before the county team left. “We will not allow you to dump diapers and sanitary pads from Nyeri here. Who do you think you guys are?” Wamumbi asked. Gachagua condemned the arrest of the MCA. He said the decision to stop the dumping was made by Mathira MCAs and himself. “I would like to inform the governor that the decision to stop the dumping was made by all Mathira MCAs, except one, under my chairmanship. They should therefore come for me and not harass an MCA,” Gachagua weighed in. The MP said garbage will not be dumped in Mathira. Karindundu, he said, is a residential area and garbage was therefore a health hazard. The MP said residents have been complaining of respiratory complications caused by toxic fumes and dirt from the dumpsite. “I have, for the last three years, gone out of my way to support the governor and his government and I feel betrayed he has instigated the arrest of my MCA.” The dumpsite is illegal as it has not been approved by the National Environment Management Authority (Nema), said Gachagua. Governor Kahiga said the row had nothing to do with garbage but personal differences  between Karimi and the MCA. “The Konyu MCA has recorded himself belittling the CEC, calling her a junior officer. In the second video he is shouting himself hoarse telling the same CEC she has blocked him on her phone, and so he is offended,” the county chief said. Kahiga said he has nothing to do with the MCA’s arrest, adding that the CEC reported to the police after feeling threatened by Wamumbi. “When CEC Beth feels threatened while doing her job and makes a report to the police, where do I come in? I get very perplexed at people who seem to be picking unnecessary quarrels and insinuating things that don’t exist.” According to the governor, Karimi and the MCA can solve their differences without the interference of either the MP or himself. The CEC denied  she had refused to lend the MCA an ear, saying she opted to remain mum as the MCA was angry and abusive. Karimi said she was on routine check-up of the dumpsite as the government planned to rehabilitate the site when the MCA arrived and ordered her and her team to leave. She said the MCA threatened and told her to leave and never to step at the dumpsite. The threat is what prompted her to record a report with the police. Nyeri town has been without a dumpsite after Asian Quarters where the garbage used to be dumped was rehabilitated. The county government is constructing a Sh600 million bus terminus in the area to decongest the town. Edited by A.N