The first time I met the late Archbishop Ndingi Mwana'a Nzeki was in 1972 while still in primary school. He visited our school and I can still remember our excitement as we sang and danced for this high-ranking churchman who easily and joyfully danced with us. It is the same man who years later would accept and welcome me to train and be formed for the Roman Catholic priesthood and ordained me in 1983. I worked under his leadership, both in the diocese of Nakuru (which in the ’80s covered the then districts of Nakuru, Kericho and Baringo, serving a multiplicity of ethnic groups), and later in the Archdiocese of Nairobi. Indeed, Archbishop Ndingi Mwana’a Nzeki was a great man of God in every understanding and meaning of the phrase. He valued and lived for honesty. A sure way of getting into trouble with him was a betrayal of his trust by engaging in things dishonest. I can still hear him vigorously berating individuals who engaged in unacceptable behaviour. While he vigorously could tell off dishonest individuals, he was quick to apologise when he realised he had misjudged someone and consequently accused him of what he had not done. Having the archbishop profusely apologising for a mistake done was for his juniors a humbling experience. He valued simplicity. While the rank of archbishop is high in the Catholic Church’s hierarchy, Archbishop Ndingi exemplified servant leadership. His external demeanour was not ostentatious. His did not suffer from the 'big man syndrome', which, ordinarily, involves pushing one's weight around and calling attention to your supposedly glorious self. Many are the times he would join our conversation where we felt free to express our opinions without fear of rebuke from the 'boss'. While he would not let an erroneous opinion go unchallenged, he certainly did not correct one disdainfully. His lifestyle was not showy or high-octane. He cared deeply for the less fortunate and all those who were unjustly treated. The painful experience of the ethnic clashes in 1992 and the brutality of the Moi regime during the one-party reign, brought out fearlessness and a daring in Ndingi which went a long way in reversing the said injustices. Without fear or favour, Ndingi loudly spoke the truth to the extent that we began fearing for his life, given the many mysterious disappearances and confinements suffered by opponents of the reigning regime. As a shepherd of souls, he actively encouraged individuals, men and women to consider giving their lives in the service of God and his people. His efforts saw a dramatic increase in the number of young men and women joining the priesthood and the sisterhood at a time when the church was served mainly by foreign missionaries. There was palpable growth in the number of Christians, which led to the opening of many Catholic churches within his diocese. He actively solicited for external help for the poor within his diocese. The diocese of Nakuru was known to run many health centres, the largest of which were Kaplong Hospital in Sotik, in the then-Kericho district and Eldama Ravine Hospital in Eldama Ravine in the then-Baringo district. There was a myriad of dispensaries and health centres scattered in many parts of the diocese. Farmers were not left behind. The diocese had a huge farming department, which educated farmers and provided them with needed help, to enhance their farming practices. A fully fledged water department, complete with water drilling rigs, crisscrossed the diocese drilling boreholes for many communities. Most of these activities were financed with foreign assistance through the efforts of Archbishop Ndingi. While he was known as a simple (certainly not simplistic), honest, generous and forgiving individual, he was also known to give a vigorous tongue-lashing to individuals whom he considered to be in the wrong. While in this state, individuals around him would warily go about their business hoping one would not make a wrong step. There would follow a collective sigh of relief when calm returned to the bishop. People around him knew he cared about them deeply and would go to great lengths to assist those who needed assistance. He believed in capacity-building among the clergy and laity in his area of jurisdiction. He actively solicited for foreign scholarships from catholic agencies in the West for the clergy, nuns and laity of his diocese and created a pool of informed persons who would knowledgeably serve the people of God. Indeed, the archbishop was a Godly individual. Being Christ-like was his objective. Much as he did make mistakes as we all do, he certainly stood head and shoulders above most of us in his exemplary character. Farewell, dad. May the angels welcome you into paradise.