The Kenya Medical Research Institute has stopped all HIV viral load testing to focus on the coronavirus. Kemri is required to test at least 35,000 samples for the coronavirus in 24 hours. They will use the 8,800 HIV viral load machines and the GeneXpert normally used to test for tuberculosis. Head of the HIV molecular diagnostic laboratories Prof Matilu Mwau said the suspension will initially last until April 14, but it could be extended. "Due to the coronavirus pandemic, all services offered at the HIV molecular labs in Nairobi and Alupe are suspended," Mwai said in a memo to staff. "During this period, laboratories will not accept samples for testing." Among patients on antiretroviral therapy, HIV viral load is the most important marker of treatment response. The test measures the number of viral particles per millilitre of blood. A low viral load indicates that treatment is effective, while a high viral load in a person on treatment indicates either the medication is not being taken properly or the virus is becoming resistant to the medication. Normally, all patients should have their viral load measured at diagnosis and regularly thereafter. Kemri has the most advanced test kits in Kenya, which can return results within an hour. People living with HIV on Thursday pleaded with Kemri not to stop all the viral load tests. Nelson Otuoma, head of the Network of People Living with HIV and Aids in Kenya, called for continuity in HIV and TB services. "We hope the Covid-19 pandemic does not become an excuse to ignore the other conditions and diseases," he said. "We need more GeneXpert machines and more healthcare workers. If facilities are prioritised for Covid-19, all other patients should be referred to a facility of their choice." The number of coronavirus cases in Kenya was 179 by Wednesday after the Ministry of Health announced seven additional ones. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said the disease has shown itself to be blind to status, age, colour and height. “It is for this reason that we are calling for a one-for-all and all-for-one approach as we try to protect ourselves and our country. We need to drop our titles, our beliefs, status or age and recognise we need to fight this menace together,” she said. Out of the 179 positive cases, three are aged below 15 years, 49 are between 15 to 29, 114 are aged between 30 to 59, while 13 are aged above 60. “When we look at our age distribution, this Covid-19 disease is affecting the more productive members of our society. This means we do need to take charge and observe the various interventions that we have put in place,” Mwangangi said. The seven new patients have been moved to various isolation facilities to be put under treatment, and contact tracing is ongoing. Four are women and three, men. As at Wednesday, 2,004 people had been monitored through contact tracing. Edited by R Wamochie