Two months have passed since Nairobi County Government transferred four functions to the National Government, and it appears the targets set to be achieved in 100 days will remain elusive. The body that was formed to run the transferred functions, Nairobi Metropolitan Service, has decided to go it alone and refused to meet Governor Mike Sonko or his County Executive Committee members for a briefing on the status of programmes and projects in the sectors. Instead, NMS has chosen to work with county officers from director level and below. Consequently, some of its decisions have ended up being inconsistent with the law. But what has been more of concern to City Hall is how the National Government continues to attempt to expand the mandate of NMS beyond the four transferred functions. On Tuesday, the National Treasury wrote to the county secretary seeking information on two additional functions of Finance and Economic Planning, as well as Devolution and Public Service Management. This follows a recent unilateral transfer of 760 inspectorate staff to NMS, and the transfer of county revenue staff to Kenya Revenue Authority in what HR experts say was irregular. The staff, the experts say, should instead have been seconded by the county government following a request by the Public Service Commission. The inspectorate staff have been given new reporting lines. Seventeen senior police officers of the rank of Inspector and above have been posted to Nairobi's 17 sub-counties to take over from the county government's sub-county commanders. The move to transfer the inspectorate staff, who were under the Office of the Governor, is what led to Sonko writing a protest letter on his social media platform. Some of those transferred were security officers in his detail. On the same Tuesday, the Public Service Commission and the NMS advertised for 1,000 inspectorate staff, after cancelling a similar advert that had been placed in the local dailies by the county government. But perhaps the big slap on the face of the governor was a decision, the same day, by the Government Printer to gazette a supplementary budget that had been forwarded by Speaker Beatrice Elachi, and which had been rejected by Sonko. The governor's main bone of contention was the report of the Finance Budget and Appropriations Committee of the County Assembly, and which accompanied the supplementary budget, that effectively transferred the budgets for the sectors of Finance, ICT and Inspectorate to NMS, yet these were not among the transferred functions. The assembly justified this by listing the sectors as ancillary services, necessary to facilitate the work of the four transferred functions. All these events have been coordinated between the Ministry of Interior, NMS, the PSC, the Police Service, the National Treasury and KRA in a manner to suggest that, short of withdrawing from the deed of transfer, Sonko's protests will fall on deaf ears. One victory for the governor, though, was a decision by both the Senate and the National Assembly to reject a proposal by the Nairobi County Assembly to allow NMS to directly take the Sh15.9 billion Nairobi receives from the National Treasury as its equitable share. This is money that is allocated to every county by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and approved by the Senate. The aim was to have NMS take the money directly from Treasury, without it passing through the County Revenue Fund account at the Central Bank, as required by law. If this had succeeded, City Hall would have been forced to rely on its own-source revenue, i.e. money it collects itself, to meet the cost of salaries and fund the other functions that were not transferred. Former Nairobi County Secretary Peter Kariuki has been acting as the CEO of NMS, despite having been charged in court together with Sonko over contracts allegedly awarded irregularly to garbage contractors. Due to the complication his prosecution presents, he has not been formally appointed but is in charge. Kariuki had fallen out with Sonko over fears that he was at City Hall to do the bidding of the national government. Sonko suspended him until when his one-year contract lapsed. The team at NMS has regarded the CECs and chief officers to be loyal to Sonko, and declined to meet them. This is despite President Uhuru Kenyatta saying during the hand-over at State House that NMS should, together with the county executives, come up with a roadmap on the transferred functions. A meeting was set for Monday this week and would have been the first but NMS called it off abruptly. One county official said: "NMS should undertake programmes and projects that had already started. But it appears it wants to detach itself. It is like we are starting afresh and there is no continuity. Where is the linkage between these new people and those who were doing the job before? "What has emerged is that there is a third force driving the transfer of functions, not the Nairobi County Government, and not NMS. At the onset, the county government through the county secretary and the County Public Service Board, and the PSC agreed on a structure or organogram. Shortly thereafter, the Head of Public Service, Joseph Kinyua, published a list of officers that had been seconded to NMS yet that was not what had been agreed. That process turned out to be wrong, and some of the names or titles had to be withdrawn. Some of the positions contained in Kinyua's letter were created outside the purview of NMS. For example, Kinyua appointed chief officers, but this position is enshrined in the County Government Act which prescribes the process of appointment. The position of chief officer does not exist in national government structures. The complication for this third force is Article 187 of the Constitution that envisages a situation where institutions assigned functions under Schedule 4 retain constitutional responsibility for the performance of those functions. Section 26 of the Intergovernmental Relations Act, which President Kenyatta alluded to during the handover of functions, pronounces the establishment of joint committees. NMS has refused to effect this and has instead set up what appears to be a parallel government to the county government. This means that CECs and chief officers will still be answerable to the county assembly for oversight. And these positions will continue to exist because they are constitutionally created. The county assembly also insists that any money belonging to Nairobi County must be appropriated by the assembly, which retains oversight over the use of such funds. Will NMS be answerable to the Nairobi County Assembly? To the county government officers, the spirit pronounced by the President - that of partnership and collaboration - seems to have been lost. Instead, it appears some people had long desired to take charge of certain service and revenue streams of Nairobi County Government, and this deed has provided the opportunity. As the Deed of Transfer approaches 100 days, structural and legal issues may stand in the way of realising its mandate. But bigger still will be the lack of partnership between the old and new, as was envisaged by the President and the governor.