As the country battles the coronavirus disease, residents of a remote village in Lamu are going about their lives as usual without a clue as to the existence of the deadly contagion. Timboni is located in the deepest part of Manda Island in Lamu West. Villagers are not aware that the world is under siege from the Covid-19 pandemic. There are about 100 households and nearly all men are stone miners. They are mainly from the Kisii community. Timboni is so disconnected from the rest of the world that residents rarely make contact with the nearby islanders and the rest of Lamu. The villagers keep to themselves, only depending on fish and other seafood for survival. They have a few kiosks but have no electricity, piped water, market, hospital or dispensary, or school. They neither own TV  sets or radios. Worse still, the area has poor mobile phone and road network, making communication and movement almost impossible. They are literally in a small world of their own. While the rest of Kenyans are busy sanitising, keeping social distance, wearing face masks and staying at home to keep the virus at bay, residents of Timboni are socialising in their small circles and continue to be the close-knit community they have always been. Stone quarrying is the sole economic activity, so every morning as the men rush to the quarries, women stay back and take care of the homes. The miners go about their business in large groups unaware of the risk involved in contact and groupings. During an interview with journalists on Wednesday, the villagers appeared genuinely shocked that there was such a disease, much less in the country. Luka Makori said no one had come to their village to warn them about it. Asked whether they were aware of the necessary precautions needed to keep the disease away, Makori laughed and asked how they were expected to practise something they had no knowledge of. “I am hearing about social distance and the rest of the precautions from you. I don’t even know how that is supposed to be achieved. But the county government is aware of our being here, why didn’t they send health workers to warn us? It’s unfair that we are learning of this through you,” he said. Mama Jedina Irungu said social distancing for them is impossible as they have lived as a close-knit community always sharing the little amenities they have. She, however, said they were ready to do whatever it takes to keep safe from the disease, considering they have no medical facilities. “We don’t have a dispensary here and so if such a disease was to attack us, we would die for sure. We are appealing to the government to send us health workers to enlighten us, so we don’t die from ignorance. Let them know that we are ready to listen,” Irungu said. She laughed at the thought of having to wear a face mask for an entire day but added that “if it is for our own good, then why not?” “You can imagine all of us here with masks on our faces. It sounds funny but we will adapt if we have to,” she added. Trader Aboud Nuur said the village was in the dark and had no idea what’s happening around the country and the world. He, however, insisted that just like other Kenyans, they too had a right to information and access to services rendered by the government. “We are not in America. The government must find us and ensure we move together,” he said. Reacting to the same, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia blamed chiefs and elders in the area for failing to deliver on their mandate as they have been given the duty to spread information concerning Covid-19. “That means the chiefs of that area slept on their job and we won’t take it easy on them,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie