Soil testing and production of well-balanced fertilisers have revolutionised rice farming in Mwea, Kirinyaga county. Farmers had been applying acidifying fertilisers, mainly Sulfate of Ammonia, DAP and Urea, which were expensive, required mixing at the farm and continued to acidify the soils and lower production to below 1,800kg an acre. Now things have changed. Thanks to Yara’s YaraMila Power fertiliser and Amidas for top-dressing, farmers now harvest more than 2,600kg of rice an acre. Yara fertiliser increases production by 30 per cent compared to the conventional one and an additional income of Sh30,000 per acre. Water and Irrigation CAS Andrew Tuimur said Yara has calibrated suitable fertiliser programmes for different soil types, regions and crops, hence ensuring sustainable and optimal crop productivity that gives the farmers higher income and broadly contributes to food sufficiency in line with the government's  Big Four pillar on food security. "The rice yield increase resulting from the application of Yara fertiliser is 30 per cent higher productivity as compared to conventional fertiliser regimes and additional income of Sh30,000 per acre for the farmer," Tuimur said. "The big impact is now being felt in the local economy and this will translate into an additional injection of $7 million (Sh700 million) into the local economy and generating employment opportunities directly and indirectly for aggregators, inputs suppliers, financiers, and transporters." Yara East Africa country manager William Ngeno said in line with its mission to feed the world and protect the planet, the organisation seeks to provide the right fertiliser to farmers, to help boost crop yields in various regions. "We calibrated an affordable fertiliser programme based on a compound NPK (YaraMila Power) and top-dressing of Amidas that supplies all key nutrients to the crop, is affordable and farmers achieve more than 2,600kg per acre. If farmers use quality fertiliser, they will get good returns,” Ngeno said. The average use of fertiliser in Kenya, according to Yara East Africa, is 600,000 tonnes. Tanzania comes second at 250,000 tonnes, with Uganda at 60,000, Rwanda at 40,000 and Burundi 30,000. Ngeno said Yara thrives to ensure availability of fertilisers to farmers within a radius of five kilometres. The stockists have been mapped out into regions and Yara now has real-time data of farmers' access to its products from specific villages across regions. “This ensures farmers get a good price and the right quality of fertiliser at the right time because when the seasons start, we don’t want the farmers to walk far and wide in search." Farmer John Kesuna said he has been registering huge wheat, maize and potato harvest since he started using Yara three years ago. While he used to harvest 20 bags of maize per acre when he used conventional fertiliser, he now harvests 50 bags, thanks to Yara. Kesuna said he had abandoned his land because of acidity, but it is now under potatoes courtesy of Yara fertiliser. To ensure improved crop nutrition, Ngeno encouraged farmers to wean off the traditional fertilisers such as DAP, Urea and the Sulphate of Ammonia as they only provide a maximum of two nutrients. “Instead, use the granular compound fertilisers when planting as they provide up to five nutrients – nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium and sulphur. In our factories, we have calibrated that the soils of Kenya need this. We sell compounds that are not acidifying. If you continue to invest in the old fertilisers, then you need to invest in lime because you need to net back the acidifying effect,” Ngeno said. They have also invested in technical experts, distributors, agro-dealers, and stockists who advise farmers on the proper application procedure when using fertiliser when planting and top-dressing. Kefa Makori, an agronomist, said proper adherence to stages of fertiliser application in rice results to quality yields and cited Mwea. “For rice farmers in Mwea, the yields have grown on average by 27 per cent and between income and profitability, the farmer has an average of USD280-300 per hectare (2.5 acres),” Makori said. The firm has also engaged in an outreach programme in the counties to rope in more farmers to adopt fertilisers that are not acidifying the natural soils.