Did a Jubilee official take a long drive at night to meet an opposition leader at his posh home last week? There are claims the Jubilee honcho held private talks towards the end of last week. He is said to have driven himself to the meeting to assess the political climate, moments after the state repossessed some land. Our fly on the wall whispers to Corridors that another meeting has been set up involving a trade unionist in the coming days. Some insiders in the ruling party were heard regaling others with the narrative that 'finishing' DP William Ruto is going on as planned. Tough days lie ahead. Is a senior official from Western Kenya behind a popular hip hop song allegedly sponsored to discredit his boss? Well, the official, who has had a frosty relationship with his boss, is said to have bankrolled the artiste after a bitter falling out. Corridors of Power understands the song, which has triggered a political storm in the county, was intended to settle political scores. The highly critical tune pins down a county official for perpetrating graft. The artiste is said to have smiled all the way to the bank. There could be more than meets the eye to the sacking of a top Kemri scientist by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. The official was relieved of his duties for allegedly delaying the release of the Covid-19 results. However, a little bird at Kemri chirps to Corridors there could be a link to power struggles at the agency.  The inside intrigues could have hampered the clearance of the Covid-19 results, delaying the CS for hours. Whether it was sabotage or insubordination is not clear. However, Kagwe, insiders say, should look deep inside the research institution for the alleged power tussle. It is only a matter of days before the real issues spill out. A key business ally of Deputy President William Ruto could be in the dark about the DP's massive business ventures. The ex-politician, who claims to be aware of all the DP's business investments, was last week caught off-guard when questioned about 1,600 acres in Ruai. From his response, critics now say the man is no longer close to the DP's business interests. While he had previously worked with utmost loyalty to the DP, it is not clear if his lack of the grasp of the finer details about the Ruai land exposes his isolation from the DP's inner business circle. The DP's current business buddy and confidant is a youthful tycoon from Rift Valley who now runs errands for him.