Confronted by empty churches during the virus crisis, bishops pastors and their media teams can now broadcast live services. Justice James Makau issued temporary orders on Thursday allowing church broadcasting crews and church leaders to air their services. However, in doing so, they must abide by all the state regulations, such as social distancing, handwashing and sanitising. Gatherings, including church service, have been banned because the coronavirus is easily transmitted in crowds. In the case, two pastors had sued to suspend the directive banning church gatherings. Justice Makau barred the police from victimising or harassing the group of people in church for purposes of broadcasting. “Pending the hearing and determination of this application, the courts be pleased to order alternative forms of worship such as broadcasting of church services, be allowed on specific days." "[This] to allow various churches to broadcast to their faithful congregants without victimisation and harassment of the broadcasting crew, church elders,  leaders and congregants who will be part of the church service, by the...respondents or their agents and representatives,” the order reads. The pastors sued the Ministry of the Interior, the Attorney General, the Cabinet Secretary for Health, the Police IG and the CS for Information Technology. Judge Makau further granted leave to the state to file their responses. The case will be mentioned on May 5 for further directions. Through lawyer John Swaka, Pastors Don  Majau and Alex Gichunge argued the church is an essential service and should be listed among other essential services. They said their church members want the court to allow their churches to operate like newsrooms. "Even news anchors cannot read news from their house. Even if they have good equipment, they must go to the studio because the environment matters. The same case applies to spiritual matters, atmosphere matters," court documents read. They said it is unfair for the government not to list church as an essential service provider, just like doctors. The right of freedom to worship should not be completely curtailed but instead allowed to operate with the support from the state as they have adhered to the sanitisation, the pastors said. “The pastors should be allowed to serve the people and rally the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic,” church leaders argued. (Edited by V. Graham)