Initially, they believed the government was lying about Covid-19 to get money from donors, but their perception has now changed. “They came clad in white clothes from head to toe in an ambulance and took him away because he was a coronavirus suspect,” Kawangware resident Mary Barasa told the Star. She had only seen the health workers on TV and when they arrived at the Delta area and everyone was afraid. “It was shocking. They came here and took him. We don’t know the people he could have interacted with before he was identified,” Barasa said. Initially, like other residents, she thought coronavirus was not in the country but now she believes it is. “It’s true the government was not lying. The virus is here with us. I had initially thought that the virus was not here but now I believe,” she said. Kawangware has already recorded three cases of Covid-19, according to the Ministry of Health. Pipeline had six cases and Kibera two. There is fear that residents of slums may be worse hit by the virus due to poor hygiene and lack of social distancing. In Kibera, some residents now wear face masks as a precautionary measure but they are asking leaders to do more to save their lives. Some were shocked by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe's announcement that two people had tested positive for the disease in the area. “I cannot walk from my house because the virus is now outside here. We are afraid and we don’t know what to do. We urge people to follow the government’s guidelines," Irene Achieng told the Star. "I received Sh2,000 from our area chief and I have bought food. I hope they will send the money again.” Residents of Kibera lack enough water even after Shofco, an NGO, and area leaders set up some tanks for hand washing. Poor hygiene and blocked sewages may be a setback in the war against the virus. “We still need more water and soaps. Some of our sewage lines are blocked as a result of conflicts and we need this matter fixed as fast as possible. We are told the virus spreads very fast in unhygienic conditions,” Daniel Ochieng said. At the Kibera courts, lawyers and magistrates keep a distance from each other. “I even fear a fellow magistrate. It is difficult to know whom he interacted with before he arrived in court,” a magistrate said. Edited by Henry Makori