If all went as planned, primary and secondary schools would this week be winding up the first term and warming up for the April holiday. Learners would have sat their end of term exams, teachers would be busy preparing for the end of term reports and packing up ready to begin the three-week break that was to begin this Friday. Instead, the learners are counting the beginning of the fourth week at home following the lockdown of schools to stem the spread of coronavirus. From delayed KCPE and KCSE exams to delayed admission to universities, learners stare at massive disruption in their academic activities since Independence. So far, the Health ministry has announced 158 confirmed cases as the government continues to test hundreds of other suspected samples. The disruption of the school calendar has confused parents, learners and educators as they assess the extent to which learning will be affected and how this time could be recovered. When announcing the shutdown of schools,  the government announced that the suspension of learning activities would proceed to mid-April. With at least two weeks before the month-long school closure expires, indications are that the lockdown might be extended the institutions used as isolation facilities should the spread surge as implied by the Health CS. The coronavirus infection rate has been on a trajectory since it was first confirmed in the country on March 13. The second term is set to run for 14 weeks from May 4 until August. The expectation is that the second term mid-term break will be skipped to give time for recovery of the time lost if schools will be opened by then. Depending on the extent of the virus spread, the shutdown could enter into May, further complicating the delivery of various programmes within the school calendar. Some programmes like national examinations KCPE and KCSE could be affected. The implementation of the new curriculum in schools - like teaching and learning in all institutions - has been affected. Also affected is the training of teachers for the new curriculum scheduled for April holidays. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi said many headteachers are facing questions about the exam season and there is  urgent need for reassurance. "Parents and pupils are worried about being victims of something out of their control and are asking, 'Will my son or daughter get into college or university?'" Kahi said. Nicholas Maiyo, the Kenya Parents Association chairman, equally noted increasing pressure from parents for more information and guidance about what might happen to national exams. The exam season starts in November, but of concern is that the virus outbreak is yet to reach its peak, mean more months of disruption in teaching and learning. But exam watchdog Kenya National Examinations Council, on Monday, urged learners and parents to prepare for public exams as normal. It is not clear exactly what this would mean but there are mechanisms for allocating marks in exceptional circumstances, which have been used before. Since the inception of the 8-4-4 education system, no KCPE or KCSE test has faced disruption. The agency maintains that as of now there is no change to the 2020 national examination timetable. "As at the moment, efforts are directed to curb the virus spread... We are going to communicate in case of any changes but as at the moment everything remains the same." One option could be to move some exams to later in December, to give time for learners to recover the time lost. Or, the learners could be forced to take a whole year of their current class next year, in the worst-case scenario. This would prolong the agony for teenagers and their families but could increase the chances of most being able to sit the exams that are the passport to the next stage of their life. Edited by R.Wamochie