Six youths in Bungoma county have come together to voluntarily educate residents on the importance of observing government directives to curb the spread of coronavirus. The youths drawn from Vision of Hope walked the streets of various towns and market centres carrying banners with the messages urging residents to take precautionary measures to stay safe from Covid-19. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Saturday appealed to Kenyan youths during his daily coronavirus briefings to step forward and lead the war against Covid-19. Ramadhan Athman, 32, and Khakula James, 34, told the Star that they started the initiative after realising that most people were ignorant of their own safety. “Coronavirus is real and has killed thousands of people globally. We can’t keep quiet when our people are at the risk of contracting it. That is why we have taken the initiative to sensitise residents about it,” Athman said in Bungoma town. Khakula said they distributing face masks and gloves to shops, medical facilities, children homes and public places. “We started this initiative since the disease was announced in the country. We educate people on the importance of following government directives of putting on masks, washing hands and keeping social distance as a way of combating the disease. We don't want people to die,” Khakula said. So far, the group has visited Harambee market in Matungu constituency, Kabula, Bungoma town and Kanduyi market where they sensitised drivers, pedestrians and the business community. Unfortunately, however, Khakula said, their efforts to get financial support from the county government and other individuals have been futile. “We are supporting this course by ourselves, There is a friend who donated face masks and gloves but they are depleted. The demand is so high." "We are now asking the government, NGOs, well-wishers and the business community to support us to reach as many people as possible. It is our responsibility to fight this strange disease that is posing danger globally,” Khakula said. Athman said that they lack a means of transport to reach far-flung areas and they would appreciate any financial support. Edited by E.Kibii