Some Meru residents have asked county authorities to close borders with Mandera to guard against the arrival of coronavirus carriers. On Tuesday, 32 people who were suspected to have interacted with some of the Covid-19 patients in Manera county escaped quarantine. Meru residents are afraid that some of these people might cross into their county and cause a health risk. Harun Mwiti said the situation demanded that Meru closes entry points to ensure the safety of residents. Laikipia county has also reported one patient of Covid-19. Health executive Misheck Mutuma said the 32 could be a threat to the county. Mutuma said any case detected along the border will be put in isolation and later charged in court. Already, the Meru government has enforced mandatory temperature screenings at Kinanduba border point within Kiutine and Kaciulu border points. Jane Kainyu, a Maua resident said her town is very exposed. “Being a crowded town, it has more visitors every day. This leaves the town open to imported infections of coronavirus from other counties,” she told the Star. The virus cannot be detected during its incubation period but carriers can pass it to other people. World Health Organization defines an incubation period as the time between catching the virus and the beginning of showing symptoms of the infection. Most estimates of the incubation period are from day one to 14. Mostly, after the fifth day, carriers start showing symptoms of Covid-19. A source in the county administration who sought anonymity said that some of the escapees have relatives in Maua town. He said with time, the county may close border points if risk increases. “The towns border Isiolo and are a major transit route from Northern counties of Mandera and Wajir where coronavirus infection has been confirmed. “We have ordered vehicles entering Meru county from Wajir and Mandera counties to be fumigated or disinfected,” Mutuma said. Mutuma said the county is alert and has erected road barriers in its seven borders including Isiolo-Ruiri, Nanyuki, Keeria, Kiutine-Kina, Kaciulu, Giaki-Mikinduri and Mate road around Mitunguu. He said travellers must be screened using infrared thermometer guns to help in flagging people with abnormal body temperatures for quarantine and treatment. (edited by o. owino)