Kenyans now have an Sh3500 limit using contactless payment in their day to day transactions after Mastercard increased the limit from Sh2500. Mastercard has increased contactless payment limits across the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region as people look for safer ways to pay in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tanzanians have a Tsh80000 limit up from Tsh55000 while Ugandans have a Ush135000 limit up from Ush90000. Contactless payment is a Mastercard credit card feature where customers have the ability to only tap their card on the machine without entering the PIN. This amount is usually kept low due to security reasons as it’s a Tap & Go feature. The initiative is in line with recommendations from global and regional health authorities and governments encouraging consumers to pay with contactless over cash to avoid human-to-human contact. “In the current environment, we are grateful that contactless payments are available so consumers can embrace these safe and hygienic solutions as their preferred form of payment every day,” said  Mete Guney, Executive Vice President of Services, Middle East & Africa at Mastercard. Globally, Mastercard has been spearheading the transition to contactless for over 15 years. In MEA, the company has worked with various industry partners and sectors in multiple markets to increase the use of digital and contactless payment technology in an effort to enhance safety, security, speed and convenience in the payment experience for cardholders. In 2019, the MEA region saw 200 per cent growth in contactless transactions. While following best practices from around the world, Mastercard is working closely with its partners to enable businesses and retailers to implement contactless limit increases quickly and efficiently. Cardholders should look for the contactless symbol on the front or back of their credit or debit cards to determine whether they have a contactless-enabled card or can add their debit or credit card to their mobile wallets on their contactless-enabled devices to tap and pay where contactless payments are accepted. Mastercard’s effort to raise CVM limits is one of many the company is leading to do its part for its employees, customers and cardholders.