Well-wishers, among them MCAs, have come to the aid of a widow and her three children left shelterless after their landlady removed the roof of their house over rent arrears. Caroline Achieng, a resident of Nyalenda slums, was woken up by a fundi removing the roof on Sunday. "I woke up to find a fundi on my roof. He said he was under instruction to remove part of the roofing over rent arrears," Achieng said. She was in arrears of Sh2,400. She said her earlier efforts to plead for an extension were futile as the landlady demanded she vacates immediately. "I pleaded with her that I have children, and I am not in a position to vacate, but she would hear none of it." Achieng said strict government directives on curfew hours forced her into unemployment. "I work with an organisation that looks into the welfare of sex workers. With the curfew orders in place, we are forced to stay home and lack allowances that come with it," she said. The landlady only identified as 'Nyakano' denied claims of indirect and forceful eviction. She said she was doing repair work on the roof after recent heavy rains. She, however, admitted having issued a vacate notice to Achieng'. Following the highlight of Achieng's plight by various media houses, three MCAs – Nyalenda B's Joseph Olale, Kondele's Joachim Oketch and Nyalenda A's Ojwang Ogendo came to her rescue. They moved Achieng to another house in the area and paid five months rent. “We are looking for a long-term solution. For now, we are still sorting this out and later we will come back to see if we can give her some money to start a business to sustain her family,”  Ogendo said. He urged landlords to be tolerant during this period of Covid-19. Oketch said the manner in which the woman was handled was inhumane. “Even as we empathise with the landlords because the rent might be the source of their income, I call on them to understand their tenants, even if it means allowing them to pay in instalments,” he said. Other well-wishers also came to the aid of the woman through cash donations and shopping. Earlier, Amina Swaleh, a paralegal, unsuccessfully pleaded with landlords to work on new terms of payment given the stressful times occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. "Everyone is suffering, we need to share the burden," Swaleh said. Edited by A.N