Anybody found violating Covid-19 guidelines claiming he/she is assisting residents will be forcefully quarantined, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata has said. His warning followed complaints from health officials and the public that some Lamu politicians and philanthropists were recklessly moving around without observing social distancing and wearing masks. Elungata said on Tuesday that inasmuch as it's okay to help, failure to follow guidelines meant to curb the spread of the coronavirus only worsens the situation. He in particular fingered Lamu and Tana River politicians for "wandering and getting into direct contact" with vulnerable people like the elderly at a time the country is battling coronavirus. Elungata said Lamu and Tana River are among the few lucky counties that had no Covid-19 cases, hence the need to remain vigilant and ensure no one is infected. He was concerned that the reckless politicians might be the weak link in the war against the virus. His office is investigating MPs, senators and philanthropists shuttling between virus hotspots Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa and Mandera and Lamu and Tana River. Those culpable will be arrested and forcefully quarantined for 14 days for testing. "There is a clear directive on who should receive and organise the distribution of any kind of aid to the public at this time. These are governors and county commissioners. "It’s not just indiscipline but also risky for politicians and a few individuals to insist on doing it themselves without adhering to safety guidelines,” the administrator said. He said the culprits frequent Nairobi, Kilifi and Mombasa and come back to interact with locals as they distribute various items. "That is careless and selfish and that's why we shall quarantine them by force." Elungata reiterated that any humanitarian aid must be channelled through the Emergency County Covid-19 Taskforce led by governors and county commissioners. He said Lamu and Tana River have infrastructural challenges which would make it difficult to fight the coronavirus. "We are praying for counties like Lamu and Tana River to be spared from this pandemic. They have poor infrastructure.  Lamu politicians must stop playing with the coronavirus. You really don’t want it in your areas,” he said. 