Football clubs in the country have lauded the government for making the initial step in cushioning vulnerable players during the coronavirus pandemic. The government had, through Football Kenya Federation, required clubs in the top five leagues in the country to submit names of their contracted players and technical by yesterday. The Ministry of Sports have requested for names of 25 players and five technical bench members from across the Kenyan Premier League, National Super League, Women's Premier League, men and women's Division One league. The Ministry had come under intense criticism from football and other sports stakeholders after channeling Sh100 million in support of local artists but the latest move is yet an indication of light at the end of the tunnel. Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda termed the move as timely even as chairman Ambrose Rachier revealed that their players earned a paltry Sh3,000 last month. "We welcome the government's request for information. This implies that financial support is on the pipeline. However, it is my plea that the government considers players who ply their trade in Division Two and County leagues," said Aduda. His Muhoroni Youth and Chemelil Sugar counterpart Moses Adagala hailed the government for the intervention. Chemelil are among clubs struggling to make ends meet. "It's a good initiative. It shows that the government is aware of the sorry state of our leagues and the struggle our players are going through each day," said the vocal chairman. Tusker chairman Daniel Aduda said the move will go a long way in assisting players who have been deprived of allowances from the time the league was suspended. "At the moment we are paying salaries only. The boys used to enjoy allowances when we were active. The money from the government will help us fill the allowances basket," said Aduda. NSL side FC Talanta's team manager David Chweya revealed that any assistance from the government will help them pay their March salaries. "Any financial help from the government will help us pay March salaries and boost the boys now that they are not getting allowances," he said. Meanwhile, FKF President Nick Mwendwa sought to explain that the government's directive did not mean instant finances and called on the clubs to exercise their patience. He said he was keen to engage the Ministry and Fifa in a bid to cushion referees and other stakeholders too.