All restaurants will be allowed to operate but strictly between 5am and 4pm. In the new regulations outlined on Monday by the Ministry of Health, restaurants will be required to limit the number of customers to four people for every 10 square metres. President Uhuru Kenyatta in his address to the nation on Saturday had said restaurants will be allowed minimal operations under guidelines to be issued by the ministry. In addition, tables in the dining areas will be required to be spaced 1.5 metres apart or sit group customer at least 1.5 metres apart. Among the regulations outlined by the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Monday, alcohol shall only be sold with a meal in a restaurant and only be served to customers waiting to be served a meal, during meal, or 30 minutes after the meal. They will also be required to discontinue self-service of ready-to-eat foods such as salad bars or buffets. “Customers will have their meals delivered individually to the dining table by appointed restaurant stewards.  In the case of buffet meals, service shall be by one person appointed by the restaurant,” Kagwe said. According to the regulations, restaurants will also be expected to ensure quality and safety of food, to rinse and sanitise food contact surfaces, disinfect, floors and counters. “Restaurants will be required to instal adequate portable running water and accessible washing basin for handwashing, instal alcohol-based sanitiser at the entrance and exit points,” Kagwe added. Also, restaurants and eateries will be required to instal a contact-free thermometer and ensure every person entering the premises has their temperature taken. “Any staff member or reveller with a temperature above 37.5 degrees shall not be allowed entry into the premises, and the premises shall immediately notify the Ministry of Health through the toll-free number 719 for guidance.” Also to be put into practice is physical distancing of one metre and three feet in food preparation areas. Kagwe, however, warned that bars remain closed. This comes as the number of positive cases in the country continued to rise, with eight new cases having been reported in 24 hours. The total number of positive cases now stands at 363. The eight are all Kenyans with no history of travel. Five were picked by surveillance teams while three were from mandatory quarantine facilities, aged between 13 and 65 years. The cases are spread in Nairobi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. Four cases are from Mombasa county’s Mvita, three from Nairobi and one from Tanga in Kwale. Two out of the three Nairobi cases are from Kibera and one from the quarantine facility at Kenyatta University. On a positive note, eight more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total recoveries in the country to 114. Edited by R.Wamochie