The families of two murdered boda boda riders in Kisumu want DCI George Kinoti to expedite investigations. Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch, alias Swaga, on Sunday appealed to the government to ensure justice is served. Joanes Alele and Alex Osewe were killed by criminals masquerading as members of the Kisumu County Boda Boda Organisation earlier this month. They were buried on Friday night in line with government directives. Ten suspects accused of killing the two were arrested last week. Batons, bows, arrows, and motorcycles were recovered in a raid conducted by police and members of the public. Oketch said they didn’t accord the victims a befitting send-off due to coronavirus pandemic but promised to organise an anniversary once the situation normalises. “This is not the best send-off we would have wished to accord our warriors. The police forced us to bury you at night,” he said. “But all is not in vain. We shall live to fight for justice and find the killers to ensure they are brought to book.” Alele and Osewe were attacked alongside five other riders for carrying two passengers. One of the riders died on the spot while the other died in hospital. The other five sustained serious injuries. Four are still admitted at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Alele left behind a widow and two children, while Osewe is survived by one child and an expectant widow. Oketch demanded an explanation of the legality of the group, which claims to work on behalf of the government. Witnesses said a rider was spotted carrying two passengers and people from the group, locally known as CBO, confiscated the motorbike. The CBO is registered under the Kisumu County Boda Boda Association located in Nubian estate. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has since disbanded the CBO. Boda boda riders from the Manyatta Shule went to their offices in Nubian to find out why the motorcycle was confiscated and in the process, they engaged in a fight. The CBO members later went to the Manyatta Shule base where the fight continued. One person was killed during the incident. The killings prompted riders and residents led by their area leaders to storm the Nubian office, where they arrested some members of the group. Residents claimed members of the group have been terrorising riders and residents. They say group members are usually armed with knives, pangas, bows and arrows. “They are part of criminal groups terrorising and robbing residents at night. It is a well-organised gang. We know them,” one of the riders said. Nyong’o said on Tuesday there was a clear indication that the sector has been infiltrated by external forces who commit crimes. “The county security committee together with the political leadership has resolved to de-register all the groups,” he said. Nyong’o ordered all boda boda bank accounts held in the names of saccos and associations frozen immediately, pending a new structure. Edited by A.N  