Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) have acknowledged receipt of an appeal letter from Kenya Cup sides owing to the cancellation of the 2019-2020 season. KRU chairman, Oduor Gangla, said the fixtures committee will look at the appeal and make recommendations before forwarding them to the board for approval. “Yes we have received an appeal from the Kenya Cup clubs and it’s going to be looked at objectively before making a decision,” added Gangla. Last week, the union cancelled the 2019/2020 season due to the coronavirus pandemic with Kenya Cup, Championship, Nationwide and other regional leagues preparing to enter the play-off phase with Enterprise Cup headed for semis. The Kenya Cup caucus has threatened to escalate matters if the decision is not rescinded by the union . The caucus is looking at the option of going to the KRU Judicial Appeal Committee if the ruling doesn’t favour them. Gangla has, however, failed to give a timeline when a decision on the appeal will be made. “Union officials will be attending to that appeal and an announcement will be made at the right time regarding the matter,” he added. He said: “We will engage the clubs as we always do. They have a right to appeal any decision and the board will listen to them.” The chairman said the right decision will be made in light of the developments happening in the country. “As a union, we are looking at the season in totality and I know the board will consider all variables and make a good decision for all parties involved,” he noted. The chairman called for sobriety from all stakeholders in discussing the issue. “This is unprecedented times considering everything has come to a standstill and we don’t know when this pandemic will end. We must, therefore, be sober in our approach and put the safety of our fans and teams as our first priority during this period.” Gangla said he was aware of the impact the cancellation of the league has on clubs, sponsors and fans considering some of them had the potential to be promoted or win competitions.