The Kenya National Union of Teachers has asked the government to impose a 21-day total lockdown across the country. Through Secretary General Wilson Sossion, the union said this is the only way the government will win the battle against the disease that has so far left over 1.2 million infected and claimed over 60,000 lives globally. In Kenya, the number of coronavirus cases stands at 142 with four fatalities. Sossion during an interview with a local radio station on Monday said the government should make use of the Sh7 billion set aside to mitigate the effects of the pandemic and ensure adequate food supply to the most vulnerable. "This is a deadly virus and should be treated with the seriousness it deserves. We should not be politicising the issue but rather immediately go for total lockdown. We cannot die of hunger in just 21 days," he said. Sossion said through the strategic reserves, essential food supplies should be made available as the directive is implemented. "These 21 days will be critical in helping the country effectively control this pandemic. All borders should be closed and airports operations suspended. As teachers, we are in support of such a directive and if people need to be whipped to obey let them be whipped as long as every effort is towards stopping the spread of the disease," he said. Sossion further dismissed claims that there is a possibility for learners to repeat classes after the directive to close learning institutions as a result of the disease. He said those calling for an extension of term dates or cancellation of KCPE and KCSE exams are ill-advised. "We are not yet there. Exams start in November and we are only in April. As per the directive to close schools, Knut is aware the directive was to be reviewed after 30 days and so we are hopeful that exams will still happen in the stipulated timelines," he said. "The same reason we want the government to put serious measures in place to contain this pandemic. If we can go with the 21-day lockdown we are sure that schools will resume in May." Sossion said once in operation, the schools should be allowed to have tuition to cover up for the time lost. "If the situation prolongs longer than anticipated, the government should come up with a plan to cater for candidates. They should be allowed to go to schools, be sanitised and revise for the exams," he said. Sossion's sentiments come even as a majority of Kenyans want President Uhuru Kenyatta to lock down the country for in efforts to contain the spread of the Coronavirus in the country. A poll released by Info-track showed that 68 per cent of Kenyans want President Uhuru Kenyatta to enforce total shutdown as a measure to avert further spread of the virus.