Kenya has recorded 12 new Covid-19 cases, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has announced. This brings the number of cases to 246. The CS said more than 450 tests had been conducted. Kagwe made the announcement when he visited JKIA on Friday to receive a consignment of medical supplies from China. The consignment was transported by national carrier Kenya Airways using one of its 787 Dreamliners. Out of the 12 new cases, five are hotel workers, while four were from contact tracing. Kagwe said, "As we stand right now, at this hour, we have already tested about 450 samples out of this, we have already got 12 positive cases and we have not finished the day." "What this tells you is that we need to really start the testing capacity so that the contacts of those people who are positive can also be tested and therefore we can be able to contain the pandemic." The consignment contained 500,000 three-ply masks, 200,000 testing and sampling tubes, 4,000 shoe covers (for use by frontline health workers), 300 static shoes (used in theatres), 76,000 - N95 masks and face visors. Kagwe said, "We were getting desperate for some of the items that are on this flight and we are glad to see that the corporation across all government agencies is what is going to help us in winning this war against this deadly pandemic." "We are really grateful that Kenya Airways has been able come on board and assist us to the extent that they have. We have developed protocols with them on how to travel and quarantine themselves as crew so we are happy about what is happening." Matiang'i said, "We are doing everything we can to enforce the curfew and the guidelines we have been given by the Ministry of Health and we will step up what we need to do to ensure that we keep our people safe." Macharia said Kenya Airways is ready to facilitate evacuations that may be required. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday announced a raft of measures to deal with the pandemic, including the establishment of a welfare fund for health workers in the front line fighting Covid-19. He also said his government has released Sh5 billion to the counties to supplement  efforts in cushioning citizens from infections. The President said the money should be diverted to procuring personal protective gear like face masks for the citizens. He said,"Coronavirus is not a respecter of age or race... There are many who are taking this disease lightly. It is everyone's responsibility to take care to ensure this disease does not destroy us." He spoke at State House, Nairobi. Uhuru said another Sh8 billion has been released under the cash transfer programme for the elderly. "I have released an additional Sh500 million in arrears to persons with disabilities," he said. Uhuru said, "We love and respect our elderly... our grandmother and grandfathers. They are so vulnerable to this disease, so it's important that each does the right thing by doing as our medical experts advise." The President urged Kenyans to be vigilant so that Kenya does not reach the point where there are many deaths and people have to be buried in mass graves. He made reference to countries such as New York which has resorted to using mass graves because of the high number of deaths. The US has recorded more than 28,000 deaths and more than 600,000 Covid-19 cases.. Uhuru also urged manufacturers of PPEs to adhere to standards. He lauded KU students for coming up with a ventilator prototype to help in the fight against Covid-19. "Kenyans are showing they can invent and innovate... knowing our character is key to building our confidence to solve even more challenges that face our people," Uhuru said.