On Saturday, April 11, workers laid the foundation stone for the construction of the biggest ICU hospital in Murang'a county. Governor Mwangi wa Iria then announced the construction works be completed in a record 21 days as the county ramped up preparations for the novel coronavirus. That news was received with pessimism by most residents who dismissed the governor's claims as cheap political talk. Both residents and non-residents took to social media urging Wa Iria to slow down the pace of construction, warning that if hastened, the building may not achieve the desired quality. They said construction guidelines have to be followed for a strong structure. But the governor dismissed the naysayers, insisting the facility would be operational in a month's time. Nineteen days later, the 35-bed ICU unit at the Murang'a Level 5 Hospital is complete with only fitting and equipping of the wards to be done. Construction works continued day and night, with workers disregarding the dusk-to-dawn curfew to ensure things moved according to plan. Only heavy rains occasionally forced the workers out of the site. Wa Iria said the facility was urgently needed to serve Covid-19 patients who may require intensive care across the larger Mt Kenya region. He said the construction works are expected to be complete by Friday so the county government can start equipping the facility. The county government was already sourcing ICU machines even as construction went on. “We have already sourced 10 ICU machines and we are in the process of getting the rest,” Wa Iria said. While the facility is being put up to deal with coronavirus-related cases, Wa Iria said patients suffering from other conditions will also be treated. Murang'a has not recorded any confirmed case of Covid-19, but Wa Iria said it was safer to be prepared for any eventuality. "We know that some of the Covid-19 patients with more severe symptoms require the support of the machines,” he said. Murang’a's only six ICU machines are at the Kiria-ini Mission Hospital in Mathioya constituency. The county government has already advertised positions for specialised health workers to be deployed to the ICU hospital including a radiologist, 10 nurses and two pharmacists. Wa Iria on Wednesday told the Star that by the time 30 days are over, every single detail pertaining to the ICU unit will have been tended to. He said the county will sponsor 20 nurses to undertake higher diploma training in Critical Care Nursing at the Kenya Medical Training College in Murang'a. He said the nurses will ensure the unit is able to handle an influx of patients as they continue offering services in the general wards. The college has introduced the course following the establishment of the ICU facility and the nurses will be among its first batch of students. College principal Evelyne Nyamai said the course requires intensive practical learning and could not have been introduced without an ICU unit for support training. The county has written to the Aga Khan Hospital asking for a partnership that will ensure the ICU facility takes off as required while maintaining high standards. “The Aga Khan University Hospital already has one of the best-run ICU units in the country and with their assistance, we will also be able to raise the standards of the new unit and get it running efficiently,” Wa Iria said. The county previously had a memorandum of understanding with the Aga Khan University that enabled sponsored students to train in local health facilities. A similar MOU was undertaken with Murang’a University of Technology to help the institution start a faculty of health sciences. “These partnerships will enhance the delivery of health services in the county as the students will be distributed across the region.” Sources at the county government told the Star that the ICU unit may not have all the 35-beds by the end of 30 days but it will have enough machines to start operations. The building has been completed and workers are in the process of paving its surrounding. More than 200 workers have been undertaking the works. The governor said the county had outdone itself by completing construction works two days ahead of the set deadline. Infrastructure executive Amos Njoroge said they have been using special materials that support fast construction. He said in a normal building, plastering should take about seven days to dry up but the materials used in plastering the ICU building were able to dry up in two days. The materials also make the structure of the building stronger, he said. The executive sought to allay residents' fears that the structure could collapse in the future because it was hastily put up. Murang'a has been partnering with local institutions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. On Tuesday, the county received 5,000 masks from the Murang’a University of Technology. The institution is making between 2,000 and 5,000 masks daily. The governor said the masks will be supplied to tea farmers who have to congregate in tea-buying centres every day. “We currently have only 100,000 masks and require 120,000 to start distributing them by next Monday,” Wa Iria said. He said the county was making more masks through polytechnics. Fruit processing companies have also donated tractors to fumigate markets.  Edited by P.O