The Kilifi county government is using an app and SMS to distribute relief food to more than 50,000 families in the coronavirus disaster response programme. It avoids crowding and queues, thus limiting the spread of the coronavirus if anyone is infected. Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa, Nairobi and Mandera are coronavirus hotspots. Kingi said Centum Limited technology helps ensures the relief food reaches the right people. It has been in use since last week, he said. It notifies people by SMS when and where their food is available. The SMS code acts as a voucher for the redemption of the food. Aden Mohamed, the chief officer for Devolution and Disaster Management, said there's an app into which they fed data of the intended beneficiaries. It includes names, ID numbers and mobile numbers, including heads of household. Distribution is underway in Ganze, Kilifi North, Malindi, and Magarini sub-counties. Speaking during the launch of the relief distribution, the governor said they are trying to minimise overcrowding and ensure social distancing. 'This food will not be distributed in the normal way when a lorry leaves people waiting in long queues for food, he said. The governor said Centum gave the county food for 3,000 families and the technology to distribute it. Kingi said the SMS tells people exactly when and where to collect food. Another SMS informs the programme the food has been distributed. Officials easily know who received food and who didn't. An SMS is sent at random to 10 households, one person at a time collects food, taking about 10 minutes. The governor said the coronavirus can be spread by locals who defy directives on social spacing and don't wear face masks. Those few who defy orders will be forced to abide by them, he said. "The best strategy is self-discipline, coronavirus is real. Maybe the number of victims here are few, that's why Kilifi residents feel there's no corona. We haven't reached there yet, the journey is still long," he said. Kingi said there is still time and because the virus has not spread fard, it can be minimised to ensure people are safe. (Edited by V. Graham) 