Kitengela traders have raised concerns that criminals are targeting their shops during curfew hours. Those who spoke to the Star said hardware and electronics shops are most affected. “On Friday night they broke into this shop and carted away electrical cables, flatscreen TVs, radios and solar torches valued at more than Sh400,000,” Martin Matheka said. Matheka said the thugs must have used a vehicle to carry away the stolen items from his Siangiki Electronics shop at night and wondered what patrolling policemen were doing. “The police are all over beating up those who fail to arrive home after the stipulated time. We also expect them to guard our shops,” Matheka said. Another shop owner, Francis Munyoki said unknown people last week, broke into his business premises and carted away goods valued at over Sh600,000. “Luckily, I have insured my shop and I am following up on the matter now. I pity others who have lost a lot of property to organised criminals and yet they have no insurance cover,” Munyoki said. Gangsters broke into his shop through the roof while the watchman guarded the main gate. It is suspected the thieves spent several hours in the shop before carting away the loot. Businesswoman Jacinta Lepaiton said that three days after the attack on Munyoki’s shop, she saw another group of men break into a nearby shop at 2am. “They were about 10 and were carrying metal bars. They took their time because there were no policemen around,” Lepaiton said. Paul Mwai, who operates hardware shop in the town claimed thugs attempted to break into his shop but were unable to get in. “My shop has two doors which I secure with credible padlocks. I close the main door from inside and outside, and that is what made it impossible for them to break into it,” Mwai said. The traders said claim high mast security lights that were installed by the county government in crime hotspots ceased working late last year. Some of the hotspots include Kyang’ombe, Slaughterhouse area and the bypass joining the EPZ road and Kitengela market. Kitengela police confirmed having received reports of broken shops and said they are investigating them. (edited by o. owino)