Families upcountry are no longer taking their dead to mortuaries, choosing instead to preserve bodies using traditional means at home before burial in a day or a few hours. Phelgon Juma is one such case. When she died last week, her family did not take the body to a mortuary. They preserved her body and buried her the next day. Mati Nyamai, whose wife Vidia Nduku died in a botched birth operation on March 29, took her body home in Makueni for burial the following day, rather than keep it in a morgue. “It is better to keep the body at home rather than incur the cost in morgues yet they want us to bury [bodies] as quickly as possible,” he told the Star. This change in burial practices follows the directives by the Ministry of Health on mourning to control the spread of the coronavirus. The government banned gatherings of more than 15 people during burials. Burials must also be conducted within 48 hours after death. The restrictions have led to people being buried without some of their close family members and relatives present. Ordinarily, funerals attract large crowds, especially in western Kenya. For instance, when Hezron Kizito, 76, died early this month in Kanyakwar village, Kisumu, he was buried within 24 hours, which before was unheard of among the Luo. In normal times, the community would not rush the burial of a person of his age and stature. The body would have been kept in a mortuary for more than two weeks as elaborate funeral plans were made. “It is very sad that my father was buried hurriedly as though he was unwanted,” Kennedy Kizito said. Jane Nyangweso has gone to Nyayo House for two days now, hoping to get papers to allow her relatives to transport her brother’s body from Nairobi to Oyugis for burial. She first went to the building on Monday after her brother passed away on Sunday, but the queue was too long and she was not served. She tried again on Tuesday, arriving there before 9am but by midday, she had not yet been served. The government has banned movement in and out of Nairobi and four other counties. Bereaved families have to get a permit to transport bodies for burial upcountry. An administrative officer at Nyayo House said the queues are long because they have to thoroughly scrutinise each case to ensure only genuine ones are given passes. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the officer said scrutiny was heightened after it was found that some applicants are lying. “Some of the applications were questionable. The long queue will be here for some time as scrutiny is enhanced,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie