The reason for testing for Covid-19 is to identify those who have the disease as early as possible so that the transmission rate can be reduced. It is important to remember that the test ‘looks back’ to confirm an event that happened on average about five days earlier, that is the infection. Mass testing does not mean testing every individual. It means testing all those who are susceptible as opposed to waiting to test those who present themselves with possible symptoms of the disease. The objective of mass testing is to buy time and establish the magnitude of the disease. How many have it? How many are spreading it? So that we can map out the amount of resource to put out in preparation for those who will present moderate and severe disease. But there are some challenges that need to be overcome given our situation as a country. The first problem is health economics. Testing for Covid-19 is not cheap. Because the disease is spreading right around the world there is no market price for the test. Countries are scrambling to get as many test kits as they can while universities and companies are scrambling to bring to use, as quickly as possible, new tests. Developed countries, having more resources, and having their own companies that can produce the test, have an advantage in deploying the tests and being able to get better prices. Countries like Kenya, with no homegrown industry, are at a disadvantage and have to rely either on donations, international organisations like WHO and others to assist in acquiring test kits. So the number of kits will be limited relative to the number of people who need testing. The second problem is a laboratory science problem. The tests themselves are not 100 per cent diagnostic of the disease. The main test being used Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) has a diagnostic sensitivity of 67 per cent. This means that it detects only two-thirds of those with the disease. In this regard, the test is similar to the rapid diagnostic test (RDT) used for malaria, where the lower the malaria prevalence the less accurate the test becomes. So the challenge now for Kenya is to have a testing strategy that maps out the disease, giving enough time for the limited health system to get its act together. As cases pop up in far-flung counties this becomes a difficult task. And it does not take much to paralyse a health facility. Dr Ayah is the Director Science and Technology Park, University of Nairobi