A row has erupted between some Mombasa MCAs and the civil society over their contribution towards the fight against Covid-19 in the county. Both parties are accusing each other of doing little to nothing to help curb the spread of coronavirus. Mombasa is the second most affected county after Nairobi with over 20 confirmed cases. It is also one of the four counties that has been affected by the cessation of movement ordered by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday. On Saturday, nominated MCAs Fatma Kushe and Milka Moraa hit out at the CSOs saying they are not doing any tangible thing to help alleviate the suffering of residents. “Only thing they are doing is going where the governor is so that cameras can capture them and be seen to be working. Where are they taking the millions of shillings that they get from donors?” Kushe asked. "I can only tell of some - Muslims for Human Rights and the Red Cross - as having done some tangible work. The rest are just rent-seekers.” Moraa said Governor Hassan Joho has been working hard to prevent the virus from spreading. “But we have not seen a single CSO coming out even to make a statement commending the governor. Wait till they hear that Joho has gone on a trip to the US, you will see them on every media station,” Moraa said. However, Coast Civil Society Network chairman Zedekiah Adika retorted saying the MCAs speak from a point of ignorance. He said their work has been behind some of the measures taken by the county to stop the spread of the virus. “It is through our report that now there will be water taken to every ward in the county,” Adika said. Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta said Kushe has been bitter about them since they raised the red flag about some MCAs trip to Egypt to watch the 2019 AFCON matches ostensibly in support of Harambee Stars. Shipeta said their work is not to distribute food to people although they do it whenever they can. “We have distributed food to the vulnerable people in the community. We are not like politicians who help people because of the cameras,” Shipeta said. But Kushe said the CSOs receive millions of shillings from donors but do little to actually raise the standards of living of residents. “We have seen students in Mombasa donate food to the less fortunate and the vulnerable. Why can’t the CSOs do the same? Let them not tell us they volunteer because we know that is for the cameras." However, Shipeta said buying food and other items requires approval from the donors. The funds they get are always for specific programmes which they always pitch. “We cannot take funds from a de-radicalisation programme and buy food for Covid-19 pandemic without approval from the donor. That will be a breach,” said Shipeta. Moraa said CSOs thrive on negativity "yet when it comes to the time they should appreciate a positive they are the most silent". “Why can’t we see them come out strongly to support Governor Joho? They should in the front line educating members of the public on measures to take to prevent the spread. We do not see them do that,” she said. Adika said the MCAs have failed to raise issues that would have prevented some of the actions being taken now. “If they did their jobs, we would not have written a report about the water situation at the grassroots. But now there are funds that will be dedicated to providing water at the ward level because we noted this as a gap in our reports." The Coast CSO chair sits in the county’s Covid-19 emergency committee co-chaired by Joho and county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo. Their input has led to the closure of the salons, barbershops and the sanity being witnessed in the matatu industry at the moment. Adika said different CSOs have had different input towards the fight against Covid-19. Shipeta added, “We do not do things to please Kushe or any other MCA. We do things for the good of residents.” Edited by R.Wamochie