Wajir is the latest county to close its borders to curb the spread of Covid-19. It has stopped movements of people from and into Mandera, Garissa, Isiolo and Marsabit. Governor Mohamed Abdi made the announcement on Sunday when he inspected the main Isolation centre at the county referral hospital to check whether it has met the necessary requirements for a standard isolation facility. Abdi was accompanied by the Wajir Emergency Response Team, led by county commissioner Jacob Narengo and county police commander Thomas Ngeiywa. Only the movement of food supplies and other essential consignments will be allowed into the county. "In efforts to stem coronavirus spread, I direct lockdown for all PSVs and private vehicles as well as motorcycles travelling from any of the neighbouring counties. I appeal to the law enforcement agencies, the public, and other relevant stakeholders to cooperate in complying with these directives," Abdi said. Mandera and Marsabit had already shut their borders for 21 days to stop in- and outbound movements. The global pandemic continues to wreak havoc. In Kenya, 10 counties have confirmed cases. Two positive cases have been confirmed in Mandera. The two travelled by bus via. Their journey included a night stopover at Leheley where they slept and Wajir town where they had breakfast. Efforts are underway to trace all their contacts. Abdi further announced that senior county officials will take salary cuts effective April 1, 2020, to help in fighting the virus. "We shall embrace salary cuts effective April 1, 2020, to mirror the presidential directives as follows: Governor and deputy governor 30%, County Executive Committee members 20%, chief officers and all staff on Job Group S 15%, and directors and all county staff of Job Group R 10%," he said. The governor appealed to all other cadres to share their voluntary contributions however small. The county has purchased essential equipment and supplies to aid the prevention and management of the virus. They include seven ICU beds, seven ventilators, six bedside oxygen monitors, two cardiac monitors, 100 hospital beds, 1,000 hand sanitiser. Others are 50 thermal guns, 150 handwashing facilities, 140 pairs of gumboots, 60 spray pumps, aprons and face masks. Abdi expressed concern over failure by residents to heed the national guidelines and protocol in the prevention of the disease. He said his administration will reactivate and incentivise community health volunteers to upscale health education and the adoption of the desired health practices in their villages. A monthly stipend of Sh5,000 shall be provided to each of the volunteers to motivate them to discharge the tasks effectively. Health executive Ismail Sheikh said the department will continue providing regular media briefings as they continue to monitor the situation. "We'll also continue with the awareness campaigns at the markets and places of public gatherings so as not to tire of educating our people. All we are asking for from members of the public is total cooperation," he said. Last week, in a bid to decongest public places and support social distancing, food vendors at Soko Mjinga were relocated to a new market. (Edited by F'Orieny)