Fish dealers in Busia have hailed the decision by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to allow food transporters to operate during the curfew. The decision, they said, will enable timely delivery of food to urban centres as most people are at their homes. The government has advised Kenyans to limit movement as part of measures to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. Magdalene Sakaya who sells fresh tilapia near the Malaba bus park said, “We hope the police will understand the directive and allow us to work at night. Since last Friday, they have been ordering us to close the business when the curfew starts.” Sakaya said her fish supplies have slumped following the decision by the Kenyan and Ugandan governments to close border operations. She appealed for the two governments to allow fish dealers to cross the border to make deliveries. Benedeth Anyesi said with the directive, she would be able to make supplies to Eldoret, one of the towns she sells most of her stock. “People cannot live without food,” she said. "We promise to maintain social distancing as ordered by the Ministry of Health,” the trader said in Busia town where she has a fish stall. Moses Edepi, who also runs fish stalls in Busia town and Angurai market, said Munya’s decision will ensure food is supplied without interference from authorities during the curfew. Earlier, Woman Representative Florence Mutua commended the decision by the CS saying it will also enable fishermen to operate because most fishing activities in Lake Victoria happen at night. “Fishing is the only source of livelihood to the riparian communities. Fish moves a lot with darkness,” Mutua said during an interview on a local radio station. “It is only sensible that the government comes up with measures not only directed at curbing the Covid-19 but also strike that delicate balance with the economic livelihood of the community. The nation needs to feed its people.” Munya on Tuesday said a meeting he attended with officials from the Interior ministry had resolved to allow food dealers to operate during the curfew. “We have agreed that those who transport food be allowed to transport their farm produce any time of the day and night." Adding, “In fact, I am also asking the provincial administration and the police to assist farmers to go to their farms. There are reports some officials are restricting farmers from going to their farms which should stop. Employees of large scale farms should also be allowed to work." Edited by R.Wamochie