Jubilee lawmakers have said they will take the party to court to push for national elections. The 147 MPs, allied to Deputy President William Ruto, promised that the battle to control Jubilee will end in court to ensure justice. They said conducting elections will allow the party to prepare for the  2022 General Election. They told the Star that they will petition the court to demand party elections, audited financial results and the list of companies doing business with the party. There are wrangles in Jubilee after Ruto's allies petitioned the registrar of political parties Anne Nderitu to block proposed changes to the party's National Management Committee. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said only the court process will bring law and order to the party. “It will also allow us to elect the right officials in Jubilee so that they can serve millions of party members,” Kuria told the Star on phone. Jubilee Deputy Secretary General Caleb Kositany said they will use the party's constitution and the supreme laws of the country to ensure justice on how the party handles its responsibilities. "Jubilee is not someone’s property. We have bigger interests in the party and we want to continue serving Kenyans using the party," the Soy MP said. The term of the current interim Jubilee officials expired in February. However, the party has delayed its elections to ensure a smooth transition. The postponement of elections was caused by a protracted battle to control the ruling party. Last week, secretary Raphael Tuju appointed five new members to the powerful National Management Committee following the exit of three others. They include Lucy Nyawira Macharia, Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso and James Waweru who are expected to replace Fatuma Shukri, Pamela Mutua and Veronica Maina in the 13 member committee. "They were appointed because someone wants to use the backdoor to hold a grip on the party through sham elections. The party belongs to all of us and we will ensure the right processes are followed during the transition period," Kuria said. The party was required to file the new list of officials and financial returns before March 29 with the registrar as required by the Political Parties Act. The audited financial statement must include how the party raised funds, sources and expenditure. However, it has failed to comply with the Act following tough succession battles putting President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies and Ruto supporters at loggerheads. The Political Parties Act gives the office of the registrar powers to withhold funds, deregister or suspend the party. However, the deregistration or suspension cannot affect those elected to Parliament or county assemblies, who will continue to serve for the remainder of their term as independents or as members of other political parties. “Jubilee is a big constituency and represents people from the whole country. It is sad that we are concentrating on fighting Covid-19 while other people are stealing the party,” Kuria said. He said they were waiting for the registrar to dismiss the list of five officials provided by Tuju before moving to court. “We will still go to court if the registrar delays. We have the numbers and the law is on our side,” Kuria said. Kositany said the party will hold elections immediately the Covid-19 pandemic is contained. “We have met as members and we have met also with the Registrar of Political Parties. Our agenda is elections,” he said. Edited by Peter Obuya