As some of the employees are working from home due to the coronavirus, several companies and institutions have employed ways in which they can interact with their employees. One of the ways is through video conferencing. There are several Video Conferencing applications. One of them is Skype which has been a popular app. It is smart enough to crop out the most important parts of a video feed and show the person talking and cut out the background décor. It enables you to set Group video calls to Dynamic view so that the person speaking can get the largest window. It has plenty of features including the ability to be able to host up to 250 people on the same conference call. It integrates well with Microsoft office suite with all the basics of video and audio calls as well as text chat and file sharing. You can invite the participants using a direct call or URL. PowerPoints can be shared within calls and participants can share their screens with other people on a call. Zoom is another video conferencing app that has been the talk of the town since the pandemic forced most of the Kenyans to work from home. It has four tiers which are the Basic, Pro, Business and Enterprise and supplementing these subscription plans, it has two software-based solutions designed for conference rooms in particular. The Zoom Basic costs nothing as it is one of the most affordable of the company’s primary four plans. It allows you to host up to 100 participants for up to 40 minutes in group meetings. On the other hand, you can host one on one meetings for free. For the Pro level which costs Sh1575 ($14.99) per month, you can buy up to 500 or 1,000 participants for each of your meetings. The Zoom Business costs Sh2, 098 ($19.99) per month for those with a minimum of at least 10 hosts. They enjoy the option for on-premise deployment, company branding, custom emails and cloud recording transcripts. The Zoom Enterprise is the same price as the Business plan but allows you up to 200 participants, providing you with a dedicated customer service manager as well as executive business reviews. Despite these applications providing you with quality video and audio capability, they are prone to be hacked by cyber attackers. This will happen if the security risks associated with video conferencing mitigations are not practiced since a lot of private discussions and sensitive information are shared during video conferencing. This technology has become easy to use and can be self-managed thus user training will help users to discover security features and put them to good use. Organization-wide user education is also important for creating awareness about video conferencing risks and how to deal with them.