Political experts have warned that selfish interests and lack of leadership are ruining a once vibrant and coveted Jubilee Party ahead of the 2022 poll. In September 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto led their supporters in launching the Jubilee Party, an outfit that was billed to be the next “party of Africa." When he addressed a jubilant crowd at Kasarani International Stadium on that Saturday afternoon, Uhuru took issue with how political parties in Kenya have been historically organised along ethnic lines. His promise was that the folding of his then TNA party and Ruto’s URP among other parties was the beginning of a new phase in Kenya's politics. “ Fellow Kenyans, we cannot allow ourselves to keep making this fatal choice. William and I chose to unite as friends, and as Kenyans. We urged conflicting communities to come together in search of reconciliation, knowing that this would be the path of unity that this country deserves and needs,” Uhuru said. He added: “We decided to offer leadership to serve the Wanjikus across Kenya who have always sought freedom and progress, in spite of their sometimes disappointing leaders.” But four years after, the house of Jubilee is like a biblical Tower of Babel, a tower that was presumptuously intended to reach from earth to heaven but could not. Political experts have warned that selfish interest have destroyed the party. Gabriel Muthuma opines that to get back to its initial trajectory, Uhuru and Ruto should sit together provide leadership and also listen to the majority of the members. He noted that what is afflicting the ruling party are individuals within that party that have created illegal centres of power and failure to follow the party’s constitution. “The Jubilee brand promise was pegged on a very profound set of agendas that when implemented, are going distance Kenya from third world status,” he told the Star. Muthuma added that, "As it appears, there exists some major disunity within Jubilee and if allowed to continue and take root it will directly impact on Jubilee’s manifesto and overall delivery." He said the Jubilee administration will be rated as a whole and the earlier its leadership wakes up and provides leadership, the better. “I hold the view that Kenyans will judge Jubilee as a whole and not personalities. Which means they either rise or fall as a whole,” he said. Another political analyst Jeremiah Kirui said that the buck stops with Uhuru “who has allowed his men to run amok” with the affairs of the party. Kirui traced the problems within the ruling party to the entry of Opposition leader Raila Odinga into the fold through the March 2018 handshake. “It is not true that Ruto is disrespecting the President. No. That line does not hold. If indeed Ruto is disrespecting the Uhuru , this can be handled in Cabinet. What is this that Uhuru and Ruto cannot handled in the Cabinet such that it takes some politicians or government officials to be addressing the DP in rallies?,” Kirui noted. Two camps have emerged- the Kieleweke allegedly speaking on behalf of the President and against Ruto succeeding Uhuru in 2022; and Tangatanga allied to the DP and pushing for the pre-2013 succession deal entered between Uhuru and Ruto. Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale said Uhuru and Ruto came together on the premise of uniting the country. He said, “It is unfortunate that individuals within the party who no longer share the vision and mission of JP are doing everything to take the party back to the old ways of doing things”. “We must not allow strangers, conmen, fraudsters and enemies of unity and peace to dilute the objective or negate it. We the genuine members of the largest party must guard our guiding objectives with zeal,” he said. "It is worth noting that the recent attempts to drag the party away from its founding objectives, falls flat on the face of the Constitution. It also falls flat on the face of the Political Parties Act, 2011 which created a robust law that governs the regulation of Political Parties,” he added. The Garissa Township legislator observed that political parties no longer operate at the whims of individuals as they are funded by taxpayers. “Political Parties are well founded and anchored in law now. The Constitution in particular Article 91 is what I would call the definition of what a Political Party is,” he said. Duale added: “A Political Party is mandated to promote national unity and abide by the democratic principles of good governance and promote the objectives and principles of the Constitution and the rule of law.