Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has welcomed the EACC to investigate the county assembly over allegations of abuse of office. Her statement comes as the anti-graft agency prepares to probe the governor and the assembly. In a statement on Sunday, Waiguru said, "I sincerely and most gladly welcome EACC or any other independent investigative organ to Kirinyaga county to probe any malfeasance at the executive and at the county assembly." She accused MCAs of pushing political agendas 'for their masters'. "For the record, my office has received objective commendations for excellence in procurement and implementation from the Public Procurement and Regulations Authority and was ranked number three in procurement compliance among all the other counties in the most recent review," Waiguru said. She said the county government remains focused on the preventive measures against the spread of Covid-19. "We take the challenges on our way in our stride because we know that -the more difficult your path, the higher your calling," she said. Last week, the High Court temporarily stopped Waiguru's impeachment on grounds that the current Covid-19 pandemic will violate her constitutional rights to a fair hearing. Judge Weldon Korir ruled even though the MCAs were carrying out their mandate, the current coronavirus crisis will not accord parties a fair hearing. In the impeachment motion, MCAs accuse the governor of gross violation of the Constitution by not delivering the annual state of the county address to the assembly. Waiguru undermined the authority of the county assembly by not submitting county plans and policies for approval and failing to table annual reports on implementation status, they charged. She is also accused of violating the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and Public Finance and Management Act by establishing an irregular tender evaluation committee composed of her partisan staff, Pauline Kamau and Wayne Gichira, who take direct instructions from her, they said. Waiguru has dismissed the grounds for her proposed impeachment, terming them flimsy. On her failure to address the assembly, Waiguru said it was not a constitutional requirement, but she pointed out she had done so twice since her election in 2017. Regarding accusations that she pocketed travel allowances despite not travelling, the governor said when she was issued with an imprest and the trip did not materialise she surrendered the money.