Poor residents of rural Kajiado are most likely to bear the brunt of the Covid-19 outbreak, Nominated Senator Mary Seneta has said. Kajiado county has two Covid-19 patients but it neighbours Nairobi, the epicentre of the disease in Kenya. “Those we are talking about and who I visited this week reside in Mailua (Kajiado Central), Torosei (Kajiado West), and Ilkilunyeti in Kajiado East subcounty. They cannot even afford a meal, leave alone buying face masks,” Seneta said. Seneta spoke at a breakfast briefing in Kitengela town on Saturday. The remarks came a day after Governor Joseph ole Lenku said on Citizen TV that his government could not cater for masks for residents. Lenku said his government will only supply masks to health workers and urged the others to buy their own. The governor also brushed claims that lack f water could pose serious challenges in controlling the disease. Seneta said the national government should consider the rural poor for support. “I would also request President Uhuru Kenyatta to expand the support to the rural areas and those living in informal settlements in Kajiado to enable them to put food on the table during this painful period,” she said. The senator said a weekly food package will go a long way in helping the rural poor. She pledged to continue monitoring and offering personal support to ensure the country flattens the curve of the Covid-19 incidence. Meanwhile, Governor Lenku has waived taxes on various items to relieve residents of the burdens of harsh economic times. “To cushion our people from higher food prices and to enable the business community to avail food supplies in affordable prices, I have directed a waiver on taxes and levies from April to June,” Governor Lenku said. The waiver also applies to daily market cess fees on agricultural produce. Lenku also suspended transit cess fees for all agricultural produce, slaughterhouses’ inspection fees and monthly parking fees for passenger service vehicles. “As you are all aware, our country continues to experience the impact of the Covid-19, many business enterprises are suffering huge losses while others have closed,” Lenku said. He said many workers continue to lose their livelihoods as the effects of the situation persist. 