 Traders in Ndumberi, Kiambu, have rehabilitated the local police post to boost the morale of security officers in their fight against crime. County commissioner Wilson Wanyanga thanked the 29 traders who financed the rehabilitation, describing their initiative as a worthy cause. The police post has been in a state of disrepair for decades. “I thank the community for going out of their way to refurbish the post so that the police can do their job with ease,” Wanyanga said during the handing over of the post on Tuesday. Thomas Kimari, one of the residents, said they had decided that one of the best ways of giving back to the community was modernising the post that has had no cells for a long time. Staff toilets and houses were also in poor condition. “Our police also need a good working environment. We came together and wrote a proposal to refurbish the post as a community as it will also improve security,” Kimari said. Kimani Kiruga said Ndumberi had for a long time been the hotbed of crime and the officers were overwhelmed. “There is a lot of crime, especially petty ones, in Ndumberi. With a dilapidated post, police are unable to hold people in cells,” Kiruga said. County police commander Ali Nuno said he had hesitantly okayed the community's initiative of corporate social responsibility. “We have now boosted the post with 29 more officers and the post already has an officer in charge of station (OCS). Some of the crimes, especially petty ones, which were handled by Kiambu police station can be sorted out at the post, easing congestion,” Nuno said. He said a proposal to have the post gazetted as a police station due to its workload will be revisited. The post is only five kilometres from Kiambu police station. Residents of Ndumberi, Turitu, Ngegu, Njunu, Kanunga and Ting'ang'a have been complaining of gangsters breaking into their homes during the ongoing dusk to dawn curfew. They have formed vigilante groups to del with the gangsters. Last year, two notorious gangsters on police radar were lynched in Ndumberi and Ting'ang'a villages. They had been stealing from residents and raping women. Nuno warned residents against taking the law into their hands and to instead report the criminals to the authorities. Edited by R.Wamochie