Worried after a tiger was infected by the coronavirus, the Kenya Wildlife Services has announced precautionary measures in captive wildlife facilities. On April 5, the United State Department of Agriculture's national services laboratory confirmed SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus in humans in one of the tigers at a zoo in New York. The samples from the tiger were taken and tested after several lions and tigers at the zoo showed symptoms of respiratory illness. It is believed that the large cats became sick after getting exposed to a zoo employee who was actively shedding the virus. On March 30, pre-print of a scientific publication titled 'Susceptibility of ferrets, cats, dogs and different domestic animals to SARS-coronavirus-2' made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 international licence, reported an investigation of susceptibility of ferrets and animals in close contact with humans to SARS-Cove-2. Though it has not undergone peer review, the authors found that SARS-Cov-2 replicates poorly in dogs, pigs, chickens and ducks. It, however, replicates in ferrets and cats. They also found out that the virus is transmitted in cats through respiratory droplets. KWS said although the study is experimental whereby the virus was inoculated into the animals, there is the possibility of the same occurring in a natural setting, especially in their captive facilities where human-animal interaction is high. KWS director general John Waweru called for precaution. "To ensure that susceptible animals in captive facilities are not exposed to this virus, it is important to identify specific staff who will work with various families of animals species in the captive facilities. For example, specific staff be deployed to work with felids, canids, herbivores and non-human primates," he said. Waweru said all curatorial staff should be provided with face masks and gloves while working. "The curatorial staff be sensitised to regularly wash their hands and protective clothing with soap and water and disinfect equipment before and after attending to animals," he said. He added that patrols must be enhanced in facilities to ensure visitors do not congregate at any point and that they do not cross the visitor barrier, which keeps visitors away from the enclosure. Waweru wants handwashing and sanitising stations included at strategic points in facilities in addition to the entrance. "Feed preparation and feeding equipment be thoroughly washed with soap and running water and disinfected between feeding times." Waweru said the animals should be closely monitored and sick ones promptly reported to the resident or consulting veterinary officer for examination and treatment. He said social distance must be observed at all times and the directives given by the government followed to the letter. He said it is important to take the measures seriously to promote staff, visitors and animals.