Due to the slow down of the economy perpetuated by the coronavirus pandemic, and in anticipation of further stringent measures by our Central Government, I propose more economic actions to further cushion mwananchi from its effects. I urge the Kenya Power & Lighting Company (KPLC) to waive electric bills for household consumption for the next six months. I also call on public water companies around the country to also not charge water for household consumption for a similar period. In the same token, I urge the National Treasury to waive VAT charges on cooking gas and paraffin so as to allow households to have more money left in pockets to buy food and other essential commodities. The electricity waiver can be up to a certain level of usage that is enough for household use for lighting and other household appliances use. Overconsumption can then be charged. Businesses and industries’ bills should also receive a 50% discount to cushion them during these slow economic times. It is at times like these that we need to remember that Kenya is not only for the able and rich. Majority of Kenyans live from hand to mouth and struggle to make ends meet. There is need to cushion them using practical measures which only reduce the profits of some companies without affecting their operations. Last year, for example, KPLC declared a whooping PROFIT of Kshs 334 million. Studying the company's declared financial estimates and revenue, it is clear that KPLC can afford to waive power charges for households for even a year. On my part, I am waving all water charges for household consumption in Machakos county from May 1 until the end of the year, December 31, 2020, as we continue working towards free domestic water in the whole of Machakos County. Therefore, let us hold hands as Public Service providers to cushion wananchi and make their life more comfortable in these trying moments. God bless Kenya. Dr Alfred N. Mutua is the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party Leader and Governor of Machakos County.