The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission can use the statement of a deceased key witness in the Sh283 million Nairobi cemetery scandal, the Appeal Court has ruled. Appeal Court judges Daniel Musinga, Katembu Kairu and Kathurima M’inoti allowed the EACC’s application that suspect Alphonce Mutinda had challenged. He appealed against the ruling that allowed the use of the statement of Henry Musyoki Kilonzi, who died in July 2016. In 2018 judge Hellen Ong’undi had allowed the EACC to use the statement since the dead man was the main witness in the case. The judges said Ong'undi ruled the statement would be produced by the investigating officer “only to prove that the deceased gave the statement and nothing beyond that." “We do not see how such a statement can be said to be prejudicial to the appellant if it were to be produced for the said purpose only," the Appeal Court ruled. The judges said the statement had already been relied upon in the criminal case and the appellant has had a copy since August 2012. "Production of the statement shall not breach the appellant's fundamental right to a fair trial as alleged," the judges ruled. “We find this appeal lacking in merit and dismiss it," they ruled. On November 2, 2017, the EACC sought to have the Musyoki's statement admitted as evidence without calling him as a witness. All witness statements had long ago been served to Mutinda, who had since filed his defence. Musyoki died in July 2016 while the suit was pending. EACC had filed a recovery suit against Mutinda arising from a transaction by the City Council of Nairobi that lost money in a fraudulent transaction. The council paid Sh283,200,200 to purchase land, L.R No.14759/2, which belonged to Musyoki (the deceased) for a public cemetery. It turned out to be greatly overpriced and the soil unsuitable for a cemetery. Musyoki had recorded and signed the statement on April 24, 2009, and testified as a prosecution witness in a related case on November 18, 2014. The EACC told the trial court it intended to have the witness statement produced by the investigating officer, “not to prove its contents, but to prove the fact that the statement was made by the deceased". Mutinda was served with the application but did not file any response, despite several adjournments. The application was heard on May 14, 2018, in his absence. The ruling was to be delivered on May 23, 2018, but before that date, Mutinda filed an application to set aside the proceedings of May 14, 2018. The court declined to set aside the proceedings but allowed his counsel to make a submission on points of law and later ruled in favour of the EACC. Mutinda appealed arguing the judge erred in finding there would be no prejudice to him by the production of the deceased’s statement. He said the High Court failed to consider his submissions that he was not a party to a suit where the statement was used. He said the court failed to find there was no evidence of the death of Henry Musyoki Kilonzi as no death certificate was produced. (Edited by V. Graham)