MTRH and KNH now testing for Covid-19, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi announced on Sunday. The MTRH tests cover a scope of 22 counties whose samples had to be transported to far away testing centres. The two facilities have been conducting tests in the last few days and are now complementing the efforts of the existing labs, Mwangangi said. She spoke during the daily briefing on Covid-19. Kenya has reported eight new cases of Covid-19, bringing the total to 270. Seven are Kenyans and one is a foreigner. None has a history of travel. Mwangangi said three emanated from quarantine centres and five were picked up by surveillance teams from various parts of the country. Four are from Mombasa, three from Nairobi and one from Kajiado county. They are aged between 17 and 65 years of age. In the same period, seven other people were discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 67. However, two more patients died, raising the total number of deaths to 14. A total of 2,661 contacts have been monitored, out of which 2,047 have been discharged. 614 contacts are being followed. A total of 13,239 samples have been tested so far. Mwangangi said 56 per cent of all confirmed cases were imported, and 44 per cent have been locally transmitted. Mwangangi expressed disappointment at those mocking the government's calls to observe social distancing, wash hands and keep good standards of hygiene. "Some have taken to mocking our repeated warnings and calls for self-discipline. Others are looking at us, the Government, to fire the silver bullet for normalcy to resume," she said. "Luckily, the majority are working with us, adhering to our directives and supporting the initiatives we have put in place against this virus." Mwangangi said community health policing will be enhanced in the coming days. Measures to be taken include using community health volunteers, deploying public health officers to man roadblocks together with policemen. "We will use technology in surveillance of those flouting curfew limits," Mwangangi said. She said MTRH in Eldoret and KNH are now testing for Covid-19. Mwangangi hit out at rogue traders recycling face masks and reselling them. The CAS said the practice was criminal and action will be taken against those found doing so. She also urged Kenyans to carry out due diligence before buying face masks.  Education CS George Magoha said he will not be guided by fearmongers, adding that there has been no brief on the postponment of the national exams. "I'm aware parents are very apprehensive, but they should be fair to themselves because the government has not pronounced itself on the matter," he said. "I would urge the public to listen to one voice; that one voice delegated by the President is mine. Don't be deceived to congregate to learn. Remain home with your children, love them and teach them if you can." More follows...