The Salaries and Remuneration Commission’s rigid compensation policy may derail the fight against the coronavirus, Kenya Trade Network Agency has cautioned. The agency, through chairman Suleiman Shahbal, on Tuesday said the SRC could push Kenyan health workers to other countries if it is not careful. “There is a huge demand for doctors and nurses and we should not take the risk that our doctors and nurses could be poached from Kenya at such difficult times,” Shahbal told the Star by phone. The KenTrade boss said the country’s health workers are the most important weapons Kenya has in the fight against the novel coronavirus at the moment. He acknowledged that SRC is right in their statement that they should be consulted before any allowance is awarded, but noted that these are extraordinary times that need things to move much faster. “Yes, they are a constitutional body that should be consulted, but we are in a state of war. In a war, you don’t have time to call committees. You decide and act.” The SRC took reservations in Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua awarding the county’s health workers allowances ranging from Sh5,000 to Sh20,000 per month during the pandemic. However, SRC chairperson Lyn Mengich said such an award is not only unlawful but may also cause inequality in remuneration across the health sector, which, she said, may lead to instability. “Whereas the Commission is cognizant of the challenges faced by health professionals in the fight against Covid-19, it is concerned that due process has to be followed in the introduction of any new allowances, by way of seeking advisory from the Commission as required by law,” Mengich wrote. However, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said counties that had offered incentives had not violated any rules as they were guided by the regulations of their respective Public Service Boards. “Such incentives are key motivators to the health personnel who are overwhelmed during this period, when all eyes are on them to tame the spread of the pandemic,” Oparanya told journalists in Kisumu. Shahbal said the biggest risk Kenya has today is competition for "these types of skills. If we let our guard down, we might see an exodus of these health workers to other countries which might spell trouble for us.” He said the dangers the health workers go through every day, working with no proper personal protective equipment (PPE), to try and save lives, is a huge sacrifice and show of courage. “Going to the hospital today is a danger. That is the market reality,” he said. He supports the CoG on the increase of allowances to doctors and nurses. The KenTrade chair said the doctors and nurses are at the frontline of the war against the coronavirus. “The least we can do is accept that they are working extra hours and taking extraordinary risks. At the bare minimum the salaries' agency should recognise that this is a risk premium that we are paying them.” Shahbal warned that should SRC continue being rigid about allowances, the health sector in the country may undergo what the aviation industry underwent between 2017 and 2018. “Remember that many pilots and crew from Kenya Airways were poached by Middle Eastern airlines because of rigid compensation policies. I urge the SRC to reconsider their position urgently,” he said. Edited by A.N