Harambee Stars Under-17 team manager Nick Yakhama has urged the Football Kenya Federation to organise a seminar to educate clubs’ technical directors on their roles to avoid conflicts with coaches. “On several occasions, technical directors seem lost and have time and again usurped the roles of tacticians,” said the former AFC Leopards and Western Stima coach. Yakhama thinks regular disagreement and divisions in the camps should be addressed genuinely and soberly in a forum organised by the federation. Yakhama, who is the current Vihiga United’s technical director, warned against his counterparts interfering with the roles of their coaches. “The TD and the coach play absolutely different roles. A coach handles the team on a day-to-day basis and he is result-oriented. He also selects the team to play and is answerable to the management in as far as performance is concerned,” revealed Yakhama, who also had a stint with Chemelil in 2010. He explained that the technical director’s role is to deal with youths programs at the club and work closely with the club leadership in as far as long term planning is concerned. “ The technical director is also charged with ensuring there’s continuity at junior levels and once in a while can advise the coach on a few things although the final decision rests with the latter. Technical TD’s should keep off coaching,” he explained. He called on Michael Amenga, who is the FKF technical director, to look into this matter in the best interest of the sport. “Shading light on the role of TDs by the federation will help solve the standoffs which have become common,” he said. “Coaches have the final say when it comes to recruitment and the philosophy of the senior team. They are charged with the responsibility of identifying players who can fit into his system. Clubs mess up when they fire the head coach and hand the reigns to the technical director,” he added. Yakhama said he has not had problems with all the coaches he has worked with largely because he understands his role and they unanimously agree to work on a common plan. “I have been a TD for Nakuru All-Stars and Zoo Kericho but I have enjoyed a professional working relationship with all the coaches I have worked with,”  he said. Yahkama is also attached to Cecafa’s technical department alongside fellow Kenyan Albert Oketch and Tanzania Sande Kayuni. Ligi Dogo technical director, James Omondi observed: “In Kenya, people do not understand the role of the TD yet they are clearly defined. They are taken as head coaches hence undermining the coach. The TD complements the coach in analysing games and is free to give his/her input but the coach makes the ultimate decision.” Omondi is highly experienced in matters of management having previously worked with Karuturi, Thika United, Bidco and Mahakama. 