The ruling political class has been reminded that the country is at war against the coronavirus contagion and should rally Kenyans to fight as one instead of politicking. The call came from Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey, who on Sunday said the government should be allowed to deal with the coronavirus pandemic uninterrupted. Amey, who spoke in Garissa town, was referring to the wrangling in the ruling party Jubilee between the Tangatanga faction allied to Deputy President William Ruto and Kieleweke which pronounces itself as pro-President Uhuru Kenyatta. He told the warring factions that Kenya is bigger than Jubilee and to stop playing politics with the lives of Kenyans. “The country is going through unprecedented times in its history. The country is faced with a bigger problem than Jubilee,” he added. It all started after an April 6 gazette notice by the Registrar of Political Parties saying that Jubilee intended to replace members of the National Management Committee who had joined the public service with Marete Marangu, Jane Nampaso, Nyawira Macharia, James Waweru and Walter Nyambati. Ruto hit the roof, accusing those who  had engineered the "illegal and fraudulent party organ membership changes" as con men and political rejects. This triggered the political rivalry avalanche witnessed during the Building Bridges Initiative campaigns which came to an abrupt end a few months ago after the declaration of the coronavirus epidemic. Ruto was quick to add that President Kenyatta, who is the party leader, had nothing to do with the illegality. Senate majority leader Kikpchumba Murkomen, who is one of his leading allies in the Tangatanga faction termed the changes " an internal coup". National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale, who is another Ruto ally, waded in on Thursday flagging party secretary-general Raphael Tuju as being behind the change officials. “This week news of the ill-calculated move to covertly change the membership of the National Management Committee of the Jubilee Party caused discomfort and ripples which threatened the party's functioning and legitimacy especially among its many members drawn from all corners of our country," he said. According to him, this almost made the party look like a private entity where persons can follow their own whims depending on the mood of the day to change officials as and when their desire. He  thanked the Registrar of Political Parties for taking cognisance of the views and objections of the Jubilee members and throwing the ball back to the party and advising it to explore internal structures and mechanisms to resolve the issues raised. He called on members to put their house in order. "We owe it to the people of Kenya. Tuju and his cabal must be told that “ Jubilee is not their personal property and all decisions going forward must be made by the party respective organs in accordance with the party constitution and relevant laws" .  - mwaniki fm 