Meru leaders have condemned governors and government officers confiscating and burning miraa. They said the war on Covid-19 must not be misconstrued as a fight against miraa trade and consumption. The leaders included Igembe North MP Maoka Maore, Imenti Central's Kirima Moses, his Igembe South counterpart John Paul Mwirigi, Meru speaker Joseph Kaberia, Majority leader Victor Karithi, Minority leader Ayub Bundi and Mwanganthia MCA Julius Mbijiwe. Kaberia wants all government officers who supervised the destruction of the crop to be punished. In addition, Mwirigi said governors who imposed a ban and incited officials to destroy miraa should compensate farmers. “Governors should have consulted Governor Kiraitu Murungi before [imposing] the ban, which has left thousands of farmers suffering. The Crops Act recognises miraa as a cash crop that has received funding from the national government in past years. A county law cannot supersede a law made and approved by Parliament,” Kaberia said. Mwirigi said Meru farmers had lost millions of shillings after Mandera, Lamu, Kilifi, Tana River, Samburu, Garissa and Wajir counties banned the mild stimulant before issuing a public notice. “It is so shameful for me to associate myself with and serve a government that has turned out to be an enemy of my people, a government keeping quiet when my community is economically being crippled,” he said. Kirima said it was illegal for anyone to impound, arrest or destroy a cash crop. Mwirigi said the Meru community was discriminated and harassed in the name of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. “I urge Governor Kiraitu to talk to his colleagues to rescind the ban. If nothing is done then let my people be compensated dearly for their lost earnings in the last two weeks and be provided with food in these stressful times,” Mwirigi said. Nyambene Miraa Traders Association chairman Kimathi Munjuri said farmers were terrorised and impoverished by the same government they give their money after they struggle to cultivate, pay for insecticides, labour and other expenses. “We have improved hygiene standards on picking, packaging and distribution. They wash and sanitise hands. We frequently fumigate and disinfect our vehicles and planes before and after cargo delivery,” he said. Maore castigated arbitrary arrests and detention of miraa dealers. “The Kenya Gazette classified critical and essential services that shouldn't be affected by the curfew. Miraa falls under number seven (Transporters of farm produce). The government has not put any restrictions on miraa transportation. What should be observed is no crowding at the distribution point and the chewing dens. But police are extorting and harassing them,” he said. Eight counties of Tharaka Nithi, Makueni, Isiolo, Kitui, Nyandarua, Wajir, Garissa and Mandera have suspended trade in the stimulant. Edited by Henry Makori and E.Kibii