The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya has warned athletes that the coronavirus-induced break from sport does not necessarily offer them an opportunity to go against the set anti-doping rules and regulations. In a communique signed by CEO Japhter Rugut, Adak insisted they are still carrying out their mandate, taking cognisant of the government directives aimed at curbing the spread of the virus. “It is noteworthy that in view of the global pandemic of COVID-19, Adak has put in place safety measures and regulations which are in line with the national government directives and therefore continues to collect samples for analysis,” said Rugut. “Our Doping Control Officers (DCOs) are always working around the clock, undertaking sample collection in line with the International Standards for Testing and Investigations (ISTI) to ensure there is a clean sporting environment. All athletes are reminded of their duty under the Anti-Doping Rules. Let no athlete mislead themselves or others that the doping control process has been scaled down.” He also called on the various federations to ensure their athletes and support staff are aware of what is required of them in the fight against the vice. “It is also paramount that every national sports federation in Kenya prioritises putting their house in order, by steadily instilling a culture of discipline among their athletes so as to avert these doping cases in the future,” said Rugut. “Discipline is an essential foundation for any sport. It builds an athlete’s character to help them set their mind to achieve great things and avoid shortcuts. The national sports federations are required to take all necessary measures within their powers to implement and comply with Anti-Doping Rules that are available on our website.” He observed that: “Kenya prides itself on immeasurable sporting talent and all parties are urged to endeavour to compete and win right. Despite the few athletes who have chosen to violate the anti-doping rules, many of our athletes are willing to go to greater lengths to demonstrate that they are serious about clean sport.” Rugut said it is sad to see Kenyan athletes being caught in the web despite all the efforts the crusader has had since their inception in 2016. “Isolated incidences of athletes caught violating the anti-doping rules are unfortunate and inexcusable,” he said. “However, these shall not dampen the resolve to continue promoting clean sport as such violations are attributable to lack of discipline and ignorance by the athletes in question.” Rugut called on all the key stakeholders to treat news of such drug bursts as a wakeup call to increase vigilance in the war against doping. “Athletes serving periods of ineligibility are reminded that it is their sole responsibility to comply with the terms of their suspension. Adak will not hesitate to impose stiffer penalties to those athletes who wish to make a mockery of the doping control processes,” he warned. Since inception, Rugut added, Adak has managed to reach about 38,749 sportspersons through anti-doping information sharing to the athletes, athletes support personnel and the public as well as through values-based education to children under the age of 16. “Over 3,856 tests have also been carried out and Adak is steadily improving on its efficiency and effectiveness in the war against doping in Kenya,” he said. 