Safaricom, through its M-Pesa and Safaricom Foundation platforms, has committed Sh200 million towards providing food to the needy,as part of its continued efforts to contain the coronavirus. This financial commitment adds to its ongoing initiative under the “Bonga for Good” programme, that is enabling customers to redeem Safaricom Bonga Points to pay for essential goods and donate their points to those in need as a show of goodwill during this period. To date Kenyans are redeeming an average of 20 million points a day under the initiative, according to the telco. CEO Peter Ndegwa on Wednesday said the firm is fully committed to supporting Kenya through the evolving situation around the Covid-19 pandemic. "We have made business decisions that will enable our customers access more of our products and services at either no cost or at a highly subsidised rate. These decisions will ensure Kenyans spend their money where they need it most,” Ndegwa said. Michael Joseph, the chairman of M-Pesa Foundation, said since its inception in 2010, the foundation has remained focused on making a meaningful impact by solving problems that societies face through addressing the underlying causes. "Today we are making our contribution, which we believe will go a long way towards ensuring that no child goes to sleep hungry during this unprecedented crisis," he noted. The Nairobi Securities Exchange listed firm's contribution in cushioning  customers and Kenyans at large from the negative impact of the virus is  currently valued at Sh5.5 billion. Some of the measures include zero-rated M-Pesa Person to Person transactions below Sh1,000 over the next three months. Other initiatives are zero-rated Paybill tills for government hospitals and dispensaries and double bandwidth offered on fiber connections to home, giving customers an opportunity to work, learn and get entertained. It has also provided concessional rates for data access to specific educational content for various universities and other learning institutions. Safaricom Foundation has donated thermal cameras worth Sh10 million to the Ministry of Health, installed in various entry points to the country. The telco has further supported the government in the establishment and operation of a 24-7 Covid-19 Information Centre, leveraging the capabilities of the Customer Contact Centre. It is also hosting over 300 doctors to support the front-line staff in educating, informing and managing the spread of Covid-19. "We have always partnered with government and humanitarian agencies to reduce suffering among those affected by disasters and complex emergencies. It is in our DNA to ensure that no one gets left behind, especially the vulnerable ones in the society,” Joseph Ogutu, the chairman of the Safaricom Foundation, said.