With ambition, beauty, brilliance and networks all wrapped in one, Maryanne Marisyanna Anuarite Omtatah believed the world was all for her taking. But the cruel and ugly hand of death had other thoughts, switching off her lights at a tender age of 22 and robbing Kenya and her family of a visionary. “She had it all,” said her father, the renowned public advocate Okiya Omtatah, on Sunday. The left-handed thirdborn in a family of four died last Friday after being in a coma for a week, suffering from acute malaria. The budding diplomat and family peacemaker will be buried on Saturday, April 25, in Kwang'amor village, Teso South, Busia county. The family has rolled out a public appeal to raise Sh1million to cater to hospital and funeral bills. She dreamed of being a high-flying diplomat and was taking the one-step-at-a-time move towards it, establishing the right contacts at the right places despite the daunting challenges. She started off by studying Diploma in International Relations and Diplomacy at Riara University, graduating top of her class with distinction. She rejoined the university for a degree course in the same discipline. At the time of her death, she was in her third year. Omtatah told the Star that his daughter led the life of a diplomat, hoping to step on every stone life would throw her way to be an astute emissary. While in college, he said, Maryanne did her internship at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and her performance there was sterling. She excelled to the extent that she worked 'as an attaché', alongside ministry employees, to organise and coordinate international events in conjunction with the UN, the activist recollected. “Maryanne wanted to be a diplomat and had she lived, she would have become a renowned international diplomat,” he said, repeatedly reminding the Star in between the interview that the loss had left him “blank”. Highly sociable, easy to get along with and a great networker, Maryanne attributes are typical of diplomats negotiating tough deals to avert crises such as wars, he added. Her schoolmate Robert Odhiambo said Maryanne would have been a diplomat worth her bidding, adding that she demonstrated that by the cross-class relationships she effortlessly fostered with her contemporaries. "You related to all students so well to an extent many students thought you were studying journalism. Maryanne, you left a big gap in our hearts as Riara University Journalism students and we will forever remember," he said. Odhiambo is the representative of the School of Journalism to the university's student union. Besides her studies, Maryanne was a public speaker, a creative artist, a make-up artist and a singer. “She did all that easily. She was an amazing daughter and sister who knew what to do without being told,” Omtatah said. “She had a very strong and warm spirit that enabled her to face and conquer some of the worst challenges in her life. She had a strong, loud and dynamic voice that attracted one's attention to her as soon as she spoke.” Omtatah added that his family strongly believed their daughter was perfectly knit for the job. "My daughter was unstoppable; focused and ambitious and always aware of what she wanted in or from life," he said, adding that she had a pleasant personality and a beautiful warm smile that wrapped it all up. Nothing and or anybody could stop her from doing what she set her mind to do, he said.