A man accused of killing his friend over two cows got a reprieve after the High Court in Mombasa reduced his death sentence to 35 years. Msanzi Karisa had been charged with robbery with violence and giving false information to a public servant before he was convicted and sentenced to death in 2004. Judge Eric Ogola on Monday set aside the sentence and jailed Karisa for 35 years from the date of arrest. Karisa had appealed the death sentence saying a Supreme Court decision delivered in 2017 ruled the mandatory nature of death sentence unconstitutional. He was accused of robbing his colleague of his two cows which they had gone together to purchase, causing the death of his colleague in the process. The court had been informed that Karisa and Mangale Nyawa left their respective homes to buy cattle at an auction at Samburu market in 2004. Karisa purchased one cow while Nyawa bought two. As the two headed back home with the cows on the night of April 17, they were allegedly attacked by robbers and their cows stolen. In the course of the robbery, Nyawa was strangled and killed. Karisa managed to escape and later reported the incident to PC Charles Oyoo at Kinango police station around 5am on April 18. Investigations revealed that his wife had driven two cows to the home of Juma Chimbonya who was not home. His wife Mbodze Nzai kept them. When Chimbonya returned two days later and saw the cows in his compound, he returned them to Karisa’s home the following day saying he had not been informed of any such arrangement. It, however, emerged that these were the same cows bought from Samburu market auction the previous day before they were stolen in the alleged robbery. Karisa was arrested and taken to his home by police where the two cows were recovered. He admitted to having met the deceased at the cattle auction. “On our way home at 11pm, we met four people who attacked us but I ran away." He said he hid until 5am when he went to report at Kinango police. The prosecution submitted that Karisa killed his colleague. Karisa said he regretted the offence and that he acted from being a youth, asking the trial court for not more than 23 years. He had been in jail for 15 years. Edited by R.Wamochie