A high court judge has upheld government decision to stop church gatherings and directed pastors to broadcast their service online for congregants. “I direct alternative forms of worship such as broadcasting the church service without breach of the government directives or regulations currently in force do proceed through online or social media or any other form of social platform the petitioner may access,” ordered judge J A Makau. He further clarified saying that his order should not in any way be taken as allowing church gatherings. “This order should not in any way be taken as allowing the petitioners or any party to hold church gatherings or act contrary to the directives or regulations given currently by the government.” His order arose out of an application made by pastors Don Mutugi Manjau, Joan Miriti and Alex Gichunge seeking to reverse government directives suspending church gatherings in a bid to stop the spread of Covid 19. In the case, the pastors argued the church is an essential service and should be listed among other essential services. The papers were filed on their behalf by lawyer John Sakwa. They said their church members want the court to allow their churches to operate like newsrooms. "Even news anchors cannot read news from their house. Even if they have good equipment, they must go to the studio because the environment matters. The same case applies to spiritual matters, atmosphere matters," court documents read. They said it is unfair for the government not to list church as an essential service provider, just like doctors. The right of freedom to worship should not be completely curtailed but instead allowed to operate with the support from the state as they have adhered to the sanitization, the pastors said. “The pastors should be allowed to serve the people and rally the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic,” church leaders argued. The judge further directed the parties to serve the suit papers on the Attorney-General, Interior CS Fred Matiangi, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, the inspector general of police and CS information in the next seven days. The case is scheduled for mention on May 5