County Assembly of Nairobi will today hold a special sitting to consider the Nairobi City County Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2020 (Assembly Bill No.1 of 2020). The assembly is also expected to accede to the designation of an AIE holder of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The assembly will also meet to consent with the re-alignment and codification of county personnel seconded to the National Government under the purview of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Last week, Speaker Beatrice Elachi led the assembly leadership in a meeting with the Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director-General Mohammed Badi. The leadership resolved to realign the supplementary budget amid the ongoing fight to curb the spread of Covid-19 and also in accordance with the task given to the NMS team. However, due to the Covid– 19 pandemic, and on the advice of Public Health officials, County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi says only 42 members shall be allowed in the Chamber at any given time during the sitting. “As such, admittance to the chamber shall be on a first come first serve basis with the Assembly leadership, liaison and the Budget Committee being given priority,” she said. Members aged 55 years and above will not be allowed in the Assembly precincts since they are vulnerable to the virus and have been advised to stay at home. The Senator also states that no person shall be admitted in the galleries apart from a few accredited media persons. Members will be allowed to clock in as they enter the chambers manually but adequate sanitizers, facemasks and hand gloves shall be supplied. Speaker Elachi said that the MCAs will also be required to observe the 1.5-meter rule and all other rules provided by the Ministry of Health in a bid to combat the disease. The sitting shall begin at exactly 2.30 pm and adjourn at 4.00 pm. Elachi, on March 17, 2020, suspended the assembly sittings for 30 days to avoid the threat posed by the spread of Covid-19. She also suspended foreign travel for both MCAs and assembly staff. Elachi however, said a special sitting may be recalled in case of any compelling need.