The Thirdway Alliance Party wants the government to foot all bills for Kenyans in mandatory quarantine and reduce curfew hours to minimise disruptions. The party led by Ekuru Aukot said Kenyans locked up in quarantine centres should be taken care of by the state during the entire period of their stay. In a memorandum to the Senate Ad Hoc Committee on Covid-19 Situation, the party also asked the government to adjust the curfew time and reduce the hours, so businesses and other daily activities are not adversely disrupted. The party wants the 7pm-to-5am curfew to run from 9pm to 6am instead. The committee chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has been receiving submissions from the public on how the disease can be mitigated. In Kenya, 10 people have died, 53 recovered and 225 others infected. The pandemic has claimed more than 110,000 lives and infected more than two million across the globe. “In implementing the mandatory curfew, the government to adjust the time to allow Kenyans enough time to settle back at their houses without unnecessary confrontation with the law enforcers,” secretary general Fredrick Okango said. Okango also asked Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to take immediate action against any police officer who uses excessive and unnecessary force in the enforcement of the curfew. The police have been accused of brutality while enforcing the curfew order that was declared by President Uhuru Kenyatta to check the spread of the disease. Thirdway Alliance has also asked the government to establish a stimulus package to cushion the vulnerable groups that have been hard hit by the crisis. “The government should establish a stimulus package that shall include suspending of all loan repayments, rent and food to the poor for four months,” the memorandum reads. The party further wants the inter-ministerial National Emergency Response Committee on Covid 19 chaired by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe expanded to include the other arms of government and other players. Similar committees should also be formed in the counties to coordinate the response to combat the contagious virus. This, it argued, will ease contract tracing of any reported cases at the county level. The government had raised concerns that the virus was fast-spreading in the rural counties and urged Kenyans to adhere to its guidelines to keep the disease at bay even as it plans to roll out mass testing across the country. The party has, therefore, implored the government to provide to the public home testing kits for purposes of early detection of the virus to minimise its spread. “The government to regularly publish and update on their website and local dailies all the positive cases, recoveries, contacts under tracing and their locations for purposes of the general public,” Okango said in the memorandum.