The government has enhanced contact tracing, surveillance and infection control management in Nairobi and Mombasa counties. The two counties account for 90 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the country, with 241 and 97 cases, respectively. The ministry is concerned that the growing numbers of cases in the two counties despite a partial lockdown show an increase in local transmission. Overall, the positive cases recorded in the past nine days have been in the two counties. The two were placed under partial lockdown by the government in an effort to halt the spread of the virus. Other counties on partial lockdown are Kilifi, Kwale and Mandera. Security personnel have been urged to ensure the cessation of movement in the counties is adhered to. Other counties that have recorded positive cases include Kilifi with nine cases, Mandera with eight, Kajiado with three while Kiambu has five cases. Kitui, Nakuru and Siaya have two cases each while Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kwale, and Uasin Gishu have one case each. The rest of the counties have been strongly advised to continue observing the containment measures. “I want to assure Kenyans that Covid-19 is treatable. With proper management and care, patients have healed and reintegrated back to society,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said yesterday during the daily briefing at Afya House. Data from the ministry shows that the highest disease burden is in the population aged between 30 to 59 years, which accounts for 224 cases. This is 60 per cent of the 374 registered cases as of Tuesday. Those aged between 15 and 29 are 99 individuals. “When you add to this, the 99 cases in the age group of 15 to 29, we have a figure of 323 cases from our most active segment between 15 to 59 years. We encourage these groups to rededicate their energies in observing the containment effort,” Aman said. As of Tuesday, the number of positive cases in the country was at 374 after 11 more new cases were confirmed from 589 samples tested. The 11 include two children aged three years and the oldest patient is 75 years. Kawangware has four cases of the seven new cases in Nairobi, while Eastleigh, Manji Estate and Kaloleni have one case each. All the four cases in Mombasa are concentrated within Kibokoni area. “We want to request residents of these areas to take extra measures to avoid contracting the virus,” Aman cautioned. On a positive note, 10 more people were discharged from hospital bringing the number of recoveries in the country to 124. “There is no need for us to stigmatise this disease. As we celebrate the recoveries let me remind Kenyans that this is not the time to celebrate and lose sight of the ball,” the CAS added. “The enemy is still in our midst. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we continue to strictly observe the containment measures that have consistently been advocated for by the ministry.” The number of deaths in the past nine days has remained at 14. The ministry has so far deployed 1,000 testing kits to Kenya Ports Authority due to the risk that has been identified from the monitoring team as part of the ongoing targeted mass testing. Almost all estates in Nairobi have recorded a case. Edited by Henry Makori