Kenya’s capacity to handle the coronavirus pandemic might be affected by the decision of the United States to cut funding to the World Health Organization. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday said even though the WHO had not yet pronounced itself on the issue, it was important that an agreement is reached as the US is an important part of the global funding mechanism. “Obviously, it is an issue of concern to those of us in Kenya because the minute you hear that the WHO is pressed we will begin to get concerned, " the CS said. US President Donald Trump on Tuesday halted funding to the WHO over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Trump said the global health agency had "failed in its basic duty and it must be held accountable", adding that it promoted China's "disinformation" about the virus that likely led to a wider outbreak. His action has since drawn condemnation from infectious disease experts as the global death toll continues to rise. The US is the biggest overall donor to the WHO, contributing more than Sh40 trillion in 2019, roughly 15 per cent of its budget. “We have not heard any reduction with our association with WHO and, as I said earlier, they are the ones who are continuing to assist us, and we are also aware that the UK has given WHO a substantial amount of money but, of course, we would be concerned about the operational capacity,” Kagwe said. Trump, who has reacted angrily to criticism of his administration’s response to the worst epidemic in a century, has become increasingly hostile towards the WHO. The ministry reported nine new coronavirus cases, bringing the country's total number to 225. The new cases were reported from 803 samples tested in the last 24 hours. All the new cases are Kenyan. None has a history of travel, nor were they from quarantine centres. Five are from Nairobi, four are from Mombasa aged between nine and 69 years. There were 12 new discharges, bringing to 53 the number who have recovered. However, the country recorded another death, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 10. The CS said 2,336 contacts had been monitored and 455 contacts were being followed. Kagwe said counties were put on notice and a high-level team was dispatched to Siaya county led by Ministry of Health Director general Patrick Amoth. “The team led by the DG is currently examining the status of quarantine and isolation facilities in Siaya county. They are also engaging with county leaders and local residents to ensure that we are moving in one accord against this virus,” Kagwe said. The team is also expected to deliver supplies for personal protection for medical staff and health workers in the region. "This battle will be won not by the government but by Kenyans working together. It is not a government task. It is a community of Kenya task," he said. The government on Wednesday received a consignment of  18,900 swabs and viral transport medium, 18,912 extraction kits, 3,790 medical disposable protective clothing, ventilation machines, thermometer guns and medical gloves from the Jack Ma Foundation. Another consignment of surgical masks, gloves, face shields, gowns from China, Germany and France were also received through the WHO. The CS hit out at Kenyans who are not cooperating with the police, saying the behaviour was akin to anarchy. He challenged human rights and civil society organisations to come out and defend the police when under threat from civilian attacks. “We are aware that there are those looking at our figures and celebrating early. Let me send out a word of caution: We are not out of danger yet. Our figures should not delude or deceive you into dropping the ball. Let us stick to our plan,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori