Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi on Monday urged Kenyans to show unity and strength during the coronavirus outbreak. At moments like these, the country needs to stick together, he said. He spoke at his office when he flagged off the distribution of food that included rice, sifted maize meal and cooking oil to support over 100,000 vulnerable households in the 30 wards. Abdi said it was important that Kenyans helped others in whatever ways you could. The government has already formed the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund committee chaired by Jane Karuku, which is tasked with collecting donations. Abdi expressed his concern at the big number of those in need of assistance especially the rural residents who are now selling their animals at poor prices. “When you visit the livestock markets in Wajir county and across the region, you realise that the prices have drastically dropped. This is directly linked to coronavirus which has definitely affected the population since they are making losses. This group of people seriously needs assistance,” the governor said. Abdi donated 400 bags of rice and 1,000 books to Islamic institutions, teachers and imams. He said the closure of mosques, madrassas and duksis (Quran schools) to enforce the recommended health protocols disrupted the lives of teachers, imams and their families. “This now calls for urgent interventions especially as we usher in the holy month of Ramadhan. We appeal for more support to our Muslim brothers and sisters during the holy month as has been our tradition,” Abdi said. The governor said his administration intended to procure more food to distribute to the poor in the wake of the pandemic and the resultant effects of loss of livelihoods and disruption of the local economy. Abdi, whose county has not recorded a case, urged residents to continue taking seriously government directives to curb the spread of disease and adhere to all requirements. "Basic hygiene starts with hand washing. It is, therefore, prudent that every resident avoids crowded places to forestall the possibility of ending up in a hospital bed with an infection," Abdi said. Area Supkem boss Sheikh Aden Yunis while thanking the governor called for more support, noting that the health restrictions though welcome had negatively impacted the local economy and increased vulnerability within the society. Edited by Henry Makori