About 32,000 flood victims in Kisumu have been evacuated to rescue centres, Governor Anyang Nyong’o said Thursday. The evacuation was done by the departments of special programmes, agriculture and water. The situation in Kisumu is dire. The heavy rains have left a trail of death and destruction. “With the floods ravaging the Nyando basin, hundreds of families have been uprooted from their homes. We have had to evacuate some communities to higher grounds,” he said. Those affected needed food, sanitation and reusable face masks. “We call upon well-wishers to support us. This will not only complement my government’s efforts but will also be evidence that as people from all walks of life we can overcome any obstacle thrown to us,” the governor said. He said he would ensure that the flood-affected people are accorded dignified stay at the evacuation centres and protected against Covid-19. He spoke during the flagging off of Rotary District 9212 Western Kenya hand wash stations and the launch of its Kisumu county project at the County Referral Hospital. The department of industrialisation is working with local cottage industries to produce enough masks for distribution to people in evacuation camps. Nyong’o said they had launched a Covid-19 donation initiative to support vulnerable groups suffering the effects of the pandemic and other natural disasters. He flagged off a food distribution campaign for the floods-displaced people. “This distribution will strictly adhere to the national government guidelines on food distribution.” The governor called on wellwishers to support those in distress. Kisumu has not reported any positive case of coronavirus out of the 71 tested. “We have been and continue to put in control measures to ensure we keep coronavirus at bay,” Nyong’o said. Despite efforts and preparedness in Kisumu, he said some counties in the region had positive cases and others flagged as hotspots. That puts Kisumu at risk since it is a trading and transportation hub for the region. Nyong’o said the disease has significantly impacted social and economic aspects of life such as education and household incomes. “There is a need for concerted efforts in observing the prevention protocols such as regular hand washing, social distancing and the wearing of masks in public spaces,” he said. He urged residents to seek medical attention for respiratory illnesses as soon as they felt unwell. Edited by Henry Makori