A Kilifi government lands officer has been arrested by anti-graft detectives demanding bribes before issuing clearance letters to a developer in Magarini. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) sleuths nabbed Magarini assistant development control officer Johnson Mwabati after the victim complained to the anti-graft body. According to EACC’s statement, Daudi Omar Elema called the commission after the officer - identified as Eng Mwabati – took him in circles after pocketing close to Sh65,000 to facilitate the issuance of clearance letter. At first, the officer requested a Sh20,000 bribe and instructed that it be deposited in a bank account of one Salim Juma’s at Diamond Trust Bank on March 24, 2020. And as if that was not enough, the officer again on April 24 demanded yet another Sh30,000 at his office when the complainant went to pick the clearance letter. “He again deposited Sh20,000 to the said account of Salim Juma and Sh10,000 he withdrew from M-Pesa agent number issued to him by the suspect No. 185882. The said M-Pesa is allegedly his close ally as per the complainant’s narrative. But even after this further payment, he was not given clearance,” the statement reads. On April 17, the dejected Omar went to continue with the construction work and to his surprise was arrested for illegal construction and bought his freedom with Sh15,000. “On April 20, 2020, he went to the suspect’s office for the certificate but instead of being given the certificate the suspect again requested for Sh53,500 and this is when he became suspicious and impatient and called our office to report,” EACC statement reads. “The complainant came reported to our offices after all safety precautions and his statement was recorded and was guided on how to use the device and while at our offices the suspect called him and he informed the complainant that his personal amount was to be Sh29,000 as his personal money and that Sh22,655 was now to be the official payment for the processing of the clearance letter.”