Counties in the North Rift are ready to divert funds and resources meant for development projects to the war against Covid-19 should the situation worsen. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), says development will be meaningless if people are left to suffer or die because of the coranavirus. Mandago said residents should adhere to Covid-19 control measures and stop worrying about possible hunger if they remain indoors as advised by the government. He said although the counties have lost billions in the last one month, they would not allow anyone to die due to lack of food. It is estimated that Noreb counties have lost more than Sh3 billion in the last one month after stopping to collect revenues, and licence fees among other charges. “There is now way we will allow people to die because of famine. The roads, electricity and any other projects will have to wait because we can continue with same when we are alive,” said Mandago. He said the counties were already working with their respective assemblies to ensure their budgets are amended to provide for necessary emergencies linked to Covid-19. Governors Stephen Sang (Nandi), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia said they were in agreement that Covid-19 emergencies must be handled effectively to avoid suffering of residents in the region. “As a region we have agreed that we will enforce joint measures and work with medical experts to ensure that we protect Kenyans from infection by Covid-19 and other possible challenges like hunger,” said Khaemba. At the same time, human rights groups are warning that mishandling of face masks may spread Covid-19 in the country. Representatives of the human rights groups in Rift Valley led by Kipkorir Ng'etich said face masks being sold in the open market were being mishandled with no proper hygiene measures to ensure they are clean and safe for use. Ng'etich says the government should ensure it enforces measures that will ensure Kenyans only buy safe and clean masks. “The government must ensure that the masks which are supposed to protect the public do not turn out to become the greatest danger as concerns infecting more people with Covid-19,” said Ngetich.