Kenya has reported a total of 208 confirmed cases of the COVID-19 virus. This is after 11 more cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the 11 were out of 674 samples that were tested. He said out of the 11, four had travelled from the United Arab Emirates while the rest have no travel history. The CS said six of the new patients are male while five are female with the youngest being one year old. Kagwe said from the 11 cases, Mandera had 4, Mombasa 3, Nairobi 2, Nakuru and Machakos each one case. "Four of the patients were from the mandatory quarantine while seven were picked up by our surveillance teams," he said. Kagwe said, unfortunately, one more patient had succumbed raising the number to 9 deaths. The patient was from Nairobi. "On a positive note we have had 15 new recoveries raising the number to 40 of the people who have recovered and discharged," he said. Kagwe said out of the 15, one positive case had just turned negative. "We have monitored 2,306 contacts out of which 1,687 have been discharged. 619 contacts are being followed at the moment," the CS said. Today the country marks one month since the first case was reported. The CS said the economy has been adversely affected as a result. "Jobs and livelihoods have been lost but we can turn around the situation if we fully adhere to guidelines put in place," he said. Kagwe said so far the government has spent Sh140 million on Personal Protective equipment- PPEs and over 8,000 tests done across the country. He said 500 ventilators have been mobilised across the counties and millions of litres of sanitisers distributed. "We have sensitised over 100,000 health workers and community workers on the disease, and established 1,664 isolation beds across the country," he said. According to Kagwe, despite setting up the COVID-19 Emergency Response Fund, the government has also developed and circulated the COVID-19 guidelines and protocols that are key in helping front liners effectively fight the disease.