The government has asked manufactures to play their role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The National Multi-agency Command Centre (NMACC) boss Ayub Matiiri made the appeal as the number of confirmed cases in the country rose to 138. On Saturday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed four more cases. The CS announced new measures by urging any person visiting a supermarket or any other open market to wear a mask. Already, boda boda operators and matatu passengers have been asked to wear masks. On Friday, Industrialization CS Betty Maina said one million locally manufactured face masks were ready for distribution. The CS said the masks should not cost more than Sh20. "The Kenya textile industry is currently able to produce as many masks as we require as well as the personal protective equipment that doctors require," Maina said. On Wednesday last week, the Council of Governors said counties were ill-prepared to tackle the virus. Chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya said in a statement there were gaps and challenges that needed to be fixed. Oparanya said counties were grappling with lack of adequate personal protective equipment. This, he said, was despite the government's efforts to procure some and get donations from philanthropists. The COG chairman said the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority had at March 20 supplied some of the personal protective equipment. This, he said, included 694 pieces of surgical masks, 32,000 face masks, 910 pieces of medical disposal overalls, 735 face shields, 610 pieces of goggles, 769 boxes of examination gloves, 140 pairs of gumboots and 200 pieces of N95 masks. Oparanya said only 167 sets of complete personal protective equipment was distributed. The county boss said only 24 counties had functional ICU facilities, 14 of those having benefited under the medical equipment scheme project. Oparanya said the total number of ICU beds in counties was 162. Oparanya said there were 161 ventilators in county ICUs.They needed the national government to support counties to acquire approximately 300 more ventilators. Major Matiiri held a meeting with manufacturers and suppliers March 20 where he piled pressure on them to deliver. During the meeting, the  Kenya Bureau of Standards committed to fast-track the quality and safety assessment process and prioritise coronavirus related assessment over other activities. The manufactures under the auspices of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) said they were ready to fight the pandemic. Edited by Henry Makori