Is the Office of the President aware of the wrangles between the office of the Baringo county commissioner and the local leadership? Sources say the matter is getting out of hand and the Presidency may soon need to intervene. At the centre of the standoff are insecurity and local politics in the volatile county, matters that have forced the usually calm Baringo North MP William Cheptumo to speak up using strong terms. For weeks, the local leadership has had issues with the office of the commissioner over what it terms unresponsiveness to insecurity. The office of the commissioner is also accused of intimidating local leaders whenever they speak up against the deteriorating situation. ** It is just a matter of months before the faction leaning towards President Uhuru Kenyatta in the Jubilee Party actualises its threats to quit the ruling outfit and join another party that is already registered. Word on the street of politics has it that talks are already ongoing behind the scenes between the disgruntled members who are unhappy with DP William Ruto and the founders of the party that was registered last year. A powerful individual, who is pulling the strings in Jubilee, is said to be pushing for the mass walkout to the new party, which he plans to use to negotiate for the position of prime minister should the BBI report be adopted. ** Did a beleaguered senior government official suffer a double tragedy after his attempts to latch onto a new docket collapsed? Corridors understands that the official, who has influence in government, was instrumental in cobbling together the functions of the new docket. It is understood that he hoped to grab the post. However, the powers that be had other ideas as he was served the contempt card, with the job going to Americans' trusted hands. The senior official is said to have been threatening certain leaders in the docket with its disbandment. ** A cabal of state officers-cum-power brokers got a rude shock recently after their obsessive demand to fix a political figure was badly trashed. A small bird in the political cycles whispered to Corridors that the officers had hatched a scheme to brief their boss on how to deal with their political foe during this Covid-19 crisis. But they were embarrassed and humiliated after the boss banged tables, lashed out at them that he could not condone such nonsense, before walking out on them. It is believed the cabal and their lackeys have been minting cash by lighting fires and instigating political turmoil.