The government has been urged to increase the roles of women in tackling the Covid-19 crisis. A UN report titled Women Gender Analysis of Covid-19 Impacts and Mitigation Strategies in Kenya also recommends prioritising gender-based violence prevention and response in relation to the virus. "Train girls and young women to lead social media solutions to expose violence as a risk during isolation as practiced in China," it reads. This can also be achieved by promoting community-based mechanisms to address violence as the health system may be overburdened with the treatment of Covid-19 cases. "The government can also prioritise prevention and response by training first responders and health workers on basic skills to respond to GBV and disclosure that could be associated with or exacerbated by the pandemic," reads the report. It can also increase messaging on prevention of GBV, reporting and information on where to seek help through appropriate channels. UN Women urged the government to offer social protection mechanisms and economic stimulus packages for vulnerable women, "especially those in urban informal settlements, refugee camps and poor rural areas, through a mobile cash transfer, goods and access to free water integrated into the existing Kenya National Safety Net Programme". To ensure women participate in the decision-making targeted at fighting the virus, the government is advised to ensure representation in the national emergency response committee and integrate a gender and emergency specialist to advise during the prevention, response and recovery phases. "This includes support to develop Kenya Women's Charter of Demands as an advocacy tool to lobby and influence government and development partners response to Covid-19," UN Women said. Women's participation in decision making can also be enhanced by facilitating production, access and use of sex-disaggregated data on Covid-19 for decision-makers in public and private sectors to assist in the prevention, response and recovery. "Conduct a rapid gender needs, risk and impact analysis of Covid -19 to identify the specific needs of women, men, girls and boys enabling the government to deliver a fully gender-sensitive response," read the report. The report also recommended the inclusion of gender dimensions within the national and county plans and responses drawing on the findings of the rapid gender needs risk and impact analysis. In public health efforts, the government is encouraged to provide protective materials and psychosocial support to frontline healthcare providers. "This includes better access to women-friendly personal protective equipment and menstrual hygiene products and provision of protective materials to counties for distribution to women given the disproportionate burden of unpaid care work expected of them," the report says.