Some 54 people were taken into mandatory quarantine in Murang’a on Wednesday after they were found travelling in a lorry and a pickup. The 23 men and 31 women were travelling from Mugoiri area in Kahuro subcounty to a farm in Maragua Ridge area, Maragua subcounty. The two vehicles were intercepted by the police on the Murang’a-Kenol road and the passengers taken to the Murang’a Teachers Training College where they will be quarantined for 14 days at their own expense. Chief county health officer Kanyi Gitau said they will serve as an example to others who have been flouting the government’s directives meant to contain Covid-19. He urged residents to stay at home and if they have to travel, to use proper vehicles that allow social distancing. “They were crammed in the lorry without masks and had no sanitiser, exposing themselves to risk. They will have to cater for their quarantine costs,” Gitau said. He praised the county security team for tirelessly working to ensure residents obey the set guidelines and protect themselves from the virus. “Since the pandemic started, we have been working together with the security team to protect our people from the virus,” he said. Maragua deputy county commissioner Mawira Mungania said the group is the first to be quarantined at the learning institution. "Today we have officially opened a quarantine centre at the college and any other person who will be found flouting the government’s guidelines will be quarantined there,” he said. The county Covid-19 response team, which includes county commissioner Mohamed Barre and religious leaders, has appealed to well-wishers to support its prevention efforts. The help can be in the form of sanitiser, thermal guns, masks and personal protective gear for health workers such as white gumboots, disposable over garments and white lab coats. Well-wishers can also provide chlorine for fumigation, knapsacks, hand sprayers, water tanks, hosepipes and food for the vulnerable. Cash donations can be sent to account number 01141574897500 at the Co-operative Bank, with the account name Murang’a County Covid-19 Donations. Kanyi said nonfinancial donations can be channelled through the county headquarters. He said the county is implementing numerous preventive measures from the villages to its towns. More than 10,000 litres of sanitiser has been distributed to public places and over 100,000 face masks issued to residents. The county plans to distribute face masks in all urban and shopping centres. It has started with Murang’a town and its environs. “The county has so far not reported any positive case and this may be due to the preventive measures,” he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)