Residents of Northern Kenya will now be able to receive Covid-19 tests within a short time. This is after a regional testing centre was set up at Wajir County Hospital to serve Isiolo, Mandera, Garissa and Wajir. Test runs started on Monday,  according to acting public health director general Patrick Amoth. Initially, samples were transported to Nairobi for testing at the National Influenza Centre and the Kenya Medical Research Institute. The Wajir facility was built by the World Bank under the East Africa Public Health Laboratory Networking Project and has the ability to test between 60 and 100 samples in a day. It was previously acting as the regional referral laboratory in clinical diagnosis, disease surveillance and outbreak investigations. So far, there has been a concern over increasing cases of Covid-19 in the region, with Mandera having been placed on partial lockdown by the government after recording eight cases. Across the country, movement cessation had been ordered in only Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale. “The lab has undergone progressive improvement as evidenced by various external assessments. It started from zero and progressed to four stars,” Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said. The ministry is now banking on mass testing, isolation and treatment as the key effort in combating the virus. Earlier, Mandera Governor Ali Roba appealed to the national government to allocate the county more resources to effectively handle emerging challenges, especially the hidden costs in relation to the management of contacts and quarantine facilities. “As a county, we are ill-equipped to deal with these challenges of Covid-19. The Ministry of Health must be aware of these realities and provide appropriate support for us to manage the challenges,” Roba said. The centre has done well in tackling various outbreaks in the country, among them the measles outbreak in 2013 and cholera outbreaks in 2015 and last year. It also played a critical role in dealing with the dengue fever outbreak in 2017 and Rift Valley fever and Kala-azar outbreaks in 2018. Amoth on Monday said Kenyans who wish to get tested for the virus can do so at the 16 designated testing facilities across the country. Five of these facilities are in Nairobi - the National Influenza Centre, the HIV Reference Laboratory at the National Public Health Laboratory, two testing facilities within Kemri headquarters and the Kenyatta National Hospital. “In the Western part of the country, we have two labs in Kemri Kisumu, in the North Rift we have the MTRH, at the Coast we have Mombasa Coast Provincial Hospital and Kemri-Welcome Trust Kilifi,” Amoth said. Currently, the ministry is in discussions with the Institute of Primate Research and the International Livestock Research Institute in line with the one health approach to ensure they come on board in the next two weeks. Following the global trends and government analysis, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has warned that a slight lapse in behaviour could roll back the gains made so far and, by implication, the destiny of the nation.  Edited by F'Orieny