Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o has suspended boda boda operations following a spate of killings by criminals on motorcycles. The directive follows the killing of two people by criminals masquerading as members of Kisumu County Boda Boda Organisation. Nyong’o on Tuesday said there was a clear indication that the sector has been infiltrated by external forces who commit crimes. “The county security committee together with the political leadership has resolved to deregister all the groups,” he said. Nyong’o ordered all boda boda bank accounts held in the names of Saccos and associations frozen immediately, pending a new structure. The county government, he said, will formulate a new structure and organise elections for the sector in accordance with the County Transport Act. “All registration certificates issued in respect of those CBOs should be surrendered to the office of the County Director of Social Development by Tuesday, April 7,” he said, He added that riders must operate within the Traffic Act and anyone who contravenes the law will be punished. The governor urged the police to expedite investigations into the murders and ensure that suspects face the law. Ten operators were arrested on Saturday on suspicion of killing two riders and leaving four others seriously injured. The police recovered batons, bows, arrows and motorcycles suspected to be used to terrorise the public. Eight were arrested at Briliant on Friday afternoon while two leaders of the group were apprehended on Thursday night. Kisumu OCPD Martha Ngetich said they are investigating. The suspects are members of a group registered under the Kisumu County Boda Boda Association located in Nubian Estate. They are believed to have attacked seven riders for carrying two passengers, killing one on the spot and injuring the others. Four are admitted at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Boda boda operators and residents storm the Nubian office after the attack. Kondele MCA demanded an explanation on the legality of the group, which claims to work on behalf of the government. Residents say the group is a well-organised militia that has been terrorising them for a long time. Edited by Frank Obonyo