The Wajir county government has created a multi-sectoral committee to fight the Covid-19 disease. The team, comprising health workers, security personnel and the Kenya Red Cross dispatched Covid-19 supplies to the six subcounties. The committee co-chaired by Deputy Governor Ali Mukhtar and Health executive Ismail Sheikh on Monday discussed preparedness at the county and subcounty levels and how to reach out to residents living in far-flung areas. The health executive assured all the six subcounties of fair distribution of anti-Covid-19 supplies. The items to be distributed include face masks, thermo guns, hand sanitiser and protective equipment for healthcare providers. Members of the public have been advised to remain calm and vigilant and adhere to directives issued by the Ministry of Health. On Friday last week, Governor Mohamed Abdi opened the Wajir Regional Referral Laboratory that will be used for Covid-19 testing. The hub, equipped with ultra-modern equipment, will serve the counties of Wajir, Mandera, Garissa and Marsabit. It has the capacity to test between 60-100 samples in 24 hours. “This is a milestone because Wajir Regional Referral Laboratory will be designated a Covid-19 testing site in Kenya,” Abdi said. He urged residents to take seriously government directives to curb the spread of the disease. Abdi said Covid-19 was a serious threat to the health and livelihoods of the county and country. "Basic hygiene starts with handwashing. It is therefore prudent that every resident avoids crowded places to forestall the possibility of ending up in a hospital bed with an infection," Abdi said. On Saturday, Wajir county commissioner Jacob Narengo urged residents to adhere to state directives, noting that it was the only thing that would keep them healthy and completely flatten the curve of the virus. “We can do this by staying at home as much as possible, avoiding gatherings and crowded places or any unessential activity,” he governor said. Edited by Henry Makori