The Kenya Railways has suspended all passenger trains on the SGR from Mombasa to Nairobi. Managing Director Phillip Mainga said the move was in  conformity with the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta prohibiting movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties. "The two Madaraka Express trains that operated daily at 10.30am between Nairobi and Mombasa have been withdrawn forthwith," Mainga said in a statement to newsrooms. Mainga said passengers who had made bookings and would like to have their cash back will be refunded. He said the Standard gauge and Meter gauge railway freight services will however continue uninterrupted and according to the 24hour schedule. "The Nairobi Commuter Rail service to Ruiru,Embakasi,Syokimau and Kikuyu stations will continue to operate normally," he said. This come as several passengers and motorists were left stranded after they were blocked from entering Nairobi county after 7pm. Uhuru said in efforts to contain and limit the spread of the COVID-19 disease to other parts of the Country, the National Security Council had sanctioned and caused the issuance of the following additional measures including the cessation of all movement by road, rail or air in and out of  the Nairobi Metropolitan Area, and the counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa. He said the cessation of movement within Nairobi Metropolitan Area shall be for an initial containment period of 21 days; with effect from 7:00 pm on Monday, 6th April, 2020. Uhuru said the movement within the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and the Counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa shall continue subject to the nationwide curfew. According to Uhuru, the Nairobi Metropolitan Area is designated as Nairobi City County, Part of Kiambu County up to Chania River Bridge (Thika), including Rironi, Ndenderu, Kiambu Town; Part of Machakos County up to Athi-River, including Katani; Part of Kajiado County including Kitengela, Kiserian, Ongata Rongai and Ngong Town; and all other areas as set out in the Order. "Any person, passenger carrying bicycles, motorcycles, scooters, automobiles, vehicles, vessels, railway wagons or air crafts shall not be allowed in and out of the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and the counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa," he said. The movement of food supplies and other cargo will continue as normal during the declared containment period through road, railway and air. These additional measures do not in any way vary the existing restrictions and measures, including the daily Nationwide Curfew from 7pm to 5am  in the entire territory of the Republic of Kenya.