A very large oak was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a stream. It fell among some reeds, which it thus addressed: “I wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely crushed by these strong winds.” They replied, “You fight and contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and therefore remain unbroken, and escape.” Every crisis comes with its own opportunities and it is up to us to decide whether to work through it or be swept by it. The last one-month has been tough for Kenyans, with the coronavirus stopping our way of life and making things tougher than they have ever been. We are still trying to adjust to this new way of life but we must keep pushing. Despite the doom and gloom, there is one person that has stood out during the crisis, and stands head and shoulders above his peers—Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. If there is one person who really knows what baptism by fire is, it is the CS. Kagwe had not even settled in his new office when all hell broke loose. And throughout the crisis, Kagwe as kept his cool many times telling Kenyans the hard truth that they need to hear. He has scolded Kenyans for not taking things seriously and praised them for doing the right thing in equal measure. Many have even commented that he has shown a presidential demeanour that commands respect and oozes authority. Despite the hard task that he has faced, he has offered leadership to his entire team as well as the government. If we are to look at today’s topic more accurately, we can draw historical reference to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s journey to the top seat. His journey illuminates Kagwe’s rising star as the foremost leader in Mt Kenya. In 1997, Uhuru ran for the Gatundu South parliamentary seat and lost. Two years later, he was groomed by then President Moi, appointed as minister and was led on a path towards the presidency. After the 2007 election, former President Kibaki selected and groomed Uhuru to lead the country and region, by putting him in charge of key ministries, and his work spoke for itself. If you look at Mutahi Kagwe’s political career, he has gone through a similar path. He started as Mukurweini MP in 2002 and was appointed ICT minister by Kibaki and the growth of mobile technology in Kenya can be credited to him. He lost his seat in 2007 before becoming Nyeri senator in 2013 but lost the governor’s race to Wahome Gakuru in 2017. Many know that Kagwe did not lose because he was unpopular or incapable but because he faced an equally qualified man for the job. But the loss did not throw Kagwe into the political cold as many would have thought. He was instrumental in various Mt Kenya forums even being the MC in various forums attended by Uhuru. His elevation to the Cabinet did not come as a shock to many as it was clear that he was cut out for the job. He has proven all those who doubted him wrong and given many Mt Kenya residents the hope that there is a leader who can take over after Uhuru. No leader from Mt Kenya has been able to step out from the crowd as Kagwe has done.  He is slowly but surely capturing the imagination of the residents of the region as Uhuru prepares to leave the stage. Kagwe has emerged as an articulate, thoughtful, intelligent and compassionate leader that has guided Kenya during this time of crisis, and unified the nation. Yes, it may be too soon to tell and yes, there is still a lot of work to be done amid the coronavirus crisis and in the Health ministry. But if his first few months are anything to go by, then he is the person that can lead the Mt Kenya region into the future.