The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims has called upon Muslims to adhere to the anti-Covid-19 measures during Ramadhan. Acknowledging that this year’s Ramadhan comes during difficult times, Supkem chairman Alhajj Hassan urged the faithful to maintain discipline, devotion and humility. “It is important to acknowledge that this Ramadhan comes during very difficult and challenging times when the entire world is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic where some restrictions imposed to contain the pandemic have severely affected our ability to perform our religious obligations to the maximum,” he said. The government had banned public gatherings in efforts to tame the virus. They include congregating at places of worship.  Another issue of concern for some Muslims is 7pm-5am curfew. Some Muslim leaders had requested the government to reschedule the dusk-to-dawn curfew so they can observe the Ramadhan calendar. However, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday said there would be no special treatment given that Christians also celebrated Easter in line with the curfew directive. Similar remarks were made last week by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe, who ruled out the possibility of the government reviewing the hours. Some Muslim clerics and political leaders wanted the start of the curfew pushed from 7pm to 9pm to allow Iftar celebrations. But Kagwe told the Muslim faithful to celebrate Ramadhan under stipulated guidelines. "We all join up in celebrating and being with them (Muslims) during this period but the celebrations must be done in a manner that reflects the time and period that we are living in,” he said. Given Supkem's concurrence with the government on the need for compliance, chairman Hassan emphasised that inasmuch as the anti-Covid-19 measures are punitively restrictive, they are necessary to save lives and keep people healthy. “We call upon all Muslims to adhere to the public health and public order standards of the conduct announced by the government to combat and contain the pandemic,” Hassan said. He also urged Muslims to offer special prayers to Allah so the disease can be defeated to allow people to resume their normal lives. On Thursday, another organisation appealed to Muslims to respect the state guidelines. Addressing the press in Mombasa, the Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council, led by chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao, said even Islam recognises times of emergency and allows some of its rules to be broken.  (Edited by F'Orieny)