Garissa residents living in flood-prone areas have been asked to move to higher and safer grounds because of imminent flooding. County commissioner Meru Mwangi on Wednesday said water levels in River Tana continue to rise and that the river could burst its banks anytime. Flood-prone areas within Garissa town and its environment include Bula Punda, Bula Iftin, Bouralgy, Bula Sheikh, Mororo, Ziwani and Windsor where hundreds of houses were submerged last year. “I want to urge all the residents who live in areas prone to floods to start moving to safer grounds because there are indications that River Tana could burst its banks anytime from now,” Mwangi said in Garissa town. “I am also calling on our partners like the county government, the Kenya Red Cross, UNICEF and other NGOs to start preparations to assist those that will be displaced." Mwangi also called on residents of Bura, Mansabubu and Masalani to move. The areas also experience flooding. As of Wednesday, the water levels in River Tana had sharply increased to 5.10 metres from 3.90 metres in the morning. The increase was attributed to heavy rainfall in several parts of the country. The meteorological department has warned that the ongoing rains will increase, exposing Kenyans to flooding and landslides. Met director Stella Aura said the long rains which began in March may continue until June. She advised Kenyans to heed routine updates from the department for their safety and that of their property. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has also asked Kenyans who live in flood-prone areas to move to higher grounds. “Do not ignore these directives from your leaders and experts, heed the warning and move to safer, higher grounds,” Matiang’i said on Wednesday. Regions likely to be affected by floods and landslides are parts of Murang’a, Taita Taveta, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Kisumu counties. Energy CS Charles  Keter noted that those living near the dams especially in Tana River and Garissa would experience increased water volumes in the next two days. “The Eastern hydros are currently full and there is already spillage from Masinga Dam. In the next two days, those living on the lower part of Garissa and Tana River counties will experience a lot of water and must move to the safest upper regions immediately,” Keter said. Edited by P.O