The management of Kenya Utalii Hotel College has dismissed claims it has shut down operations for good. This comes after a local daily reported the college had shut down due to economic challenges. According to a statement shared through its Twitter page, the management said  it has stopped operations temporarily due to the coronavirus pandemic. The college assured its stakeholders, students, staff, hospitality industry players, and the public that it has not been permanently closed and that it will resume its operation after the pandemic has eased. “The decision to close the hotel temporarily is a proactive measure and safety precaution taken to ensure the well-being of our guests and employees,” the management said. Kenya Utalii College was temporarily closed on March 20 following the government’s directives that all the learning institutions in the country should be closed to curb the spread of the virus. The college's hospitality arm was affected by the closure directive. Since the first Covid-19 case was reported in the country on March 13, the tourism sector as well as other sectors have been hugely affected. Several restaurants and hotels have temporarily closed and sent employees home as they wait for the pandemic to pass. Government services as well as the private sector have felt the negative impact of the pandemic. All international flights were suspended as the country struggles to prevent its citizens from contracting the virus. President Uhuru Kenyatta formed two committees and three working groups which will lead the government’s efforts in trying to flatten the novel coronavirus curve. One of the groups is the National Economic and Business Response Working Group under Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. The group will lead Kenya’s response to the macro and microeconomic impact of Covid-19, protect the livelihoods of Kenyans during the crisis as well as develop strategies to ensure swift economic rebound after the crisis. The group will coordinate the mobilisation of the financial and logistical resources required to respond to the pandemic. On Thursday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi confrimed 17 more cases in the country, adding to 320 cases confirmed since the first reported case in the country.