Proceeds of crime and money laundering should not be accepted into the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund, the chamber of commerce has warned. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also told the Fund's board to question the source of donations they receive from well-wishers. KNCCI raised the red flag in a joint memorandum to the Senate Committee on Covid-19 chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja. The African Women’s Development and Communication Network, Oxfam, Institute of Public Finance and International Budget Partnership cosigned the memo. They said that the risk of handling money from crime, corruption and bribery is usually higher during pandemics like the one the country is experiencing. “Not only do public and private sectors face a higher risk of financial fraud and exploitation scams, but a lot of people are also holding proceeds of crime and would like to take advantage of this opportunity to donate money, amongst other methods of legalising the illegal, which can then be written off in their tax returns,” reads the document. They want Parliament to oversight the National Treasury and other institutions to ensure they cooperate with the Financial Reporting Centre and the Kenya Revenue Authority to prevent any proceeds of the tax and financial crimes from moving undetected. “These agencies can provide support, guidance and assistance for the private and public sector on how national AML laws and regulations should be applied at this time,” they said. KNCCI also called on the government to work with financial institutions and other agencies to adopt their risk-based approach to remain alert to emerging illicit finance risks. The agencies, they said, can provide support, guidance and assistance for the private and public sector on how national Anti-Money Laundering (AML) laws and regulations should be applied at this time. “This is an opportunity to seize any proceeds that could be used to finance the national response and apprehend any tax and financial crimes,” they said. KNCCI also raised concerns about confusion on how the funds allocated for the emergency at both the national and county levels should be applied. (edited by o. owino)