Real estate firm–Myspace Properties Kenya has reached out to the homeless in Nairobi with supplies of critical products and foodstuff, in a programme aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus. At least 100 street families have so far benefited from the real estate developer’s first phase of Covid-19 epidemic donation. The company bought and distributed hundreds of face masks, 100 new blankets,  bread and milk,among other foodstuffs to the street families. According to CEO Mwenda Thuranira, the initiative has been necessitated by the fact that a huge number of street families have been calling for help but remain hugely neglected. “Homelessness is a big issue in Kenya especially in areas like CBD, Westlands, Upperhill and Kilimani and they all need our help,” Thuranira said. Some of the beneficiaries are from South Sudan and Burundi, most who ran away from harsh conditions in their countries and currently live in the streets. Thuranira said the ongoing curfew has affected businesses and even worse, hit hard those who cannot afford to secure homes or meals. The firm has called for wider support to vulnerable groups who lack basics needed in the fight against the virus, which had affected at least 122 people with four deaths as of Friday. The company which commenced operations in Mombasa before expanding to Nairobi this year is keen to reach out to more homeless families, noting that every citizen’s participation in mitigating coronavirus is an obligation that cannot be disregarded. “As citizens of the global village, it will be reckless if we just sit on the fence panic, close our eyes to facts or fail to play our part and expect the government on its own to do everything for us,” Thuranira said. Myspace director Vanessa Magiri said: “With the curfew, most families need basic items such as food stuff, pads, tissue, soap, mouth wash, gloves, dippers among others.” The firm which commenced its programme with donations in Westlands, Nairobi, has made arrangements for over 10,000 blankets, masks and food stuff to be distributed. Its move comes at a time when there is a wide call on corporates and wealthy individuals to donate in support of the poor and vulnerable, as the country continues to fight the spread of the virus. This week, the government commenced distribution of free sanitisers targeting informal settlements. At least 130,000 litres of free hand sanitisers have been released to members of the public. One million locally manufactured face masks are also ready for distribution, Industrialisation CS Betty Maina has said. The virus has threatened the country's economic growth with the automotive industry, tourism, aviation, and non-food retail sectors being the highest exposed to financial distress, a survey by business and financial services company Moody’s notes. Central Bank of Kenya has downgraded economic growth prospects for 2020 from 6.2 per cent to 3.4 per cent.