A death sentence convict turned preacher who violently attacked a man in Kwale county got a reprieve after the court reduced his sentence to 18 years in jail. James Wafula aka Edward Wadogera, 57, was sentenced to death for violently robbing a man while armed with a pistol and a panga in 2007. He appealed the sentence stating that his constitutional rights were violated by the sentence which he argued is unlawful. Wafula said he first appealed at the High Court which threw out his application. In 2013, he appealed to the Court of Appeal in Malindi where it was also dismissed. Having exhausted all the appeal mechanisms, Wafula was now lawfully serving life imprisonment. He submitted to the court that he had reformed fully and that he committed the offence under the influence of alcohol. "He has since been saved and is an elder of the SDA church and a preacher in prison", the judgement reads. Wafula asked the court for a maximum of 15 years. The prosecution, however, opposed saying that in the company of several people, the man robbed the complainant while armed with a pistol and hit him severally. However, the DPP observed that according to the prison progress report dated May 6, 2019, Wafula had totally reformed and was disciplined. The counsel appealed to the court to jail the man for 30 years including time served. Justice Erick Ogola, in his judgement delivered on March 30, noted that the mitigation given was that Wafula had learnt several skills in prison, he was a leader in the prison church and he had also learnt how to relate with people in society. "I have also considered the recommendation from the prison officer in charge at Shimo La Tewa Maximum Security Prison. The petitioner is said to be disciplined and he has acquired certificates in Life Skills including Biblical Studies,” the judge ruled. The court also considered the age of the convict who argued that should he be jailed for 30 years as recommended by the state, he would spend the rest of his life locked up. "I hereby set aside the death sentence.  In place, thereof, I hereby jail the petitioner to serve 18 years in jail from the date of arrest,” Ogola said. Edited by R.Wamochie