Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja has ordered the closure of all salons and barbershops from Monday to curb the coronavirus spread. Three of Taita Taveta's neighbouring counties: Kilifi, Kwale and Kajiado have confirmed cases of Covid-19. The county also neighbours Tanzania, that has also confirmed cases of the disease. The county boss asked his counterparts under the Jumuiya ya Kaunti Za Pwani to impose similar measures to reduce chances of the virus spread. "I am urging my colleagues and all leaders to joins hand so that we can together defeat this pandemic," he said. Governor Samboja has also ordered mandatory screening at the county's entry points. All passengers using the Mombasa-Nairobi highway shall be screened at Voi junction, Miasenyi and Manyani. "Going forward, we will have Covid-19 mandatory screening for anyone entering our county through the three county entry points of Mackinnon-Road, Njukini and Man-Eaters. These efforts will also complement the ongoing screening at the county's entry points at the Taveta One-Stop-Border post," Samboja said. Mandatory screening has been ongoing for all people visiting hospitals. Samboja said those exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms shall be taken through a case definition process by the medical team. History of travel shall be documented, among other factors. The county has set up two isolation units with a 10-bed capacity in Voi and Taveta. Disease surveillance and rapid response teams are identifying more isolation and quarantine centres in schools and colleges. All bodaboda operators in the county have been ordered to observe hygiene, use face masks and carry only one passenger. Voi subcounty police boss Bernstein Shari said police officers have been ordered to enforce the directive. Shari warned riders that stern action shall be taken against those found flouting the rules. "Both the rider and passenger should have a face mask. Let us not risk because any reckless act can cause serious damage to the society," Shari said. (edited by o. owino)