EVEN AS THE government continues to plead with Kenyans to adhere to all health measures to stop the spread of Covid -19, some leaders are busy eroding the gains achieved so far. An MP from Nairobi brazenly defied a directive by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i (pictured) banning the distribution of food aid to vulnerable communities through unauthorised channels. The legislator was seen distributing food in his constituency in a manner that completely disregarded social distancing. The event was reminiscent of the food donation in Kibra which ended in a stampede as  well-wishers handed out cooking oil, soap, sanitisers and foodstuff. The MP even had the audacity to thank those who joined him to reach out to the needy during the pandemic. AND STILL ON the pandemic, a governor in Central Kenya infuriated residents of his county when he vowed to set up an Intensive Care Unit facility in the area in record time. The county boss is said to have promised to set up an ICU within two weeks to handle Covid-19 cases in the area. The governor was perhaps inspired by China, which built, in just 10 days, a 60,000-square-metre hospital in Wuhan with a space for 1,000 beds and 30 intensive care wards. Residents of the county are however annoyed, saying the governor has done very little over the years to improve healthcare. DID THE GOVERNMENT err on its plans to evacuate Kenyans stranded in China? Well, a former governor happens to think so. A close friend of the former governor told Corridors that he is so furious with reports that the government has agreed to evacuate Kenyans stranded in China but at their own cost. He is said to have termed the country’s embassy in China as a complete let down. “For heaven’s sake, bring them home on loan. Save their lives and demand money later you idiots,” was his message to the Kenyan embassy in Beijing on Twitter. WELL, HAVE YOU noticed that most Tanga Tanga MPs are appearing in public with white hair! Our mole, a member of the Jubilee members’ Whatsapp group that support Deputy President William Ruto,has told Corridors that they are contemplating to shave or dye. The vocal politician added, “Those elected or nominated to Parliament thought it might be a good way to protest against excesses by a minority group in the party.”The Deputy President has also, seemingly, not been left behind in the protests and has appeared in public donning the white hair.