More than one million Inua Jamii beneficiaries will from today start receiving Sh8,000 each from the state to cushion them against the effects of the coronavirus. The cash is part of the government's package to cushion the most vulnerable people from the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Labour says Sh8.8 billion was released on Friday to cover for the months of January, February and March. A total of 1,094,238 people will benefit. “The payment is for Inua Jamii beneficiaries whose accounts had been submitted successfully to the Consolidated Cash Transfer Management Information System by the close of business on March 25. Each beneficiary, except those with arrears, will receive Sh8000,” the circular from the Ministry to all regional, county and subcounty coordinators says. On Thursday last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that apart from the Sh8.8 billion, an additional Sh500 million will be used to clear arrears to persons with disabilities and the elderly. This means some of the 1,094,238 beneficiaries are likely to get extra cash. Yesterday,  Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui said disciplinary action will be taken against government officials who will attempt to frustrate the smooth rollout of the payment. Chelugui told the Star that directives have been issued to coordinators at all the payment centres to ensure that the beneficiaries especially elders are organised in compliance with the directive from the Ministry of Health. “We have a system to track and to ensure that those listed to benefit from the programme get the money. Anyone trying to delay the process or attempt to take advantage of the elderly people will face the consequences,” the minister warned. He added, “We are cognizant of the ages of most of the beneficiaries and the ministry has issued further guidelines to compliment what the Ministry of Health has already issued to that we protect the senior members of our society.” For instance, field officers and the paying agents have been instructed to ensure that payments are staggered as a control measure to avoid overcrowding and allow social distancing. The ministry has encouraged that payments should be done in an open filed with proper security where possible. This arrangement will facilitate efficient crowd management and proper queuing. “The coronavirus has been seen to greatly affect the elderly (who make up a large number of Inua Jamii beneficiaries) as well as those who have other underlying medical problems,” the ministry said. Chelugui directed that the older people be allowed early morning access to pay-points and should be prioritised. The elderly have also been encouraged to entrust their designated caregivers to collect the stipend on their behalf. At the queue at the payment centres, the beneficiaries will be required to maintain 1.5 metres of social distance. “Washing hands with clean water and soap should be compulsory for staff of all banks and payment agencies. All staff handling cash should be provided with alcohol-based hand sanitizer to use throughout the day,” the circular says. The ministry also directed that all biometric devices must be cleaned and sanitized after every use and that payment desks and officials should be positioned at least two meters apart. “Advise beneficiaries to use the hand sanitizers provided by the bank or the agents before and after touching money.” Beneficiaries who want to be paid via M-Pesa will also get their cash through their preferred payment mode. Edited by Peter Obuya