Activists and residents want Kwale put on total lockdown to contain Covid-19. They expressed concern that the rise in the number of confirmed cases in Mombasa has caused panic among residents, hence the need to act. The residents fear that they are at great risk of exposure to the disease because their borders are still operating, albeit partially. Led by Mohammed Mwakuyala, they also suggested that all open-air markets such as Ibiza, Mwangulu and Ukunda be closed until the infection subsides. They said traders from Covid-19 hotspots mingle with residents, thus endangering their lives. "Individuals from Mombasa, Kilifi and Tanzania do trade in Kwale and the two [counties] are already affected, hence endangering us," Mwakuyala said. They claimed that most truck drivers ferrying cargo flout safety and preventive measures. Mwakuyala said the 14-day quarantine rule should be applied not only to people coming from foreign countries but also from high-risk areas within the country. He said a crackdown would not be effective in combating the virus if activities run normally. Fatuma Katamba said the activities should be paralysed for some time to stop the spread of Covid-19. She said that in places such as Mwangulu, residents have yet to adopt the safety precautions, and are thus vulnerable to the infection. Mwangulu market is known for livestock business which operates every Monday. Katamba pleaded with the national and county security agencies to heighten the fight against the virus. Commenting on the market issue, Lunga-Lunga deputy county commissioner Josphat Biwot, however, said Mwangulu had been closed. He said a few operate illegally but police officers are pursuing them. For his part, Mabuti Gambari expressed concern over some of the county officials and people who work in Mombasa. He urged Governor Salim Mvurya to restrict them from moving around to enhance the county's resilience against the disease. In response, Mvurya on Friday said plans are underway to limit movement for county officials who live in Mombasa. Further, the County Emergency Response Committee said it will hold a meeting to address some of the issues. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo, who is part of the team, said the government is planning to instal testing centres at all border points and intensify screening. He spoke during his visit to Msambweni Referral Hospital alongside Mvurya.