Kiambu residents are angry with their MCAs, accusing the ward representatives of sabotaging development. They have accused the MCAs of demanding bribes to approve executives who nominated by Governor James Nyoro and members nominated to the county public service board. The nominees have been vetted by the county assembly's appointments committee but have not been either approved or rejected as required. Residents have accused committee members of demanding bribes from the executive and the nominees to approve their nomination. “We have come to learn that our governor is unable to implement some of the critical matters because he has no cabinet. The reason is that the assembly went on recess soon after vetting the nominees without approving their nomination," Pastor Steve Waikwaini said. MCAs have gone on recess following a government directive to end gatherings to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Majority leader Gideon Gachara, Kiambu MCA Anthony Ikonya and others have written to the governor and the speaker to recall the house for a special sitting to approve the nominees. That meeting is yet to be called. Residents claim MCAs are demanding a bribe of about Sh2 million from every nominee. Nyoro was sworn in as the third governor of Kiambu on January 31 following the impeachment of predecessor Ferdinand Waititu. On February 19, he appointed Joyce Wanjiku as deputy governor and nominated Mburu Kangethe (finance), Joseph Murega (health), Isabel Waiyaki (youth and sports), Mary Kamau (education) James Maina (lands), David Kimani (water), Margret Waithera (public service), Joseph Kamau (agriculture), Kigo Njenga (trade) and Samuel Mugo (roads) to his cabinet. Pauline Agondoa, a women leader, said it was shameful that a few MCAs were playing politics with the lives of residents. She said hospitals were in need of additional nurses and protective gear in case the coronavirus spreads to Kiambu. “We are not in agreement with our MCAs because they are not articulating the agenda of the public. They need to be thinking of our health critically and if they are demanding for bribes, then we are all at risks because of their greediness and selfishness,” Agondoa said. The residents have asked the national government to take up the health services in the county so that they can lead the fight against the spread of coronavirus. “Let the national government take over the health mandate since our MCAs do not have the heart for us. What is more important to people than healthcare? No one should give bribes for a job. Merit should be the priority for job considerations and the MCAs should be ashamed of themselves,” youth leader Kamau Waruinge said. An MCA who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity admitted that some ward representatives were seeking bribes to approve the names of the nominees. “The house is divided and if we are recalled, we wonder who will go since some are asking for bribes and it is a sad day for the county. We are at risk of having coronavirus in our county yet were aren't prepared,” the MCA said. Residents have threatened to hold demonstrations to condemn the greed of the MCAs. edited by Peter Obuya