Kenya Maritime Authority has issued an advisory on Covid-19 prevention, for stakeholders in the maritime industry. In the advisory, KMA Director Major Rtd George Okongo wants operators, owners, passengers and crew of boats and vessels, to adhere to regulations on social distancing, greetings, handshake, personal hygiene, gatherings, personal protective equipment, managing unwell passengers and monitoring health. Slightly over half of the Coast population depends on maritime activities, with Lamu’s economy anchored 100 percent on the blue economy activities. So far, Mombasa County is leading with 18 confirmed cases of Corona virus infection, while Kilifi comes second with seven cases and Kwale trailing with one case. Tana River, Taita Taveta and Lamu are yet to report any confirmed cases although on Thursday, a mother and child were rushed to Mpeketoni hospital after exhibiting Corona virus symptoms. Tests were conducted and sent to the Kenya Medical Research Training Institute in Kilifi. The duo had in the past recent weeks, operated between Kilifi and Lamu, with Kilifi being listed as one of the corona virus zones. Currently, the government has directed a containment of the three counties, whose effect would mean that no one enters or leaves Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale counties until after 21 days. “Boat crew members should be aware of the symptoms of Covid-19. Any crew member who develops such symptoms within 14 days of coming into contact with a passenger who is unwell, should self- quarantine and seek medical attention immediately,” said Okong’o. Boat coxwains and crew members were also advised on how to respond in cases where a passenger displays Corona virus symptoms. “As per government directives remain suspended. Vessel owners and operators in beach management units are urged to put up measures to ensure compliance,” he noted. The DG also asked boat and vessel operators to limit passenger capacity to 60 percent as per the Government directive so as to achieve social distancing on board boats and vessels. As at this week, the directive was yet to be complied with as boat coxwains carried the usual number of passengers. Lamu for instance, solely depends on water transport. “Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces on board the boats and vessels, such as steering wheel, safety/guard rails and seat,” said Okongo. 