Respected football coach Rishadu Shedu has scoffed at the mooted registration of a parallel coaches’ body to rival the Kenya Football Coaches Association (Kefoca). Shedu, who has more than 30 years of coaching experience, said it is ill-advised for a section of the coaching fraternity to form another umbrella group instead of strengthening the already existing body. “I think it is selfish for coaches to form another group when there already exists one that has national structures. The best thing that I think should have been done is for us coaches to identify the weakness in Kefoca and make necessary adjustments. An election is due and I strongly believe those who hope to change the management of coaches affairs should have sought positions in Kefoca or bring suggestions for improvements as members,” Shedu said. The former KCB and Ulinzi Stars tactician, who is now in charge of women Premier League outfit Makolanders, reckoned that a strong body with powers to discipline wayward coaching staff is the best way to end the perennial managerial changes among clubs occasioned by underhand tactics by rival coaches. “There is a lot of infighting among coaches even the ones in the same technical bench,” revealed the veteran coach. “That is why alleged cased of sabotage are always rife. But if we had a strong union if coaches we would propose for coaches, for example, to be allowed to come in with their own staff as it happens in many European leagues. This will ensure that if a club is underperforming then the head coach and his technical officials all go home. This will end cases of sabotage and bring harmony in the technical bench, ” suggested Shedu. It is alleged that a section of ‘elite coaches’ among them Twahir Muhhidin are behind a coaches’ body called Kenya National Football Coaches Association (Kenfoca). According to Muhiddin,  the new idea of forming the new body started from a fundraising group for the funeral expenses of the late coach Henry Omino, where contributors all of whom, were the coaches, suggested that a new outfit that is responsive to their needs be registered. “Coaches felt that the current body was not accountable to them and wanted a coaches union that is focused and driven by members. The idea to start Kenfoca was supported by the majority with all levels from the grassroots to the elite coaches giving approval.” “I think having this new body registered will improve the performance of Kefoca because competition breeds better performances,” Muhiddin explained. Kenfoca, however, is yet to be registered as government offices are currently out of bounds with most employees working from home in one of the directives to combat the spread of coronavirus.