Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has asked the government to consider releasing more inmates to prevent the spread of coronavirus in prisons. The Ford Kenya party leader said inmates serving more than six months, but jailed for a year or less for petty offences should also be released. “The country should dread the moment that prisons will be the epicentre of the disease,” he said. Over 4800 inmates serving jail sentences of less than six months have been released by the High Court following orders of Chief Justice David Maraga. However, crimes involving the disregard of directives to combat the Covid-19 are considered serious offences and courts have been asked to convene to hear them. Countries across the globe hit hard by the disease have released inmates to prevent the spread of the virus in prisons. On Thursday, Indonesia’s Justice and Human Rights Ministry passed a decree allowing the release of 30,000 prisoners, including juvenile delinquents, to avoid infections in the country’s overcrowded jails. The ministerial decree allowed only petty criminals to be released, not inmates convicted of more serious crimes. The country did not release prisoners convicted for corruption, illegal logging, terrorism, drug crimes, gross human rights crimes or transnational organised crimes. People sentenced to between five and 10 years for drug use who have served at least two-thirds of their sentence are also being released. In Iran, authorities on Wednesday said the country will temporarily free 54,000 prisoners to control the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. Wetang’ula hailed Kenyan authorities for measures to prevent the spread of the virus in prisons but said more needs to be done. He said additional efforts should also be made to cushion ordinary Kenyans from the adverse effects of the pandemic. “If there are plans to import maize, it should not be a long process as it has always been,” he pointed out. He said the government should first buy maize from local farmers before it imports the cereal. “Farmers in Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and other breadbasket regions of the country have huge stocks of maize. Before we import maize, we must first buy the cereal from local farmers to boost them economically,” he said. Speaking at a press briefing at his office in Nairobi, Wetang’ula further asked the government to also consider buying other types of food crops from local farmers. “Food is not cereals alone. The government can buy cassavas, sweet potatoes, bananas and arrowroots to distribute to areas facing food shortages brought about by the pandemic,” he said. He further asked the government to come up with a programme to protect health workers who are at the frontline battling the virus. “Over 60 doctors have died in Italy. The government should come up with a programme to protect our medics,” he said. (edited by o. owino)