The Siaya priest alleged to have spread Covid-19 when he jetted back from Italy last month has been detained for two more days. Father Richard Oduor was arraigned on Tuesday. He had been in custody since last Thursday after recovering from the virus. Oduor was nabbed by police after being discharged from Kenyatta National Hospital where he had been receiving treatment after earlier testing positive for the coronavirus. The prosecution asked the court to remand him for five days to allow the police to complete investigations. However, magistrate Martha Nanzushi allowed them to detain him for two more days at the Kileleshwa police station. The case will be mentioned on Thursday. The state says Oduor is suspected to have had the virus when he arrived in Kenya from Italy. He travelled to Kisumu and Siaya, interacting with people. Investigating officer John Mmasi said Oduor faces serious charges for causing a serious threat to the health of several residents of a number of towns. “My team of investigators and I are yet to complete the investigations because of the Easter and the weekend that hindered us from obtaining information and statements from relevant offices,” Mmasi said. Mmasi said they need statements from several priests and nuns at the Utawala and Ukwala parishes where Fr Uduor spent several nights before he was admitted to Mbagathi Hospital and later KNH. The state narrated the suspect’s movements from the day he returned to the country to the day he was admitted to Mbagathi. The court heard that he arrived in Kenya on March 12 from Italy and went to Utawala Catholic Parish, the next day he left Nairobi for Kisumu by public means and on arrival, he went to a guest house within Milimani in Kisumu. “On March 14, he went to Ugenya and later to his parents' home in Ambira within Siaya county, later he proceeded to Sega Parish where he spent two nights,” the affidavit reads. Police further claim that on March 16, he went back to his parents' home and later boarded a bus and alighted at the Kisumu International Airport where he boarded a Jambojet plane to JKIA. “Upon arrival at JKIA, he went to Utawala where he stayed until March 20 when he proceeded to a clinic on Eastern Bypass where he was referred to Mbagathi,” police said. It is said that tests at Mbagathi returned positive results for the virus on March 21 and he was isolated and put on medication. “On March 4 and 7 two separate Covid-19 tests were conducted and he was found negative and was subsequently discharged from KNH,” the court heard. However, the priest, through his lawyer, opposed his detention, arguing that he can't influence any witnesses because he can't travel to Kisumu given the containment order by the President. Father Oduor said five days is like punishing him and amounts to a violation of his rights. His lawyer said the offence should not warrant any confinement in police custody.