Many families in the Central region have been displaced and some have lost their livelihoods as a result of the ongoing downpours that continue to wreak havoc. Kenya Red Cross Society Central regional manager Gitonga Mugambi said some 44 families have been affected by floods in Lamuria area in Kieni West, Nyeri county, with about 30 families being displaced. Their houses were wrecked. Mugambi said the measures put in place to fight Covid-19 have hampered relief efforts targetting the victims. "With the Covid-19 pandemic, we are discouraging people from camping anywhere and so even those who have been displaced are integrated by the community,” he said. Speaking to the Star on Saturday, Mugambi said this is to avoid crowding, which may lead to the spread of the coronavirus. He said the society is also closely monitoring Kigathe village in Mukurwe-ini, which has experienced landslides in the past as there are cracks are already. In Murang’a, about 54 families have left their homes and integrated into the community following floods. Seven incidents of landslides have also been reported in the county. They have left more than 2,000 farms and vegetation in ruins. Many residents have also lost their livelihoods. In Kiambu, some 37 families have been displaced in Ruiru. As a result of the foregoing, Mugambi urged residents to move to safe grounds. "This is because these are the same people who are always affected whenever it rains. I am advising them, now that the weatherman has advised that we shall have heavy rains for the next two weeks, to move to safe grounds,” he said. In Murang’a, people should be wary of landslides as there are so many cracks in the area such that if the rains continue, they may cause more havoc and loss of lives, he added. Fortunately, no life has been lost thus far, he said. Mugambi said there might be cases of flooding in Kirinyaga county around Barichu and Mwea areas and Kilimambogo in Kiambu. “We are also monitoring floods in Kilimambogo in Thika, Kiambu county, Mikinduri and Maua in Meru county and the lower part of Mbeere in Embu county because of the Seven Folks Dams,” he said. If the dams break their banks, they may affect people downstream, including those in the lower part of Mbeere, Kitui, Tana River and Garissa. The dams have been full for the past week. “Kengen had indicated that if it rains heavily on Saturday and Sunday, they might break their banks. So we are on the lookout,” he said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)