A landlord in Kakamega has been ordered to pay a former employee about Sh100,000 in terminal benefits after he fell sick while in his employment and left without pay. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Mathews Nduma found that Paul Mbwabi, who was a caretaker and a watchman, was not paid any terminal benefits upon leaving the employment of Samuel Muhati. In a judgment delivered on April 16, the judge said Mbwabi was entitled to payment of underpayments and in lieu of untaken rest days and leave days for a period of three years. He said the claims that accrued beyond the period of three years from the date of filing the suit were time-barred. The court awarded Mbwabi Sh71,113, being service pay for the period served. “In the final analysis judgment is entered in favour of the claimant against the respondent as follows: Underpayments for the last three years of service, to be calculated, payment in lieu of leave days for three years in the sum of Sh36,663, payment in lieu of one rest day per week for the last three years to be calculated and service pay in the sum of Sh71,113,” Nduma ruled. Mbwabi argued he was verbally employed by Muhati on October 11, 2010, as a night watchman and a caretaker. He said he took care of Muhat's rental houses and lived in one of them. Mbwabi said he was stationed at the gate every night and during the day he worked as a caretaker. Mbwabi told the court that he was promised at least the minimum wage for a watchman but Muhati refused to provide an employment contract. He said his employer did not even provide written lease agreements to his tenants. “The claimant worked continuously until he fell ill and left voluntarily on January 29, 2016.  The dirty sewage water that leaked in Muhati’s plot caused his illness,” the judgment reads. Mbwabi said as caretaker he was tasked to clear the sewage until repairs were done. He said the leakage lasted for about a month and he cleared it without gloves and gumboots. Muhati took him to hospital and paid the bills but he deducted his salary for the days he was sick. Mbwabi argued that he was not given a rest day weekly, he was not a member of any pension scheme and was not paid service pay for the days he worked. He was paid Sh3,000 per month, which was an underpayment for a night watchman and caretaker. In his defence, Muhati said Mbwabi is his uncle and was his tenant. He said he did not employ Mbwabi. Muhati also denied that Mbwabi got sick while working for him. He said he did not pay Mbwabi any salary but gave him food and clothing from time to time. During cross-examination, Muhati said Mbwabi lived in one of his rentals for about five-and-a-half years. He said Mbwabi was sick when he came from Nairobi and was taken home by his family members in 2016. Muhati said he had about 13 rental houses and each was rented out for Sh9,000 to Sh10,000 a month but he did not employ anyone at the plot. He also said he did not give written letters to his tenants. Ben Muhinya, a chief in Kakamega county, said he had tried to reconcile Mbwabi and Muhati but failed. He told the court Mbwabi was weak and used a walking stick since he had a serious wound on the leg. Muhinya said he was not aware of the relationship between them. The court, while making its decision, considered a report dated March 1, 2017, from the Ministry of Labour following a conciliation process. In particular, the court observed the findings by the County Labour Officer and the recommendations made. The officer found that Mbwabi had worked for Muhati and was not paid terminal benefits, including salary arrear, accrued leave, rest days and public holidays and service gratuity. The officer recommended that the respondent pay the terminal benefits to the claimant. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya