A section of leaders from Rabai on Saturday defended Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi against accusations he intentionally infected residents with coronavirus. Saburi tested positive for the virus but has since recovered after he was forcefully quarantined and treated. He had, however, failed to voluntary self-quarantine upon arrival back to Kenya on March 6 after an official trip to Germany. He instead attended county cabinet meetings, funerals and other social gatherings, leading to fears he might have infected hundreds of Kilifi residents. He was arrested on Friday by DCI sleuths after he was discharged from the Coast General Hospital Isolation Centre. He is being held at Port police station in Mombasa awaiting arraignment on Monday. On Saturday, Rabai opinion leader Philip Mbaji led other leaders in calling for calm among Rabai and Kilifi residents, saying Saburi has already been punished enough. Speaking in Rabai, Mbaji said Saburi, who hails from the area, has already shown remorse and was subjected to the public court which has vilified him, causing him untold psychological trauma. “The boy has suffered enough. He is human and made a mistake, for which he has already apologised and asked for forgiveness,” Mbaji said. Last month, the DG apologised for his action. He said he complied with the government directive of seeking medical attention. “I went to Mombasa Hospital and was given a clean bill of health. After three days I went to my usual duties. I had no ill intentions,” he said. Those who break quarantine rules after testing positive for coronavirus risk a Sh30,000 fine or a maximum of three years in jail or both. Mbaji said Rabai and Kilifi residents should not use "someone’s humanly mistake to put him down or kill their political careers". Kilifi MCAs had vowed to impeach the deputy governor. “This talk of impeachment is unnecessary. Let him and other leaders complete their terms and in 2022 there will be an opportunity for all to vie for whatever seats they want,” Mbaji said. Maendeleo ya Wanawake Rabai subcounty chair Kupata Mvoi said Saburi’s political enemies are now taking advantage of his woes to try and finish him politically using bloggers and other "keyboard warriors". “Saburi has served Kilifi well and deserves forgiveness for his one blunder,” Kupata said. She said Saburi is Rabai’s son and deserves forgiveness for all the good he has done for Kilifi people. Coast Elders Council coordinator Willy Tsaka said a section of leaders in Kilifi are wolves in sheep's skin and are now trying to kill Saburi's political career using his woes. “This is a time to unite and fight the coronavirus and not any individual. We should impeach the coronavirus and not Saburi,” said Tsaka. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Thursday declared the DG had recovered from COVID-19 but said he will have to face the law for refusing to self-quarantine upon return from an official trip to Germany on March 7.