Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa is entangled in a feud over an Sh11 million land deal after the owner claims she improperly transferred the property to herself without his knowledge. Through his lawyer Evans Oruenjo of Orwenjo Kibet and Khalid Advocates, Devshi claims the Malindi lawmaker only paid Sh6.5 million and declined to pay the remaining Sh4.5 million due on July 15, 2018, under the agreement. According to the agreement, dated April 16, 2018, Aisha bought the land,  GEDE/MIJIMBONI/755 measuring 5.2 hectares for Sh11 million and was to pay the balance in two instalments of Sh5.5 million each. According to demand letter to the MP – seen by the Star – she only paid Sh 6.5 million and declined to make the remaining payments. During the period of transactions, the land's title deed was deposited with her advocate for safekeeping. It is from here, Devshi claims, that the land was transferred without his approval. Devshi first reported the alteration at Malindi police station and then to the Director of Criminal Investigation, Land Fraud Unit. “For two years you have refused and ignored demands to make payments of the balance being Sh4.5 million and now interest has accrued to Sh1,080,000,” read the March 27, 2020 demand letter copied to DCI. “Our client believes that you deliberately refused to pay the full purchase price despite transferring the property in your favour without his approval. The land title deed was deposited to your Advocate for safekeeping until completion date but you went ahead to transfer the property without completing the transaction.” Contacted, Aisha dismissed the alleged improper land transfer claims saying it is not possible to transfer without the owner first approving the transaction. “How can a transfer of a title deed be done at the land board without the consent of the first owner? Get your facts right, enquires about this to the relevant authorities e.g. the Land Board,” she said. Devshi through his lawyers wants Aisha to settle the remaining balance within one week or he says he will sue her to repossess the prime land. The letter read, “...unless we receive the said sum, within seven days of [this date] ... together with our debt collection fees of Sh837,000, our peremptory instructions are to institute legal proceedings against yourselves without any further recourse to yourselves whatsoever for the recovery of the said amount.” (Edited by V. Graham)