A mother who stopped breastfeeding her child after six months and engaged in extramarital affairs has lost custody of her children to her husband. Judge T Cherere said the trial court had rightfully considered that it was in the best interest of the children to grant the actual and physical custody to the man. She said the woman had by her conduct disentitled herself from exercising her natural right to nurturing the children. Judge Cherere's decision arose out of an appeal filed by the woman to challenge an earlier decision by a magistrate's court. “The trial court, after considering the evidence by both parties, found as a fact that the appellant (woman) had stopped breastfeeding the younger child at six months and had taken to being absent from the children and engaging in extramarital affairs," she said. "The court after considering the children officer’s report dated 07.02.18 also found that although the respondent’s (man's) job involved travelling, the children were well taken care of by the respondent’s second wife." On January 23, 2019, a magistrate's court gave the man legal custody of his two children, aged five and 1.5, and allowed the mother to have unlimited access during weekends and school holidays. Aggrieved, however, the woman appealed against the decision. In her suit papers, she said the court gave custody against the interest of the children. She said they started cohabiting in 2017 and were blessed with two children. The man said the woman stopped breastfeeding the younger child when it was six months old and left their matrimonial home in May 2017, leaving the children under his care. He accused her of having extramarital affairs and often going on safari, leaving the children behind under his and their house girl's care. The woman conceded that she stopped breastfeeding the child at six months but added that this was only after she began taking PEP when she was pricked by a pin that had also pricked the house girl, who, she said, was HIV-positive. She also admitted that she left her matrimonial home in May 2017. She, however, took the view that the children ought to have been placed under actual and physical custody of their mother. But the man said he had established exceptional circumstances that disentitled the woman from actual custody for the reason that she had not shown that she had their interest at heart. Edited by F'Orieny