The Kiambu government will not initiate new projects due to focus shift on the fight against the coronavirus, Governor James Nyoro has said. Only ongoing projects such as markets, health facilities and roads will be prioritised and completed. Nyoro spoke on Tuesday during the swearing-in of nine county executive members vetted and approved by the county assembly last week. The new brooms are Wilson Kang’ethe (Finance and Economic Planning), Margaret Waithera (Public Service and Administration), James Mitambo (Lands, Housing, Physical Planning and Urban Development), David Kuria (Water, Environment, Energy and Natural Resources). The others are Mary Kamau (Education, Gender, Culture and Social Services), Joseph Kamau (Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries), Kigo Njenga (Trade, Tourism, Cooperatives and Enterprise Development), Joseph Murega (Health) and Samuel Kimani (Roads, Transport and Public Works). Eric Kiriko, who was recently appointed head of the Youth docket is yet to be vetted. Deputy Governor nominee Joyce Ngugi was also not sworn in as there was no High Court judge to perform the duty. But Nyoro said he has reached out to the Judiciary and the deputy governor will be sworn in once a judge is available. The governor told the departmental heads to utilise their budgets prudently and to ensure that the ongoing projects are completed. “We are two months away from the end of this financial year and yet a lot remains to be done. As heads of the respective departments and county executive committee members, you need to keenly look at your departments' budgets and ensure no cash is returned to the National Treasury over non-absorption,” he said. Nyoro cautioned them not to engage in unplanned expenditures. He told the new CECs to hit the ground running and work cordially with other county staff to enhance service delivery. "I expect high levels of integrity, professionalism, and a high sense of duty, purpose and commitment to make the Kiambu county government deliver services to our people,” Nyoro said. Edited by A.N