It was an event of solemnity, social distancing and face masks on Tuesday as Catholic Archbishop Ndingi Mwana a’Nzeki was eulogised as a kind person who fought stubbornly for truth and justice. Only about 100 people attended. During the burial service presided over by Archbishop of Nairobi Diocese John Cardinal Njue, Mwana a’Nzeki was also remembered for his patriotism and piety. The 'justice priest' died on March 31 aged 89. He was also famous for opposing the use of condoms and artificial contraception. Burial was in a crypt at Holy Family Basilica. President Uhuru Kenyatta said, "Archbishop Emeritus’ life is a demonstration that in a world of challenges someone can rise to do the will of God and work for those in the society." His address was read by Kennedy Kihara from the Office of the President. Mwana a’Nzeki, head of the Catholic Church in Kenya for a decade, was notable for his calmness but his outspokenness on issues affecting Kenyans. He denounced the provincial administration’s role in the 1992 tribal clashes, opposed Kanu's mlolongo voting system and moulded some of the top-performing schools in Kenya. “As the Education secretary, the Archbishop fought for the addition of A-Level classes at Mang’u and Loreto High Schools. He once stubbornly refused to leave the Ministry of Education offices until these schools were granted A-Level classes,” Fr Lawrence Njoroge said. He retired from the helm of the Catholic Church in 2007, having led the church through some of the most turbulent times in the country. Those in attendance included the archbishop, bishops, family members, government officials and politicians. Present were Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula, Chief Justice David Maraga, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Defence CS Monica Juma and Central Bank of Kenya Governor Patrick Njoroge, among others. President Uhuru Kenyatta had planned to address the mourners via video link but for a technological hitch. He promised he would dedicate a day to celebrate Mwana a’Nzeki’s life once the coronavirus pandemic is over. Some bishops were unable to attend the funeral due to the newest Covid-19 measures, which ban movement in or out of Nairobi for 21 days. “Not all of us are here. We were expecting more bishops but regulations prevented many of them from coming for this event,” Cardinal Njue said. During the celebration of the Eucharist, everyone was required to wash their hands before picking the sacrament from a plate at a table near the altar. Only a few bishops and Njue were first allowed into the crypt where the light brown coffin was placed in a rectangular tomb next to that of former Archbishop John Njenga. Other bishops, priests and nuns then paid their last respects by sprinkling soil inside the tomb before family members did the same. “May our brother Ndingi Mwana a’Nzeki sleep here in peace until the day you awaken him to your glory,” Cardinal Njue said as he administered the final rites. Those words marked the end of a two-hour ceremony, which was another reminder of how Covid-19 pandemic has radically altered Kenyans’ way of life. In other times it would have gone on for hours with grand speechifying and thousands would have attended. Maybe the archbishop would have appreciated the simplicity of his send-off.