Seven people were missing and feared dead while another 25 were injured after floods and mudslides hit Chesogon area and villages along the West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties on Saturday night. Robert Katina from the Red Cross said more might have died because many other people are still missing in affected villages in the region. Chesogon Police post was among other installations that was swept away by the floods. Officer In charge Inspector Halkano Godana said the station has 18 officers but nine of them were on duty at the time of the incident and only one of them identified as Onesmus Ngaira remains unaccounted for. "The state of rifles and ammunition is unknown because all buildings at the police post are destroyed by mudslides", he said. Eight officers who escaped were taken to safer areas. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna said a team had been dispatched to the area to survey the situation. "The county government and local administration and the Red Cross are already on site," he said in a statment on Sunday. Chepareria and Lomut rivers were flooded and it is feared that many people including traders at Chesogon market may have been swept away. Governor John Lonyangapuo visited some of the affected areas and led interventions by the West Pokot county government. "We are using all means possible to trace and rescue those who are still trapped in the affected villages," the governor said. He said they were working with emergency response teams from the national government. Red Cross staff and those from the government have been deployed in the area to help in rescue and also assess the situation. An estimated 50 homes were also swept away. Senior Chief Chemal Benjamin said that the Chesogon market had over 200 people when the incident occurred. He said the rains began at 3pm on Saturday. When the mudslides occurred on the Marakwet side, the residents raised alarm and asked people on the lower side of Chesegon to escape. He said some locals managed to run away but some we trapped. He said up to seven people were still missing and they  don't know exact number of those dead since a rescue mission is still going on. "In total those who sustained minor injuries are over 25 people and they are nursing injuries at local dispensaries," the chief said. Among the injured were four police officers. Kitum Mike, who is a businessman, at the market said he is counting losses after his hotel, shop and animals were swept away. "I'm happy I escaped but  don't know where I will begin from. The government should intervene and help us," Kitum said. Katina said that they are waiting for more information from officers who have been dispatched to various affected areas to asses the situation. “Our staff are on the ground and we will be able to know  the number of people affected and those who need help,” he said. He said main bridges connecting the markets from Sigor are flooded and his officers were accessing the market from Kainuk in Turkana county. “Chepera and Lomut bridges are flooded and Red Cross officials are connecting to the village through Kainuk,” he said. The market, the police post and schools have been washed away by flooded rivers following the heavy rains. Traders at Chesogon  market are counting losses after of their premises were flooded. “We fear that many people may have been trapped in their shops,” said Tito Lopurian, a resident. West pokot county commissioner Apollo Okello led a county security team to the scene of the incident to assess the situation. “I'm on my way to the scene of incident I will be able to give clear report once am on the ground,” he said. Last year heavy rains hit the county leading to landslides that left over 50 people dead and property worth millions of shillings destroyed.