KCB and Ecobank Kenya Limited on Wednesday contributed to fight the spread and impact of coronavirus in Kenya. KCB gave Sh150 million, while Ecobank contributed Sh10 million. This follows government appeal to individuals, corporate entities and institutions to support the country fight the pandemic. The donations will be channeled through the recently formed Covid-19 Emergency Response fund. "As part of the community, we are happy to support the government's call for all of us to unite in containing a pandemic that continues to ravage our society. We believe that our contribution will go a long way in supporting the purchase of the much needed medical facilities and crucial equipment necessary for the containment of this disease," Ecobank MD Cheikh Travaly said. He lauded efforts by the government, emergency response teams and all frontline staff across the country working hard to prevent the spread of the virus. KCB group CEO Joshua Oigar said the bank's contribution is directed towards cushioning vulnerable Kenyans who have been affected by the pandemic. “We stand with the nation to help limit the spread of the virus and ease the related economic hardships faced by the communities in which we operate,”   Oigara said. “This pandemic is a new test of our collective strength and we must work together to address it. We are committed to playing our part to support this initiative and complement the Government’s effort in empowering the most vulnerable in our midst”. On Tuesday, the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC) announced it's contribution of Sh1.27 million towards the same course. Through a letter addressed to the Chairperson of the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund Board, Jane Karuku, the commission reiterated it's commitment to supporting the nation in fighting the pandemic. "The commission is pleased to report that it has managed to collect a total of Sh1,272,359 and the said money banked in the Covid-19 Emergency Response fund CBK account," the commission's CEO Marjan Hussein Marjan said in the letter dated April 9.