Garissa MCAs are planning to petition the Senate to interrogate Energy CS Charles Keter over frequent flooding in the county and in neighbouring Tana River. The ward representatives say recurring flooding is caused by Kenya Electricity Generating Company that often releases water from their dams. Flooding in Garissa and Tana River is often caused by heavy rains in the uplands and River Tana bursting its banks. Excess water from Masinga Dam also causes flooding downstream when released. The MCAs said River Tana has burst its banks for the third time in 24 months partly because of the rains but mainly because of the disposal of excessive waters from the dams into the river. Kengen has been blamed for releasing the waters. The floods have led to the loss of lives, displacement of families, and destruction of property. The Red Cross says there are about 8,000 families currently affected by flooding in Garissa in Mororo and Madogo both in Tana River county. Garissa MCAs from the affected areas said they want the Senate to summon Keter to answer to the accusations against Kengen. Daud Adhen (Danyere), Hassan Omar (Nanighi) and Abdirizack Ismail (Galbet) said they will formally write to the Senate. “As an assembly, we will petition the Senate because we cannot directly engage the CS. We will petition the Senate to grill him on our behalf and ask him the hard questions on why our people keep on suffering year in year out on mistakes that are not of their own making,” Ismail said. Galbet is the worst affected ward with more than 5,000 families displaced. Ismail said they were tired of singing the same song to the government. 'it is now time for a permanent solution."   Adhen said the government should assess the damages caused with a view to compensating victims. “Every time it rains and KenGen releases waters it has become a routine where they tell our people to move to higher ground. The state knows that residents have farms along the river where they plant fruits and vegetables. The question is how do you move your farm to higher grounds? What happens to your investment? Danyere farmer Mohamed Abdi said that he was already counting loses after his 10-acre banana plantation was submerged in floodwaters. “I also have a five-acre piece of land where I have planted watermelons which were almost ready for harvest but is now destroyed,” he said.  Edited by P.O