President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Kenyans to take all measures put in place to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic seriously. Uhuru on Monday said decisions taken by individual people will play a key role in winning the war. He said, as a result, members of the public have been advised to wear face masks whilst in public places "It is in moments like this that the character of a people and the destiny of a nation are clarified. If we act like the fingers folded into a fist, we will stop the damage this pandemic would cause," he said. He added, "Our greatness will not be revealed by soldiers in uniform this time.  It will show in the sacrifices we each make to protect one another. Wearing your mask and washing your hands will save lives". Uhuru said the bravery and dedication of medical personnel, should this pandemic continue to escalate, will demonstrate the country's mettle. He said it is time for all Kenyans to turn out, for the duration of this global pandemic. "Wearing a mask when outside the home, Cleaning your hands with soap for at least 20 seconds several times a day, avoiding all areas with people who will be closer to you than 1.5 meters, heeding and complying with government directives and taking extra care not to expose those who are over 58 Years and have chronic ailments is all we need to defeat this enemy,'  he said. He said, as a result, there will be thousands of tailors all over the country who will also look to make masks. "The Ministry of Health, Ministry of Industry & Trade should ensure that these tailors are provided the right information through the National Government Administrative Officers on the materials required and the proper method of piecing the fabrics together to make the face masks," he said. He added, "The success will need you as individual citizens to comply with the different directives and us as a people to be united. This virus is in nearly all countries and territories on the Globe.  It does not care about your religion, the colour of your skin or the size of your wallet". Uhuru said the virus is not infecting members of one tribe while staying away from another. "Defeating it will require us to put aside our usual differences and to face this enemy standing side by side. Our unity is demonstrated by each Kenyan going the extra mile to ensure that our personal conduct does not endanger others," Uhuru said. "Make no mistake, we are at war and we must win. I recognise the good work being done by our Ministry of Health and all the other Government Ministries and Departments in this fight.  I believe that we must escalate our response even more to safeguard the nation," he added. "I have faith in all Kenyans, we have struggled in pain and tears to be there for our families and with such in mind, we can all fight this pandemic". Uhuru said the COVID-19  virus is unforgiving and its growth, if not arrested, can be damaging. "This is an enemy that can convince you that life can continue as normal but if not contained, it can result in unprecedented pressure to medical facilities and great loss of life," Uhuru said. He said as the President, he will go to any lawful length to respond to the pandemic. So far Kenya has a total of 158 confirmed COVID-19 cases with six people left dead. So far 4,277 people have been tested. The President declared the cessation of movement in Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa Counties for 21 days. The Nairobi directive starts today (Monday) at 7 pm while that of the other counties will begin from Wednesday. Uhuru said a majority of people who have contracted the disease are Nairobi residents, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties.