Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea has been stopped from personally distributing anti-Covid-19 items. On Thursday when he launched the drive, he distributed sanitiser, face masks and thermal guns at Ngage, Rurii, Mikinduri, Mulika, Miciimikuru, Kiolo, Giithu and Kiguchwa markets. The lawmaker had planned to traverse Charuru, Mbaranga, Karama, Lanyiruu, Muriri, Lailuba Maburwa and other markets but the strategy hit a snag after reports that such initiatives were attracting crowds, hence risking the lives of people and defeating their purpose. On Thursday, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi was criticised for holding a rally in Maua town, hence violating the Ministry of Health social distancing rules. The county chief, however, blamed his rivals for hiring goons to crowd the meeting to portray him in a bad light. Hence, in light of the concerns, the Covid-19 council, led by Tigania East deputy county commissioner and public health officials, advised Kabeabea to instead distribute through national and county officials. “I've started distributing 150,000 face masks, 50 thermal guns to all our markets for quick screening and 50,000 bottles of hand sanitiser. We've consulted widely with the County Covid-19 Council regarding the Ministry of Health directives and the manner in which our people behave during the distribution of protective items... We arrived at a decision the distribution be spearheaded by Nyumba Kumi and village managers,” Kabeabea said. He said in 1918 Spanish flu killed 50 million people worldwide and so Kenyans should maintain discipline, cooperate and adhere to health guidelines to curb the virus. He urged the police to stop arresting constituents and putting them into forced quarantine before the distribution drive is completed. Kabeabea dismissed claims by his political rivals that he has been suffering from the coronavirus disease, hence his disappearance from the limelight for many days. "Even if I was sick, many people are recovering from the global pandemic. Those who wish others bad health [should know] it will turn against them. It will be back to the sender," he said. "I appeal to residents to wash their hands, wear masks and observe good hygiene and social distancing to aid the fight against this virus, which is bestriding superpowers such as America like a colossus. There is confusion in the World."