As a young golfer, one of his dreams was to qualify and play at the British Open (The Open Championship), which is one of the world’s four majors alongside the PGA Championship, Masters and US Open. But this never came to fruition for Windsor Golf Hotel & Country Club’s Rizwan Charania who grew up to become Kenya’s leading golfer with a credible five Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) titles to his credit. Today, Charania spends most of his time teaching golf and indeed grooming youngsters at his GoGolf Academy which has produced one of the country’s most talented youngster in the name of Taimur Malik. But with two career cuts that he made at the Kenya Open (Challenge Tour) and Sunshine Tour, Charania believes he can produce world-class talent capable of making it up for his ambitions to play in the majors. “I think it’s any pro’s dream to play in the majors. But the reality is that not everyone gets that opportunity to do so. However, I believe Kenyans can break into gigantic tours of golf if only we can lay the much-needed emphasis on junior golf,” added Charania, who is the head pro at GoGolf Academy at Windsor. “As a playing pro, I would have liked to have had more exposure when I was younger. But no regrets! Based on resources and experience so far, I can say I’m pleased. As a teacher, I think I have a good experience now and I continue to learn every day.” To run his academy, Charania leverages more on technology which he believes is a quicker and efficient way of imparting valuable knowledge to the younger generation. “We are trying to gain a following on YouTube through instructional videos, club reviews and custom fitting. This way, potential clients can see first-hand what we are capable of and give them a taster upon making a decision, be it for a lesson or equipment advice,” he says. Charania also uses the SkyTrak simulator (a computerised shooting range) which he believes has helped him with capturing valuable data.  “To help junior players get fitted  in clubs, we check if they are using the right equipment and we use it for social events as we have a pop-up driving range.” Charania’s Academy has now complimented GoGolf Kenya and rebranded. “We provide golf solutions for playing rounds with our virtual membership as well as introduce new golfers through our packages. Our intention is to set up another training facility this year. So far, we have over 50 active members. My top junior student is Taimur Malik who is now based in South Africa. I have a few names coming up but most of them are still below 11 years. These are my long term projects. Taimur has represented Windsor and Muthaiga in a number of Tannahill Easter Shield tournaments as well as the Kenya national team. Usually, girls develop a little faster than boys so we will start to see the former excel from about 14 years and the boys from around 15 or 16. Age groups range from 4 years upwards,” Charania, who served for two years as chairman of Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK), added. Charania played for Kenya as a junior, graduated to senior ranks before turning pro in 2005. “My amateur record I think was satisfactory though I would have liked more wins. But representing Kenya for sure was a great achievement. I have had about three or four stints in Europe on various mini-tours including Challenge Tour.” Qualifying with Team Kenya to the World Junior Team Championship in Japan in 2001 was Charania’s biggest achievement on amateur ranks. “The qualifiers for the Japan event were held here in Kenya and South Africa had already qualified as they won it the previous year and therefore Africa was given one more spot. There were seven teams seeking the sole qualification spot and South African team came for competition practice and their team comprised of Louis Oosthuizen, Charl Schwartzel and Richard Sterne. Going into the last day, it was very tight between Kenya and Zimbabwe. In the end, I know we won by only one shot as a team and the big turning point was Bhavnish Chandaria making a hole in one on hole 13 at Muthaiga.” Charania’s hobbies are watching sports on pay-TV channels, working out, cooking and holidays. “I like anything outdoor. But when I’m not golfing or teaching golf, I’m doing administrative work for my company or studying.” As a player, the Windsor affiliated pro has been keeping track of his swing changes from his foreign-based coach. This, he does in the run-up to big events like Sunshine Tour’s KCB Karen Masters and Kenya Open. He has a penchant for video technology which he uses to perfect some facets of his swing that should usually come in handy in play. “I constantly try to improve on my swing which is now closer to where I want it to be for now. I also work on my fitness which I believe is of utmost importance in a playing situation.” Peter Tupling, who is based in the UK has been imparting valuable experience to Charania with online video corrections on how to up his short and long game. “We rarely meet but we exchange ideas online. From here, we work via video feed and he imparts lots of skills. I see him a couple of times a year—either I go there or he comes here. He has been my mentor for over 10 years and I’m very appreciative,” Charania said. Asked about his target for the future, Charania, who won a round of the Safari Tour last year, went said: “I always want to play well. I’m don’t put any pressure on myself but just to trust the changes and see how it holds up under pressure.” Like the world-beating YouTube athlete Julius Yego, Charania believes online videos can catapult a player’s game to desirable heights. “Yes, it’s been a very important aspect of my improvement as a teaching pro as well as a player. GoGolf is different golf IT venture,  where we have created a virtual membership for golfers to enjoy flexibility and choice. We have partnered with five clubs and offer great rates to play and I run the GoGolf with my brother. GoGolf ran a simulator set up at previous Kenya Open and Karen Masters events where onlookers and club members savoured the rare opportunity to try out their shooting skills on a computerised system. The system shows critical information from club speed to launch angles to spin rates. A great tool to fit clubs and also to understand your ball flights and distances with different clubs,” he said. “In this day and age, you cannot shy away from technology, instead embrace it and this is one of the tactics I’m using to bolster my game and my business.”   HIGHLIGHTS February 2019: Wins Windsor leg of Safari Tour at Windsor August 2018:  Led team of Said Bajaber, Justin Kaburu and Reaz Alibhai to win Safari Tour Pro-Am at Nyali March 2018: Made the Kenya Open cut alongside Mohit Mediratta of Sigona July 2018: Made the cut at the KCB Karen Masters March 2017: Made the Kenya Open cut June 2012: emerged overall winner of the fifth leg of 2012 KCB Advantage Corporate Banking in Nakuru 