  More health officials will be posted to the Tana Bridge police barrier in Garissa to enhance and speed up the screening of those entering and leaving Northeastern region. Reginal commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana on Saturday said the bridge is the main entrance to the region and cannot be managed by a single health officer. “I was shocked to find only one public health official with a thermo gun screening the passengers. Given the number of vehicles entering and leaving the region, one person is not enough,” Ndalana said. He spoke after touring the roadblock and the isolation centre at the Garissa Level 5 Hospital in Garissa town. “We talked and agreed with cunty health officials that enough officers be posted to ensure all persons leaving and entering the region are properly screened,” he said. The administrator said the screening will be relocated to a more spacious area to allow health officials to screen more vehicles and to decongest traffic at the Tana Bridge barrier. Most of those screened at the checkpoint are passengers and those in trucks from areas bordering Somalia. Ndalana asked police officers manning the barrier to prioritise their own safety. “Some of our officers’ lean on the vehicles and talk close to passengers who are not wearing masks. They are likely to contract the disease,” he said. He said he was satisfied with the level of preparedness at the Garissa Referral Hospital isolation centre. The centre has 10 wards. The ICU recently set aside has six more beds for Covid-19 patients. So far Garissa county has not reported any case of coronavirus. "However, we are worried that Mandera has six cases," Ndalana said. Two students who travelled from Kilifi county by bus to Mandera via Nairobi, Mwingi, Garissa early this month tested positive for the virus. The other four cases had contact with the first two. They have all been put in isolation and contacts quarantined. Ndalana directed police officers that all buses entering the region should be thoroughly inspected to avoid a similar scenario. “Police are under strict instructions to ensure that no public vehicles from the four counties of Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale and Nairobi are allowed into the region,” Ndalana said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 6 ordered a cessation of movement in and out of the four counties because they are so far the virus hotspots. The move was meant to contain movement and curb possible spread. Ndalana said security had been strengthened in major towns to ensure al-Shabaab militants don’t take advantage of the dusk-to-dawn curfew to carry out attacks.  Edited by Peter Obuya