Local microfinance banks, insurance companies and Saccos are said to have lost millions of shillings after a local mobile money provider was hacked on Monday , a a chief executive of local data handling firm has revealed. In a series of twitter posts, Goerge Njoroge, CEO East Africa Data Handlers claimed that a top mobile money company has been hacked with business to customers and customers to business  millions belonging insurance firms and Saccos feared lost. He urged Sacco’s and microfinance institutions to urgently monitor high volume transfers to mobile wallets and get the telcos to whitelist their Application Programming Interface (APIs) or at worst down the entire service. The CEO said that most mobile money corporate have funded their company’s B2C accounts to the tune of over one hundred millions to facilitate mobile money settlements. ''That makes them at big risk to loosing millions without them realizing they are loosing money,'' Njoroge said. Even so, he failed to name the telco involved despite pressure from his followers, only insisting that he was privy to the happenings.  He did not respond to our calls and messages. ''Do I look like  a tomato  farmer in the city? Take it or leave it, B2C API’s have been hacked,'' Njoroge responded on twitter. No mobile money firm had issued any statement to that effect by the time of going to press. His claim is coming just two months after Safaricom sued East African Data Handlers following the loss of clients' cash amounting to Sh20 million. According to the court documents tabled in February, the cash was lost two years ago in transactions conducted through the telco's M-Pesa and Buy Goods platform. Safaricom said it engaged the data handler in March 2016 where it agreed to recruit merchants to the Buy Goods platform and it received various Mounts from transaction conducted through the service. However, in a breach of terms, the data firm is said to have failed to remit the money collected from merchants and some users wrote to Safaricom demanding payment of various transacted amounts. Last month, various international bodies including IMF and European Central Bank (ECB) urged financial institutions to prepare for an increase in cyber attacks as criminals seek to take advantage of potential chaos caused by coronavirus The ECB for instance  warned of the risk of “increased cyber-security related fraud” targeting both customers and banks through methods such as phishing emails.