Governors will meet on Tuesday next week to discuss the fight against Covid-19 and review measures put in place. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the county chiefs have had five weeks to oversee current measures and could give extra guidelines. “We will approve more measures or actions which we want the government to take in the fight against the virus,” Oparanya said. He gave the CoG's weekly briefing in Eldoret after attending a meeting of the North Rift Economic Bloc at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) were present. MTRH boss Dr Wilson Aruasa also attended the meeting. Oparanya said the counties will use Sh5 billion given by the national government to boost their capacity to fight the spread of the coronavirus. The Kakamega county chief welcomed the increase of testing centres to 10, including the MTRH. He said the counties are finding it difficult to manage and maintain quarantine centres where those defying curfew orders are detained. Oparanya said they also want a protocol to be established on how counties with international borders should respond to the virus. The governors asked the national government to quickly deal with the fresh emergence of insecurity in parts of Baringo. They want the welfare package to support healthcare workers expedited. Oparanya said the provision for counties to procure personal protective equipment from sources other than the medical supplies agency is a great relief. He said the counties have started to procure face masks and other PPE kits from local manufacturers. Local SMEs have since increased their production from 300,000 pieces of surgical face masks a day to 510,000 pieces. “All county governments should take advantage of the three-month window and favourable pricing to procure what is needed,” he said. Oparanya said mapping of 187 Gene-Xpert machines has been undertaken to determine their suitability for testing. He said so far, 56 machines have been approved for testing of Covid-19. The county chiefs condoled with families who had lost their kin through floods and mudslides especially in West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet. Each county will give Sh200,000 to support victims. The counties have also received the support of Sh3.3 billion from Danida to cater for operations and maintenance of Level 1, 2 and 3 facilities in the counties. (edited by o. owino)