First came the locusts and they're multiplying. Now the toxic 'narrow bee flies' or 'Nairobi flies' have infested Kabarnet town in Baringo county. And there's the coronavirus to worry about. The swarm of red and black insects landed around Kabartonjo bus stage on Wednesday, causing immediate closure of at least 10 shops. They don't bite but coming into contact with them causes blisters. The insects, actually a species of the beetle, are six to eight millimetres long. "Last week it was locusts, then followed by Covid-19 and now this Nairobi fly intrusion. People really need to pray for God's help to get rid of these disasters," Baringo Assembly Speaker David Kiplagat said. Dr Winnie Bore said on Thursday the intrusion could be due to the change of weather and heavy rains forcing them out of their underground habits. She is the county Public Health chief officer. She said they are attracted to light, especially at night, and could have been drawn to the bright lights at the bus park. "I thought this could either be a God's miracle or witchcraft. I wonder because since I was born I have never seen the insects in such large numbers," Kabarnet town trader Vincent Chepkwony said. He said even with the onset of rains, he had only spotted a few of them flying in town and around his house, "but I cannot tell what caused the multitude to converge here," he said. The invasion forced him to close shop." The insects contain highly inflammatory chemicals so I fear for my health" Chepkwony said. Dr Bore said the insects are not very dangerous because they neither bite nor sting but they only cause mild irritation if they come into contact with skin. This causes swelling and blistering. Their fluid contains pederin, a potent toxin that causes blistering. “The skin irritation only occurs when one crushes the fly against the skin. Mostly people do it accidentally if the insects get under their clothes or on their face or neck. The blisters usually disappear gradually. Trader Eunice Kandie said she is scared because she cannot enter her dairy shop and fruits grocery near the infested ground. "They are too many and rigid I thought they would have cleared by yesterday evening but they can't move even an inch. They just remain heaped and spread on the ground," she said. Public health officers are fumigating the area with pyrethrum insecticide "but it isn't effective" Bore said, adding they are contacting agricultural experts to help kill them. Kabarnet town residents are fearful the colony of insects, if not destroyed promptly, will multiply and spread across the whole area and even get into their houses. Resident Ben Chepkwony showed a scar on his neck he said was caused by being "licked" by a fly last month. Wounds can take a long time to heal and sometimes leave scars. Kiplagat and residents urged health officials and authorities to move faster and find effective chemicals to kill the insects before they spread. (Edited by V. Graham)