The slash on fuel prices will not benefit consumers as operators say they have no plans to lower fares. They argue their profit margins have greatly suffered from the impact of the curfew and social distancing directives. On Tuesday, the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority in its monthly review reduced the cost of a litre of petrol and kerosene prices by Sh18 and Sh18.18 while a litre of diesel now costs Sh4.09 less. For the next month, a litre of super petrol will retail at Sh92.87, diesel at Sh97.56 and Kerosene at Sh77.28 in Nairobi. “We are not making enough trips with the directives in place meaning there is no benefit to be passed down to the consumers,” Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai told the Star. The public transport industry has suffered a major blow with the government directives on social distancing, workers to operate from home and 7 pm to 5 am curfew. To adhere to the social distancing rule, the 14-seater matatus were directed to carry eight passengers, those with a 25-seater capacity to reduce to 15 passengers while those above a 30-seater capacity were directed to maintain a capacity of 60 per cent per trip. Additionally, last week, the government outlawed entry into and exit from Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa and an expanded Nairobi metropolitan area, further grounding many PSV operators. “We are making losses big time. Even with the fuel price cuts, there won’t be really any change,” Kimutai said. Pre-coronavirus, over 70,000 matatus and buses in operation raked in an average Sh15,000 with the industry’s gross earnings amount to more than Sh1.05 billion on a daily basis. However, since the directives were issued, earnings have dropped by between 70-80 per cent meaning the sector has been losing up to Sh840 million daily. Kimutai told the Star to absorb the losses, and with no incentives or subsidies, the sector has been forced to hike fares, with commuters paying up to double the normal rate. While introducing measures aimed at cushioning Kenyans from the impact of the coronavirus last month, there was no mention of measures geared toward reducing the cost of fuel. A summary by EPRA shows for every Sh92.87 consumers will pay for a litre of petrol this month Sh45.07 will go to the government in form of taxes and levies, higher than the Sh32.22 cost of the product. For a litre of diesel costing Sh97.56 at the pump, Sh36.74 will go to the government with the product costing Sh45.41 For every Sh77.28 paid for a litre of kerosene, Sh34.36 goes to the state as taxes and levies while the product’s actual cost is Sh27.56. “We still have to pay these levies and taxes and they are weighing heavily on the public transport sector, especially during these tough times,” Kimutai said.