Athletics Kenya have dismissed reports of large-scale doping in the country after recent reports purported to show widespread use of performance-enhancing drugs. Following a photo posted online by a Norwegian journalist, the national governing body said in a statement: “We have noted with concern the images of syringes purported to have been taken in Iten and which have gone viral on social media worldwide.” “The image posted by a Norwegian journalist is meant to portray Kenya in a bad light and reverse the gains in the fight against doping," AK said in a statement. However, AK insisted that their recent defence of the country against such reports does not mean they support the vice. “While we do not support doping, we do not condone unsubstantiated reports meant to cause confusion and panic within the athletics circles. We welcome investigative pieces from whatever part of the world but only when they are backed up with facts,” the AK statement added. “The pictures doing rounds on social media leaves a lot to be desired including proof of actual location. We do not believe that doping in Kenya has reached a level where athletes do it in open fields. We are sorry to say that similar pictures of syringes left in dustbins have been circulated in the past only to turn out that they were stage-managed,” added AK. The federation accused international media of stage-managing such reports to coincide with major events. “We also know that some foreign media houses have always had doping pieces to coincide with major world events but since most of them have been postponed, we are now seeing this kind of exposes. For the last few years, we have put up with this kind of reports, which have turned out to be mere claims,” the statement added. “There are channels through which anti-doping procedures are carried out and it is important we stick to the same to avoid any suspicions. At AK, we have nothing to hide as far as doping is concerned and we are open to discussions with whoever wants to carry out investigations. However, we will not allow people to engage in a witch-hunt in a bid to achieve their own selfish agendas.” The federation added that the country and the world, in general, is busy fighting the coronavirus pandemic, which has badly affected sports in general, and nothing should come in between. “We would, therefore, love to be allowed to continue with the fight against the virus considering Kenya is affected. In the meantime, our athletes have been warned that the break doesn't give them a license to engage in any unauthorised practices.”