The government has been urged to ensure mandatory cost-free Covid-19 tests for teachers and learners before the schools reopen. The call came from Migori county education stakeholders in reaction to Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha's weekend announcement that schools might reopen in June after a one-month holiday extension. The extension period should also be used to fumigate all schools, Migori Kuppet chairman Orwa Jasolo, county parents association chairman Julius Kiverenge and Ndemra Primary School head Jared Nyakie said on Wednesday. The three said candidates should be the first to go back to class. On Sunday, Magoha said the reopening date will be extended by a month from May 4 when the second term was to start. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the closure of schools on March 15 after the announcement of the first three coronavirus cases in the country. Education stakeholders the Star talked to yesterday cautiously welcomed the extension, but were unsure that the Ministry of Education will be ready, with the coronavirus pandemic yet to be controlled. “We are happy the extension was pushed for a month.  The government had not offered any direction ... we are afraid of last-minute orders which create confusion,” Jasolo said. He said the reopening plans should be finalised in May to avoid last-minute rush to hospitals by teachers and learners for Covid-19 tests. Kiverenge feared that parents might be forced to pay for face masks and coronavirus tests besides school fees. Nyakie said schools are public places and should be disinfected before they are reopened. "Social distancing will mean that the already strained infrastructure like dormitories, classes and lavatories will be greatly affected," he said. His school has 59 candidates and if the 1.5-metre social distance rule is enforced, they will require at least three classrooms. “We will need more teachers to teach three classes simultaneously for only candidates. Being a rural school, orders like having face masks will be hard to [enforce]” he said.