One good deed deserves another. A Traffic police officer who won the hearts of many after going an extra mile to help a woman and her son during the first night of the countrywide curfew is being celebrated. Amina Ramadhan, who is attached to the Embakasi police station, Nairobi, will get a Sh50,000 cheque at 11am on Thursday from Mombasa businessman and politician Suleiman Shahbal. Her photo went viral on social media. Shahbal will be at the station to make good his promise. He said on Wednesday that he is doing that to change the poor mentality that Kenyans have towards police officers. “We are so used to attacking police that we rarely stop to appreciate the good ones,” he said. He said although there are rogue officers in the service, just as there are rogue people in any sector of society, there are more good officers out there whose work goes unnoticed or unappreciated. The image of Ramadhan carrying a huge travelling bag on her right shoulder, a baton on her left hand as she escorted the woman, who carried her son and another bag, warmed the hearts of many. Speaking to Citizen TV’s Mwanamke Bomba, Ramdhan said a bus had just dropped the woman at the bypass at Utawala Junction. She said the mother panicked after seeing people flee to evade officers enforcing the curfew. “When she saw this, she dropped her bag and grabbed her child and started running towards the road. What touched me most was the child,” she said. She caught up with the woman, calmed her down and explained to her that she was not in trouble. “When she was calm, I asked her to call her husband who was supposed to pick her. The husband came, picked her and they went home,” Ramadhan said. Shahbal said police officers are also human and have hearts and feelings. “Not all cops are bad,” he said. He called for a special fund to recognise and appreciate all public service officers who go out of their way to help others. “Those who go the extra mile in their service deserve to be rewarded,” he said. Shahbal noted that a human approach to police service is necessary to change the negative image Kenyans have developed. Ramadhan has been in the Service for 17 years. She started at the General Service Unit before being deployed to the Traffic department. Meanwhile, a woman and her child who were captured wearing improvised masks at the Likoni crossing channel in Mombasa are also being sought. Shahbal said the woman showed creativity amid the coronavirus pandemic because of the love she has for her child. The woman made face masks out of plastic bottles, one for her and another for her daughter. Shahbal said he will “arrange something for her and her children as well”. It is mandatory for ferry users to cover their mouths and noses while crossing the channel to prevent the spread the Covid-19. "In these difficult times, we should all reach out and help in any way we can. You don’t have to be rich to give,” Shahbal said.