World Health Organisation Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has revealed he has been receiving death threats and racism attacks for the last three months. Tedros said that the attacks directed to him are based on his stand to defend Africans at the time when they were being attacked based on colour. “When the black community was insulted, I did not tolerate. I said people are crossing the lines,” Tedros said. He said that he is a proud African from the black community despite racist comments directed to him. “When people start to insult us, that is enough. We cannot tolerate that. But since I do not have any inferiority complex,  when I am personally affected or attacked by racial slaves, I don’t care because I am a very proud black person,” Tedros said. He added that “even death threats, I do not care because it is personally directed to me.” Tedros was making a press conference on Wednesday on the progress of WHO regarding the coronavirus. His remarks come days after he dismissed opinions from the two French scientists who had suggested that the novel coronavirus vaccine should be given a trial in Africa. On Monday, the WHO Director General during a video press conference termed the comments racist and a hangover from the “colonial mentality.” The agitated UN agency official termed it a disgrace and appalling that in the 21st Century, scientists can make such remarks. The organization makes 100 days today since it reported pneumonia with unknown cause in China. He said the world has dramatically changed in a span of three months. The DG has also called upon the entire world to unite at this moment and cease from politicizing coronavirus. "My message to political parties. Do not politicise this virus. if you care for your people, work across party lines and ideologies," Tedros said. “If you don’t want many more body bags, then you refrain from politicising it.” He added that solidarity is much needed at this time to defeat the pandemic and that has killed more than 80,000 people globally. He also called upon the most powerful countries to be at the forefront in the war against the virus. “We need national unity, unity across party lines...we need global solidarity, the most powerful should lead the way. And please, quarantine Covid-19 politics,” Tedros said. On Tuesday, US President Donald Trump said his country would put a hold on the money sent to WHO.