The war in Jubilee is multifaceted. There are internal forces either pulling towards President Uhuru Kenyatta or Deputy President William Ruto. This problem came about as a result of failure to respect the party constitution and convene meetings of party members as often as possible to iron out issues. This is where the party leader was required to step in and provide leadership. The other forces are external. We have the 2022 general elections around the corner and succession scheming is ongoing. ODM leader Raila Odinga’s hand has been mentioned in the ongoing squabbles. The argument out there is that Raila has teamed up with some party officials and some individuals against Ruto. To start with, the JP secretary general Raphael Tuju is the public face of a shadowy cabal and has no authority to write the letters to the Registrar of Political Parties without the approval of the National Executive Committee chaired by the party leader. Tuju is holding brief for shadowy individuals who are not even members of JP who are known to support Raila’s ambitions for 2022. Kenyatta would never engage in or support fraud, illegality, or even destroy the party he leads. Tuju claims he is acting for Kenyatta, however, it is JP vice-chairman David Murathe, Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Raila who are supporting Tuju’s actions. Tuju and Murathe are Raila’s men; Tuju might soon run for governor of Siaya on an ODM ticket. Murathe resigned last year, Atwoli and Raila are not members of JP and they do not speak for the President. Raila is hoping his surrogates will help him win Mt Kenya in 2022. They have promised him they will deliver Mt Kenya. Raila is a schemer who has managed to make his way into the heart of JP politics and as any politician would, he is now trying to weaken JP to ensure he has a better chance of winning in 2022. Raila is a disruptive force who has somewhat succeeded in doing to UhuRuto’s Jubilee what he did to Kibaki’s PNU. Most of these guys (party officials) are busy creating a wedge between Uhuru and Ruto for their own selfish reasons. Uhuru is silent because he is busy dealing with Covid-19 and, like former President Mwai Kibaki, is interested in leaving a legacy and The Big 4 is facing challenges due to Ccovid-19. Chebunet is a political analyst and media consultant