A chief and a Chinese investor jumped over an iron-sheet fence and fled as armed police officers watched gold miners in Masara invade a mine. The miners accused the Chinese mine owner of grabbing land from the family of Clement Ayungo who died in September 1979. Trouble started when over 32 of Ayungo's relatives went to seek redress from Suna Lower chief Yogo Tumbo's office. “Despite Ayungo having 10 children and several wives, an illegal succession with one of the grandsons was crafted at the chief’s office which led to grabbing by Chinese miners,” family spokesperson John Riana said. He said the chief had called for a meeting of family members and a Chinese investor at his office at 9am, but by 11am he had not shown up. The family members and gold miners trailed the administrator and the Chinese national to a local bar in Masara town. “The chief had parked his motorbike outside the bar and was drinking behind closed doors illegally when the family sought his help, we have been complaining of the Chinese invasion in the area to no avail,” miner Albert Kiswaya said. Close to 200 gold miners converged at the bar baying for the chief’s blood. But the chief and Chinese investor jumped over the fence and escaped. The mob moved to the Chinese mining site, run over local guards and intimidated armed officers from Masara Police Post. The officers looked on as they looted gold-rich ore, vehicle parts, mining and drilling equipment. Attempts to get a comment from Yogo failed as he could not be reached. Masara police station boss Alex  Ombati said the issue was caused by incitement and they will deal with all those involved. “The whole issue has resulted in the looting of property following incitement from a few individuals,” Ombati said. Long-standing tension According to documents in possession of the Star, Duncan Ndiro, Ayungo’s eldest grandson, entered into a Sh2.5million sale agreement with Odemo Dancan Anyango and Li Shisheng for the sale of 10 acres on September 19, 2017. Ndiro and Riana vowed to seek redress in court. In a similar case Migori Environment and Lands Court, Nyatike Mineral Marketing Co-operative Society filed a petition to sue the Mining CS, Director of Mines and Geology, businessman Khalif Abdi Hassan, Nuo Kenya Company Limited, Ready Consultancy Company Limited (both owned by Hassan) and the Attorney General. The society got orders against the invasion of public land by the respondents, non-payment of royalties, illegal processing of licences and land degradation. Nyatike MP Tom Odege also – in the same court- sued the CS, AG, Director of Mines and Chinese-owned Lijin Mining Company and got orders to stop the mining. Jared Nyakie, a gold miner and trader in Migori, said more skirmishes between locals and Chinese-owned mines have been fueled by politicians, local administrators and tycoons risking more tension. “Last year after deaths of several locals and Chinese, with tension there was a need to mop out illegal mines in the area where several firms were closed, but they still encroach more land,” Nyakie said. In September last year, a multi-agency team led by Migori county commissioner Joseph Rotich closed over 40 illegal mining and processing plants.  Several illegal Chinese miners were marked for deportation.