Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Tuesday said he was not involved in the demotion of a top researcher at the Kenya Medical Research Institute. Kagwe told MPs that he had nothing to do with the sacking of Dr Joel Lutomiah as the director of Kemri's Centre for Viral Research. Lutomiah was demoted on April 17 by Kemri director-general Yeri Kombe, reportedly on Kagwe’s instructions, for delaying the release of Covid-19 lab results. “This is further to our meeting with the CS this afternoon on the matter relating to your conduct,” the dismissal letter reads. But the CS said Lutomiah's demotion was a normal internal administrative issue at Kemri. “My understanding was that the individual was never sacked but was just transferred from one department to another,” Kagwe said. “I even see politics at play in this case. I am wondering why an administrative issue can make it to the front page. I personally do not have any authority on Kemri." And while Kagwe pleaded his innocence before the National Assembly's Health Committee, senators criticised him on the floor of the House. The lawmakers demanded to know why Lutomiah was dismissed. The letter accused Lutomiah of delaying the release of Covid-19 laboratory results of the previous evening contrary to an earlier agreement with the Ministry of Health that he releases them before 8am. “You, therefore, have failed in your duty to honour a matter that is of national importance. I hereby relieve you of your duties as the director, Centre for Viral Research with immediate effect,” the letter read. Senators said the sacking at the time the country is fighting the global Covid-19 pandemic was suspect and will only serve to demoralise frontline health workers. While seeking a statement on the circumstances that led to the dismissal of Lutomiah, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said the sacking will instil fear and kill the morale of researchers and other key personnel in the fight against the virus. “We want to know whether the sacking of Lutomiah followed the right procedure as set out in the Employment Act,” Malala said. The legislator sought to know the impact of the CS’s action on the general functioning of the viral research centre and the morale of other researchers during this crisis. Malala also asked the CS to state the amount of funding Kemri has received from the Ministry of Health to help in testing and research on Covid-19 and purchasing of PPEs for workers “The CS should state the measures put in place by the government to motivate Kemri as an institution at the forefront of helping fight the spread of Covid-19,” he said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, whose ad hoc committee on Covid-19 Situation was mandated to summon the CS and Kemri boss to explain the sacking, said it was unacceptable to dim the morale of front-line personnel working hard to contain the disease. The committee captured the concern in its third report to the house on Tuesday but said it will delve further into the matter after Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki directed the team to conduct a further probe and report to the House next week. “The committee observes that the timing of the dismissal is wrong as it is likely to have a significant impact on the morale and motivation of the staff that were working under him,” the senators' report says.