This year’s Labour Day will honour the frontline workers against Covid-19. It will be the first time Labour Day celebrations in Kenya’s history that will be attended by few people and held at Solidarity House in Nairobi’s Gikomba. Trade unionist Francis Atwoli said doctors, nurses and paramedics are among the frontline teams in the country saving lives and require support from all Kenyans. “Everyone has a role in our economy. Another phase after the pandemic will be to ensure that the economy recovers. And workers will definitely play a bigger role,” Central Organisation of Trade Union secretary general Francis Atwoli said. Labour Day, also known as International Workers Day, is celebrated on May 1 every year across the world to commemorate the critical struggle of the working-class. In Kenya, it is celebrated at Uhuru Park in Nairobi where both government and private sector officials and institutions attend to celebrate and push their agenda. There are great performances from artists, the military and police among others. Companies also find a platform to exhibit their activities. It is organised by Cotu. Many employees look forward to Labour Day celebrations as they await the official address from the Labour CS and President on wages. “We will only have a few people attending this year because of Covid-19,” Atwoli said. He said the event, which starts at 9am and ends at 11am on Friday will be aired live on local television stations. “We thank our health workers for what they are doing to save people’s lives. And another main task also going ahead is for workers to resurrect the economy,” the trade unionist said. It will be attended by Labour CS Simon Chelugui, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union secretary general, Atwoli and an official from the Federation of Kenyan Employers. “We have an economy, where everyone has a part to play and we will do it.” Atwoli said workers are compounded with the challenge to keep learning new ways to adapt to working from home. “In Kenya, everyone is speculating how long this pandemic will control our way of life not knowing when we shall return to our normal life, but the reality is that this crisis is permanently changing how we work,” he said. He said workers all over the world have to change their mode of operation and work strictly from home until the situation is contained. Edited by R.Wamochie