The wife of convicted drug lord Baktash Akasha and two relatives will testify in a case in which she was allegedly conned out of Sh5 million by suspects promising to get him  back from the US. They allegedly posed as State House agents. A pastor, Chris Ngweti, was charged with obtaining the money by false pretences and conspiracy to defraud last year. Najma Juma Hassan’s lawyer, Kiogora Mugambi, said the first hearing against the pastor, who is out on bond, has been scheduled for May 27. Ngweti was accused of conspiring with others not before the court to obtain money from Najima, Baktash's wife. The crime is said to have been committed between October 9 and November 15, 2018. Police said Ngweti pretended to be a State House agent authorised to assist the family secure extradition from the US to Kenya of Najma’s husband Baktash and brother in law Ibrahim Akasha, after she paid Sh5,090,000. The pastor is alleged to have presented letters purported to originate from the Office of the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US Drug Enforcement Administration supporting the release of the two convicts. Ibrahim was sentenced to 23 years in prison on January 10 this year in New YOrk while his brother Baktash had been sentenced to 25 years on August 16 last year. Baktash was ordered to pay a fine of Sh10 million from the proceeds of their illicit trade. Apart from Najma, others expected to testify are Hayat Baktash Akasha, her daughter, Ayub Baktash Akasha, her stepson and Sergent Lumbasi Patrice, the investigating officer. The pastor was charged on September 19 last year before Shanzu senior resident magistrate David Odhiambo. He denied charges of conspiracy and impersonation. Bakhtash had confessed to planning to transport a kilogramme of heroin and more than 500g of amphetamine to the US between March 2014 and January 2017. He also said he aided the distribution of drugs in Kenya and elsewhere. Documents produced in court indicated Najma was duped into giving away the millions out of desperation, after being convinced that Ngweti and his accomplices were well connected. In her recorded statement, the billionaire's wife disclosed that she had opened up to Ngweti, a pastor at a church in Shanzu, Mombasa, where she prayed, about seeking help to have the brothers deported to Kenya. The preacher allegedly promised to link her up with a highly connected person who would ensure she met President Uhuru Kenyatta, who would assist her. He allegedly introduced her to a Stephen Nzioka, based in Nairobi who reportedly received Sh100,000 from her with a promise that she would meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma. Nzioka is said to have produced letters purportedly from Juma and another one from the Office of the President dated October 19, 2018, purportedly signed by State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua and copied to Jum. He allegedly sought a 'token' for the President. “My mother gave him Sh1 million and he went outside to make some calls. When he returned, he said the President had declined and wanted Sh3 million,” Hayat said in the statement. On the third day, Nzioka is said to have asked for Sh350,000 for rent and Ksh90,000 for CCTV installation at houses in Runda allegedly owned by the President. She also sent him Sh55,000 via M-Pesa and later another Sh35,000. (Edited by V. Graham) 