Every coin donated towards the fight against Covid-19 will be audited by Parliament, an MP has said. Gilgil legislator Martha Wangari said parliament will play its oversight role in making sure the funds are well utilised and the intended parties benefit. She said no cash should be sent to individuals. Affected persons should instead get food rations from both the national and county governments. “We shall audit every penny donated towards fighting this pandemic as there are fears that some persons might embezzle these funds,” she said. Wangari called on the government to update its data on elderly persons in the country as the last registration was done three years ago. “There are some elderly persons who have since died and tens of others who should benefit from the Sh10 billion set aside by the government but they have been locked out,” she said. Speaking in Gilgil after attending the subcounty disaster management meeting, Wangari noted that the constituency faced a major food shortage since the coronavirus outbreak. Flower farm workers, IDPs and youths working in quarries were the most affected in Gilgil and needed support. Wangari said they were working closely with MCAs to make sure those who benefited from the county did not again get food rations from the national government. “We have embarked on the process of identifying all the affected families and we support ongoing mitigations measures by the government including mass testing,” she said. Mbaruk MCA Samuel Mugi said each ward would get Sh3.7 million for the most vulnerable persons affected by the pandemic. He said ward committees had been formed and that 30 wards which had major challenges would get an extra Sh1.7 million from the county. “Every ward will determine what their needs are and we are keen to avoid duplication of services as the national government is also working on this,” he said. Gilgil Town MCA Jane Ngigi termed the current crisis as serious with tens of families sleeping hungry as they wait for support. “Hundreds of workers who have been laid off by various companies are the most affected and we are keen to support them through food rations,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori