Police have recommended prosecution of an officer accused of attacking and injuring a deaf man in Mumias a fortnight ago. Constable Josephat Kombo, attached to Shianda police station, is reported to have hit Zacharia Maende with a blunt object in the head as he walked home from his place of work at 6.30pm on April 2. Mumias subcounty DCI boss Robert Murithi on Tuesday forwarded the inquiry file to the Director of Public Prosecutions for directions. "I find that there is sufficient evidence to support a charge of assault and causing actual bodily harm," Murithi said. The officer was in the company of a colleague Edwin Kipkorir on a motorcycle. The two officers chased away members of the public who gathered around the scene. A relative John Lubale reported the matter to police before taking the victim to Makunga health centre and later to St Mary's Mission Hospital in Mumias, where he was admitted and discharged on April 6. It remains unclear why the man was attacked since the dusk-to-dawn curfew begins at 7pm. The two police officers were positively identified on April 6. Since the enforcement of the dusk-to-dawn curfew, rampant incidences of police brutality have been witnessed across the country. Kakamega police were on the spot for the assault of a 35-year-old man with intellectual disability on the night of April 1. He later died. This has brought to light the vulnerability of persons living with special needs, especially those with invisible disabilities as the country battles Covid-19. On April 6, United Disabled Persons of Kenya CEO Anderson Gitonga urged the government to put in place measures to safeguard the health, safety, dignity, and independence of people living with disability in the community throughout the Covid-19 outbreak and beyond. He said that people with invisible disabilities and conditions like autism, the deaf, mental illness and dementia may be inhibited in their inability to communicate, follow commands or behave in accordance with social norms, putting them at risk during encounters with the law enforcement officers. “Certain responses or behaviours connected to a person's disability might be mistaken for defiance, and therefore, there must be an alternative to using lethal force," he said. "For instance, behaviours associated with autism are often impossible to spot from a distance, and there is potentially overwhelming stress among people on the spectrum when confronted by police sirens, shouting, or the expectation of eye contact.” Edited by A.N