 Kenyans should brace themselves for the worst even as the country races against time to contain the spread of coronavirus. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Tuesday said Kenyans should expect an insurmountable challenge in the coming weeks. “Let me just say this. My fellow Kenyans, let us brace ourselves for bad news. Let us be ready because all the measures that we are going to take will not stop the disease abruptly. It is already here with us,” Kagwe said during his daily briefings at Afya House in Nairobi. He announced that 14 new cases had been confirmed bringing the national tally to 172. But there was some good news with the announcement of three more recoveries. The CS said the three had tested negative and were released to go home. So far, Kenya has recorded seven recoveries and six deaths. The new cases emerged from 696 samples tested in various laboratories. Of the 14 new cases, 12 are Kenyans while two are foreigners. Four have a history of travel from Tanzania, UAE, the US and South Africa. The 14 have been moved to various isolation facilities and contact tracing activated. Four of the 14 were from quarantine facilities while 10 were picked from contact tracing. Seven of the new cases are from Nairobi, two from Mombasa and Mandera respectively while Machakos, Kisii and Kiambu had one case each. “The two reported cases from Mandera are  recent travels from Mombasa county. That explains the decision by the President to close some of the areas where we feel people moving into and out of are causing further spread of the virus,” Kagwe said. He directed that all golf clubs be closed with immediate effect in addition to measures outlined by the government to prevent the transmission of the coronavirus. He said the clubs which had been left open have greatly been abused. Those in sporting clubs will be required to strictly adhere to the social distancing rules failure to which the government will take stiffer measures against them. "It is important that people stay healthy but also we must observe social distancing. We have observed in some working clubs where people are running next to each other and there is no better way of passing this virus than when they do so.” Managers have been asked to restrict numbers in the club so that people can  maintain social distancing. These are additional measures to the ones announced by Uhuru on Monday, including cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties. Kenya has so far tested more than 5,000 people. More than 1,928 have been monitored out of whom 1,415 have been discharged after completing the 14-day mandatory quarantine. The ministry has started rapid testing in various health facilities beginning with health workers. Kagwe noted that Kenyans were getting mild infections and that the mortality rate was low but warned people against laxity. “We are praying and hoping for the best but clearly we must also prepare for the worst. And mentally we must prepare ourselves to face an insurmountable situation,” he said. He added, “We are akin to a boat that is sailing towards a massive storm and we must brace ourselves and be ready mentally.” Kagwe told Kenyans to be ready to undergo various forms of inconveniences, especially those in quarantine facilities. He said the situation in quarantine was not the convenient, "but is necessary." He said it is time Kenyans looked forward to face a situation they have never faced before. The minister thanked Kenyans rendering their support from various quarters to help combat the spread of the virus, saying that working together is the key for the fight to be won. “I know that we will pull through. I have seen efforts from quarters that you would never expect. I have seen people helping each other. That is the way that we are going to overcome it,” the CS said. He said the fight against coronavirus will take a long time to be won and urged those inconvenienced by travel restrictions to understand the situation. “We must be ready. This is not going to be a short-term activity. We are not going to be dealing with this disease only for the next couple of weeks. Let's brace ourselves for the long-term. And by long-term, I mean for the next couple of months.” Kagwe said the measures the government has so far taken will prove effective only if Kenyans cooperate. He said everyone going to public places should wear a mask as it was the only way to control the spread of the virus, adding that countries managing its spread also took similar measures.  Edited by Peter Obuya.