Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi will know on Thursday whether he will be released on bond or held in government isolation for 14 more days over a Covid-19 violation. Saburi was arrested on Friday for allegedly refusing to self-quarantine after arriving from Germany on March 6. He risked infecting thousands of people with Covid-19, the state says. The Director of Public Prosecutions wants the deputy governor to be held in isolation at Manyani GK Prison to allow investigating officers more time. The national government forced Saburi into isolation at Coast Provincial General Hospital on March 21 and said he had tested positive for Covid-19. He was discharged on April 3 from the facility after testing negative three times. Immediately after he was discharged, he was arrested and taken to Port police station. On Monday, the deputy governor was arraigned before Mombasa resident magistrate Rita Amwai. No charges were levelled against him. The DPP filed an application to continue holding Saburi at the Manyani GK Prison for two more weeks to allow strengthening of charges. Edgar Mulamula from the DPP's office said the investigation officers needed more time to finish the probe and get medical reports from Coast General Hospital. The DPP also filed an affidavit sworn by Investigating Officer Elvis Charoto supporting their case for keeping Saburi in isolation at Manyani GK Prison. “The accused person cannot be trusted to self-quarantine after failing to do so when he arrived in the country on March 6…. We have information  the residents are angered and vowed to cause him harm if he goes back home,” Charo said in the sworn affidavit However, Saburi’s lawyer George Kithi argued that there are no records from the government to prove that the DG ever tested positive for Covid-19. Kithi submitted a medical report that showed the deputy governor was tested three times since he was forced into isolation at Coast General Hospital, and all the three tests on March 23, March 26 and March 31 were negative. Lawyer Kithi said, "He (Saburi) has never been positive. He has never infected anyone.” He also said the deputy governor is not a flight risk since the aviation industry has been grounded globally. He asked the court to allow Saburi to self-quarantine at his Rabai home. Mombasa resident magistrate Rita Amwai directed that the accused continue to be held at the Port police station until Thursday. “I have listened carefully to the application and submission. The issues raised will require some time. The suspect will continue to be held until Thursday when I will make a ruling,” Amwai said. (Edited by V. Graham)