Kisumu county commissioner Susan Waweru has provided a toll-free telephone number so residents can report crimes during the curfew. This comes following public outcry that thieves take advantage of the curfew to terrorise people on Lolwe, Migosi, Carwash and Mamboleo estates. They cited break-ins. The number is 988 for SMS. "Send a message to this number and tell us where you are. Officers will be dispatched to that place immediately," she said. Residents are also allowed to send information that would contribute to the war on Covid-19. “If you know someone or your neighbour who recently came from abroad and has not self-quarantined, you can alert us and we will liaise with the health officers on the same," Waweru added. Around 2am on Thursday, one suspected thief was killed in Migosi. “Since the beginning of the curfew, we have not been sleeping. These thieves have been coming to this area on a daily basis," Winnie Oduor said, adding that police officers should patrol the estates in turns. They say some daring thieves break their windows, doors and even roofs to access the house before stealing everything. On Sunday night, thugs broke into a shop belonging to ODM Nyanza coordinator Kennedy Ajwang and stole everything. They gained entry from the rooftop. Ajwang said the thugs used a hacksaw to cut the roof and grills. A panga-wielding gang has also allegedly been attacking people. On Sunday night, it attacked a caretaker on Lolwe Estate. He suffered head injuries. A businesswoman also counted losses on Sunday night after being robbed of Sh230,000 at gunpoint. Judith Akumu Ambani of Kapuonja South village, Kisumu West subcounty, had Sh200,000 in cash and was forced to send Sh30,000 through M-Pesa. She operates an M-Pesa shop at Daraja Mbili. Police say she had just arrived home at 6.45pm when she was ambushed by five unknown men — one armed with a G3 rifle. On Saturday night, according to police sources, three firearms were stolen at the Kibos police post in Muhoroni subcounty. Officers have launched a search. The thieves also made away with several bullets during the 11.20pm incident. The rifles were stolen alongside two G3 magazines, two MP5 magazines, 135 rounds of 7.62mm and 20 rounds of 9mm calibre.