A former captain of the Mombasa Golf Club succumbed to coronavirus-related complications on Sunday morning as the government announced 16 new cases. Mark Mbua, 51,  died at 5am at the Coast General Hospital where he had been in isolation undergoing medical treatment. Mbua, who was the general manager in charge of terminals for logistics at Mitchell Cotts, went to the hospital on Monday, March 30. News of the death triggered anxiety in the company, with staff he was in constant contact with going into quarantine. Mbua had not travelled to any of the epicentres of the virus abroad. The avid golfer was elected the club's captain for a period of one year between 2017 and 2018. Club chairman Kenneth Mwangi confirmed the death but did not say the cause of death. Sources at the club told the Star Mbua may be cremated according to his wishes. "He was adamant that he wanted to be cremated upon his death. Maybe the family would grant him his wish," said a member of the club. Mwangi said the death of Mbua had hit them hard.“Let us remember his family in prayers. We will update members of any further details as we receive them,” said Mwangi. The death came amid reports that 16 employees of the Kenya Ports Authority were quarantined at Coast General Hospital and Bandari College. A member of the committee set up to respond to the coronavirus pandemic inside the Mombasa port confirmed to the Star the 16 have been tested and were awaiting results. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Sunday announced Kenya had confirmed 16 more coronavirus cases. This now brings the country's total number to 142 with four fatalities. Fifteen of these are Kenyans while one is a Nigerian national. Speaking during the daily coronavirus briefing at Afya House on Sunday, the CAS said the 16 additional cases came after the government tested 530 samples in the last 24 hours. To date, the government have tested a total of 3,836 people. Mwangangi said 11 had a history of travel while five of those cases were locally transmitted. "Nine cases are from quarantine facilities and seven are from contact tracing. Contact tracing is ongoing," she said. Out of the 16 new cases, 12 are from Nairobi, three from Mombasa and one from Kilifi County. Mwangangi said nine were male while seven were female. The CAS said those who die from the virus must be buried in 24 hours. The burials will be restricted to less than 15 close family members.