Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has asked the authorities to arrest social media users who have mocked the two patients who recovered from Covid-19 and came out to share their stories. On Wednesday, doctors said two Kenyans announced to have recovered from Covid-19 gained some immunity against the virus. A doctor who oversaw the treatment of Brenda Ivy Cherotich and Brian Orinda, however, said it is not clear how long such immunity could last. As such, Brenda, who was known as Patient 1, and Brian (Patient 2) will need to practise social distancing and take precautions like every other Kenyan. After Brenda shared the story of her journey to recovery on Wednesday, Kenyans on Twitter trolled her and Brian, with some saying the the government was using the two for public relations. "It is unpalatable for anyone to trivialise the lives of Kenyans. I condemn this," Kagwe said during a press conference on Thursday. "I am saddened that some Kenyans have gone to social media to make a mockery of the situation.... Really?" The CS said that government would not use innocent Kenyans to try and conduct a "PR exercise" on the state of Covid-19. Globally, the Covid-19 death toll has surpassed the 45,000 mark with over 900,000 confirmed cases. Kagwe on Thursday announced 29 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total number of patients past the 100 mark to 110. During his daily briefing, the CS also announced the death of two more Covid-19 patients. This brings the total number of deaths to three. The first patient to die last Thursday was a businessman. Morris Namiinda, 66, had a pre-existing condition - diabetes. One of the new deaths reported on Thursday was of a Kenya Ports Authority employee. The woman, 58, was buried at Mbaraki Cemetery. Kagwe said Kenyans should get used to staying where they currently are. The textile industry in Kitui has already been cleared to start the local manufacture of personal protective equipment to help address the issue of shortage. Approvals have been made with the production expected to start on Thursday. Clinical officers on Monday claimed there was a shortage of protective equipment and lack of training among a majority of healthcare providers. One of the clinical officers has since been tested positive for the disease.