The National Transport and Safety Authority has refuted claims by car importers that hundreds of imported units now remain parked, as owners cannot drive them on the roads without proper registration. The authority in a statement on Thursday clarified that there is no shortage of number plates. Further, the authority said the collection of motor-vehicle number plates has not been suspended. On Monday, Car Importers Association of Kenya (CIAK) national chairman, Peter Otieno told the star that hundreds of imported units now remain parked. He said owners cannot drive them on the roads without proper registration. Most affected are private vehicle importers, imports for commercial use and Public Service Vehicles such as matatus and taxis. “The vehicles will not be registered until an inspection is done and that is not happening currently. It means the vehicle stays in a yard,” he said. “The purchaser risks by getting a handwritten number plate, that would see them run into trouble with the police for using an unregistered vehicle.” Otieno said dealers are also suffering as millions lie in banks, which can only release the monies after the exchange of logbooks. More than 9,000 vehicles (cars and trucks) have landed at Mombasa in the past three weeks. A total of 8,467 vehicles came into the country between March 5 and April 8, KPA data shows. Most affected are private vehicle importers, imports for commercial use and Public Service Vehicles such as matatus and taxis. Otieno said the purchaser risks by getting a handwritten number plate, that would see them run into trouble with the police for using an unregistered vehicle. NTSA, however, said it is not true as the dealers have been collecting number plates from the said points at an agreed-upon time where thousands of motor vehicle have been released fro  Container Freight Stations. The authority in a statement on Thursday said measures have been put in place to facilitate business continuity while adhering to measures aimed at curbing coronavirus. "After deliberations, it was resolved that some CFS (Container Freight Station) collection points be merged while taking into account the state of the facility in terms of space and other factors to implement the safety guidelines," NTSA said. The coronavirus guidelines by the National Emergency Response Committee seek to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. The guidelines include a dusk-to-dawn curfew, social distancing of at least one meter, use of masks and the maintenance of general cleanliness. The move, the authority said, has been as a result of consultation with the interior ministry, KRA, Motorvehicle dealers and Container Freight Station. It said the identified points include Kencott that will act as the collection point for Kencott and  Mitchel Cott. NTSA said the collection point for Interpel and MCT will be located at CB2 while Autoport will be the collection point for Autoport and Unifreight. The authority said the motor vehicle industry has donated personal protective equipment to be used by officers handling vehicle importation documents and serving its customers. This, it said, is in supporting efforts by the government in curbing the spread of coronavirus. "We assure the public that despite scaling down on operation in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus, all our online services are available and the authority is working closely with all the relevant stakeholders to ensure service delivery is not adversely affected during this pandemic." the authority added.