The Kenya Ports Authority will not be shut down because of confirmation of Covid-19 cases, the management has said. Acting MD Rashid Salim told the Star the authority had revamped its efforts to curb the virus. “For the last three or four days, we have not recorded any new case. We are operating on the bare minimum to ensure less interaction of people while at the same time providing more mitigating measures,” Salim said. KPA has recorded 27 cases as per official health records, placing the port as a hotbed of the virus. Two of its employees succumbed to the disease, making it the single institution with the highest number of Covid-19 cases so far. Dozens of KPA workers are still in quarantine, with some sections reconstituting the workforce to ensure workflows. The container and conventional cargo areas are the most affected with many workers in quarantine. “Curfews have not affected our operations. We have had to readjust,” the MD added. It is now feared that Covid-19 response teams may have not considered KPA as a high-risk area when the virus hit Mombasa. It was only when confirmed cases from the port were announced that measures started being taken. Out of the seven cases reported in Mombasa by the ministry on Monday, five came from KPA. The following day, out of the six cases, KPA had another five. That put Mombasa county’s infection rate higher than the national rate. In less than a week, the county reported 20 cases. Mombasa county by Tuesday reported 98 cases. County executive in charge of health Hazel Koitaba said the county had sensitised residents who must now take individual initiative to stay safe. Governor Hassan Joho, who has been advocating for a total shutdown, has put in place measures to curb the spread. KPA has more than 7,000 workers who are documented but the facility serves outsiders who frequently visit the port. They include cleaners, contractors, crews from foreign ships, suppliers, clearing agents, brokers, clerks from logistics companies and drivers. Recently, five truck drivers in Uganda tested positive having come from the port of Mombasa. The Ugandan government issued stringent measures on cargo transportation across borders, a move that seems to have irked Kenya Transport Association. In a petition dated April 25, KTA chief operating officer Mercy Ireri said resolutions by Ugandan Minister for Internal Affairs Jeje Odong and the Trade and Transport National Task Force over cargo movement would paralyse business. Uganda has enforced a lockdown but allowed movement of trucks and requires that other drivers across regional borders be deployed. “The security and safety of cargo will be compromised by multiple drivers involved in single haulage. Relay driving changeover by drivers would create inefficiencies, misuse, damage and theft of oil,” Ireri said. Speaking to the Star, the acting KPA MD Salim said daily briefings were held to update stakeholders. KPA received 1,000 kits for mass testing. Salim confirmed that so far about 900 tests had been conducted. “We are hoping to get more kits even as we continue testing in targeted areas,” he said. KPA’s Bandari clinic remains shut even as more water points were acquired this week from 107 to 179. “We have been having radio programmes on local stations to sensitise residents and have issued notices to ensure enforcement of social distancing,” Salim said. Salim ruled out that ships docking at the port from other countries could be having infected crew. “So far, all the crew from the vessels have tested negative. So, infections at the port were locally acquired,” he added. “All arriving vessels with passengers with recent travel history to countries with confirmed cases of Covid-19 must undergo special monitoring.” Every ship entering Kenya from a country with confirmed cases of Covid-19 is subjected to rigorous inspection. “Crew or passengers of vessels from confirmed Covid-19 countries will not be granted shore passes. Only Kenyans and foreigners with valid residence permits will be allowed to disembark after the presentation of health declaration forms and by the health authorities,” Salim said. It is also required that masters of all ships due to arrive in a Kenyan port declare their last 10 ports of call or voyage memo for the last three months. “Ship crew change is temporarily suspended until further notice. The exception is given to Kenyan crew and persons with valid resident permits,” Salim said. The garbage from vessels arriving from confirmed Covid-19 countries will no longer be allowed to be discharged at any Kenyan port. Edited by Henry Makori