When HIV-eki stood for refusing to condone the use of life-saving conforms. He argued the use of condoms would lead to mass promiscuity and mass infections. His argument reflected the Catholic Church in Kenya’s position. He also proposed the use of artificial contraception. And he didn't shy away from speaking his mind and taking a stand. The straight-talking retired archbishop died on Tuesday morning at the age of 88. e had urged the faithful to "pray for the repose of my soul." The church announced he will be interred in a basement crypt at Holy Family Basilica, Nairob, on Tuesday next week. Mwana a'Nzeki was ordained as a priest in 1961, serving under Archbishop John Joseph McCarthy of the Nairobi Diocese. He was appointed bishop in 1969 and served in Machakos Diocese for two years before being transferred to Nakuru. He would later be appointed as Coadjutor Archbishop of Nairobi in 1996 to assist Cardinal Maurice Michael Otunga. Mwana a'Nzeki succeeded Otunga in 1997 as the Archbishop of Nairobi and retired on October 6, 2007, at age 75. John Njue, who was his assistant in Nakuru, succeeded him. As head of the church, Ndingi angered President Daniel Moi, calling it out for manufacturing tribal clashes during electoral periods. He also opposed the Mwai Kibaki administration's policy of shoot-to-kill against the Mungiki sect. Politicians led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga eulogized the prelate as a diligent leader who did not shy away from speaking his mind. In an interview with the weekly National Catholic Reporter, on September 17, 2004, Ndingi asserted that the only way to beat the HIV-Aids scourge in Africa was through behavioural change and abstinence from early sexual exposure. "For me, a condom is not the answer," he said, adding that instead of curbing infections, condoms fuelled to the disease's fire in Africa. "In fact, in this country, I would say without fear that the use of condoms has been the greatest means of increasing the cases of Aids. Take our university students, students in schools of higher studies, where condoms are available upon demand. They have had the greatest number of deaths due to HIV-Aids," he added. At the time, the pandemic had killed thousands of people across the country, leaving thousands of young children as orphans.  The disease threatened the social fabric of the Kenyan society. Mwana a'Nzeki argued that abstinence was the only guarantee against HIV-Aids as it costs nothing and has no side effects. He believed that the ease with which the AIDs death struck was enough to cause people to fear, easily change their behaviour and refrain from irresponsible sex. "Practically every family has seen somebody dead or suffering or attended a funeral. Fear, fear of death, makes them change. In most of the country, people get involved in HIV-Aids when they drink … with a condom in their pocket," he explained. VISION FOR CHURCH GROWTH A review of the archbishop's life and from the interview, it is clear he had a vision of a forward-looking Catholic church and jealously defended its interestsas he sought to improve human lives. This was the case when he stood by the Nyumbani Children of God Relief Institute based in Nairobi. It was founded by an American Jesuit in Kenya named Fr Angelo D'Agostino to house HIV-positive children who received care. The home was accused of allowing foreign scientists to collect blood samples from the children for research abroad and then patent the outcome without the knowledge of the government. Amidst the controversy, Mwana a'Nzeki maintained the home enjoyed his confidence and support because "I think, so far, they are doing very well." "...at least those children have someplace where they can be taken care of. If it happened, having blood tests taken outside of the country without permission, it’s very unfortunate. It should not be allowed," he said. He also pushed for the appointment of an African Pope, saying this would be a recognition of the hard work the African church has played in the Catholic circles. "An African who would understand us and encourage us. For example, I would like to see more liturgical participation. I would like to see more translations of liturgical books in the language that our people understand. At the moment, it’s not bad. But you can have somebody come along who starts restricting things," he said. He also pushed for translation of the liturgical books into ethnic languages enable people's participation at the grassroots level. On whether the Catholic Church faced any threat from the wave of Pentecostalism that saw mushrooming of evangelicals in the country, the Archbishop saidCatholicism was still at the forefront and its work could be seen. ".....what have they done? We can show our schools, we can show our hospitals, we can show our work for the old people, for the children, for the dying, and now at the moment instructing the people with Aids and so on," he said. Ndingi had a stinging assessment of the evangelical groups in the country, saying that they started out with zeal but were quick to fizzle out. "They come out forcefully, but they don’t seem to keep their stamina. They seem to burn out quickly," Ndingi said. ".....they’re a minority. Don’t let anybody deceive you that they’re a majority...When they travel, they have a big group.....They will have a big meeting in the stadium, but people come from all over the whole town... They do attract people, but at the same time, people resent them sometimes, especially when they accuse other religions. People don’t like to hear a minister accusing another minister," the Archbishop added.  