Bar owners and managers found selling alcohol will be arrested and quarantined for 14 days at their own cost, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has warned. They will later be charged and their liquor licences cancelled. “Only the owner and the manager will be taken to a quarantine facility for 14 days at their own cost and later taken to court where they will be fined if found guilty,” the governor said on Friday. Nyeri Central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi said revellers will also be arrested and put under Community Service Orders (CSO). This was resolved during the Nyeri County Covid-19 Emergency Response Team meeting. The forum was chaired by the governor and county commissioner Loyford Kibaara. The resolution was made after several people among them an MCA and a senior government officer were arrested on 17 April taking alcohol and making merry in a King’ong’o bar. “It is unfortunate that people are taking the war on Covid-19 casually,” Kahiga said. The governor said the county is working towards expanding its isolation and quarantine facilities to accommodate more people. He said the county might turn the Nyeri National Polytechnic into a quarantine facility in the event Wambugu Agricultural Training Centre is overwhelmed. The quarantine facility at Wambugu ATC has only 48 rooms. The county is also looking for a subcounty health facility with a bed capacity of about 180 to supplement the 21 beds at Mt Kenya Hospital, which is currently serving as an isolation facility. “We are looking for a hospital able to accommodate 180 beds. We shall then embark in installing oxygen pipes,” he said. He urged Nyeri residents to adhere to government directives, adding that a survey conducted by the Ministry of Health indicated that Central region has a high prevalence of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cancer and high blood pressure. Most of the patients losing their lives to Covid-19 are those with other underlying health problems. Nyeri county was selected to pilot UHC after it emerged that it had a high prevalence of the three non-communicable diseases.  Edited by A.N