The private sector has called for reduced power costs and tax waiver on food and other essentials to lessen the impact of the coronavirus shock. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia also wants KNCCI county chapters represented in the county emergency response committees. He urged the government to reduce the cost of electricity for manufacturers, in particular, to help them produce enough protective gear for the fight against Covid-19. “KNCCI commends the government for stepping [in] to cushion Kenyans from the effects of Covid-19, particularly the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to have an Emergency Response Fund established,” Ngatia said. Nairobi residents, especially those in informal settlements, have been pushing the government to do more to cushion them. The KNCCI said more should be done to make food cheaper. The recommendations were made on Wednesday during a video conference meeting of the chamber's National Delegates Council. Chairpersons of all the 47 county chapters took part in the meeting chaired by Ngatia. They discussed resource mobilisation, impact and mitigation measures on Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), business continuity plan and sustainability, alongside the establishment of county emergency response committees for Covid-19. It was resolved that all the 47 county governments waive taxes on food produce. The counties should increase sensitisation through civic education to create seamless awareness of the health protocols and guidelines being issued by the Ministry of Health. “It is apparent that various county chapters are facing various challenges due to this pandemic,” Ngatia said. Some of the challenges that stood out from the meeting include the increased price in basic commodities, insecurity, delay in supply of goods and services, reduction in production and manufacturing of products, closure of businesses among others. "The recommendations above will enable them remain afloat," Ngatia said. Other participants included State Department of Trade PS Johnstone Weru, East Africa Community PS Kevit Desai and State Department of Crop Development and Agricultural Research PS Hamadi Iddi Boga. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya