Rains continue wreaking havoc across the country with at least 20 people killed by floods since last week. Six people have died in Nyanza and South Rift Valley while the death toll of the Saturday night mudslide at the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet had risen to 12 on Tuesday. About 20 others are still missing, with some presumed dead, according to Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya. According to the Meteorological Department, the rains will intensify Thursday and reduce on Saturday in Western and Central Kenya. "The heavy rainfall is expected to reduce across the country on Saturday," Met director Stella Aura said. In an interview aired on Radio Jambo on Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government was working with the county governments hard hit by the heavy rains and the Kenya Defence Forces to assist those affected with food and other basis items. “Kenyans should be ready because we do not know what other disaster will befall us due to the heavy rains,” Uhuru said. He warned those in landslide-prone areas like Murang'a to move to higher grounds and those near rivers and dams such as Masinga dam, Kitui and Tana River where the water may start spilling over to move to safer places. “I urge Kenyans to adhere to the early warnings because we do not want to lose lives. We are in a difficult time of disasters and what has happened in West Pokot can happen in other places. People should be on the alert and go to safe areas to avert more problems,” he said. According to a status report shared by Kenya Red Cross, above normal rainfall was experienced in Kisumu, Baringo, Kericho, Samburu and Nandi, last weekend leading to floods and landslides in some counties. Nairobi and Kisii received normal rainfall with no effects reported. A quarry collapsed at Simotwe village in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County on Monday, killing two people. Another one is receiving treatment at Ravine subcounty hospital. Red Cross said River Nyando in Kisumu county burst its banks affecting Ahero sub=county and its environs. "Several villages were affected by flash floods. Maembe, Ahero school, Kamidumbi and Oketha villagers were affected. Some of the displaced are camping at the District Officer's office. KRCS Kisumu and multi-agency team are conducting assessment to determine number of households affected," says the report. In Kericho, there were landslides at Kunyak in Kipkelion West. Similar incidents were reported at Chepkaroi Village in Tinderet, Nandi. Several families were affected. Yesterday, the Water Resources Authority called on all water abstractors to enhance water storage. "All developers should also ensure that their developments factor at least 3,000 litres of storage tanks for every household. Storing water will ensure that reserve flows are maintained in water resources thus saving our resources from depletion during reduced flows," WRA said in a statement. Edited by Henry Makori