 Passengers who were put in mandatory quarantine at the Pride Inn Hotel in Westlands have condemned the decision to extend their isolation for two more weeks. In a joint letter to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, they instead want the Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee to allow them to go home. The government on Saturday said some of those in quarantine facilities had turned the centres into party areas in total disregard of social distancing rules. So far 1,806 people being held at various facilities have been tested. Some were due to check out of the hotels today. Pride Inn is one of the centres in which the quarantine period has been extended to the shock of the passengers who now claim they had been observing rules even after two people tested positive at the facility. “We wear masks every time we step outside our rooms. We are allowed at least an hour a day to get some fresh air in the garden, stretch our legs and enjoy some sunshine. We do this at intervals while observing social distancing rules,” the letter reads. It adds, “The hotel asked us to be picking our meals in the dining room and eat in our rooms. Even when picking our food, we keep the physical distance as required. In the lifts, we ensure there are a maximum of three people. The hotel disinfects the surfaces all the time. Hand sanitizers are within a short distance of each other, including in our rooms.” The passengers said they are afraid that the facility might increase their chances of contracting the virus based on the fact that even though they tested negative because they continue to be in close proximity with hotel staff who move in and out of the hotel premises as they return to their homes and come back to work, every day. “Since Covid-19 is now within communities in Kenya, we are at an even bigger risk of getting infected by the hotel workers, should any of them be asymptomatic (God forbid).” In addition, they claim some of them have special needs and may require medical attention especially in refilling their prescriptions. Some are missing doctor’s appointments and pregnant women missing pre-natal care. Some are quarantined with children, a move that is likely to expose them to danger. They claim some are experiencing mental distress and a few have had panic attacks, which worsened with news of the intended extension of quarantine, they claim. They have also expressed dissatisfaction with the conditions under which they are being held. For instance, even though it is a requirement that everyone be housed in a room with a window that can open for ventilation and fresh air, some are housed in rooms without windows. They are asked to do their own laundry, clean their own rooms without cleaning products and toilet disinfectants. “We have some students amongst us, who were schooling abroad and returned home to avoid getting caught up in the imminent border closures at the time. They are struggling to keep up with their course work, given the conflicting time zones and the fact that some of them continue attending online classes,” the letter says. The students are now forced to wake up at 3am to study. “These measures were not meant to be a punishment for those returning home, they were meant to establish our Covid-19 status, which it has done.” Of other greater concern is the economic impact the extension will have on them. The charges at the facility are about Sh9,000 for a night, meaning that at the end of the 14 days, they will have to pay Sh 126,000. Based o the fact that some are in quarantine with their families, some up to five members, they say the expenses will be close to Sh1 million. “It is brutal to be expected to spend this amount of money in a hotel for mistakes done by others in a different quarantine center. You will agree that this latest directive puts undue financial pressure on us,” they said.  Edited by Peter Obuya