The Lamu Rehabilitation Centre has closed down indefinitely over coronavirus concerns. All services have been immediately suspended until further notice. New addicts seeking to be admitted were turned away. The Sh98 million facility is the only one of its kind in the region having opened its doors for operations last year on April 5, its major objective being to rehabilitate the growing number of drug users. The 100-bed capacity rehab was fully sponsored by the Kenya Red Cross Society in coordination with other partners like the Nons Verbe Foundation, Italian Red Cross and Lamu county government. Kenya Red Cross Lamu coordinator Kauthar Alwy said the facility had been closed following directives from the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse until the situation in the country normalises. She said operations at the facility will resume as soon as the government announces the containment of the coronavirus. Alwy however said they had already cleared their last batch of patients for release when the directive came in. She, however, said outpatient services can still be accessed upon request. “We have been asked not to receive any patient and close down until the coronavirus is contained in the country. The recovery process includes family therapy sessions which can no longer happen due to the social distancing directive,” Alwy said. The facility has since successfully rehabilitated 112 hard drug addicts who continue to be monitored for progress even after they were discharged. Residents are, however, unhappy with Nacada for ordering the closure of the rehab in a region ravaged by drug and related crimes. “Coronavirus is a big deal but for Lamu, drugs are an even bigger deal. We don’t know when this thing will end and so turning away people who come seeking rehab services until further notice is simply signing their death notice. They should have left it open. We might survive the virus but many won’t survive drugs,” elder Athman Mussa said. Edited by R.Wamochie