A section of Muslim leaders in Mombasa has differed with those calling for the rescheduling of the curfew during the holy month of Ramadhan. The Holy month of Ramadhan starts on April 23 or 24, depending on the sighting of the moon. Political leaders and some clerics last Friday urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to readjust the start of the curfew from 7pm to 10pm. They included Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and Senator Mohammed Faki and Muslim clerics from the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya. However, the Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council on Thursday urged Muslims to abide by the current rules and regulations meant to contain Covid-19. Led by Kemnac chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao, they said it is prudent to obey government’s directive and not seek favours. Addressing the press at a hotel in Mombasa on Thursday, Sheikh Ngao said even Islam recognises times of emergency and allows certain rules to be broken. “Islam has provisions for emergencies. If one is dying of hunger and there is no way they can get to a place where there is proper food, Islam allows that person to eat even the food that is considered haram like pork,” Sheikh Ngao said. He was flanked by Salim Kassim, Munir Ali, Sheikh Abdulrazak Omar and Khitamy Aboud. Leaders who spoke in Mombasa last Friday said the curfew as it is will affect the less-fortunate because they usually break the fast at 7pm. On Wednesday, Uhuru said there will be no curfew extension for Muslims during Ramadhan. He maintained that just like Christians who were forced to mark Easter celebrations at their homes, Muslims should not expect special treatment. And in defence of the President, Sheikh Ngao said these are extraordinary times that can be equated to times of emergency. He said even the Prophet Muhammad used to pray at home in times of emergency. Ngao said it the duty of Muslims to apply the emergency sharia and make all five prayers at home. “The most respected mosques in the world are the Great Mosque of Mecca, the Medina Mosque and Al-Aqsa Mosque of Jerusalem, yet they are all closed because of this coronavirus. This should be our SI Unit. Look at the outcome of an event before deciding on whether it is good or not. Coronavirus outcome is not good,” he said. Kemnac further questioned the use of Sh40 billion in the fight against the virus. National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said the amount had been allocated as a response towards fighting the disease. Sheikh Ngao said the amount is far-fetched given people are forced to pay for their forced quarantine costs. “How was this money spent? Sh1 billion a day so far is questionable when they don’t pay quarantine costs, they don’t provide soap or sanitiser. How was this money spent?” he asked. He said most equipment used in the fight against the virus has been donated by international donors and organisations like the World Health Organization. “So, what has this Sh40 billion been used to do in 40 days?” He said this might be a case of people trying to pocket public money. The cleric said the Sh2,000 that the government has been sending to needy people as stipends is not helpful. “We, as the public, want a breakdown with supporting documents how this money has been used,” he said. But Yatani said the money had not been spent and had just been allocated.