MPs on Tuesday steered clear of wananchi's expectations to take pay cuts to support the Covid-19 fight and instead passed the buck to corporates which they claimed make "abnormal profits." There have been expectations that lawmakers would commit part of their salary to the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund in line with the directive of President Uhuru Kenyatta that Kenyans contribute to the kitty. The President announced he would take 80 per cent pay-cut together with Deputy President William Ruto. Cabinet secretaries took a 30 per cent cut. The monies were to be channelled to the fight against coronavirus pandemic. “My government has offered a voluntary salary reduction to senior government officials. I call on other arms of government and tiers of government to join us in this national endeavour by making similar voluntary reductions which will free up monies to combat this pandemic,” Uhuru said in his address to the nation. Speakers of Parliament Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Ken Lusaka (Senate) followed suit announcing they will take a 30 per cent salary cut for three months. Aas MPs trooped back after recess, it was widely expected that they will also join the fray and commit funds to the Covid-19 emergency kitty. Instead, the MPs trained their guns on corporates which have been announcing huge profits to stand with Kenyans at this time. National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed fired the first salvo, condemning local companies of their ‘I don’t care attitude’ at a time the country is faced with a pandemic. He noted that pay cuts will not yield much adding it is the moral responsibility of cooperates to support citizens during times of need. “How can you be milking people all years declaring unimaginable profits and when the country needs you most you are not there,” Junet said. “Let us not reduce this to salary cuts. If I give you Sh30,000 from my salary what will it help you with?” Appearing in a local television show on Tuesday night, Majority leader Aden Duale also downplayed the calls for salary cuts. “The people of Garissa Township sent me to the National Assembly not to do a pay cut but to make sure that resources and laws are available for Kenyans to be safe in their homes,” Duale said. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said it would be unfair to force MPs to take pay cuts as most of them have committed their payslips to various loans and mortgages. “Many members of Parliament, when they join, commit all their salaries to mortgages and loans and so whatever they take home at the moment is less than Sh10,000 for most of them. Some don’t even get anything,” Murkomen said. Apart from the top officials in the government, the salary cut has not been taken by other staff in the civil service. Edited by Peter Obuya