World Health Organisation Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has refuted claims that the organisation is keeping information from the world about the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, Tedros, during a video press conference said keeping secrets from the world would be a way of enhancing the pandemic. "This virus is dangerous, it exploits cracks between us. when we have differences, there are cracks, the virus exploits those cracks," he said. "There are no secrets in WHO. Because keeping things confidential or secret is dangerous. These are health issues and should go out immediately. There are no secrets in the WHO because this is about lives." Tedros reiterated that the political problem in the world may fuel the pandemic further. "That is why whoever has whatever ideology whether that person is from left-right or centre, should work together to fight this virus to save these people. If we don't do that this virus will stay longer with us to kill more people and we will lose more precious lives," he said. Further, Tedros reiterated that the political problem in the world may fuel the pandemic further. He cautioned of a worse situation without global unity. "We need global solidarity. Everyone is facing this virus. Without global unity and national solidarity, the worst is yet ahead of us," he said. "We said this virus will surprise developed countries and it did. Many developed countries came to the wrong conclusion because they didn't know it and they came into trouble. Let's stop additional surprises". The Director-General said at the end of the day, the world should know the root cause of the problem and try to address it. "It's fueling it. The cracks between people, between parties, it's fueling it," he reiterated. The remarks came after US President Donald Trump’s move to halt funding to WHO over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. The move prompted condemnation last week from world leaders as recorded global infections passed the two million mark. Tedros has openly addressed the numerous attacks towards the organisation and himself since the pandemic took effect. He revealed that he has also received death threats and racism attacks for the last three months during a presser on April 9. Tedros said that the attacks directed to him are based on his stand to defend Africans at the time when they were being attacked based on their colour.