Is a senior government official breaching the coronavirus movement restrictions? The official, who resides within Clay City along the Thika Superhighway, has been hosting guests at his posh home late into the night. Last weekend the official, who is usually chauffeured in a state vehicle, hosted more than 10 visitors. A goat was slaughtered for them. The government has issued guidelines on movement, curfew and social distancing, but some of his visitors arrived in a fully packed Range Rover. Sound like impunity? How they managed to drive away at 9pm despite the curfew remains a mystery. But it also puts the security apparatus under the IG  leadership of Police IG Hillary Mutyambai on the spot. In a similar case, a senior national government official from the Mt Kenya region is said to have bought his freedom allegedly after being caught drinking in a bar beyond the 7pm curfew hour. Our little bird in the region has chirped to Corridors that the official was among people arrested on Friday last week at a guest house in Nyeri town. He was drinking and making merry. But as those arrested alongside the official, including an MCA, were being taken to court on Monday, the official’s name was not on the charge sheet. Though our source from the National Police Service said the official's name had been on the list, it is unclear how he managed to get off the hook. What could he possibly have done to get his name expunged? A governor and his wife are on the radar of anti-corruption detectives. Reason? A source tells Corridors the main supplier of the goods used in the county such as water containers for handwashing and hand sanitiser, among others, is none other than the wife of the vocal governor. In public, he projects the image of a man beyond reproach. But in private ... Such flagrant actions and conflict of interest have also caught the attention of residents. A former Nairobi city county official is said to be back, this time installed through the backdoor by cartels of vicious bootleggers. The cartels are hellbent on scuttling the newly formed Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS). The former official was at the weekend overheard boasting that he will sacrifice and part with whatever it takes to defeat the authority of the House on the Hill in its bid to give NMS a backbone. Central to the war on NMS is the fight for revenue collection, for which the cartels have lined up a complicit company.