Kiambu county has lowered by 50 per cent parking fees for motorists and waived market charges for traders to ease the burden caused by the impacts of coronavirus. Governor James Nyoro on Tuesday announced that licence charges for bars and penalties for approvals have also been waived for three months. “We propose that for three months since the bars were closed their licences will be waived but those operating in closed doors we will catch up with them and they will be required to pay full licences," Nyoro said. He added, "Matatus levy charges will be lowered by 60 per cent for three months, all market charges have been waived and parking fees in urban centres should be lowered from Sh100 to Sh50 and in non-urban centres,  from Sh50 to Sh30." "For land rates, the agricultural land that is not under development will not be charged and we will be waiving all penalties of approvals." He spoke after witnessing the swearing in of county executives and members of the county Public Service Board at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. Nyoro said the proposals are subject to approval by the assembly. He said the decision was taken following state directives for a curfew that has limited working hours. Payment of charges for bar licences was to be made by March 31 and Nyoro said they will refund owners who had complied. For buildings approvals, only penalties will be waived. Nyoro said those who had started building without approvals have until Tuesday next week to harmonise their records with the department of planning failing which penalties will be imposed on them. He said that the county government had set up a committee consisting of prominent people for financial assistant and to be able to solicit for funds to combat coronavirus. He said the funds will be used to buy face masks, sanitiser, foodstuffs and other essentials. “We need all support we can get and that is why we have set up a committee of prominent people in the county so that we can unite in mitigating challenges brought about by Covid-19,” Nyoro said. He asked those transporting foodstuffs in and out of the county to seek permits so that they have easier access in the borderlines stipulated by the government for lockdown. The state on Monday ordered cessation of movement in and out of the Nairobi metropolitan area which covers part of Kiambu county. “Those moving food from Kiambu to Nairobi should come to the county government for permits so that we do not restrict them from delivering food to our people,” Nyoro said. Edited by Peter Obuya