At least 6,052 staff of the Nairobi County Government who have been deployed to the newly formed Nairobi Metropolitan Service risk losing their jobs if they fail to report to their new offices next week. Public Service Commission Chairman Stephen Kirogo on Friday through a notice said the staff should report on Monday, April 6 and Tuesday, April 7 between 8.00 am - 4.00 pm for documentation and collection of letters of secondment at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. The secondment of the staff from the Nairobi County Government under the transferred functions to Nairobi Metropolitan Services became effective from April 1, 2020. The staff have also been urged to bring their National and Staff Identity Cards with them on the said dates. However, the commission highlights that action will be taken on staff who will fail to show up. “It is further notified that any staff who fails to report on the aforestated days shall be deemed to have absconded duty and action will be in line with the relevant laws,” Kirogo said. The names of the 6,052 staff were published in one of the local dailies. Most of the staff served as accountants, drivers, clerical officers, labourers, senior superintendents, head messengers, principal assistant engineers, assistant works officers and technical inspectors among others. They have been directed to report to various duty stations including Devolution (youth department), Lands, Treasurer Department, sub county administration, Public Health Department, Engineering Department, Devolution (Medical services) and Trade Department. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Major General Mohammed Badi as the Director General of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. He is deputized by Physical Planning Permanent Secretary Enosh Onyango Momanyi. The national government made an unprecedented decision to take over the functions of Nairobi county because of the chaos and mismanagement it suffered. As a result, The departments include County Government Planning and Development services, Transport, County Public Works, Utilities and Ancillary Services, and Health were handed over to the National Government for two years. The transfer deal was signed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, on February 25 in the presence of the President.