Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has urged the government to tap the energy of the youth not only in times of crises but also during good times to grow the economy. The MP said the youths who form the biggest part of the country’s population should be the majority in all government departments. On Saturday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe urged youths to bring their vigour to the country's fight against the coronavirus. Kagwe said youths have demonstrated organisational skills in the saccos they have formed in their respective sectors and asked them to assist the government in creating awareness about the pandemic. But Ndindi said though it is vital for youths to be at the forefront of fighting Covid-19, the government should remember them when the country goes back to normalcy. “It is important to tap youth’s energy in times of crisis but when the pandemic is over, and we have a country that is fully functional, the same energy should be utilised towards rebuilding the economy,” he said. He said having a department of youths is not enough to handle their grievances and interests, and that youths cannot be limited to one department. “The people who are the minority are the ones who should have a ministry to push their interests but the youths should be dominating all the government departments since they are the majority,” he said. Ndindi said he has been working with youths in his constituency to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The MP has announced that he will use his April salary to support those living from hand to mouth in his constituency. He said this group of people form a large part of his constituents and that his salary will go towards providing them with food and the necessary protective gear. Such people, he said, are suffering due to the 7 pm to 5am curfew and require assistance to make it through the pandemic. “I have done this because even as we put the government to task, as leaders, we need to do what we can for the people who elected us,” he said. The MP said he has been sensitising people on the need to obey the government’s directives, especially on social distancing and washing hands. “A majority of them, especially those working in the boda boda sector, understand the seriousness of the matter. It is now part of their routine to wash hands as often as possible,” he added. Edited by A.N