Kenya has missed out on the International Monetary Fund’s debt service relief to poor countries announced on Monday. IMF’s executive board on Monday approved immediate debt relief to 25 of its member countries under the IMF’s revamped Catastrophe Containment and Relief Trust (CCRT) as part of the Fund’s response to help address the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This provides grants to our poorest and most vulnerable members to cover their IMF debt obligations for an initial phase over the next six months and will help them channel more of their scarce financial resources towards vital emergency medical and other relief efforts,” IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said. She said the CCRT can currently provide about $500 million (Sh53 billion) in grant-based debt service relief, including $185 million (Sh19.6 billion) pledge by the U.K. and $100 million (Sh10.6 billion) provided by Japan as immediately available resources. “Others, including China and the Netherlands, are also stepping forward with important contributions,” Georgieva added. The global lender urged other donors to help chip into the Trust’s resources and further boost IMF’s ability to provide additional debt service relief for a full two years to the poorest member countries. The countries that will receive debt service relief include Afghanistan, Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad and Comoros Others are, the Democratic Republic of Congo, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Togo, and Yemen Kenya’s public debt currently stands at Sh6.15 trillion, half of it owed to international lenders, amid low revenue collection. The country’s debt repayment is set to increase given the ongoing depreciation of the shilling against the dollar, driven by global shocks due to the spread of coronavirus. Switzerland based financial expert Kasiva Mutisya told the Star the country’s debt is likely to get more expensive if the shilling continues to tumble against the greenback. "It will be more expensive for Kenya as Treasury will have to spend more units of the shilling to acquire dollars to repay debt," Mutisya tweeted. According to Focus Economics Kenya is ranked at position 17 among the world’s poorest countries with a Gross Domestic Product Per Capita of $1960.5 (Sh207,636.55). The country is expected to fall further to position 15 over the next three years, despite GDP per capita growing to $2357.12 (Sh249,642.58). Kenya has also been named among 76 world’s poorest nations that are eligible to receive the World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA) funding. IMF did not, however, leave Kenya completely in the dark doubling the country’s reserve of foreign currency to Sh75 billion. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani told a local daily additional cash would go towards the balance of payments including importing critical commodities such as medical supplies, oil, and fertiliser, as well as paying external loans. “This is all to cushion us against external shocks. And we are doing it for the balance of payments; money to balance our budget,” he said.