Kenyans have donated more than Sh1 billion to help those affected by the Covid-19, President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Thursday. He said the money was donated to the Kenya Emergency Response Fund Board, which is headed by Jane Karuku. The President said the Sh1 billion will be channelled to help the most vulnerable in society, especially those in slums. He did not, however, say how much each family will receive. He said the government has identified households within Nairobi to start benefitting from the weekly household stipend plan. “To further cushion vulnerable Kenyans, we have identified needy households in Nairobi that would be inaugural recipients of the weekly Covid-19 support stipend. The piloting of the programme started on Wednesday and some of the initial beneficiaries have received their stipend," he said. The disease has left 234 people infected in the country, with 11 dead since the first case was reported on March 13. Some 53 patients have so far recovered, while more than 10,000 people have been tested. More than 1,000 others are still in quarantine facilities, while 156 are in isolation centres across the country. Uhuru said his administration has released Sh5 billion to the counties to supplement efforts in cushioning citizens from the infection. He said the money should be diverted to purchasing personal protective gear such as face masks for the citizens. Another Sh8 billion has been released under the cash transfer programme for the elderly. "I have released an additional Sh500 million in arrears to persons with disabilities," he said. The President said all donations for those hardest hit by the Covid-19 crisis should be done in a coordinated way through the fund. "We are a country of empathy and compassion. We have those reaching out to those who are adversely affected by donating foods and other items, but these donations should be channelled to the Covid-19 response fund," he said. Uhuru said if the fund is well utilised, it will ease the burden on many households as food prices will likely drop. "I have also recently learnt that in our usual Kenyans-for-Kenyans manner, an initiative called ‘Adopt Needy Family’ is in place. I want to applaud the religious organisations, businesses and households that are undertaking this effort, and, indeed, encourage all other Kenyans to take similar steps that reflect our deeply held values.” According to the President, the measures put in place by the government such as the dusk-to-dawn curfew and the ban on travel in and out of the worst-hit counties have been impactful. The measures are limiting the ability of the disease to spread at a great scale. He called for a profound need for action by observing the exponential nature of transmission recorded in other countries across the world. “The same is the case when it comes to social distancing the guidelines set out, including the closure of learning and entertainment institutions, as well as the ban on air travel into our country.” He thanked Kenyans adhering to the laid-down regulations, adding that their actions are helping in saving lives and those of their families. “Without them, we would need to deal with the disease that is highly infectious and can double and redouble and spread and cause untold human destruction." The President urged Kenyans to be vigilant so the country does not reach the point where there are many deaths and people have to be buried in mass graves. He made reference to states such as New York that have resorted to mass graves because of the high number of deaths. The US has recorded more than 28,000 deaths and more than 600,000 cases. Uhuru also urged PPE manufacturers to adhere to standards. He lauded KU students for coming up with a ventilator prototype to help in the fight against the virus. "Kenyans are showing they can invent and innovate... knowing our character is key to building our confidence to solve even more challenges that face our people," Uhuru said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)