As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise on a daily basis, parents in informal settlements are now unable to control the movement of their children. Social distancing is a foreign term. Children play and socialise as before the coronavirus pandemic. The situation is aggravated by the fact that children are at home and free all day after the government ordered schools closed to tame the spread of the virus. Occasionally, adults socialise with children without care. In Kibera, a man was on Tuesday greeting a group of children and giving them sweets. He had no face mask, so did the majority of the children. Kibera has registered some coronavirus cases, according to the Health ministry. In Kawangware 56, the Star spotted three girls hugging in public while holding revision books.  Only one had a face mask. The government has emphasized the importance of social distancing and wearing of face masks in public places. According to the World Health Organisation, Covid-19 spreads fast through contact with droplets emitted during coughing and sneezing. Sinoko MCA Antony Wabuge urged the Health ministry to put in place measures that will enable children and youths to abide by coronavirus guidelines especially during the day. “Recently I was forced to alight from my car and disperse two youths who were kissing in public place.  Our children are a problem in the fight against the spread of the virus. I request the government to put in place tough daytime measures,” he said. Lawyer Moses Munoko emphasised the importance of teaching children the WHO guidelines of preventing infection. “Our children are innocent and others do not understand how the virus spreads although they are well aware of its presence in the country.  It’s the responsibility of parents to ensure our children do not move anyhow as they may contract the virus,” he said. Munoko said young children are washed by parents and if they get infected, they will transmit it to the whole family. Retired teacher Thomas Wekesa told the Star he had to punish his son for not following the guidelines. “As the head of the family and aged above 60, I am vulnerable. I cannot allow him to leave the compound without a valid reason,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie