Needy people living with HIV/Aids and noncommunicable diseases have appealed for help, saying medication on empty stomachs is worsening their lives. They have urged well-wishers, and the county and national governments to provide them with food saying their livelihoods have been ruined by the measures put in place to contain Covid-19. Mary Waithiegeni (not real name) has been HIV positive for more than five years and is on antiretroviral therapy. Like many other HIV positive patients from needy homesteads in Nyeri county, life has not been easy since the first case of the coronavirus disease was confirmed in Kenya on March 13. The confirmation was followed by a raft of measures by the government that included the closure of all learning institutions and the shutdown of some businesses that left many people jobless. Waithiegeni is a young mother and one of the many people living with HIV that were left without any other option of earning a living. She had been surviving on hawking in Nyeri streets. When we caught up her with her in her semi-permanent structure at Gamerock in Nyeri town on Wednesday, her story was a reflection of what needy people living with HIV/Aids go through as they take drugs on empty stomachs. Some of the side effects they experience include nausea, vomiting and skin problems. Others are headaches, stomach pain, dizziness and general body weakness. The same applies to those suffering from noncommunicable diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and cancer. They too have to survive on daily medication. Sadly, reports have shown that most of the people losing their lives to Covid-19 have underlying conditions. This causes fear among such patients and their inability to feed themselves worsens their condition. HIV-positive individuals depend on ARVs. Without food and proper nutrition, the drugs take a heavy toll on their lives. The worst-hit are those in informal settlements who rely on menial jobs to eke out a living. “This is my second day without a single meal. I have been surviving on water and have nothing else to eat or drink. I take my ARV drugs on an empty stomach,” Waithiegeni said. She added that she ends up vomiting for taking the drugs while hungry. Ann Wahito (also not her real name) from the same area says her family has to survive on porridge as there is nothing left in her house. “I prepared this porridge which is supposed to be lunch for my children as I venture outside to see whether I will get supper. I have no guarantee that I will come back with anything,” Wahito said. She said the drugs are taking a toll on her life and that the welfare of her young children is at stake. Josephine Wangui*, a diabetes patient from Asian Quarters slum in Nyeri town, says she has fainted several times because of hunger. Others say they will have to stop taking the drugs should they not get help. But Ndirangu Kahinyika, a nutraceutical practitioner working for Healthy Living Centre in Nyeri town, warns that such a move would be risky as it would compromise their immunity. “They should take drugs and observe good nutrition to give them nutritional support and boost or leverage their immunity so that they don’t get exposed,” he said, adding, however, that all people with chronic ailments should have their nutritional needs addressed. “It is not just an issue of providing them with food, but their nutritional requirements ought to be addressed because they are vulnerable and more so those aged over 55." Though some leaders had promised food relief for needy individuals and families, many say they are yet to receive any donation. Last week, Governor Mutahi Kahiga said over 200,000 people in the county risk starving in the wake of Covid-19 if no steps are taken early enough as businesses close. Those affected include bar attendants, hawkers, kiosk operators and casual labourers who easily exhaust their savings. Kahiga said his government had set aside about Sh10 million to purchase food and called on well-wishers to donate more. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said his office, in partnership with a community-based organisation We Are Nyeri, had marshalled resources and bought maize flour to feed about 2,000 needy individuals and families every week. Wambugu said they are working with the local administration, Nyumba Kumi, community health volunteers and the county government to identify at least 10 needy cases in every village. At the national level, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani was quoted saying the government is working on ways of distributing food to the needy, with reports that the government has set aside Sh10 billion for those in slums.