Seventy-seven per cent of Kenyans would still go to hospital if they experience mild coronavirus symptoms, the latest study by GeoPoll shows. This is despite being advised by the government to treat themselves at home unless they develop severe symptoms such as breathing difficulties. The data was collected between April 2 and April 9 in 12 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. They include Kenya, Benin, Côte D’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia. The study was run through SMS and mobile web, in which a web link was sent through a text message and opened in a basic browser. GeoPoll used a simple random sampling technique from its respondent database, a list of mobile subscribers in each country surveyed. The sample was nationally represented by age, gender and location. From the findings, the level of concern over the coronavirus outbreak is high in all countries studied, with 72 per cent overall reporting that they are ‘very concerned’ over Covid-19. A slightly lower percentage overall, 63 per cent, believe that they or their families are at risk of contracting the disease. “This study found that populations are aware of the looming economic crisis, with 71 per cent saying they are very concerned about the economic effects of coronavirus,” the study says. MAJORITY TAKING PRECAUTIONS From the study, 96 per cent of the respondents reported they had taken measures to prevent themselves from contracting the disease. “Increasing hygiene, which would include an increase in handwashing, was the most common measure being taken, with 54 per cent saying they had enhanced their hygiene. Half are avoiding public places, one of the main culprits for spreading a highly-transmissible disease,” it states. Only 20 per cent said they are working from home and 18 per cent are avoiding public transport. At least 56 per cent said they are washing their hands with soap and water more than five times a day, with around five per cent saying they don’t wash their hands at all in a day. “While there are mixed statistics on handwashing behaviours in sub-Saharan Africa, often dependent on the availability of water and soap, there have been efforts to install handwashing stations in vulnerable areas such as the Kibera slums in Kenya.” In addition, 86 per cent of Kenyans are already concerned about having enough food to eat due to lack of money or other resources. The study also found that the majority of people have changed their food purchasing habits, with 60 per cent saying they are shopping for food less often. Forty-two per cent said they are buying bigger food pack sizes and 72 per cent are planning to switch to an alternative cheaper brand. SOURCE OF INFORMATION In regards to getting information, TV is the most common information source for coronavirus-related news, with 45 per cent saying it is a source of information, while 40 per cent saying they get information from social media. Social media is, however, slightly less likely to be the information source for those aged 35 and above. “In Kenya, we found that average TV viewership was up overall in between 6am to 12pm, while radio listenership during the same time period declined." "We also observed a move of TV audiences away from entertainment channels and towards news channels, likely driven by a desire to stay informed on Covid-19,” the study noted. Edited by E.Kibii