Judges have heard 203 cases in 10 days through video conferencing following the coronavirus disruption. Eight days ago, magistrate Julie Aseko in Malindi handled 157 cases in a day via video conferencing. On Monday judge Eric Ogola of the High Court in Mombasa cleared 23 criminal cases. He delivered judgments from his chamber while the accused persons were at Shimo la Tewa prison. Most were sentence reviews, with the majority of inmates handed life sentences. The suspects took turns appearing on the video camera and listened to the verdicts. Ogola said they plan to deliver judgments every Monday until normal operations resume. The judge further said they are gearing up to conduct hearings on Skype, which will reduce the number of pending cases. The courts are also in negotiation with advocates in civil cases to come up with guidelines on how they will conduct their cases in a similar way. In Taita Taveta the courts set free 23 petty offenders from Wundanyi Prison as part of efforts to decongest facilities and prevent the spread of Covid-19. High Court judge Farah Amin in Voi processed 24 files from the Wundanyi Magistrate's Court and ordered the prisoners' immediate release. Other courts have put up measures such as hearing matters at customer care centres to observe social distancing, the Judiciary has said. Court of Appeal judge Hannah Okwengu is expected to deliver 20 judgments and rulings on April 3. The cases were heard in Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa and Eldoret. The judgments and rulings will be delivered via video link while some will be sent via email. Video conferencing enables an individual who has an interest in court proceedings to take part from a remote location. A witness at a remote location may give his/her evidence via video link to courtrooms fitted with a screen and a camera. The Judiciary has on some occasions used video conferencing to get evidence from witnesses who are outside the country or are unable to physically attend court. In 2018 when Chief Justice David Maraga announced the launch of video conferencing in court, he said they had picked at least 15 judges and five magistrates for the pilot programme. Following the recent directive to avoid crowding and observe personal space the Milimani High Court Commercial Division and magistrates' courts have been fitted with video conferencing facilities. At least 85 per cent of the 140 court stations have been installed with basic ICT infrastructure and are connected to the internet. The Judiciary has also started installing data centres in partnership with other government agencies. The court recording and transcription system is live in six courtrooms in the Nairobi commercial courts. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya