Kenyans living in China are still being evicted from their homes despite a formal protest by Kenya's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Kenyans in China Organisation said landlords are handing out eviction notices in southern parts of the country particularly in Guangzhou city, Guangdong Province. A large group of Africans in the region who have been forcibly kicked out of their houses are Kenyans. “This is racist and discriminatory and it ought to stop. This cannot happen to people who are in China legally,” said a Kenyan who has worked in China for 10 years. He said Africans are denied entry to restaurants in a discriminatory campaign against black people. Reports indicating that most new cases of coronavirus in China are imported from abroad have fueled the evictions, he said. On April 10, the Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo said they had complained to China over the matter. The Chinese government had assured the country that a serious review of the situation would be done, she said in a statement. The ministry asked all Kenyan citizens in China to remain in touch with the embassy in Beijing, either directly or through their Kenyan community leaders. There are also reports of Africans being forced to remain inside their apartments and submit to coronavirus tests. China on Sunday reported 108 new cases, its highest number in weeks, and said almost all were imported. The development comes as leaders in the country pile pressure on the government to rescue Kenyans stranded in China. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula have called on the government to bring back home Kenyans who are spending sleepless nights on the streets following the evictions. The Chinese government has denied discrimination but said there have been some cases of misunderstanding. Some Africans do not have legal permits and have been uncooperative with Covid-19 control measures, Beijing said. The Chinese authorities assured that they are working to restore amicable relation with Kenya and other African countries. Yesterday, the president of the Law Society of Kenya Nelson Havi said leaders should not “sleep comfortably” while Kenyans are suffering in China. “We support the position taken by Musalia Mudavadi that Kenyans stranded in China must be evacuated and brought back home now,” he said. He said the government should not claim that it is in talks with China over the matter. “There are volunteer pilots patriotic for this noble cause,” he said. Kenyans in China Organisation said that Chinese authorities should stop the inhumane treatment of foreigners. People cannot be told to move out of their houses in the middle of the night, the lobby said. “These are savage acts.  The consulate of Nigeria in Guangdong has expressed displeasure over what has happened,” the organisation added. It criticised the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of not being proactive in addressing the needs of Kenyans in china. “Why is it that the embassy in Beijing is not sending people on the ground to ascertain the situation? We pay taxes and want to know the measures you have taken to safeguard our welfare,” a Kenyan in Guangzhou said. But the lobby cautioned against subjecting Chinese citizens in Kenya to a similar treatment. It said asking the Chinese to leave would not be the best way to address the problem. Wetang'ula called upon the Kenyan government to evacuate stranded Kenyans from China. He said these Kenyans were suffering in a foreign nation yet they have their own country. (edited by o. owino)