Burial guidelines could get tougher to free up space in morgues in Covid-19 preparedness, government pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor has said. Oduor said morticians have been instructed to expedite the release of bodies to families to decongest the mortuaries. "We don't want to be caught off-guard like other countries," he told the Star on Tuesday, referring to nations in the West whose morgues have been overwhelmed by bodies. Mortuaries in Italy, Spain and the US's New York city filled up prompting the countries to find alternatives including makeshift body freezers in trucks. Oduor said for people who died of the virus, the protocol is even stricter and the morticians are instructed to observe more stringent guidelines to avoid interacting with the body. "We dispose of the bodies as quickly as possible to ensure morticians do not have to continue handling the body. Reducing the interaction is saving lives by reducing chances of infections," he said. Nairobi county had already issued a directive for people to collect bodies of relatives from public morgues. The unclaimed ones would be disposed of without any further reference after approval from courts, the directive indicated. The order by the Ministry of Health also requires burial within 48 hours of death. But the directives have come as a disruption of the important rite in most communities and the possibility of toughening them only means aggravated assault of culture. Plister Aboge, 61, died suddenly at her home in Kogony village, Kisumu county, mid-March. An elderly, respected matriarch in the local society, her death shocked many as she was not sick. In line with the Luo culture, the burial arrangements started while the body was ferried to the local morgue. The burial ceremony was to be elaborate with huge attendance and feasting. But President Uhuru Kenyatta declared a dusk-to-dawn curfew and banned all public gatherings due to the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. In two weeks, only a dozen people would be allowed into the family home for the low-key burial as the chief and police officers took their positions. When Maureen Atieno died in a road accident at the lakeside city, her burial came sooner than thought. By 9am, the burial rites were done, a never-heard-of occurrence in the local culture. The mother of two hailing from Kano in Kisumu, it was expected, would be accorded a more decent sendoff with at least family members and relatives allowed to gather at her home and graveside, the pandemic guidelines notwithstanding. Family members and villagers and as her eulogy was being read at her home, security forces arrived and lobbed teargas canisters, prompting everyone to scamper to safety. The priest was commandeered to facilitate the burial as the rest were dismissed. Edited by R.Wamochie