 Residents of Avenue I and Avenue II in Pipeline have protested the erection of structures of a stretch of a road that branches off Outering Road which they say has been neglected. They said people have put up structures for kiosks, blocking waterways and causing poor disposal of waste. Vehicles can also not move freely because the road is crowded. “The kiosks have blocked waterways messing up our houses every time it rains,” Susan Njoki, a resident said. Njoki said there is someone who has put up a toilet a few meters from the highway's service lane. She said the problem started shortly after the Kenya Urban Roads Authority failed to finalise some 100 meters of road. Njoki said residents fear for their lives now that there is an outbreak of coronavirus. George Mwebi, another resident said navigating the path has become a huge risk. Mwebi said the road that has been left unattended was supposed to connect Outering Road and Pipeline estate. “The road runs through Avenue I and Avenue II. It is however consumed by the mushrooming kiosks,” Mwebi said. Mwebi said the residents have been asking authorities to complete the road but with little success. Kura has denied failing to complete the stretch. The authority's communications manager John Cheboi told the Star on the phone that the portion of the road belongs to the county government. “What was ours is done,” Cheboi said. Efforts to reach Nairobi roads executive Mohamed Dagane were unsuccessful as he did not pick phone calls and neither replied to our text messages. Cheboi said they have a plan to deal with the mushrooming kiosks in the area. “There is a programme we are working on with the Interior Ministry. The mushrooming kiosks are set to be removed,” he said. The National Transport and Safety Authority has said Outering Road is the second most dangerous after Mombasa Road in terms of accidents. The expansion and modernisation of the Outering Road were intended to reduce travel time to and from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and strengthen the city’s status as a regional trade hub.  Edited by Peter Obuya