Boda boda operators have been put on the spot for violating the ban on movement within Nairobi, Mombasa, Kale and Kilifi counties. The government has outlawed entry into and out of Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa and an expanded Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Thursday said despite the ban announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta earlier this week, boda bodas were being used to sneak passengers in the restricted areas using other routes. “We have noted those who continue to challenge the law especially boda boda operators who are not only not wearing masks and carrying more than one passenger as directed, they are the ones being used to flaunt movement within restricted areas”. “We cannot afford to drop the ball, we must all move more vigilantly to flatten the curve and this is not a time to be complacent.” He said authorities have been authorised not to hesitate to punish those who will be found culpable. Kagwe said such boda bodas will be impounded and their licenses revoked. He said if the laid down rules and regulations with regards to the sector will not be adhered to, stiffer measures will have to be put in place. “Citizen Participation is a key success factor for the war against the virus. As a government, we cannot record any score without pulling together. We continue to make a constant plea to all citizens to take collective responsibility,” he said. Kagwe said, as a result, the majority of Kenyans are realising the disease is here and the scope of its devastation. “We are not making you act, we want to act together. We are not forcing you but walking together with each one of us taking responsibility. As a government we are grateful to Kenyans for embracing responsibility,” he said. Kagwe said though strides have been made, there still remains danger especially from those not following measures put in place. So far Kenya has confirmed 184 cases after new five cases tested positive in the last 24 hours. Kagwe said the five were out of 308 samples that had been tested. He also announced the death of one more patient bringing the total tally of fatalities to seven.