Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has called upon the government to dissolve and abandon the Building Bridges Initiative and use the money allocated to it to curb coronavirus spread. “We cannot afford a luxury like BBI for now. In fact, it is clear that Kenya is so peaceful without the perennial bickering from known political trouble makers,” Aukot said. In his statement on Wednesday to the government on what it should prioritise, Aukot said Sh10 billion set aside for BBI should be used to feed vulnerable and poor Kenyans at this juncture. He added that the government should order all individuals who travelled into the country since February from the most hit countries to undergo mandatory testing for the virus. The party leader has further said that the government should mobilise healthcare resources both personnel and equipment and to avail testing kits to every constituency. Aukot also wants the government to organise and fund scientists in Kenya to conduct research into finding the cure and vaccine for Covid-19. “Kenya boasts several medical schools, some spanning 50 plus years; University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University and Moi University, we have in the past come up with ground- 2 breaking research especially related to HIV-AIDs and other illnesses,” Aukot added He said the government should use NYS and the military buses to transport healthcare workers to their work stations during the curfew period. Aukot said NYS and the military water bowsers to supply clean water to informal settlements. He has asked the government to use this crisis to renegotiate debts. “Formally request China and other international lenders to write-off all the debts we owe them for this COVID-19 crisis has irreparably affected our capability to repay the debts on a timely basis”. The party leader has added that the government should pull KDF out of Somalia allow them to instead guard the country from inside. “As a country, we must leave the Somalia matter to AMISOM personnel from countries that do not neighbour Somalia,” He said by pulling the troops out of Somalia, the government will save at least Sh20 billion that can be used to mitigate the current pandemic. Machakos County Governor Alfred slammed Kenyan professors for taking the back seat instead of carrying out research to come up with the solution to virus. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed on Wednesday that the number of coronavirus cases reached 81. The first case was confirmed on March 13 and one patient has succumbed to it though he had other infections.