Police in Kisumu have arrested one of the brothers who allegedly beat their father’s lover to death. County police commander Ranson Lolmondoni said Starlin Eugene Nyalwal, 23, was arrested on Sunday in Siaya county. His father Erick Okoth is also in custody at Kisumu Central police station. Lolmondoni said they were trailing the other brother who is still at large. The brothers are suspected to have killed Mercy Akinyi Adienge, 29, last week on Tuesday night. They are said to have been angered by their father’s invitation of his lover to his Got Owak matrimonial home in Nyalenda while their mother was admitted at Dunga Port Florence Hospital. Adienge succumbed to injuries sustained during the beating, according to Kisumu Central OCPD Martha Ngetich. “When I arrived home accompanied by the woman, my sons were enraged and beat her up with wooden sticks,” Okoth said in a police report. Adienge, who was from Suba in Homa Bay, sustained multiple serious injuries. She was rushed to Kisumu County Hospital where she died while undergoing treatment. "The suspects will be charged with murder,” Ngetich said. She said Okoth reported the incident on Wednesday. He had not informed the sons of his intention to marry another woman, Ngetich said. A neighbour who sought anonymity said Okoth, a retired teacher, had been dating the woman and wanted to make her his second wife. “She has frequently been visiting the man’s house,” the neighbour told the Star, adding that “the sons were infuriated by their father’s lack of empathy to their ailing mother". The victim's family, through a spokesperson who did not want to be named, said "there was no justification for killing her even if she went to the man’s house”. The family called for expeditious police investigations to bring the culprits to book. “All we want is justice to be served.” The body is at Kisumu County Hospital mortuary. A relative told the Star that they planned to remove the body on Thursday for burial on Friday. "We are still waiting for the family to communicate because the burial was to be at Okoth's home but he is in custody," she said. Edited by Henry Makori