Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has challenged Kenyan youth to take up more responsibility in the war against the coronavirus pandemic. Kagwe said it is the responsibility of the youth to secure the nation. The CS warned the youth they are the ones who will suffer the most if they fail to take up the responsibility and accountability in fighting the virus. "The youth should be at the centre of fighting these disease. It is a journey that requires the energy of youth. I ask them to take up the responsibility like previous generations that fought for independence. It is the youth who will suffer in future," he said. During his daily briefing on the status of the coronavirus at Afya House on Saturday, Kagwe said it is the youth who will face a collapsed economy should they not rise up to the challenge. "It is you who will face your parents as you watch us get sickly and there is nothing you will be able to do. And worse, it is you who will bury us not in small numbers but in very large numbers," he said. He urged the youth to observe and be part of the solution to the problem. The CS also discouraged them from travelling upcountry where there are a large number of older people who are vulnerable to the virus. Kagwe said the government will not follow up on individuals who fail to observe the measures put in place to tame coronavirus in the country. He called upon all Kenyans to take up personal responsibility for their own lives and protection from the virus. The CS warned Kenyans to desist from any defiance of the mitigation put in place to save their own lives. He urged those who have been directed to quarantine in specific facilities to understand that the only reason they are there is to limit their contact and their status monitored for the protection of Kenyans. Kagwe on Saturday confirmed Kenya had recorded four more coronavirus cases bringing the country's total number to 126 cases. The CS also confirmed a total of 1,781 contacts are being monitored. Kagwe's statement came hours after ODM leader Raila sent a similar appeal to the youth when he called for a 'new breed of patriots' to rise up and fight this new war. The ODM leader warned that the window of opportunity to fight the Covid-19 is slowly shutting and called for a people-for-people movement against the pandemic. He challenged the country's youth to be Kenya's new soldiers and saviours. "Use the advantages of technology and social media to encourage your friends to stay safe and to keep them company from a social distance," the AU envoy said.