Saboti MP Caleb Amisi wants Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to state if health workers on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus should expect additional allowances and salary increase during the pandemic. Amisi further wants Kagwe to explain measures put in place to ensure health workers are provided with personal protective equipment such as disposable gloves, non-sterile long-sleeved gowns, masks, and goggles or face shields. “The Covid-19 pandemic is a matter of global concern and it is on account of this that I seek a statement from the chairperson of the Departmental Committee on Health,” Amisi says in his petition to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. The legislator also wants Kagwe to provide the number and list of health facilities that can handle Covid-19  cases and how they are equipped. In addition, he wants the Health ministry to explain the measures it has put in place to ensure Kenyans at a higher risk of being infected get tested. The National Treasury has since set aside Sh2.66 billion for the Ministry of Health coronavirus response for the next two months President Uhuru Kenyatta has further directed the ministries of Health and Public Service to develop a welfare package to cushion health workers on the frontline. The package will entail insurance to cover hospital staff and deal with the health, mental and emotional needs of frontline doctors, nurses and other medics. Uhuru has also given county governments a three-month waiver to the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency to allow them buy masks and personal protective equipment made locally. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula on his part thanked the President for his efforts to safeguard the welfare of health workers during the crisis. “This is what I have been advocating all along. I am glad that the President has considered the well-being of health workers as they fight the pandemic,” he said. The Ford Kenya party leader further thanked the President for the stipends to slum dwellers but said people in the villages should also be considered because they are equally vulnerable. Edited by E.Kibii