Counties will be compelled to recruit community health workers, pay them allowances and provide necessary job aids if a new Senate Bill is enacted. The Health CEC will also be mandated to report periodically to the county assembly on the status of community health providers in the county. The Community Health Services Bill seeks to regulate the community health services and their recognition. Currently, many community health workers are volunteers who are not paid a stipend for their work of promoting health services. The proposed law sponsored by ODM nominated Senator Agnes Zani was published last week and is awaiting the first reading. It provides a legal basis for the effective delivery of integrated, comprehensive and quality community health services at the county level. It also provides a framework for coordinated implementation of policies and standards formulated by the national and county governments. “Community health services are instrumental in achieving preventive health care and ensuring access to health services in compliance with Article 43 of the Constitution,” Zani said. Zani said provision of community health services especially as the country battles Covid-19 cannot be gainsaid. “It is imperative that awareness-raising through tailor-made rural public sensitisation campaigns, reinforced and revamped training of Community Health Workers and equipping the health facilities for handling of cases, is urgently undertaken,” she said. Community health workers shall be nominated by the community in a public baraza, the bill states. They shall then be competitively recruited by the county public service board it may consider necessary for the proper and efficient implementation of this Act. Community health officers shall monitor and evaluate the implementation of decisions arising from community dialogue days and health action days. They shall also coordinate the implementation of community health activities by the community health workforce and provide technical support and training to community health workers and the committee. "The officer shall keep and maintain a register of members in all households assigned to the worker and provide appropriate health advice to an assigned household in a language that the member of the household understands," it states. The Bill creates an office of the Director of Community Health Services in the county public service. The officeholder shall advise Health CEC on the integration of community health in the respective county integrated development plans and the annual development plan among others. The Bill empowers Health CECs to establish a committee to ensure the effective delivery of community health services in the county. "The county executive committee member may designate a public officer within the county public services a registrar to keep and maintain the register," reads the Bill.