Kenyans have until Wednesday next week to submit their views on Covid-19 to the Senate. The public participation exercise seeks Kenyans' view in five areas - health, economics and finance, social and public order, access to food and water as well as support services and cross-cutting issues. This comes following a sitting held by the Senate on March 31 which resolved to form an ad hoc commitee on the Covid-19 situation. The committe will oversight actions taken by the national and county governments to address the pandemic. Some of the issues the committee will follow up on are provision of testing and medical equipment; provision of isolation centres, measures to ensure continuous supply of food, how learning will go on uninterrupted, safety of front-line workers and financial assistance of vulnerable groups. Other spheres of focus include measures to protect employees from retrenchment, policies for stopping spread of the disease and protection of residential and commercial tenants. Kenyans can submit their view through hand delivery to the office of the clerk of the Senate at Parliament Buildings or through an email to csenate@parliament.go.ke or covid19@parliament.go.ke. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Friday announced that Kenya has 12 more Covid-19 cases. This now brings the number to 122 cases.  Out of these, 11 are Kenyans and one is Somali. While giving an update on the new infections, Mwangangi said between Thursday and Friday, Kenya registered the new coronavirus cases from 362 samples tested. In terms of gender, eight of the patients were male and four were female. The age of the new infections ranged from 28 to 68, Mwangangi added. She said the 12 have been placed under mandatory quarantine at different isolation centres . So far, the country has tested 1, 433 persons in quarantine, with 617 more to go. But Mwangangi noted that Kenya has lost one other patient to Covid-19. A six-year-old boy with a pre-existing condition succumbed to Covid-19. This brings the total deaths to four.