Local Textile Industries and garments manufactures have joined the international community in manufacturing of face masks and other protective gear for their survival and contribution towards the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. This comes in the wake of the increasing number of infected people in the country coupled with surging demand for face masks. To prevent further spread of the virus, the country announced every Kenyan must wear a mask while in public places. Due to the pandemic, most companies have either shut down or are faced with closure with many of them laying off their workers as the economy continues to suffer from the effects of the virus. As a result, most Kenyans, especially from the slums areas, are unable to afford the surgical face masks thus go for cloth face masks which are cheaper. Tejal Dothia, CEO Thika Cloths Mills Ltd said the masks in addition with handwashing and social distancing would help reduce the spread of the virus. She spoke when she donated over 20,000 masks, (10,000 for Kibra slum dwellers, 10,000 to the Interior ministry and 3,000 to Witeithie market in Juja. The Kibra donation was received by Vikas Shah of Team Pankaj Volunteer organisation that is receiving food donations, masks and others for slum dwellers. She urged other donors and well-wishers to help donate masks to Kenyans some who cannot afford a meal a day as the harsh effects of the virus continue. Thika Cloths Mills, one of the major textile manufacturer in the country, is now making face masks to support its over 700 workers and cotton farmers. While distributing the face masks to Witeithie market traders, Anthony Kirori, a prominent businessman in Juja, called on politicians to join hands and help donate masks to poor residents. He called on the government to stop importing facemasks from China and other western countries and instead promote the local textile manufacturers as this will help many Kenyans with employment. His sentiments were echoed by Hellen Kanyari, Director of Weaverbird Garment Manufactures based in Thika, who said they have the capacity to produce enough masks to all Kenyans.