Water shortage in Kiambu will be eased with the completion of the Sh800 million Theta Dam. Water from the dam will be predominantly for domestic and irrigation use. The dam's groundbreaking ceremony was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2016. Gatundu Water and Sanitation Water Company MD Patrick Mwangi said piping of water from the dam to Githunguri is in the final stages. “The supply of water is for both domestic and irrigation use. We are working day and night to connect Kigumo, Kibichoi, Komothai, Gathugu and other parts in Githunguri and Gatundu South constituencies,” he said. The dam, which is at Kinale Forest, was funded by the government through the Athi Water Services Board. The project included construction of a 17-metre high compacted earth fill dam, construction of a reinforced concrete spillway and laying of a 3.5 kilometre steel pipeline of 500mm diametre up to the Mundoro forest edge. Theta dam reservoir has a storage capacity of two million cubic metres. The initiative, according to Isaac Gitango, was relief for residents of Gachika, Mundoro, Kiamuoria Gitare and Muhuhu who relied heavily on water from Ng’ethu Water Company in Gatundu North. Environment lawyer Kiarie Kamere said the project was key in improving standards of living. “Local leaders came up with the initiative of a dam to end water crisis in the area. Water collected at the dam during this rainy season will be used during the dry season especially for irrigation,” he added. “With time, the company will see how it can extend the supply of water to Nairobi.” Residents have also benefited from a good road network to the dam. Roads in the expansive Gatundu South have been carpeted or are undergoing carpeting including in the remote areas. The road not only connects to the dam but to major towns in the constituency from Gatitu through Muhuhu to Mundoro. The dam has opened up Lari constituency. Farmer Michael Kariuki said transportation of avocados and jungle nuts to the market is now cheap due to the improved road infrastructure. Edited by R.Wamochie