MPs in Kilifi county have started an online campaign urging residents to take the coronavirus pandemic more seriously. At the same time, the MPs have had to adjust their lifestyles and take up new ‘careers’ as they stay at home. Some, like Kaloleni’s Paul Katana, have become teachers, home-schooling their children, while others like Kilifi Woman Representative Gertrude Mbeyu, have turned into chefs, cooking for their families. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire is now a ‘health worker’. He has been giving tips online on how to protect oneself from Covid-19. The MP said since he is unwell and has been tested for the novel coronavirus, he does not want any of his constituents to fall ill. “That is why I get the tips from the Ministry of Health and project the same to my constituents through my social media accounts,” Mwambire said. The idea came from Katana, who encouraged other MPs and leaders from the county to make their status public to calm the residents. "Social media is awash with speculation and falsehoods. We need to stop this by coming out and talking to our people through our official social media platforms,” Katana said. Speaking to the Star from his home in Mombasa on Tuesday, Katana assured his constituents that he was fine and had tested negative for coronavirus. This is after social media was rife with reports that he was sick from the virus and that he had been admitted in the ICU in one of the Mombasa hospitals. Katana displayed his test results and urged his constituents to abide by the directives and measures to stop the spread of the Covid-19 issued by the government. “This disease is there. Take it seriously. Stay at home and be safe,” he said. “I was advised to rest and take precautions even after completing my 14-day self-quarantine.” Mwambire on Wednesday gave an update about his status after developing mild chest pains on Monday. “Good morning great people of Ganze? I’m still very stable and with great hopes. I’m waiting for my results which will be due between 24 - 48 hours from yesterday evening. I’m in my house under self-quarantine but not admitted,” Mwambire posted. On Tuesday, his 11th day in self-quarantine, Mwambire said he had to rush to hospital for a check-up after developing mild chest pains. “In brief, I’m stable and there is no cause for alarm. Stay safe by adhering to the government's coronavirus guidelines. Sensitise those you can reach. Coronavirus is real,” Mwambire said on Wednesday. On March 28, Kilifi Woman Rep Mbeyu said she tested negative for the virus while in self-quarantine. Katana, Mwambire and Mbeyu are said to have come into contact with people who were suspected to have the coronavirus after presenting symptoms. Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi and an MP in the county tested positive for coronavirus. On Wednesday, Katana said he did not interact with the DG. He said they had to take their campaigns online because the preventive measures by the government had changed their lifestyles. “I am not used to being at home. I am suffering a lot because I miss interacting with my people,” Katana said. To beat the boredom, he has taken to helping his son, who is a KCPE candidate, do his studies, he said. The MP also defended MPs against accusations that they had ran away from their constituents. “We have not run away from our people. These measures that have been put in place by the government prevent us from meeting with our people,” he said. Residents want MPs to distribute food to them but Katana said MPs’ hands were tied. The NG-CDF can only be used for education and security projects. “Anything else will require legislation. Like now, we have been called to a special sitting and that is where we can make the legislation to allow us use the CDF to buy food for our people during this pandemic,” Katana said. Edited by Henry Makori