Unilever East Africa has pledged €100 million (Sh10 billion) commitment in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic across the cluster of its businesses in partnership with the UK Department for International Development. The goods manufacturer of brands including Lifebuoy, Sunlight, Omo, Domestos and Royco, spelt out a wide-ranging set of measures to augment its global announcement that will focus on people safety, essential suppliers and community support. Justin Apsey, CEO Unilever East Africa said the firm hopes that the consolidated donation of soap, sanitiser, bleach and food will make a significant contribution towards protecting people’s lives and cushioning the society against the ravages of this pandemic. “These are unprecedented times that call for true business leadership in facing the impact that coronavirus is having on our people’s lives and livelihood,’’ Apsey said. The company’s actions are designed to help protect the lives and livelihoods of its multiple stakeholders – including its consumers and communities, its customers and suppliers, and its workforce in quest to lead in creating a brighter future for all East Africans. This move comes at the back of Unilever’s earlier announcement that committed €100 million, half of which came directly from the local markets. The consumer goods giant is now seeking to convene a coalition of local partners and has called out for proposals from those that can help in the immediate community targeted awareness and behaviour change response through the coalition. Requirements to be considered for partnerships include being able to mount a rapid response on an unprecedented scale aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19. The partner is also expected to deliver high-impact interventions to improve both personal and environmental hygiene to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. In Kenya, the firm will contribute an assortment of its frontline products of soap, sanitiser, bleach and food to help in the fight against the pandemic.  This includes Lifebouy donation of more than half a million soaps through local community outreach and behaviour change partners tackling access and soap commodity supplies to some of the most vulnerable populations in the high-density settlements.