A special police unit will be formed in Maragua subcounty, Murang'a, to fight chang’aa brewing in Maisha Mathi village, deputy county commissioner Mawira Mungania has said. The DCC said police officers stationed in the area have been unable to fight the brewers who have formed a cartel intimidating residents and chiefs. Ichagaki chief Mohamed Ali said the brewers have gone to the extent of issuing threats against him and his family over his attempts to fight them. The chief cited an incident where together with his two assistant chiefs, they raided a chang’aa den and confiscated 75 litres of the illicit brew. But the brewers regrouped and attacked them, destroying some of the chang’aa and repossessing some in the process. “They then dared me to go after them if I thought I was powerful,” the chief said, noting that he was only armed with a stick. He said during another raid last month, 570 litres of chang’aa were confiscated and taken to Maragua police station. No action was taken against the brewers because courts were not operational due to the coronavirus outbreak. The chief said the war against illicit brew can only be won with the co-operation of all leaders and reinforced security officers. Resident Peter Mwangi said they are shocked by the extent of illicit brewing in the village. “Chang’aa is being brewed and consumed in the open. The consumers are even sharing cups and we are wondering what would happen if some of them get infected with the coronavirus,” Mwangi said. The accused the government of neglecting the area, saying chiefs are openly intimidated by the brewers. He was the only one brave enough to talk to the media. Residents are not allowed to talk about the brewers because they would go after them, he added. “We are tired of living in fear and are determined to ensure the brewers are stopped and security restored, even if it means losing our lives,” he said. But the DCC said the brewers keep getting arrested and getting right back into brewing after they are released. Githanji area is the most notorious, Mungania said, adding that the brewers even sell from their homes. He said the security team has resolved to take a multi-agency approach and establish a police unit whose sole role will be to stop the brewing. “We will use officers from other areas because to win this fight, we will have to change our approach,” he said. Nyumba Kumi committees in the area will also be reconstituted to ensure the right information is passed. Mungania, however, cautioned chiefs against conducting raids as they are not armed and urged them to continue with their other administrative duties. He said the youth will be involved and will be assisted to form groups and apply for government funds that will keep them busy and help them engage in economic activities. The operation will be aimed at the brewers because without the supply, consumers will not have access to the liquor, the administrator said. The team will also marshal the support of residents, especially religious leaders. “I will be touring the village to map out the affected areas. Some of the homesteads involved have already been identified,” he said. MP Mary Waithera said she had brought together a group of brewers and drugs peddlers from the village who had indicated willingness to abandon their criminal ways in June 2018. After offering counselling to the 45, who included women, men and the youth, they declared that they had decided to reform and that they only engaged in it to survive. The MP said she used CDF funds to help the group establish nurseries and register the Ichagaki Reformed Self-Help Group. “Before the project started, I fed them from my own pocket. Some who did not have homes were allowed to live in the houses that were in an abandoned Ministry of Works compound. They even started a pig project in the compound, she said. But soon after, some of them started mugging residents and the group collapsed, even though a part of the group was fully reformed. “With the co-operation of other leaders, we can still assist those willing to transform their lives so that we can redeem the village and cleanse its soiled name,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie