The Jubilee Party has made changes in the leadership of the County Assembly of Nairobi after six months. The changes have seen Matopeni MCA Abdi Guyo reappointed as the majority leader and deputized by Dandora II MCA Peter Wanyoike. Mihang'o MCA Paul Kados has been appointed as the Majority Whip and deputized by South B MCA  Waithera Chege. The changes see the removal of Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo as Majority Leader and Ziwani MCA Millicent Mugadi who was his deputy. Also ousted in nominated MCA June Ndegwa who served as the Majority Whip and  her deputy California Ward Rep Hassan Abdikadir. The Jubilee side of the assembly has been in conflict since October following the return of Speaker Beatrice Elachi in the house leading to the ouster of Guyo on November 11, 2019. In a letter to Kados dated April 16, Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju says that the party consulted on the matter before arriving at the decision to effect the changes. The letter was copied to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi. "On November 12, 2019, we wrote to the Speaker of the County Assembly setting up an interim house leadership that has served in the assembly from the date of the said letter to date," Tuju wrote. He noted the change of leadership was in accordance with the 2012 Political Parties act that vests the powers of the designation of leadership in the county assembly to the Majority or Minority Party and in compliance with Article 20 of the Nairobi County Assembly Standing orders. Tuju said the new leadership is expected to adhere to the laid down communication channels at Jubilee Party and uphold the tenets of house leadership set out in the Constitution and the Law of Kenya. The leadership have also been directed to notify the speaker in the usual format of communication to the Assembly as required by the Nairobi County Assembly Standing Orders. The letter was copied to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi. The Jubilee MCAs had divided into troops either in support of Elachi or against. Guyo who was then the Majority Leader had been accused of intimidation and looking down upon women after he vowed to not to accept Elachi back. The Jubilee MCAS have also been divided over the impeachment of Sonko.