Bungoma  residents are at risk of coronavirus infections due to an acute water shortage in the town and its environs over the past few months . A spot check by the Star showed dry taps  in almost every estate. Residents are getting water rationed by Nzoia Water and Sewage Company (NZOWASCO). The residents fear that if this continues, fighting the coronavirus that requires regular hand washing and staying home could be difficult. The worst hit estates are Milimani, Kanduyi, Mjini, Mashambani and Musikoma, which have also high populations . “How do they expect us to follow the government directive of washing hands and staying home with dry taps?”  Paul Shikuku said. NZOWASCO chairperson Rabbecca Masibayi acknowledged the water crisis and  blamed it on a Chinese contractor working on the dual highway from Musikoma to Kanduyi. “It is true that some areas are not receiving water. The problem was brought  by the contractor who vandalised our main pipes and has not replaced them since then,” she said. Masibayi said they were still in talks with the county government and the contractor to ensure that the pipes are reconnected. “We are equally concerned especially at this time of the corona pandemic but  as a company it is beyond our  help. We are, however, hoping that the county works out with the contractor as soon as possible,” she said . Masibayi said another main line that served the town from Sikata though Lusaka road was not functioning and its repair requires almost Sh11 million. “In total, we require roughly Sh30 million to bring water back to town and its environs. We are still in talks with the county and national governments to come to our rescue ,”she said. Bungoma water and environment executive Renson Makheti acknowledged there was no water, saying they were working to sort out the problem. “As you know, we had already exhausted our budget for the financial year and we are trying to negotiate with the national government to come to our rescue ,” he said. Khalaba MCA Machimbo Okumu, however, questioned why the Chinese contractor who vandalised the water network had not fixed it. “The contractor should have fixed the water lines because that is part of his responsibility. I don’t understand why the county is not instructing him to do so,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori