A couple of weeks ago, I was partaking in the new social order of ‘only when necessary’ shopping. It seemed as though the town had gone on a long siesta and had no plans of waking. The number of coronavirus cases was only double digits at that time, but the fear was palpable. The town was giving ghost town vibes, coupled with chilling tension from the few people walking about. That was sometime mid-March, before the curfew order was executed. The people themselves had such a strong fear of the infectious disease that they started avoiding the outside as much as possible. Everywhere I went, from deserted markets to empty streets, it felt as though people were bracing themselves for an executive order of a lockdown that never came. However, on Monday April 6, Kenyans woke up to bold headlines from the country’s leading media, stating it was the people themselves demanding a lockdown of the country to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The news was met with scepticism by Kenyans on social media, who expressed their disbelief in the survey, as they asked the media which Kenyans they surveyed. The subjects "which Kenyans" and "#LockdownKenya" were trending on Twitter all day in the aftermath of the newsbreak. Many people, it seemed, scanned over the headlines and did not go read the story intently. The media were simply reporting on a survey that had been conducted by Infotrak Research and Consulting. Infotrak released their report on Sunday April 5, indicating their poll registered 75 per cent of Kenyans are pro total lockdown. Some 68 per cent of those surveyed wanted the government to enforce the lockdown. While the media were questioned for reporting on the survey, it was more apt for Infotrak to have conducted a thorough survey. Their survey sampled 831 adults from 24 out of the 47 counties. The sample size was perhaps a little restricting as a representation of the 49 million Kenyans. Countries that have been devastated by the corona pandemic, such as Italy and Spain, have been under total lockdown for more than a month now. Those in isolation who have shared snippets of their lives on social media have shown the rest of the world the downside of a total lockdown. Kenya is lucky enough to learn from the decisions of its East African neighbours, Uganda and Rwanda. Both countries have implemented a total lockdown of 14 days to curb the spread of coronavirus. Although Kenya has more reported coronavirus cases than its counterparts, the country is still maintaining its decision of a partial lockdown with the 7pm-5am curfew. A total lockdown would force people to stay indoors for 14 days or more, with limited access to the outside world. Businesses would have to be shut down, public transport would not be available and only hospitals and food stores would remain open. People would only have restricted movements to buy groceries and to go to hospitals in case of emergency. Although other countries allow their residents to go out for exercise, it is doubtful that Kenyans would feel safe going out to exercise following the showcase of police brutality during curfew hours. A small portion of the population would argue that a total lockdown of the country would help in fighting the rapid spread of coronavirus. However, these are the elite few. Those who can afford to stock up their homes with several months’ supply of food and water. Those who have comfortable enough homes to live in and work in without restrictions. The question remains, can all Kenyans afford a total lockdown? Absolutely not! Most Kenyans still live below the poverty line, and a good number of Kenyans live on a day-to-day basis. What they earn each day is what they use for sustenance. Think about your Mama Mboga or the boda boda rider, who depend on day-to-day businesses. Even the middle class are struggling to keep up with the demands in this confused time. Businesses are shutting down, incomes are not what they used to be. Even those who have the option of working from home are faced with the same troubles as everyone else. Power and water shortages are as frequent as always. How will people work from home without electricity? How will a home be liveable without water? The government is taking all the necessary steps to avoid a total shutdown. I do not agree with most decisions the government takes, but I know that a total shutdown will cause havoc to millions of people in the country. To avoid such desperate measures being implemented, we must all play our roles in curbing the increase of coronavirus cases.