I was not perfect but I did my best. Those were the words of former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo after he was sacked on Wednesday as chairman of the Kenyatta National Hospital board. Reacting to his sacking by President Uhuru Kenyatta from the helm of the country's premier referral facility, Gumbo said he accepted the decision with humility and grace. “I wish to thank the President for the opportunity he gave me to serve Kenyans. I did what I could although no one can be perfect,” Gumbo told the Star hours after his sacking was gazetted. Gumbo, an engineer, said the President didn't owe him any explanation as to why he was sacked after serving for only 11 months. Gumbo was appointed KNH board chairman in May last year for a period of three years. “That is the prerogative of the President and he is under no obligation to explain what he has done and I wish my successor all the best,” Gumbo said. In a Gazette notice dated April 22, the President named former Commission on Revenue Allocation CEO George Opondo Ooko as the new KNH board chairman with effect from April 21, 2020, to May 2, 2022. “The appointment of Nicolas Gumbo is revoked,” President Kenyatta said in the notice. However, questions linger over the timing of Gumbo's sacking at a time when KNH is at the heart of the fight against the coronavirus. But confronted with the hard questions, Gumbo said he won't speculate about his sacking. He, however, said his sacking could have received jubilations from some people given he's a politician. “I am in the political space and political misfortunes could please and hurt others in equal measure. I know there are those who are celebrating with a party over my sacking,” Gumbo said. Gumbo served as Rarieda MP for two terms between 2007 and 2017 when he contested the Siaya gubernatorial seat and lost to ODM candidate Cornel Rasanga. He vied as an independent candidate after losing the ODM ticket to Rasanga in what he then termed “rigged primaries”. The politician is known not to be in good books with Opposition chief Raila Odinga and the former prime minister's allies from Nyanza have been training their guns on him. Siaya Senator James Orengo, Raila's key political confidant, is Gumbo's key opponent in the battle for the Siaya gubernatorial race in 2022. Incidentally, Gumbo has consistently fought for his own political path, a position that could have informed his decision not to rejoin ODM. While former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, who vigorously campaigned for Gumbo in 2013, was among ODM defectors who trooped back to the party after a meeting last month, Gumbo did not. Political observers say Gumbo's sacking could be linked to the high-stakes battle for the Siaya gubernatorial race that has attracted Raila's close allies.