Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o and his deputy Mathews Owili have taken 30 per cent pay cuts to raise funds for the county's coronavirus kitty. County executive members, chief officers, and directors will take 20 per cent, 15 per cent, and 10 per cent pay cuts, respectively. Nyong'o said on Thursday the deductions will be effected from April 1 for three months. The pay cuts are expected to raise Sh3.7 million per month for the coronavirus kitty.  The county targets to raise Sh800 million for the kitty. While launching the county Covid-19 response fund, Nyong'o said the cash will cushion residents from the socio-economic effects of the pandemic. “We want to be able to provide food and supplies to those whose livelihoods have been adversely affected by this pandemic. This Fund will receive cash donations for food purchases and supplies,” he said. Beyond financial contributions, he asked individuals and corporates to donate food, medical supplies, and other materials to assist residents. “As an investment in the fund, the county government will make available Sh200 million, to be drawn from expenditure cuts in the current budget and other sources,” the governor said. The contribution, he said, should be channelled through the account name: Covid-19 Response Kisumu County, account number: 0152381376001 Bank: SBM Bank (K) Ltd Swift Code: Sbmkena Bank Code: 15, Branch Code: 015 Branch: Kisumu. Nyong’o commended Kibos and Allied Industries MD Bhire Chathe for supplying not only Kisumu but the counties within the region with tens of thousands of litres of sanitiser and fumigation chemicals. Chathe is a member of the Kisumu Economic and Social Council (Kecosoc). He also thanked Kee Chong Li Kwong Wing, a member of Kecosoc, for SBM Bank's contribution of Sh1 million and his personal contribution of Sh100,000. Others include Pharm Access Foundation, to support data resources to identify vulnerable households and educational short message services "to our people, through your platform at your cost". “We appeal and urge you, our partners and all humanitarian donors to work together to save lives and help restore basic dignity for all,” Nyong’o said. He urged residents to heed measures put in place by the national government to combat the spread of coronavirus. The governor said the county government has put in place measures to handle cases of coronavirus. “We have also gone ahead to equip our quarantine centre at Lumumba Hospital with 30 beds,” he said. He hailed the commitment of media houses in ensuring that people are accurately sensitised on preventive measures and the effects of the pandemic.