Twenty-one youths have been taken into mandatory quarantine at the Kenya Medical Training College, Nakuru campus, after they were found kissing and taking photos along Golf Club Road in the upmarket Milimani Estate. Apart from the forced quarantine which they are required to pay for, the youths risk being charged with shooting pornographic material. Armed with cameras and attire for the photo shoot, the youths went about striking poses, hugging and kissing for the lens, in total disregard to social distancing rules. Nakuru Town West Deputy County Commissioner Elmi Shaffi said the youths, who include nine males and 13 females, are aged between 18 and 25 years. He said the provincial administration and police officers ambushed the group after a tip-off by the management of Nakuru Golf Club at around 5pm on Tuesday evening. "We received information that the youths were taking pictures without observing public health guidelines on preventing Covid-19," said Shaffi. He added that the group did not have face masks, neither were they observing social distancing. “During the photo shoot, they were displaying nudity, indecency and immoral behaviour," he said Shaffi said preliminary investigations showed that the group who include a teenager who came into the country from Germany a month ago have been taking pictures and shooting videos along the area for the past two weeks without adhering to Covid-19 precautionary measures. "The female teenager jetted into the county a month ago from Germany, and has been residing at a hotel within Nakuru town," he said. Shaffi who was accompanied by health officers during the ambush said the group has been mobiliaing themselves through a WhatsApp group with intention of taking pornographic pictures and videos. He claimed that the group admins have been recruiting members who are secondary school students, college students and school leavers. One of the WhatsApp administrators said the group was formed last month and has 79 members. “The group has three administrators that send links to various social media platforms to recruit youth,” said the DCC One of the youths pleaded for leniency saying he did not have money to pay for being quarantined. He that his parents were not aware that he had been arrested and quarantined.