The Bill allocating money to the counties has been sent for mediation after senators and members of the National Assembly clashed over the allocation for Nairobi. Senators on Tuesday passed the Division of Revenue Bill, 2020, from the National Assembly, albeit with amendments, triggering mediation. They rejected the retention of Sh15.9 billion equitable share for Nairobi in the national government for use by the newly created Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The National Assembly retained the entire amount for the implementation of the four county functions transferred to the national government. "The equitable share for Nairobi City County should, therefore, be set aside and arrangements put in place to ensure the resources necessary for the performance of the functions are transferred pursuant to Article 187 (2) of the Constitution,” the Bill from the National Assembly reads. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko signed away four critical county functions to the national government in a ceremony presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House on February 25. The four are health, transport, planning and development, and public works and utility services. The Bill is a crucial piece of legislation that divides revenues generated nationally between the national and county governments. It allocates the national government Sh15.9 trillion and sets aside Sh316.5 billion for the devolved units in the financial year starting July 1, 2020. Nairobi received the lion’s share of the shareable revenue. The counties have been allocated conditional grants from the national government amounting to Sh13.7 billion. They include Sh6.2 billion for servicing of the leased medical equipment, Sh4.3 billion for level 5 hospitals, Sh300 million for construction of county headquarters and Sh2 billion for the rehabilitation of youth polytechnics. The devolved units will get Sh30.2 billion loans and grants from development partners. But the senators rejected the MPs’ proposal, terming it unconstitutional and an affront to devolution. While tabling the Bill in the chamber, Finance and Budget Committee chairman Mohamed Mahamud said retaining funds meant for devolved units in the Consolidated Fund contradicts the Public Finance Management Act and the Constitution. The law requires the equitable share allocation deposited in the County Revenue Fund (CRF) accounts. “The Bill proposed the allocation for Nairobi be retained in the Consolidated Fund and at the same goes ahead to allocate the city Sh15.9 billion,” Mahamud said. “What will happen to the county assembly and the 10 remaining functions is not known.” Further, the Mandera senator argued that the allocation to individual counties is purely the work of the Senate and faulted the National Assembly for overstepping its mandate. The House approved the committee’s recommendations that Nairobi’s allocation be sent to the CRF. The monies shall only be moved to the NMS after the county assembly approves the County Appropriations Bill. Senate Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr reckoned that putting Nairobi’s allocation in the Consolidated Fund implies that the National Assembly will appropriate for it, a move he termed unconstitutional. “The reason we did it quickly is that we anticipate that the Appropriations Bill that is currently in the National Assembly, may be passed soon. What we assume, with what they did, is that Sh15 billion meant for Nairobi is in that Bill. So we must move fast and stop them before they pass it,” he said. He disclosed that the Senate has already communicated to the sister House its decision so that they form a team that will sit in the mediation committee to resolve the impasse. The message shall be relayed to the MPs next week by Speaker Justin Muturi. The Senate Business Committee shall appoint its members on Monday.