My name is Concilia Owire, a 26-year-old train driver and team leader at Africa Star Railway Operation Company (Afristar). Afristar is the operator of the Standard Gauge Railway. My job involves training, evaluation and supervision of our locomotive crew and driving the passenger train along the Mombasa-Nairobi- Suswa line. For me to fulfil my job requirements, I have to be physically present at work, because it mainly entails the transportation of goods on freight trains after the passenger service was suspended. I work with minimal supervision, having acquired the relevant skills required for this job. However, the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to adjustments in my work schedule and added responsibilities. I take great pride in being part of the team of locomotive drivers tasked with the responsibility of moving donations and other precious supplies meant to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in Kenya and in the (East African) region. In addition, I’m responsible for the general supervision of all the employees in the department, ensuring that all are in good health and abiding by the regulations set by the company with regards to Covid-19. I monitor the temperatures of employees, who are currently being accommodated at the company premises as one of the measures adopted to mitigate the spread of the pandemic. I ensure that our offices and apartments are disinfected regularly. But the added responsibilities have come as a blessing to me as I have gained skills in freight train operations and cargo management, besides mastering employees’ health management during the Covid-19 pandemic period. Taking cognizance of the dangers posed by the novel coronavirus, I have adopted safety and preventive measures to keep the virus at bay. I wear a face mask at all times while driving a train or undertaking other assignments within the locomotive depot. I also wash my hands regularly with soap, besides wearing latex gloves while operating a train. I also keep a safe social distance of about 1.5 metres, especially when interacting with different people as I go about my daily duties. My department has also put measures in place to contain the spread of the pandemic. The first one is the provision of face masks to all employees of the department on a daily basis and insisting that the face masks should always be worn at all times. There is also the provision of washing hand gels in all the washrooms and locomotives. Latex gloves are provided to all the locomotive crew to be worn as they get to touch different surfaces during their work. Additionally, offices, restrooms and locomotives are fumigated regularly. The safe and social distance of 1.5 metres has been marked in common areas like the cafeteria. Measures have been put in place to minimise the number of employees in a certain place at the same time, especially in the cafeteria and in the locomotive. Staff was asked to take leave and stay home as a preventive measure. Of great importance is the fact that health training has been given to employees to ensure they are aware of the risks posed by the virus and lay emphasis on the prevention measures. To avoid contamination of the equipment or persons who come into contact with goods being transported on SGR, all the equipment are regularly fumigated, and the personnel handling such goods are equipped with enough protective gear. The implementation of the directives has been smooth, given the thorough training on Covid-19 awareness given to staff. My colleagues and I strictly adhere to the directives issued by Afristar. Although there have been work-related challenges such as an increase in workload due to a reduction in staff, I receive enough resting hours. I also receive a lot of assistance from my supervisors. While other sectors have been affected by the night curfew, my work plans have gone uninterrupted as I am accommodated within the company premises. The SGR freight services have also been exempted from the curfew as we operate on a 24-hour basis. Since the transportation of the cargo has to go on, sacrifices have to be made to reach the required benchmarks. Staying within the company premises has helped a great deal because I can easily get to the office in minimal time, finish my duties and meet all the deadlines. I commend the efforts my employer has put in place in the face of Covid-19, especially regarding awareness creation and adoption of safety measures, in tandem with the Ministry of Health directives. The company has provided testing kits, especially the temperature sensors to monitor the health of employees on a daily basis. My only fear is losing my job should this situation persist. Since the passenger services have been suspended, there could be a reduction in transportation activities if the virus is not contained soon. Finally, in joining the rest of the world to contain the spread of the pandemic, I had to make a major personal sacrifice by mainly staying away from my family for an unknown period as a safety precaution.