Kenyans seeking to travel into and out of Nairobi have resorted to back routes and boda bodas to reach their destinations. President Uhuru Kenyatta imposed a travel ban into and out of Nairobi metropolitan region on April 6 to control the spread of the coronavirus. But many traders are still moving in and out of the city, paying on average Sh550 to cross over into or from Nakuru county. Two police roadblocks at Kamandura and Chunga Mali along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway are easily evaded on motorbikes. Travellers from Nakuru and Naivasha alight from matatus at Kwambira area in Limuru subcounty, about two kilometres to Kamandura. They take boda bodas through Kamirithu, Tharuni, Kiroe, Kerwa and end up at Zambezi area in Kikuyu or Kikuyu town where they board vehicles to the city. “We charge them between Sh500 to Sh600 to Kikuyu and bring back other passengers to Kwambira where matatus pick them up," rider Simon Njoroge said. Njoroge said most of the travellers normally have items for sale. Women at Tharuni village in Limuru subcounty have asked the government to tighten the enforcement of the travel ban. They said the riders might be infected by the customers and spread the coronavirus to their families. "It makes us afraid when we notice riders carrying people they do not even know. These are the people who will bring the disease to innocent people who were forced to stay at home," Nancy Wangari said. Wangari asked Limuru deputy county commissioner Charles Mukele to track the boda boda riders' movements. The government has set up a roadblock at Mutatakwa along the Nairobi-Maai Mahiu road. The roadblocks at Kamandura and Chunga Mali are now supervised by General Service Unit officers. GSU officers at the roadblocks decline to speak to the Star because none was authorised to talk to journalists. Bishop James Njenga has urged the President to impose a countrywide lockdown since Kenyans have misbehaved for personal gain. "We have witnessed bar owners locking customers inside their bars to sell without considering the social distance, these travellers don't consider why the cessation was imposed," he said. (edited by o. owino)