Narok County government has commenced the screening of people in five major entry points to the county as part of the measures to tackle the corona virus. The screening points will be manned by the police, county rangers and medics from the county health department. The team will also screen temperature and other health vitals of all persons entering or leaving the county. The screening points have already begun operations at road blocks in Suswa, Tipis trading centre, Mulot, Nyangusu and Loita. On Friday, a team from the county government made an impromptu inspection visit at Mullot barrier to monitor ongoing screening of travellers. The county team was led by county executive in charge of administration Ezekiel Rono and County Medical Services Chief Officer Sahara Ibrahim, his Public Health counterpart Geoffrey Sang and Mulot deputy OCS Kimutai Kirui. Rono said the county administration decided to erect screening checks because the region is bordering counties that some cases of  Covid-19 have turned out to be positive. “We are not taking any chances and as the county we have put all the measures to contain the spread of this deadly virus,” said Rono. He added that Narok has not confirmed any case of the virus. On her part, Sahara said that the all the travellers will undergo mandatory checks and any case of abnormal temperatures is isolated for further tests. “If we found out any suspicious case and person’s shows signs related with coronavirus, we will call the ambulance which is on standby to deal with Covid-19 cases and take the suspected person to the nearby isolation centre which we have set as across the county,” said Sahara. Sang said that that the public was being urged to continue washing hands, wear face masks and keeping distance to ensure their own safety. “Our County Emergency Response team is coordinating measures to combat the corona virus threats and they are on standby on any eventuality,” said Sang. On Thursday while chairing a meeting of the county coronavirus response committee which he co-chairs with the County Commissioner Samuel Kimiti, Governor Samuel Tunai said that the county will set up additional coronavirus screening points if it becomes necessary. Meanwhile, Tunai has announced the re-opening of selected markets in the county with a strong warning that the management teams of the markets must strictly enforce the coronavirus preventive measures or risk closure of their markets. Tunai said that re-opening of selected markets in all our sub-counties with the view of still maintaining all necessary precaution to ensure continued protection of our people from infections “During my periodic updates on the measures that my government is taking to prevent, and where necessary contain, the occurrence of Covid-19 infections in our county, we considered a number of measures as a way to alleviate the economic burden that is already facing of our people," Tunai said. He said that re-opened markets were selected on the basis of their strategic locations, volume of trade and proximity to traders and buyers at the community. The county boss with the concurrence of the County Commissioner directed that three of the markets listed for re-opening be closed effective on Monday 20. The affected markets to be closed are Tipis Market in Narok North, Ilkerin Market in Narok South, Olposimoru Market in Narok West sub counties. The markets that will now resume operations are: Narok East: Nairragie-Enkare, Ntulele and Suswa. Narok North: Olchoro, Rotian, Ewaso Ng'iro, ODM, Muthurua and a new market near the stadium. Narok South: Narosura, Ololulung’a, Sogoo and Entasekera. Narok West:  Ngosuani, Aitong and Mulot. Transmara East: Dikirr, Njipiship and Murkan. Transmara West: Ogwedhi, Lolgorian, Kilgoris, Angata and Enoosaen.