A miraa trader from Garissa is nursing serious injuries allegedly inflicted by area police boss Peter Murithi Ndirangu. Lima Ahmed, 40, the main miraa seller in Sangailu division, Hulugho subcounty, said the day started well when she received 10kg of the stimulant from a Meru supplier. It was brought in a Probox car. Two customers were already in her house when the officers pounced on her. Miraa trade is legal in the country and President Uhuru Kenyatta acknowledged it when he brief Kenyans last Monday on the measures taken to contain Covid-19. He allowed transportation of miraa into counties with restricted movements. Ahmed said she had done nothing wrong to warrant a beating. "No sooner had I opened the door than the officers, led by the area OCS, rudely entered my house without even knocking. He (the OCS) then proceeded to slap me on the face as his colleagues proceeded to take my miraa and handbag to their vehicle," she said in tears. Ahmed spoke at the Garissa police station where she had gone to report after failing to do so in Sangailu. The mother of five said her pleas to the officer to stop beating her fell on deaf ears as "they continued raining kicks and blows" on her until she became unconscious. Her children and the customers run for their dear lives. Ahmed was later rushed to the nearby Sangailu health centre. She suffered injuries on her right arm and leg. At the station, she brought with her the dress she wore when the officers attacked her. It was torn. "To be honest, I'm still shocked and terrified by the actions of the police on me. I still don’t know what informed their decision to rain blows and kicks on me without any provocation. If in any way they thought I broke the law, the good thing would have been to arrest and take me to the police station,” she said. "All I'm asking for is justice because what the police did to me was wrong. As we speak, I don’t have my identity card, passport and Sh150, all of which were in my bag, which the police left with. Let the law take it course." She has been in the business for the past 20 years. Her close relative said on condition of anonymity that the officers were angry with her for refusing to give a bribe to be allowed to trade. County police commander Alfred Ongengo promised to have the matter investigated thoroughly. "I want to confirm that I have received a report from the said lady who claims that she was beaten by our officers. I want to assure everyone that proper investigation will be carried out and we shall keep in touch with the complainant throughout. if our officers are found to be In the wrong, then they will face the law," he said. Area MP Sophia Abdinoor criticised the officers for the manner in which they handled the trader, saying she would file a complaint with the Independent Policing Oversight Authority so "the rogue police officers can pay the price." "Gone are those days when police officers used to beat ordinary Kenyans instead of subjecting them to the rule of law. Officers should at all times restrain from using excessive force when handling members of the public," she told the Star on the phone. (Edited by F'Orieny)