After President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Sh100 million be set aside to cushion artistes from the economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic, bitter rivalry and infighting commenced. The bone of contention lies in the definition of who is an artiste. This then opens the fund to be accessed by not just the musicians and actors but by other creatives who are artistes, like painters, graphic designers, animators and photographers. Creatives have exchanged angry words over who is entitled to the fund. Others say the fund should be repurposed for use to fight the coronavirus pandemic. The other main issue bedevilling the creatives and the Sh100m fund is the modalities of how it will be distributed. The leaders of the various creatives associations met with officials from the Ministry of Culture and Heritage to iron out the modalities of the distribution of the funds, but there was no clear headway on how it will be done. A ministry official told the creatives, "It is important as much as possible, to get your ideas on how the 100 million may be utilised." The official said members of the creative sector require some emergency interim basic income fund following the closure of the National Museums, the Kenya Cultural Centre, public libraries and basically, the social measures that have been taken to respond to the Covid-19 crisis. That fund was going to cover the most in need and particularly in informal settlements. "So the President asked the ministry to hive off Sh100 million from the 20 per cent kitty reserved for culture to go towards this initiative during this time," the official said. Ministry chief of staff Rose Wachuka cautioned that the creatives have to "ensure they are collectively speaking in one voice". In a press statement, the Creative Economy Council thanked the President for the support given to the industry during this time. The council is representative of all creative sub-sectors nationally. Through their convener Thomas Kwaka, alias Big Tedd, they said the industry has over the years provided alternative blue-collar employment, empowered the youth and largely contributed to the identity of our nation. The sector in the letter committed to work with both the Ministry of ICT and the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage to deploy the funds. Edited by T Jalio