The Kenya Association of Travel Agents (KATA) has asked the International Air Travel Association (IATA) to act urgently in compelling accredited airlines to fast-track refunds processing. This is for customers who booked flights through travel agents during the Covid-19 crisis period. KATA chief executive officer Agnes Mucuha on Friday said airlines are taking  longer  to process refunds owed to customers of travel agents, and this has created unnecessary anxiety and distress. “The travel industry grounded to a halt in March 2020 following the government directive suspending all international flights into Kenya. Consequently, passengers who were holding bookings with airlines through their travel agents opted to cancel their itineraries and sought for full refunds,” Mucuha said. As the coronavirus continues taking a toll on the aviation industry and global economy at large, the passenger business of the global air transport industry  continues to suffer. IATA estimates  the sector will  make revenue losses of between $63 billion (Sh6.3 trillion) and $113 billion (Sh11.3 trillion) in 2020. The CEO noted that several airlines have been responding to the refund requests by issuing vouchers under the name of the booked passenger, instead of issuing a “cash” refund through the travel agent. This has caused conflict for the agents, as customers are demanding for full refunds in “cash”, claiming that they have no immediate travel plans in the foreseeable future. Similarly, travel agents cannot assign the voucher on other bookings owing to the issuing restrictions, which has  led to a stalemate between them and customers. IATA emphasized that the refunds shall be guided by the airline’s commercial policy guideline while determining the “valid” refund value on the tickets. On the other hand, customers are also facing cash constraints under the current Covid-19 pandemic and they cannot afford further delay. She further pointed out that the travel industry has grounded to a complete halt, and most travel agents have temporarily closed shops as they don't have any travel related business to conduct during this time. Unfortunately, their debtors have also deferred payments sighting Covid-19 for the delays exacerbating the situation, and the outlook is very bleak for travel agents and their customers. Kenya has over 1,000 registered travel agents distributed countrywide, a majority of whom are SMEs and MMEs. The sub-sector has over 300,000 employees. Travel agents submit refund applications through the airline booking portals or in this case through the IATA regulated portal, and upon assessment of the valid refund request, the airline authorizes the refund through the same portal and remits it to the travel agent. In turn, the agent processes the refund back to their customers, which is in line with the IATA policy guidelines. KATA is pushing for immediate intervention saying that it is imperative that the IATA steps in to provide immediate solutions for the industry.