 Over 250,000 small scale farmers from Murang’a have benefitted from free maize seeds from the county government. The county has been distributing the seeds every long rains season since 2017 in a bid to empower local farmers and boost food security. Agriculture executive Albert Mwaniki said the seeds are produced by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute and are certified by the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services (KEPHIS) that regulates all planting materials. Mwaniki said the seeds are customised to suit the three climatic zones in the county with the tea zone receiving seeds that take about four and a half months to mature while the coffee zones got seeds that mature in three and a half months. The seeds distributed to the lower zone that is semi-arid takes only two months to mature, Mwaniki said. He said farmers had registered early in the year in their shopping centres and had given their phone numbers for easy contact. The County government, he said, has been working with community health workers and agricultural extension officers in the wards to distribute the seeds to farmers in their homes. “Previously, we distributed the seeds to farmers in their shopping centres but we had to improvise this year due to the coronavirus outbreak,” he said. He said the community health workers were also using the time to emphasise to the farmers the need to constantly wash their hands with soap and water. Mwaniki said each of the 420 shopping centres has at least three community volunteers who have been facilitated to contact the farmers. They used boda bodas to drop off the seeds. The community health workers have also been given hand sanitizers to protect them from contracting or spreading coronavirus. Each farmer received 2kgs of the seeds. They will get10kgs of fertiliser in May. Mwaniki said maize production has risen from 250,000 bags to at least 850,000 bags annually since the programme was started. “With each selling at Sh2,500, farmers are now able to rake in about Sh2 billion every year,” Mwaniki said. He said the county had made good improvements, given most residents were relying on relief food before the county government started the programme. Mwaniki said farmers had indicated access to quality seeds as their main challenge. He said they were able to produce enough for their consumption and a few extra bags for sale to support their families. “If the country goes on lockdown as we fight the coronavirus, our farmers will be safe because their food will be growing in their farms,” Mwaniki said. The programme was initially concentrated on semi-arid areas of Kambiti, Kakuzi, Gaturi, Kambirwa and Ithanga areas where farmers were given drought-resistant grains before it was expanded to cover the entire county.  Edited by Peter Obuya