Boda Boda operators in Murang’a county have been warned against working without wearing masks. County health executive Joseph Mbai said operators will be placed under mandatory quarantine if they are found without masks. Mbai said despite receiving free masks from the county government last week, many operators still worked without wearing one, exposing themselves and their passengers to the risk of infection. Governor Mwangi wa Iria issued 10,000 face masks to the operators last week, saying they were a high risk cluster due to their numerous interactions. But Mbai noted that boda boda operators were not taking seriously the guidelines issued by the national government on coronavirus. “They fail to wear masks and continue to ferry more than one passenger, which is very risky,” Mbai told the Star on Sunday. The operators are required to ensure their passengers cover their faces, he said, warning that the county government will now start inspecting them. “We are working with the county security team and those found without masks or flouting the social distancing rule will be taken to quarantine,” he added. Mbai who is in charge of the county Covid-19 technical team also noted that anyone visiting any of the 150 health facilities  either for treatment or to visit a patient will be required to have a face mask. The county has established two isolation centres at Murang'a general hospital and Kaharo health centre where those suspected to have the disease are taken. He said the county has also set up a quarantine centre in each of the seven constituencies and that anyone taken there will foot their own costs. He urged locals to ensure those coughing and sneezing in the villages are asked  to visit a health facility as soon as possible or inform community health workers and local administrators. Traders in markets were asked to observe social distancing and have face masks to reduce risk. “I am also asking that people completely stop shaking hands or greeting each other using elbows as many have been doing because they virus can stay on clothes,” he said. Mbai reiterated that barber and beauty shops will remain closed as they tend to have too many people . Cyber cafés were asked to constantly sanitise their computers and allow only one person at a time. The CEC noted that the 98 people who were on quarantine in the county were all discharged while six others who had been isolated tested negative. Late last week, another person was taken to an isolation centre and is awaiting results. He said the county was concentrating on preventive measures and had produced masks that had been distributed to residents and health workers. The county intends to produce 300,000 masks by the end of the month from local polytechnics. It has also been producing sanitiser which is distributed in all public places while markets and shopping centres are fumigated. The county has stocked drugs required to manage Covid-19 in local  health facilities. “When you hear Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe say we need to flatten the curve, it means doing everything we can to minimise new infections so that we do not get huge numbers that may overwhelm our health facilities,” Mbai said. Edited by Henry Makori