Calls by stakeholders in the education sector for e-learning during the Covid-19 period may not benefit many learners. A university students' association said on Wednesday that limited access to ICT facilities may not bear the anticipated results for many students, particularly those in rural areas. Government and Education industry players have been encouraging learners to undertake studies online after schools were closed following the outbreak of the virus. But Teso North University and College Students Association (Tenucsa) president Edgar Okisai said the learning model may only benefit students from well-off families. Those families, unlike the majority, he said, have the ability to provide computers and other e-learning material. “We have had several approaches to enable colleagues to progress with learning from their homes through e-learning, but this has not been a success because not every student can afford such facilities and not all learning institutions have such facilities,” Okisai said. "From a general perspective, we have suffered during this pandemic seriously." Okisai said the current situation has affected students across the board and paralysed learning in primary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities. “Some students who were to graduate this year remain uninformed on a clear date of graduation regardless of graduation calendars of their respective institutions.” He said the long holiday may hurt some students. Some learners may indulge in unlawful acts and end up in police custody as others will be expectant by the time the government reopens the learning institutions, he added. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered schools to close on March 16 after the confirmation of the first coronavirus case in the country. Boarding schools were given until March 18 to close. Universities, colleges, and technical institutions were the last to close by March 20. Some parents have been questioning the need for candidates to sit exams this year now that pupils and students are already behind schedule in the syllabus coverage following the unexpected closure. But Uhuru on April 22 hinted at a partial reopening of schools and dismissed speculation that  KCPE and KCSE exams could be postponed to 2021. The President, who spoke during a live radio interview from State House, Nairobi, said the Education ministry will look at measures to enable candidates to sit the exams. Some stakeholders expressed worry that the long holiday may be detrimental to some learners. Busia county children's officer Esther Wasige on April 20 warned that continued shutdown of schools because of the virus exposes girls to risks, especially those living in urban areas. She said the idle nature of some students during the vacation may send some girls into prostitution. Edited by R.Wamochie