The third Kiambu deputy governor took the oath of office on Wednesday after waiting for a week due to lack of a judge. Joyce Wanjiku Ngugi had been vetted and cleared by the county assembly and was to take office alongside executive committee members who were last week sworn in by Kiambu chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi. The law stipulates that a deputy governor must be sworn in by a High Court judge. Ngugi was sworn in by Justice Christine Meoli at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. The ceremony was witnessed by Governor James Nyoro, county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga, police commander Ali Nuno, CECs and MCAs. Majority leader Gideon Gachara said Kiambu people wanted a woman deputy governor and it was prudent that the leadership honoured their wishes. “She convinced the assembly beyond reasonable doubt that she is the right person for the job,” Gachara said. Nyoro said Ngugi will start working immediately to make sure essential services to county residents are delivered. “It is a demonstration that our women are equal to us and I congratulate my deputy and welcome her to the team,” Nyoro said. He said that cabinet meetings are being conducted through technology to avoid unnecessary movement in measures to contain Covid-19. “We do not have time. We have only one budget from when we took power. Kiambu people are eager to see what we will do in the two years remaining and we must fulfill their aspirations,” the governor said. Wanyanga said the county leadership should work in harmony for a better Kiambu and keep politics out of service delivery. “We will go a long way if we work together and now that the Executive has been fully reconstituted, we need to hit the ground running and deliver,” the official said. Ngugi affirmed her commitment to working closely with the governor and keeping aside politics. “I am a servant of Kiambu people and I commit myself to delivering for them and by undivided attention to the governor to compliment his deeds of service delivery,” she said. Ngugi is the widow of former Gatundu South MP Joseph Ngugi who died in 2014. In 2017, she unsuccessfully vied for the Gatundu South seat. Last year in May, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed her to chair the National Council for Children Services. She has a Bachelor’s degree in Education from Egerton University and a Master’s in the same discipline from Kenyatta University. The trained counselling psychologist also holds a diploma in drug addiction counselling from the Support for Addictions Prevention and Treatment in Africa (SAPTA) Centre. Edited by R.Wamochie