In a move which many Kenyans are hoping will be replicated by other donor nations, the government of Denmark has donated 22 million Danish Kroner ($3.2 million/Sh320 million) in emergency support to the Covid-19 response of the government of Kenya. According to a press release sent out by the Royal Danish Embassy in Nairobi, the grant was confirmed during a telephone call last week between Danish Minister for Development Cooperation, Rasmus Prehn, and Kenya’s Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. A major consideration behind the offer of this grant is that Kenya is among the most exposed countries in Africa when it comes to the spreading of the coronavirus. Kenya is a regional transport hub, with many people from all over Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East having passed through Kenya in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic, before all international flights into and out of Kenya were stopped. Kenya is also a regional centre for international organisations and companies. The Danish Minister for Development Cooperation, Ramsus Prehn, noted that “The Danish government takes responsibility when it comes to tackling the coronavirus at home. Also abroad, we have chosen to act head-on with rapid contributions to address the potential humanitarian and economic emergency, which I fear is underway on the African continent.” He further added that “The contribution of 22 million Danish Kroner ($3.2 million/Sh320 million) will support Kenya’s efforts against the health impact posed by the coronavirus, before the epidemic takes root. Among other items, the contribution will cover costs of medicine and equipment, capacity building of health personnel, and quarantine- and treatment centres etc.” This support is being provided to Kenya through the World Bank and is additional to the contribution already made by Denmark to the international response to the Covid-19 in developing countries, following an appeal by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other UN agencies. The Danish Minister for Development Cooperation also noted that “The spread of the coronavirus seems inevitable. If not handled resolutely, it will have fatal consequences for the most vulnerable populations – not least in densely populated areas and where the health care system is challenged.”