Lamu county is using seawater to fumigate public areas, jetties and the seafront in Lamu town to combat the coronavirus disease. Governor Fahim Twaha allowed the County Disaster Unit to use water from the Indian Ocean as they wait for disinfectants. The exercise started on Wednesday evening and was expected to extend to the rest of the county throughout the week. Lamu residents have for decades believed that the saline water has the ability to kill viruses and bacteria, and treat many ailments. The County Disaster Response team, led by Shee Kupi, siphoned water from the ocean using pipes powered by generators and sprayed the town in a three-hour drive that elicited mixed reactions. Speaking shortly thereafter, Kupi said seawater is a natural antibiotic agent and is readily available in the region, hence their decision. He said it neutralises possible pathogens on surfaces. Kupi said the exercise will be conducted after weekly in every part of the county as they wait on the national government to bring them the necessary disinfectants. "I know many are wondering why we are using seawater while the rest of Kenya is using chemicals. For ages, water from the Indian Ocean has been used by our forefathers to treat various ailments and viruses and it worked. We believe after this spraying, no virus, including the coronavirus, can survive,” he said. He said the county was proactive in the fight against Covid-19, hence will not wait to be infected. “The use of seawater is just the first phase. The department will still employ other scientifically proven chemicals in the second phase as we fight this lethal virus. Support us to protect you with available means possible," Kupi said. Some residents dismissed the move as the biggest joke since the infection struck Kenya. Ahmed Omar said it was proof enough that Lamu wasn’t prepared to handle Covid-19. "All counties have funds to deal with emergencies and disasters. When people are using chemicals and you are here spraying water, it leaves a lot to be desired. It’s a joke, yet coronavirus is so serious,” he said. Lamu elder Mohamed Ali, however, defended the team, saying seawater had proved over the years to be more effective than chemicals and other manufactured drugs. “What they have done is exceptional. They have gone back to our ancient ways and it's good. Any virus cannot survive for long in a salty environment. Let them keep on,” he said.