Bartabwa MCA in Baringo Reuben Chepsongol has been arrested. Police gave no official communication concerning his detention at Kabarnet police station on Friday evening. “Personally, I am not aware of the arrest because I was not involved. Maybe officers from the county -Kabarnet station - were assigned,” Baringo North police commander Fredrick Odinga said. Last week, a video went viral of the ward rep accusing county commissioner Henry Wafula and the entire security team of failing to curb the bandit attacks in parts of Baringo North and South. “Wafula is busy enjoying himself, drinking alcohol in local bars yet our people are being killed and their livestock stolen. He should style up or get transferred immediately,” he said. Odinga said if the MCA's arrest was true then it was normal. “There must be a few things he needs to clarify or have corrected before he is released,” he said. Sources said a contingent of police officers invaded at the MCA’s home at Barbarchuch, Baringo North subcounty, but did not find him. He was later notified and willingly surrendered himself to record a statement at the station when he was then arrested and locked up. He was accompanied by a number of residents and his colleagues but their efforts to have him released were futile. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo condemned the arrest. “If it is true police have arrested MCA Chepsongol then in think the government is not serious in fighting this menace of insecurity,” Cheptumo said. He said what the MCA did was challenge the government to be in the forefront of ensuring security. “And if that is the reason he was arrested then it is time Wafula should get out of Baringo. President Uhuru Kenyatta should bring us another commissioner,” the MP said. Cheptumo said he called the commissioner several times to respond to the attacks but he didn't pick the calls and even never visited the victims. “We are tired and I am saying he should now come arrest all of us. I’m also ready to get arrested,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori