Thousands of girls who received the Human Papillomavirus vaccine in early October are due for their second and final dose. The vaccination was launched by then Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki last year on October 18, to reach all girls aged 10 with two doses administered six months apart. Pilot studies in Kenya showed for the two-dose schedule to be effective, it has to be timed just right. Unicef Kenya, who supported the rollout last year, has called on parents to ensure their girls do not miss the second and final dose. Dr Peter Okoth, a health specialist at Unicef Kenya, also urged parents whose girls are turning 10 to avail them for vaccination at health facilities. "Vaccination has not stopped and is ongoing in all health facilities," he told the Star. The East African region has the highest burden of cervical cancer in the world. In Kenya, where HPV is the number one cause of cancer in women between the ages of 15 and 44, approximately 5,250 new cases are diagnosed annually. Safe and effective HPV vaccines can prevent up to 90 per cent of all cervical cancer cases. “Nearly all cases of cervical cancer can be prevented through vaccination, potentially saving around 3,000 women’s lives in Kenya every year,” Unicef Kenya Representative Maniza Zaman said last year during the launch. The ministry is targeting about 800,000 girls in one year and so far, at least 400,000 have received their first doses. Dr Okoth also urged parents to ensure their babies receive their routine immunisation. "Health facilities have already been issued with guidelines to ensure there is no risk to children during the Covid-19 outbreak so parents have no reason to fear," he said. Dr Okoth said failure to vaccinate babies could lead to a resurgence in measles, whooping cough and other serious, vaccine-preventable illnesses. Immunisation coverage in Kenya now stands at about 85 per cent, up from a low of 60 per cent in 2016. Last year, the country also rolled out malaria vaccines for children in eight malaria-endemic counties in Western Kenya. The immunisation schedule is given by the division of vaccines and immunisations in the Ministry of Health and is commonly known as the Kenya Expanded Programme on Immunisation. There are also additional vaccines commonly offered in private hospitals that may not be in the Kenya Expanded Programme on Immunisation (KEPI) schedule. Until 2011, Kenya did not have a pneumococcal vaccine in its national childhood immunisation schedule. Last year, a study published online in The Lancet, evaluated the effect of this vaccine, called PCV10, on a large scale in Kenya. The researchers examined two time periods, 1999-2010, before the vaccine's introduction and 2012-2016, after its introduction, and found that the average annual incidence of the serious pneumococcal disease dropped by 92 per cent among children under five years. The incidence of disease among older, unvaccinated age groups also dropped sharply, suggesting that the vaccine produced an added "herd immunity" benefit. This occurs because children who have been vaccinated no longer transmit the disease in the community. Edited by A.N