Equity Group Foundation has donated Sh1.1 billion to support Covid-19 response in Kenya with support from Equity Bank, MasterCard Foundation and the family of Dr James Mwangi. The commitment includes a Sh300 million contribution from Equity Bank, Sh500 million from the MasterCard Foundation and Sh300 million the family of Equity Group Holdings managing director and CEO Mwangi. The funds will go towards the purchase of personal protective equipment for frontline medical personnel dealing with Covid-19 patients in public hospitals in the country. EGF will work in partnership with the Ministry of Health and the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund in this endeavor, it said in a statement on Wednesday. This will ensure a coordinated effort on the national priorities of combating the pandemic, reap the benefits of economies of scale, maximise resource allocation and avoid duplication of efforts in the provision of PPEs. Mwangi on Wednesday said the drive started when his attention was drawn to a group of students and doctors who were raising funds for PPEs for young post-graduate students, especially at the Kenyatta National and Referral Hospital. “When I shared the need with my family, a robust discussion revealed the urgency to holistically address the issue as it was not prudent to provide the PPEs to students, without also focusing on the plight of the doctors, nurses, clinical officers and medical staff,” the Equity boss said. He is a member of Kenya’s Covid -19 Emergency Fund Board. A team of seven specialists has been formed to help structure the initiative. It includes chairman Prof Isaac Macharia (Ear, Nose and Throat specialist), Dr Louis Litswa anesthetist and critical care (member), Dr Elizabeth Gitau of Kenya Medical Association (member) and Dr Chibanzi Mwachonda who is the secretary general and Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union (member). Others are Dr David Kariuki (senior Health Ministry director general), Alfred Obengo (National Nurses Association of Kenya) and secretary Dr Joanne Korir (Equity quality assurance). The committee will coordinate the implementation of the initiative to ensure the availability of PPEs across the country and help scale up a mental wellness support system for medical staff initiated by the Kenya Medical Association. Equity Bank (Kenya) chairman Professor Isaac Macharia said, “The Board of Equity recognises the vital role of healthcare workers on the frontline and is proud to partner with universities and public hospitals in ensuring the safety of our health care workers.” MasterCard Foundation President and CEO Reeta Roy said, “Healthcare workers are at the frontline of caring for all of us, safeguarding community health. We must keep them safe.” Edited by R.Wamochie