Isaac Makokha, one of Kenya’s top deaf golfers, is not ruling out the noble concept to kick-start a golf academy for people with disabilities. The deaf and dumb amateur believes the disability aspect he is exploring will, by and large, become a theatre of dreams for disabled persons hoping to make it big at the national and international stage. The indefatigable golfer is glad and grateful to Vet Lab Sports Club (sometimes referred to as Home of Champions), where he found his solace and realised his potential in the wake of a rather turbulent situation while pursuing his dreams. But courtesy of club members, Makokha currently plays off handicap 3 in the Kenya National Golf Championship, formerly known as Goty, where he hopes to make a mark before joining paid-ranks with the Professional Golfers of Kenya. “Standards have been set and only the sky’s the limit,” says his sign-interpreter and PGK pro-Nelson Simwa, who reveals that the country boasts a sizeable chunk of deaf golfers yet to realise their potential in golf. Simwa interprets: “When he finally turns pro sometime in 2022, Makokha says he wants to mobilise resources through well-wishers ostensibly to start a deaf and dumb golf academy which will be an epicentre of excellence in Kenya and designed with juniors in mind. It will surely demystify the notion that golf can only be enjoyed by able-bodied only.” Makokha has represented Kenya in two gigantic assignments in the Deaflympic Games in Samsun City of Turkey in July 2017 and the 2018 Victoria Cup which is the equivalent of Elgon Cup in rugby. During the deaf tournament in Turkey, Makokha, a sibling of Kenyan pro-Jeff Kubwa, finished fifth overall. “He says he wants to represent Kenya as a professional in the Magical Kenya Open Championship in 2022 and be the best of the best in the country as he aspires to debut the European Tour. He feels the only way he can realise his dream is by playing off scratch. He also wants to become the first deaf pro to represent Kenya in the European Tour before eventually becoming a teaching pro.” Makokha is an early riser and once he gets going, he is fine for the day, and will mostly be found on hole number 17 at the crack of dawn trying out his long-hitting fitness. Here, he hits close to 450 balls with verve and vigour as he seeks to perfect his swing year in, year out. “In my own opinion, he’s an astute student of the game who will definitely go far because he hits and putts meticulously,” explains Simwa. Vet Lab has 8 pros who train alongside Makokha. They include former Sigona man, Matthew Omondi who is incidentally the resident pro, his deputy Ali Orende, Mike Kisia, Jeff Kubwa, Isaiah Otuke, Ali Kimani, who once led the Challenge Tour Kenya Open, Simwa, a former Kenya team captain,  the club’s former KNGC and Tannahill star Edwin Mudanyi and former Kenya Captain Robinson Okwiti, now the green-keeper. Prior to turning pro, he has a burning desire to get his hands on the coveted Kenya National Golf Championship, after taking impressive scalps. “Makokha says golf is a sport for everyone and not just the rich as perceived by many. He underscores the fact many of Kenyan leading pros like (Dismas) Indiza have dominated the sport for donkey years and realised their golfing potentials as caddies. He is happy to be at Vet Lab, where he was given free membership by the management. He further reveals that there is another talented deaf golfer playing off handicap 2 who will soon hit the sporting headline if well nurtured. Makokha will forever be grateful to VetLab members for  accommodating him.” And how does Makokha hope to bring the golf deaf academy concept to fruition? “He says the academy will be purely a charity initiative. When he finally joins the PGK, he intends to go the extra mile to solicit for sponsorship from well-wishers to make the difference for his disabled counterparts,” interprets Simwa. Makokha, who has a wife and an 11-year-old kid, is among the many sporting personalities that have since adversely been affected by the COVID19 pandemic due to limited movement and interaction, “The only place you will find Makokha when he is not on the course is at home relaxing. He has no hobbies apart from Tae-Kwon-do which he had played some years back and won a belt,” Simwa explains. Makokha was born and bred in Eldoret and is among a group of golfers who came through Eldoret Golf Club where the Simwas (Nelson and Boniface) and his brother Jeff Kubwa also honed their skills. Makokha’s dad worked at the Eldoret Golf Club hence created a platform for him and other aspiring golfers. “He says golf is hard with COVID-19 issues and hopes  God will intervene and help the world revert to normalcy. We are all praying for the new vaccine that will arrest the virus,” explains Simwa. Makokha’s rise to the summit of the sport achieved by his single handicap status has not been devoid of problems and challenges. “He says he has been turned away from many clubs that couldn’t understand or even accommodate his condition. This, he reveals was the hardest part of his career until Vet Lab accorded him membership— in a move that saw him achieve part of his dreams. It was Paresh, who was a green-keeper then and the 2013 captain David Kihara who managed to convince the management on Makokha’s membership proposal,” Nelson explains.