Kenya has reported seven new Covid-19 cases bringing the country's total number to 179. Health CAS Mercy Mwangani during the daily brief on the coronavirus on Wednesday said the seven cases were out of 305 samples tested in the last 24 hours. All seven are Kenyans. Five of these are from Nairobi, one from Mombasa and one from Uasin Gishu. Out of the seven, four are female and three are male. Two of these cases emanated from the quarantine facilities while five were tracked down by the surveillance teams. 49 out of the 179 cases reported so far are aged between 16 and 29 years. Mwangangi also announced two more patients have been discharged after two more cases tested negative. This now brings to nine the total number of recoveries in the country. The CAS said all private testing facilities are required to share their results with the Ministry of Health for monitoring purposes. "Most of our positive cases are from quarantine. We have a set down criteria to ensure that we can know which centres are following rules," she said. The CAS said for mild cases the government will advocate for home-based care. Mwangangi thanked the country's health workers whom she said have been of tremendous help to the fight against Coronavirus. However, Mwangangi warned that as the government deploys mass testing across the country and several institutions, the Covid-19 cases will rise. The CAS said the government will hiring an additional 5,000 health workers to aid in the fight against the pandemic. She urged those with empty oxygen cylinders are being urged to make them available to supplement on what we have On Tuesday Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced three patients had been discharged after testing negative. So far six people have succumbed to the disease. Kagwe said it is critically necessary for every Kenyan to wear masks. He said Kenyans should brace themselves for 'bad news' as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to spread in the country. Kagwe said the measures that have been put in place by the government are not going to stop the disease abruptly. According to Kagwe, though Kenya has been getting mild infections, the time has come for all citizens to mentally prepare for the worst. The CS said Kenyans must prepare to face an 'insurmountable situation'.