President Uhuru Kenyatta has promoted Lieutenant General Robert Kibochi to General further naming him as Chief of Defence Forces designate. The changes followed preparations for the exit of Samson Mwathethe who has been at the helm of the Kenya Defence Forces since April 2015. The President further appointed Lieutenant General Levi Mghalu as Vice Chief of Defence Forces designate.Major Geneneral Jimson Mutai has been named Commander of the Kenya Navy designate. “The officers are expected to assume office under their new positions, on May 11, 2020,” President Kenyatta said in a statement from State House on Thursday. Levi was promoted from the rank of Major General to Lieutenant General; while Mutai was promoted from the rank of brigadier to Major General. “I look forward to working with these officers closely in service to our motherland,” the president said. “For you, General Mwathethe, I wish you fair winds following seas; and the very best in your future endeavours,” Uhuru said. Gen Kibochi was appointed Vice Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces in 2018. He has been in the military for 39 years. He was a Commander of the Kenya Army and Assistant Chief of Defence Forces in charge of operations, plans, doctrine, and training. Kibochi commanded the Kenyan contingent in the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone from 2,000 to 2,001. He holds a Master’s degree in International Studies and computer-based information systems. The General is currently pursuing a PhD in Peace and Conflict Management, briefs from Ulinzi House show.Kibochi’s military training includes national security studies at the National Defence College as Army Command and Staff training in the UK. President Kenyatta thanked the outgoing Defence chief “for the exemplary service he has rendered to the country in his capacity as the Chief of Defence Forces.” He praised Mwathethe for the “significant expansion in the military and enviable improvement in the defence capability of the country’s forces.” The President said the progress made has given Kenyans confidence that their borders are well protected from any external aggression. “During your tenure, we detected and expunge early enough a number of plans by those who do not mean well for our country, in good time,” Uhuru said. The President hailed Mwathethe for his “capacity to provide quality leadership in other initiatives of national importance." “In this regard, I am proud to state that as chair, you steered very well the Blue Economy Implementation Standing Committee.” Uhuru cited the re-establishing of the Kenya National Shipping Line, as part of the Blue Economy Programme, as the retiring CDF’s success story. “Once fully completed and operational, this will, indeed, enable us, as a country, exploit the potential we have in the blue economy, and consequently create thousands of jobs for our young men and women. It is my hope that you and I will continue collaborate in this effort.” Other changes announced by the President include Maj Gen Albert Kendagor        (posted to HQ Kenya Army and appointed Deputy Commander Kenya Army), Brigadier John Omenda (posted to Headquarters Kenya Air Force and appointed  Deputy Commander), Col Lawrence Gituma  (promoted to Brigadier and appointed  Deputy Commander Kenya Navy). For promotions, Brigadier  William Karisa Shume promoted to Major General and appointed General  Officer Commanding  Border Security Command. Brigadier  Peter Mbogo Njiru  has been promoted to Major General and appointed Commandant Kenya Military  Academy. Brigadier Solomon Mlacha Manambo  has been promoted to Major General and appointed Managing Director  Kenya Ordnance Factories Corporation. Brigadier Charles Muriu Kahariri   has been promoted to Major General and appointed Senior Directing  Staff Maritime National  Defence College. Brigadier Rashid Abdi  Elmi was promoted to Maj General and appointed Senior Directing Staff Air National Defence College. Colonel  Maroa Gati     was promoted to Brigadier and appointed Commandant Recruits Training  School. Colonel (Dr) Milton  Achieng Obilo has been promoted to Brigadier and appointed Chief of Medical Services Defence Headquarters.