@githinjireuben Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru’s election coordinators have pledged to collect voters’ signatures to dissolve the county assembly’s after it supported a notice of motion for her removal. A formal impeachment vote has not been taken. Critics accuse her of financial impropriety, abuse of office and gross misconduct. The coordinators held a peaceful demonstration in Kang’aru village condemning the tabling of the motion by Mutira MCA David Wangui. They said since most of the ward reps had declined to work with the governor and instead decided to remove her, they would ensure they go home. The governor’s election coordinators argued that residents supported her as she was working to their satisfaction. But that some of the ward reps were being used by politicians who were interested in the governorship in 2022. They said the politicians won't succeed and defended her government against allegations made against it. They said she had an impressive track record in all areas. The coordinators led by Charles Katiuki, Gladys Wambui and Peter Karinga said they were sure if the county assembly was dissolved most of the ward representatives would not return. They said most were there due to the governor's goodwill. “Since the ward representatives have decided not to work with the governor to serve the people who elected them and her, we shall collect signatures from the voters to have them sent home so that others can be elected,”  Karinga said. Wangui moved the impeachment motion on Wednesday, accusing Waiguru of seeking more than Sh10 million for nonexistent travel between June 18, 2018, and February 25 this year. Wangui also said Waiguru was in gross violation of the Constitution, the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, the Public Finance and Management Acts. He accused her of gross misconduct and abuse of office The ward rep further accused the governor of procuring a Sh5 million official vehicle using funds meant for the  Contractors Retention Account, thus misappropriating pubic funds. Waiguru was also accused of failing to make the required annual state of the county’s address, undermining the county assembly’s authority by failing to table crucial documents and  worsening health services by sacking medics Speaker Antony Waweru ruled that the governor will be given seven days to defend herself and the public can air their views through memoranda. Before the motion 30 out of 33 MCAs had signed to table it. The number is more than the two-thirds thresholds required to impeach a governor. The Senate then acts as a court, deliberates on the charges and upholds or squashes the impeachment. Before the motion was moved two of Governor Waiguru-allied ward-reps had unsuccessfully tried to seek a court order. (Edited by V. Graham)