A health official in Busia has raised concerns over the quality of face masks in the Kenyan market. Medical Services Director Dr Janerose Ambuchi said on Tuesday that some face masks being used in the county are made from substandard material with limited capacity to prevent coronavirus transmission. Majority of those using non-recommended face masks, she said, are Kenyans who are struggling economically. She said there is need for a coordinated approach to ensure the protective gears in the market meet the safety standards approved by Health specialists. Ambuchi said the business of producing face masks may have been taken over by people out to make profit. Such traders, she said, do not pay attention to the product’s ability to prevent the spread of the respiratory disease. “One of the things we have discussed is the quality of the material being used for making face masks because everyone is now making them,” she said after attending a health stakeholders' meeting in Busia. “You cannot be safe when you use a mask that is made of substandard material. We are partnering with vocational institutes so that we start production and I urge everyone to buy them.” In the border county’s major towns of Busia and Malaba, it is now common to see hawkers vending face masks of different colours and materials. The masks are retailing for between Sh30 and Sh50. The government has been pushing Kenyans to wear face masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai on Tuesday said beginning April 15, any person found in public without a face mask would be arrested. He said the grace period for adjusting to directives given by President Uhuru Kenyatta had expired and anyone violating them will land in court. Mutyambai said users of private or public transport should wear masks covering their mouth and nose. Those who will not abide by the rule will either pay a Sh20,000 fine or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding six months. On April 6, President Uhuru Kenyatta said decisions taken by individual Kenyans will play a critical role in fighting Covid-19. “It is in moments like these that the character of a people and the destiny of a nation are clarified. If we act like the fingers folded into a fist, we will stop the damage this pandemic would cause,” he said. Edited by A.N