While Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has banned any form of gathering, there are reports that government officers are violating the directive. Well, what informs these meetings that go on at the 16th floor of the NSSF building? We are told there is some work that has been going on in the building for the past two weeks. A small bird whispers to Corridors that about 100 people meet at the building daily for a digitisation project involving government programmes, part of which is said to be about Huduma Namba. Is the government trying to apply a double standard in a very delicate and life-threatening game? A senator with interests in succeeding a governor in Nyanza is having a rough time with his rivals who are using a  reality-check campaign against him. A mole tells Corridors that the lot wants the lawmaker – a brash politician -  called out for failing to question the incumbent’s excesses. Of concern to the critics is that the county has spent Sh20 billion on development since 2013 yet they say there is nothing on the ground to show for it. Theirs now is to wait and see how the senator, who has not asked a single question about the county’s preparedness for the coronavirus in terms of medical supplies, will return to beat his own drum for 2022. A governor from Central with a strong appetite for publicity is under siege after he repackaged and branded sanitiser donated by well-wishers. The county boss, using monies from the county exchequer, repackaged the donation from a sugar miller into smaller plastic bottles complete with his picture. His critics say an enormous amount of resources, sufficient for acquiring personal protective equipment for health workers, let alone purchase dozens of face masks for residents, was spent on the PR gimmick. They say the county chief, with a penchant for self-branding county projects, should be reminded of the hot seat he occupies. A vocal head of a parastatal who has expressed interest in a parliamentary seat in a constituency in Western has been left with egg on his face after his trick of hiding behind pseudo accounts to abuse leaders was exposed. The man on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on a sitting MP and a Woman Representative using a pseudo account. However, since to err is human, the man forgot and replied to one of the texts thrown at him using his known phone number. This embarrassed his supporters who went silent in the group for some hours. The man now claims on his Facebook pages that his phone was hacked.