 Stigmatisation and harassment of people arriving from counties with high numbers of confirmed coronavirus cases will not be tolerated, Lamu residents have been told. The warning came from the county’s Covid-19 task force headed by Governor Fahim Twaha and county commissioner Irungu Macharia. Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale have been identified as counties with most cases of the highly contagious disease that has killed 10 people in the country. Transport in and out of the four counties has been outlawed. Kenya had by Thursday 234 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Lamu residents have lately been criticised for harshly treating persons treated in local health facilities for symptoms similar to those of Covid-19. A case in point is that of a 74-year-old Italian who was on March 20 referred to Lamu's King Fahad Hospital. He was denied access by a mob at the entrance. Pleas by the hospital personnel to let him in fell on deaf ears and the patient was returned to Mpeketoni. Twaha, who spoke in his Mokowe office, said it was wrong and illegal for anyone to be denied medical care on mere suspicion that they have coronavirus. The governor said all cases tested in Lamu were negative and it was unfair for anybody to be stigmatised. He called for a change of perception towards the disease and urged residents to join the rest of the country in fighting the spread the disease. “Currently, there are two patients isolated at Mpeketoni hospital after showing coronavirus-related symptoms. It’s too early to tell whether they’re a risk to the community. Let’s all wait for the results. In the meantime, let's love each other as we always have,” the governor implored. Macharia urged residents to refrain from speculation and instead rely on the Ministry of Health for any information on the disease. “In as much as we are telling people to be alert and report any cases they suspect, we don’t mean to become the judge and jury for these people. It’s wrong to deny someone treatment just because you think they have coronavirus.How did you know they are affected in the first place,” the administrator said. - mwaniki fm