The High Court has ordered the Catholic University of Eastern Africa to re-admit a student suspended illegally after he complained of doing an exam set outside the syllabus. Justice Weldon Korir ordered the institution to pay tuition fees for Lennoxie Nafuma for one academic year. "A declaration is hereby issued that the petitioner’s rights under Articles 27, 43(1)(f) and 47 of the Constitution were violated by the respondent and a declaration is hereby issued that the suspension of the petitioner from the respondent university was null and order issued directing the respondent to readmit him forthwith so that he can continue with his studies," the judge ruled. He also ordered CUEA to release Nafuma’s results for the Administrative Law examination that he sat in April 2019. In a judgement delivered on April 3, the judge said in his view declarations are normally sufficient in matters involving educational institutions and their students. Nafuma had lost one year of studies for reasons that he was not to blame for. He, therefore, needed to be compensated. "I will not make an order directing the respondent to pay him some money. I will instead direct the respondent to pay the petitioner’s fees for an academic year. That, in my view, is sufficient redress in this case," Korir said. Nafuma moved to court last year alleging violation of his rights following his suspension from the Law Faculty of the university for three semesters. He was a first-year student sitting his second-semester exam in December 2018 when it emerged that two out of the three questions set in the Tort II paper were not within the syllabus. Nafuma and some of his classmates took up the matter with the university administration and they were informed that such an incident would not recur. They were also assured that moderation would be done in respect of the examination. He claimed this was not done as they failed the examination. They applied and were allowed to re-sit the examination in April 2019. He said that the results of the Administrative Law exam he sat in April 2019 have not been released to him to date. It was his case that even though the issue that arose in the December 2018 examination had been amicably settled, last year on March 27, a notice was put up asking him and a number of other students to meet with the head of the Law Department before April 1 that year. Nafuma said he was unaware of the meeting and did not attend. He later discovered that a disciplinary committee meeting was held on April 5 and his case was deliberated in his absence. He argued that through a letter dated April 2  to the Dean of the Law Faculty he put forward his side of the story. He was therefore surprised when he received a letter dated June 11 suspending him for three semesters. The university, in its defence, argued that Nafuma had failed to comply with the internal disciplinary requirements including appealing to the university council. Edited by Henry Makori