 Two Makueni coronavirus suspects who were quarantined at the Makindu Subcounty Hospital have tested negative. Makueni health executive Andrew Mulwa said samples of the two were tested at Kenya Medical Research Institute laboratory on Friday. “We received the official test results of the two suspected cases in Makindu from Kemri and both have tested negative. We have discharged them,” Mulwa said. According to a police report, Maurice Wambua, 25, and Julius Muema, 37, were tested for Covid-19 Uganda last Sunday. The duo are a truck driver and his turn-boy respectively. They underwent another test on Monday at Malaba as they travelled back from Tororo to Mombasa and left to proceed but they received a call while at Salama in Makueni through which they were directed to visit the nearest health facility. The police report indicated that one of them had tested positive and the other was highly exposed, leading to their isolation at Makindu Subcounty Hospital. Mulwa on Saturday said seven other suspected cases from Makueni county had tested negative. He said there was no other case under surveillance by Saturday morning. “We have been monitoring close to 30 cases and only nine, including the driver and his co-driver had met case definition but they have all tested negative and so far there is no confirmed Covid-19 case in Makueni,” he said. Governor Kivutha Kibwana asked teachers to help in sensitising Kenyans on Covid-19 to help slow down the spread of the virus. Kibwana spoke at the county headquarters in Wote while receiving donations from well-wishers to help in the fight against Covid-19. “The voice of the teacher is heard in the community, so I urge you to talk to everybody including students who are at home on what they should do to curb the spread of the virus,” Kibwana said. The governor co-chairs the County Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee with county commissioner Maalim Mohammed. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association, Makueni Union of Journalist and other well-wishers donated water jerricans, masks and sanitizers for use by the community.  Edited by Peter Obuya