Everton have given manager Carlo Ancelotti permission to overhaul his squad for next season. Two factors affect this. Transfer fees negotiated in the summer will be significantly less than previous player valuations because of the coronavirus pandemic and most clubs will have seen their cash reserves depleted because of the long period without league gate receipts, money from competitions and income from sponsors. On the other hand, it will also be cheaper for clubs to buy players. One who looks to be on his way out of Everton is Gylfi Sigurdsson. He has been one of the mainstays of the current Everton squad however he has not lived up to his reputation and a £45million transfer fee. One tip-off I have received is Everton’s interest in Nigerian striker Emmanuel Dennis, who currently plays for Club Brugge. The 22-year-old frontman has scored 19 goals in 71 games and Arsenal, Brighton, Newcastle, Monaco and Borussia Dortmund have also shown interest. Bellerin tracked by Atletico and Sevilla Before the virus break, Spanish clubs Atletico Madrid and Sevilla had scouts watching Arsenal’s Hector Bellerin. At 25, Bellerin is very popular at the Emirates, not only for his consistency in delivering good performances but also because he has committed both time and money to many social causes in the local community. He still has three years on his contract but both Spanish clubs are determined to make an offer for the fullback. Since joining Arsenal from Barcelona in 2011, Bellerin has played 195 matches for the Gunners, scoring eight goals, provided 25 assists and has appeared three times for his native Spain. Gunners in line for new keeper signing My Arsenal contacts have told me that the Gunners are moving closer to bringing Sport Lisbon goalkeeper Luis Maximiano to the Emirates Stadium. Manager Mikel Arteta was impressed with reports given to him by Arsenal scouts, who watched him in Portugal before the season was halted. Maximiano, who is 21 years-old has been in Sporting’s first team since last year and has even played in the Europa League. His value is estimated to be around £5million. Vardy and company preparing for a return Several of the Leicester City players have received notification from the club that the trainers are planning to start sessions on May 11 in preparation for a return to action in June. Jamie Vardy and his teammates have been following personal training plans at home during the coronavirus shutdown, reporting to their trainers every day. Several of the players have also been in constant contact via video link. Ndombele considering return to France Repercussions following Jose Mourinho ordering two of his players to work out with him on Hadley Common, north of Tottenham’s stadium, is causing concern behind the scenes at White Hart Lane. Defying government’s lockdown ‘stay at home’ orders, Mourinho and 23-year-old Tanguy Ndombele went for a jog. There was a public outcry and condemnation from the government and Mourinho issued an apology. However, Ndombele was already considering a move back to his native France and has taken the criticism hard. He feels that a move back to France would put him back among close friends. Mourinho, ignoring government anti-social rules has also gone down very badly with other Tottenham players and also his management, who have been forced to stay in their homes. Coutinho eyes Premier League return Philippe Coutinho is a player rarely out of the headlines. His transfer from Liverpool to Barcelona was a dream fulfilled for him but it was followed by a loan period to Bayern Munich which has been far from successful. His agent, Kia Joorabchian has informed us that Philippe would like a return to the UK. He said: “We had a long talk about it and of course, the Premier League is something he has always enjoyed and he loved playing in England and would welcome a return. We haven’t spoken about where he would like to go because of the coronavirus pandemic and it will be all about the financial situation of clubs at the end of the current lockdown. It’ll be all about which clubs can afford to take new transfers. You’ll probably see less big transfers so we will wait and see what happens.” Both Chelsea’s Frank Lampard and Tottenham’s Jose Mourinho have shown interest with Chelsea looking at a loan deal with a permanent signing clause in the contract which would be activated in 2021 if everything goes successfully. Chelsea have already talked to Barca and discussed a £55million fee but Spurs have yet to make contact and are reluctant to discuss such high figures. Footballers better than politicians I was delighted with the excellent response of our highly paid footballers, who continue to organise charitable donations to help as many people as possible during this coronavirus crisis. While many of our politicians attacked footballers for being excessively highly paid and demanding that they contribute part of their salaries to the National Health Service, the greedy government officials then awarded themselves £10k wage increases to help them work from home! It just proves that footballers are much more valuable to society than many politicians. Brazilian could leave West Ham Attacking midfielder Felipe Anderson has struggled at West Ham since Manuel Pellegrini left the club. Manager David Moyes has been frustrated with the Brazilian, who has scored only one goal in 22 appearances this season. When the transfer window opens Moyes wants to sign four or five new players and with Anderson valued at £42million, he would welcome the funds from a sale. The current lockdown might hinder his plans as most clubs will struggle to balance the books with so much lost revenue. I wish ‘Greavsie’ the very best Unless you have a good knowledge of our glorious game or are an ardent Tottenham Hotspur fan and know much of their history, you might not be aware of the name Jimmy Greaves. He is arguably the most famous player ever to wear the proud cockerel emblem on his shirt. Jimmy is Spur’s highest ever goalscorer and hit an astonishing 266 goals in 379 matches. Not even Harry Kane can match that percentage! He was also part of the England World Cup-winning squad in 1966 and scored an amazing 44 goals in 57 internationals. I once had the privilege of playing with ‘Greavsie’ when we both worked for the Sun newspaper. He is a lovely, friendly, charming man, always joking and ready for a chat. He possesses total modesty when it comes to his amazing achievements and never ever boasts. He personifies everything that is best in football. Alas, poor Jimmy, now 80 years old, suffered a stroke in May 2015 and has been in a wheelchair ever since. Long gone are the days when he thrilled fans at Chelsea, AC Milan, Spurs and West Ham. Jimmy recently suffered another illness and was released from the hospital on Wednesday and although I am not sure exactly what was wrong, I am assured it is not coronavirus-related. I wish Jimmy all the very best and a speedy recovery from his latest challenge. He is, without doubt, one of the very, very best ever to kick a football. There is talk of Jimmy being awarded a knighthood and I say ‘hear hear’ and why not? Dubravka finding lockdown difficult Newcastle keeper Martin Dubravka says the lockdown has been very difficult for him. A few days ago, he put on his goalkeeping gloves and said” “I just wanted to feel them and think, it’s okay, I’m still a keeper.” Martin suffered a knee ligament damage just before the enforced break. He hasn’t had the benefit of the club physios working on him and so he has built a fence in his back garden and soon, his girlfriend Lucia is going to kick balls at him so he can tone up his reflexes. He admitted: “I miss my teammates, the training coaches and also the crowd at St Jame’s Park. It’s just as tough for everyone else in the world. I miss the physios since their special treatment could have enabled me to heal faster. All the players are messaging each other and we know it will be emotional to be running out onto the pitch again with all our fans cheering.” He ended his phone chat by saying: “I think the season has to be played out to a conclusion and it will take some time but we have to finish.” Joke’s on United midfielder Pogba Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba reckons he has forgotten what it is like to play football because he has been out of action for so long. He last played on Boxing Day last year before undergoing surgery to treat an ankle injury. One of my contacts at nearby Manchester City joked that Pogba wasn’t playing football before the injury!