The Council of Governors is in discussion with the Health ministry to ensure health facilities handling coronavirus patients are separated from those handling other patients. This is after it emerged that the gains made in immunisation and reduction in maternal mortality in the country were slowly reversing. Pregnant women are now shunning antenatal clinics for fear of contracting the virus. CoG Health committee chairman Mohammed Kuti on Sunday said the council, in collaboration with the ministry, is creating a protocol that will ensure there is social distancing in clinics. Health facilities will also be fumigated to minimise the risk of contracting the virus. “Because of stigma in government facilities, pregnant women fear to go to health facilities. But the lasting solution is to have Covid-19 facilities away from normal hospitals so that people can have the confidence to go and be attended to,” Kuti said. “The gains we have made in immunisation and reducing maternal mortality and other activities like HIV and TB should not be lost because of mixing Covid-19 patients with others to the extent that people now shy away from seeking healthcare services,” he said. He called on Community Health Volunteers to encourage those services to continue at the community level and encourage those who need to deliver at health facilities to do so. In addition, the CoG wants health facilities set aside as quarantine facilities to not be used as holding grounds for lawbreakers, saying it is a matter of concern. Kuti said quarantine is a public health strategy that must be embraced, supported and looked at positively and hence, should be separated from lawbreakers who break the curfew rules. “This discussion is ongoing and it is going to be dealt with soon such that if you are in contact with a positive case then you get quarantined, you are not a lawbreaker in any way and there is nothing negative about it.” “If you are walking at night you are a lawbreaker, then maybe the best place to be quarantined is within prisons, not in public health facilities. We have raised it and we will be able to come to a clear conclusion about that because it is a serious issue that has to be separated.” With the world marking the World Immunisation Week between April 24 and April 30, the World Health Organization has warned that shutting down immunisation services during the Covid-19 pandemic risks triggering a resurgence of diseases that can be prevented with safe and effective vaccines. According to WHO, in 2018, about one in 10 children missed out on life-saving vaccines for diseases such as measles, diphtheria and tetanus. Current projections indicate that reported measles cases for last year will be at least 800,000. There is an increasing concern about resurgence, especially if vaccination rates fall due to delay or suspension of scheduled activities as a result of Covid-19. “Outbreaks of polio, diphtheria and yellow fever are also of high concern, especially in countries least able to respond quickly and decisively to address an emerging outbreak,” WHO says. Meanwhile, county health departments in malaria transmission areas at the Coast, Lake Region and Western Rift have been urged to be vigilant and closely monitor malaria trends to ensure there is no outbreak of malaria which may further strain health services in the country. “We would like to remind all of you that mosquitoes are not under quarantine or lockdown. They are still spreading malaria,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. Those who experience malaria symptoms such as fever, headache, joint pains, nausea and vomiting are advised to visit the nearest health facility for malaria testing and treatment as such are also symptoms of Covid-19. Edited by R.Wamochie