The Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Kenyatta National Hospital have begun testing for the disease, boosting the government’s ability to test for coronavirus. The MTRH will cover 22 counties, whose samples would otherwise have been transported to Nairobi. The two, which have already started testing, will now complement the efforts of the existing labs. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi during the daily briefing on Sunday said the country had managed to control imported cases, with the concern now shifting to local transmission. Counties will be required to take stock of their existing capacity, including health workers and available facilities, for further action and facilitate any support where necessary. “Our analysis shows that 56 per cent of all our confirmed cases were imported, and only 44 per cent have been locally transmitted. With the support of Kenyans, we have worked flat out, including taking unpopular measures, to limit the spread of both sets of transmissions. So far, we have succeeded to contain the imports,” Mwangangi said. She noted fewer cases are emanating from our original quarantine centres. “It is now the local transmissions that worry us the most, and because we do not know, and cannot know, everyone who is infected, ladies and gentlemen, the function of public health and national security is everyone’s responsibility,” the CAS said. The number of positive cases in the country is now at 270 after eight more cases were confirmed from 1,330 samples tested. Seven are Kenyans and one a foreign national. None has a history of travel. Three emanated from our quarantine centers and five were picked up by surveillance teams from various parts of the country. According to the CAS, four are from Mombasa, three from Nairobi and one is from Kajiado counties. They are aged between 17 and 65 years of age. On a positive note, there were seven discharges on Sunday bringing the total recoveries to 76. However, two more fatalities were reported, lost two raising the total number of deaths to 14. “Yesterday [Saturday], we gave you the rundown of the affected areas of Nairobi County, where almost every estate has a case. The situation in Mombasa is not any better,” Mwangangi said. Nyali is leading with 11 cases followed by Mvita and Kisauni with seven, Changamwe and Bamburi have two each. Beach Road, Mamba Village, Mogadishu, Mkomani-Tamarind, Maweni-Kongowea, Twiga Road and, Umoja have one case each. A total of 2,661 contacts have been monitored, out of which 2,047 have been discharged. 614 contacts are being followed at the moment. A total of 13,239 samples have been tested so far. The government will now be taking additional measures to ensure the transmission curve is flattened. For instance, all truck drivers entering the country and operating in Kenya will be screened at roadblocks. This will be done by a team of health personnel and those from the security department. The government will also be activating community policing, including the use of community health workers, having additional public health officers, and other multi-agency teams at the roadblocks and activation of Nyumba Kumi. The ministry will also deploy technology in tracking and surveillance of post curfew congregations. “Going forward, all those who break the curfew rules will be assumed to have been in contact with suspected cases hence will be quarantined for a period of 14 days,” she said. Meanwhile, the ministry has called on the National Police Service, the Kenya Bureau of Standards, the National Environment and Management Authority and other relevant government agencies to move with speed and arrest those who are selling recycled face masks. Mwangangi said it is not only unacceptable but also criminal, adding that the ministry was coming up with guidelines on safe disposal of masks. “I urge Kenyans to undertake basic due diligence on the face masks they are buying so that they do not fall victim.” She equally warned those disregarding other rules that require social distancing with an assumption that masks were enough to prevent the spread of the virus. In addition, the ministry condemned the move by elected leaders from Baringo to lead a mass demonstration in Kabarnet town, saying such moves are endangering lives. Edited by E.Kibii