Deputy President William Ruto has come out to deny claims that he was busy working at his farm as the coronavirus continued to spread in the country. Ruto was responding to pictures going round in social media showing him at his farm in Sugoi tending to cabbages. In a midnight tweet, the DP posted a photo of farmhands at a farm similar to the picture doing rounds on social media at a cabbage plantation. Ruto said together with President Uhuru Kenyatta and senior government officials, they were working on how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. "HE Uhuru, our teams and I are working on PRACTICAL strategies to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. All OPTIONS are on our cards," he said. The DP called on all Kenyans not to panic and assured them that the country would pull through and overcome the disease. He also urged Kenyans to comply with the government directives which include the stay at home order especially during the curfew as well as social distancing. "So, am NOT tending Sugoi cabbages below. Ignore other pics," the DP tweeted. The DP spoke hours after the country announced 12 more Covid-19 cases that brought Kenya's total to 122. A 6-year-old boy was the latest death raising the fatality figures from the virus to four in the country. However, the country has also recorded four recoveries from the virus indicating a ray of hope from those infected by the disease. The government on Thursday announced it had begun local production of face masks that will be distributed through the county governments and chairmen of boda bodas and matatus to curb the spread of the virus. Industrialisation CS Betty Maina said one million locally manufactured face masks are ready for distribution. Tailors will also be allowed to make face masks from particular materials and are being advised to sell them at a cheap price. The CS on Friday said the masks should cost no more than Sh20. Maina also said the country is looking for ways to procure ventilators. The government will also hire 5,000 health workers in the next seven days beginning immediately to help in the fight against Covid-19.