The destructive desert locusts will move to the northern parts of Kenya, sparing coastal region farmers, according to Igad Climate Prediction and Application Centre (ICPAC). ICPAC says climatic conditions continue to be suitable for desert locust multiplication, especially in South Sudan, Ethiopia and northern Kenya. Other parts likely to experience more invasion are Somalia, southern Eritrea and Djibouti. ICPAC monitors the movement of the locusts. In forecasts released on Wednesday, Baringo, Mandera and Wajir counties are at the highest risk of continued invasion. Others are Turkana and Marsabit. The information is based on climate conditions and existing vegetation conditions. Wind direction, which greatly determines swarm movements, is forecast to be generally from south to northeast. Further, the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation says that threats from  locusts remain alarming in northern Kenya, posing an unprecedented threat to food security. According to the agency's warning issued last month, locusts are fast-breeding, hence more invasion is likely to be experienced in April and May. The breeding areas have increased because of suitable conditions and sandy soils in northern Kenya. FAO says the hopper bands continue to develop and form an increasing number of first-generation immature swarms in Kenya's northern and central counties. "The swarms are maturing and will be ready to lay eggs from the first week of April onwards," the report reads. Last season, Kenya experienced exceptionally heavy rains and widespread flash floods. The downpours were attributed to the Indian Ocean dipole — a climate phenomenon in which the western part of the Indian Ocean near the East African coast was warmer than the eastern part. Locusts threaten food security in 23 counties and are expected to continue breeding and spreading during the March-to-May rainfall season due to favourable climatic conditions. Douglas Muoki, a maize farmer in Taveta subcounty, on Thursday said he had delayed in planting for fear of locust invasion. "We had reports of locusts in the neighbouring Kajiado county two months ago. This has made us reluctant to plant," he told the Star by phone. Muoki termed the prediction a sign of hope for farmers in the region, noting that apart from locusts, food production is likely to be affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He plans to grow maize and sorghum in his 12-acre farm at Chumvini. "The county is likely to be faced with acute shortage of food because most people are at home for fear of contracting the coronavirus," he said.