Public officers who fail to act on or inordinately delay to implement parliamentary reports or resolutions risk six months in jail or Sh500,000 fine or both if a new Bill becomes law. The Parliamentary Powers and Privileges (Amendment) Bill, 2020 compels public officers to act on parliamentary reports and recommendations within the stipulated period. The Bill, sponsored by ODM nominated Senator Agnes Zani, seeks to tame the laxity among officials who do nothing as parliamentary reports gather dust in government offices. Parliamentary reports and resolutions are sent to relevant government ministries, departments, agencies, independent commissions and offices to be acted on. In most cases, however, they end up gathering dust on shelves, even despite public resources being spent in producing them. “The Bill will ensure that feedback on Parliament’s resolutions and reports is not only given but given in a timely manner as delays or failure to submit reports undermine the ability of Parliament to undertake its oversight mandate,” Zani says. The proposed law requires responsible officers in the independent commissions and offices to swiftly act on parliamentary recommendations and submit reports on the status of implementation. It is yet to be tabled in the Senate for the first reading. It states that the clerk of the relevant House shall, within seven days of the resolution of the House or of the tabling of a report of the committee of the House, convey the resolution or a copy of the report to the responsible officer under whose portfolio the implementation of the resolution or recommendation of the committee falls. “The responsible officer shall submit a status report to the relevant Committee within the period specified in the standing orders of the relevant House.” The status reports should contain information on the action taken to give effect to the resolution or recommendation of a report submitted for action. In situations where no action has been taken, the reasons for inaction must be given and the relevant House or committee may consider extending the period for submission of a report based on the strength of the reasons advanced for inaction. Parliament relies on its Standing Orders to compel action on its reports, but Zani says this has been largely ignored since the Standing Orders are rules for the “orderly and effective discharge of the business of Parliament” unlike legislation, which has a binding effect on those to whom it applies. “Although the current Standing Orders provide for reporting on resolutions, very few reports are ever submitted on action taken on the resolutions passed by Parliament,” she says. Zani argues that reporting requirements by relevant government officers is one of the oversight mechanisms that Parliament employs to monitor the actions of the Executive and other independent offices for purposes of accountability, transparency and responsibility. She says that parliamentary committee reports contain important policy recommendations and perspectives that reflect the will of the people and insights from the legislators and other stakeholders. “A lot of time and resources go into the work of committees and the resultant reports that are tabled and adopted in Parliament. It is, therefore, antithetical to good governance for those resolutions to be submitted to the Executive and other offices with no action taken or feedback given.” Several parliamentary reports and resolutions are yet to be acted on, some for years after they were submitted. They include those on the scrutiny of auditor general’s reports on the expenditure of taxpayers money in both the national and county governments. Public Accounts Committee, Public Investments Committee and Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee (CPAIC) have made recommendations to the DCI and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe officials, including governors, for misappropriating public resources. Late last year, CPAIC recommended investigation of 23 former and current governors and county finance officers for suspected embezzlement of public funds. The House is yet to get a status report on the implementation of its recommendations. The Public Audit Act gives officers responsible for the implementation of parliamentary reports on auditor’s reports three months to appraise Parliament on the progress or give reasons for inaction. Section 53 (2) of the Act states, “Failure to comply…..the accounting officer shall be in contempt of Parliament or county assembly and upon determination, Parliament or relevant county assembly may recommend administration sanctions such as removal as accounting officer, reduction in rank among others.” National Assembly’s Environment committee also recommended to the National Environmental Management Authority the shutdown of London Distillers over environmental pollution. This too has not been implemented.