Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o on Monday received pharmaceutical supplies worth Sh40 million for distribution to health facilities. The supplies were part of Sh62 million purchases from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. Nyong’o said the management of the supplies will be done according to the county’s guidelines to improve medicine security and accountability in health facilities. This, he said, was aimed at blocking cartels targeting to divert supplies meant for public hospitals. Nyong’o spoke on Monday while flagging off the commodities to hospitals. The governor directed the use of gate passes during the distribution of medicines. “The gate pass will be verified by the security persons in charge of the gate who will only allow the entrance/exit of authorised officers,” Nyong’o said. He said government supplies should not be transported in private vehicles. Nyong’o said tuk-tuks, motorbikes and private vehicles will no longer be used to distribute government drugs and supplies. Regular audits on the usage of health products will be scheduled, he said. The audits, Nyong'o said, will be conducted on delivery notes, bin cards, daily activity registers and monthly summary reports. In addition, real-time stock takes will be done during audits. The governor ordered regular supportive supervision of health facilities. “This will enforce, among other things, improved management and accountability for medicines and supplies, especially in rural health facilities,” he said. Nyong’o announced that the department of health is working towards introducing an electronic dispensing and inventory management system in every public health facility. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral and Kisumu County hospitals received medicines and supplies worth Sh25.2 million and Sh7.9 million. Ahero County Hospital got supplies worth Sh2 million, Kombewa County Hospital (Sh1,306,238) and Muhoroni County Hospital (Sh1,024,804). Nyakach County Hospital’s supplies are worth Sh1,027,560, Chulaimbo County Hospital (Sh1,024,804) and Gita County Hospital (Sh712,026). Others are Rabuor Subcounty (Sh543,137), Manyuanda Subcounty (Sh459,882), Lumumba Subcounty (Sh1.3 million), Migosi Subcounty (Sh712,866), Nyang’oma Subcounty (Sh381,292) and Miranga Subcounty Hospital (Sh259,580). Edited by R.Wamochie