Former Cabinet Minister Joe Nyaga on Monday expressed concern over the government’s indecisiveness in handling Kenyans reportedly being mistreated in China. Kenyans and other Africans living in China have continued to cry for help after allegedly being evicted from their houses in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. The former presidential candidate said he is disappointed that victims of the mistreatment were now living on the streets, and Kenya has not taken any tangible measures to save them. Nyaga, who is also a former adviser to President Uhuru Kenyatta on regional integration, sais delay in taking action is likely to result in frustrated citizens taking revenge measures against Chinese living in Africa. “Our government should take a hard position and should not be constrained by the economic relationship it has with China. The danger is that our people could unilaterally take measures that would not be good for Chinese living here." "We saw what black South Africans, in anger, did to the Africans from the rest of Africa, and it was nasty. We must avoid this from happening and hence the need for quick action by China and African governments,”  Nyaga said in a statement He also urged the government of China, which he said enjoys good relations with most African countries, to step in and stop the inhumane actions. Nyaga said for whatever reason the mistreatment may be happening, it is "totally unacceptable by any country", especially at a time when the whole world needs cooperation to overcome Covid-19. He noted that the alleged mistreatment is made worse by the fact that the victims do not have the option of traveling back home as there are no flights have been banned. He was reacting to media reports to the effects that that Africans, in particular in the southern city of Guangzhou, were being mistreated and harassed by being evicted from their apartments by their landlords. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, however, maintained that all foreigners are treated equally. "Specific plans and proper arrangements are made to protect their life and health to the best, thanks to which, we were able to save the lives of some African patients in severe or critical conditions," the ministry said in a statement. Edited by E.Kibii