A don of a public university is a man under siege following a series of scandals that has been revealed. The powerful vice chancellor, who has political ambitions, has been surreptitiously moving around to avoid the attention of the sleuths. It is said the street-smart university boss has been cooking the books, getting creative with finances to amass a huge war chest to splurge on the 2020 campaigns. According to his close associates, it's a do or die for him. Maybe the department of University Education and Research led by Ambassador Simon Nabukwesi (pictured) should take note. *** Some staff working outside Nairobi are up in arms against their headquarters for what they call discrimination in settling foreign travel allowances. This follows an official visit to the US last year. The officers say they attended the training last year with a promise from headquarters that their allowances would be settled according to regulations. Whereas the field officers left without the quarter per diem, some officials at headquarters travelled with their allowances paid in advance. On returning, the officers submitted their documents for reimbursement of the allowances but the ministry has since kept mum and no amount of enquiries would make the top brass respond. What irks the field officers most is that headquarters staff who made the trip have had their claims settled while they are kept in the dark and nobody wants to handle their matter. They now want the concerned CS to intervene. *** Covid-19 respects no one. Some notorious power brokers are now angling for the state to lift the partial lockdown protocols to enable them to move about and perpetrate their political machinations. They were overheard saying they are out of the loop as their favourite watering hole has been shut and timelines for crucial schemes are fast lapsing. It is understood they are piling pressure on the Covid-19 Committee to open up the country even as hard-hit countries like the US and Europe prepare to do so. Looks like nothing can stop them from making a buck! *** An MP from Western is a worried man following the activities of a budding politician keen on seizing the constituency from his grip. The events are double pain for the man whose ambitions for the governor's seat were scuttled by calls for regional balance. The new sheriff in town has seized the Covid-19 pandemic to touch hearts through his food donations and building houses for the poor. Corridors is apprised that the heaps of praise on the newcomer are giving the second-term lawmaker sleepless nights, especially with his doomed bid for governor.