Thousands of county government workers are on their own after the national insurer, NHIF, declined to renew their comprehensive medical cover. National Hospital Insurance Fund's move is informed by a directive by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani that the Fund will only continue offering cover to civil servants, prison officers and the police. Yatani’s directive did not mention county government workers. According to the Kenya County Government Workers Union (KCGWU) secretary general, Roba Duba, the directive affects 103,000 county employees who now risk missing out on the critical medical insurance services. The union boss has sought clarification from Yatani. He blamed the confusion on lack clarity on whether county workers are civil servants. “It has been brought to our attention that the NHIF has not been renewing medical cover for county government citing restrictions from the Insurance Regulatory Authority not to enter into new arrangements to offer health insurance benefits. This is in contravention of your advisory exempting civil servants,” said Duba in a letter dated April 23 and addressed to Yatani. "The purpose of this letter is to implore your office to advise the NHIF that county governments and their related agencies are covered in the exemption advisory from your office to enable employees to get covered in the realisation of the provision of universal health coverage as we fight the monumental pandemic of Covid-19 in earnest." The letter was copied to Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. Duba said civil servants include public servants in both levels of government who draw their salaries from the Exchequer. “That National Treasury Gazette notice failed to explicitly mention county government as it did with civil servants and the National Police Service,” he said. “Unfortunately, this has led to total confusion and it has now come to our attention that county employees are not being covered by the NHIF for lack of clarity in the national Treasury notice.” He said the move will affect workers from 28 counties whose cover has not been renewed or is due to expire. They include Baringo, Bomet, Bungoma, Isiolo, Lamu, Mombasa, Kajiado, Elgeyo Marakwet, Embu, Garissa, Kakamega, Kericho, Kiambu, and Kirinyaga. Others are Kisii, Kisumu, Kitui, Machakos, Mandera, Marsabit, Muranga, Nakuru, Nyamira, Nyandarua, Tana River and Wajir counties. In the scheme, counties enter into contracts for enhanced medical coverage based on yearly renewal, proposed premium calculated based on previous year’s cover performance, and deliberations of the negotiation committee on the premium. (Edited by F'Orieny)