Fumigation of vessels operating in Lake Victoria has begun in Mbita Point after Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti issued the directive. Awiti on Tuesday ordered officials of the departments of disaster management and health to spray water vessels against the possible spread of coronavirus. The directive was issued during a virtual meeting with Members of Parliament from the county and county secretary Isaiah Ogwe. Governor Awiti told the officials to immediately start fumigating ferries, water busses, canoes, boats and other vessels to reduce chances of coronavirus transmission. “Homa Bay borders Uganda and Tanzania through islands in Lake Victoria. Spraying of vessels should start today to guard against any transmission of this disease,” he said. Most of the vessels operating in the lake transport goods and passengers between Mbita mainland and the islands. The islands are Mfangano, Rusinga, Remba, Ringiti, Takawiri and Kiwa. “Let there be enough chemicals to fumigate all vessels and docking surfaces. I urge our people to seriously adhere to the laid down precautionary guidelines that were given by the government,” the governor added. During the spraying in Mbita, county disaster management principal officer Henry Okidi and Mbita health promotion officer Kennedy Apollo said they were providing sanitation facilities to the residents. They said the fumigation would be extended to institutions such as banks, hotels and other areas where residents seek services. “Our colleagues in Siaya, Kisumu and Migori counties are also doing the same to avoid possible spread of Covid-19. Some ferries operate between Homa Bay and the counties,” Okidi said. He said they gave out soap and sanitiser to water vessel operators for them and their passengers. “We’re collaborating with banks and hotel management officers to ensure all places where services are provided are sprayed against coronavirus,” he said. Apollo said islands in the lake may harbour the virus because of their proximity to Tanzania and Uganda, which have all reported Covid-19. He said most of the islands were accessed by people from all the three East African countries. “Surveillance has also been enhanced in the islands to reduce transmission from either the islands to the mainland and vice versa,” Apollo said. On Wednesday, county commissioner Yatich Kipkemei told passengers to ensure they were screened before they entered the county. He said besides fumigation, residents should not allow visitors to get into the county without undergoing screening. “Security and health officers screen passengers at entry points. We want residents to be extra vigilant to avoid transmission of coronavirus into Homa Bay,” Kipkemei said. He told officials in the lake not to allow any passenger using the lake to gain entry without screening. “Let’s be our brothers’ keepers so we remain safe from the deadly disease." Edited by Henry Makori