Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has asked the government to stop movement of public service vehicles from Nairobi to other counties. He said the unrestricted movement of people will allow coronavirus to easily spread across the country. He said lapses at the points of entries, including the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport were to blame for the cases of coronavirus already confirmed. There are not yet confirmed cases in Nandi cunty although 50 people have been quarantined. “They all jetted into the country through JKIA, then board taxis and later public service vehicle from Nairobi to their respective homes unabated,” Sang said. He added, “It is by sheer luck when their neighbours or relatives inform us, and that is after socialising with hundreds of wananchi that we swing into action.” Sang regretted that counties have been sidelined by the Treasury in the disbursement of emergency funds to curb the spread of Covid-19. He said counties' financial requisitions were not being given the attention they deserve by the National Treasury. “The fight against coronavirus is a concerted effort that no section of the nation should be left out. Counties are key stakeholders in this process,” Sang said. The governor said devolved units have exhausted their resources and overstretched beyond their limits. He said funds were needed to procure protective gear for doctors and other health workers and emergency drugs for patients. He said the 50 people on quarantine should be supervised to ensure they don’t mix up with the rest of the population. Sang spoke when he launched fumigation drives in Kapsabet and Nandi-Hills towns on Monday. He said the county was using two fire engines and motorised knapsacks to fumigate hospitals and bus parks. He urged residents to use the time at home to work in their farms and grow food crops, saying there is a likelihood of food scarcity after the pandemic. Health executive Ruth Koech appealed to those holed up in urban areas not to visit rural homes where the aged parents and relatives live. “Such elderly members of our society have immunosuppression and should be protected from contracting Covid-19,” Koech said. She asked boda boda riders to carry only one person at a time and the passenger should buy their own face mask.  Edited by peter obuya