A Senate committee has launched investigations into the controversies surrounding the transfer of key Nairobi county functions to the national government. The Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations committee kicked off the inquiries on Thursday in the wake of threats by Governor Mike Sonko to pull out of the transfer deal. Chairman John Kinyua said the probe will revolve around the funding of the transferred functions and the roles of the county and Nairobi Metropolitan Service in the arrangement. “We met today (Thursday) to set the drums and agree on who we are going to invite to appear before us. We are concerned as a committee with what is going on at City Hall,” Kinyua said. Sonko signed away Health, Transport, Public Works and Planning and Auxiliary services to the national government. But barely two months later, the transfer ran into problems, with the governor threatening to start the process of terminating the deal. The county boss has protested breach of the deed of transfer by some unnamed government officials around the President who he claimed have hijacked the process. He has also had problems with the transfer of Sh15 billion to the NMS in the revised county budget. Kinyua said his committee will prioritise the issue of funding of the transferred county functions. This, the Laikipia senator said, has been necessitated by the move by the Treasury and the National Assembly to retain billions of county funds in the national government. “Our resolution was that the money should go to the county first because it is county money. It is from there that it can be sent to NMS after the county assembly approved the budget for the functions,” he said. The chairman further disclosed that the committee was considering proposing amendments to the Intergovernmental Relations Act to lighten the loose nuts surrounding the transfer of functions to either level of government. Specifically, the committee wants the Act to provide for mandatory participation of both the county assembly and the public before transfers are done. “The governor should not just wake up and decide to transfer functions. There must be public participation. The county assembly must participate not notified,” he said. The nine-member panel also wants timelines for transfer deals specified in law and procedures for termination elaborated. “We saw the Public Service Commission advertising for some jobs for Nairobi. Who will pay those people? Is it county or NMS? Roles should be specified in the law,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie