Development will suffer but lives will be saved. Projects in Busia county are likely to be suspended and the money directed towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has said the priority of his administration is to save lives and that if coronavirus continues to spread, he will channel some money meant for development fight the respiratory disease. He did not identify the projects likely to be suspended. On Tuesday, a cabinet meeting he chaired approved a Sh100 million supplementary budget for fighting Covid-19. “The Cabinet resolved this Tuesday morning and factored Sh100 million in the supplementary budget, towards combating the disease," the county chief said in a statement. “The earmarked funds will be used to buy masks, soap and sanitiser for county residents, personal protective equipment for health personnel and distribute water to market centres across the county." Busia is yet to report its first case of Covid-19, and although 19 people have been quarantined; four of them have tested negative. The county assembly that is expected to approve the Sh100 million supplementary budget is on holiday after it was adjourned on  March 17. MCAs are expected to reconvene to pass the budget and help the county government procure PPE and other safety equipment. County assembly Budget committee chairman Linus Asiba on Wednesday said his committee is only waiting for the House to reconvene. The proposal for the supplementary budget comes two weeks after Ojaamong called on the national government to channel more money towards fighting the coronavirus. Asiba said the Cabinet resolved to move the Covid-19 treatment centre to Alupe Subcounty Hospital from Buyosi Dispensary. The county emergency response committee has also identified learning institutions to be used as isolation centres. Staff and administrators are being trained in Covid-19 preparedness. Seven vehicles have been recalled from departments, departmental heads should second more vehicles on a need basis. More assistance is expected from the national government and development partners. Officials said there will be regular water supplies and Kenya Power is not expected to disconnect power until Covid-19 is contained. (Edited by V. Graham)