The Head of State Uhuru Kenyatta announced that effective last week, all local artistes will be earning a total of Ksh.200 million from projected royalty collections per month which translates to an annual payment of over Ksh.2 billion. In a press statement, MCSK announced that they have started distributing Kshs. 34,000,000 to artists, for the period between 1st Jan and 31st March 2020, per the MCSK distribution rules on distribution of royalties to right holders whose works have been performed. Speaking to Word Is MCSK chairman and Gospel Music veteran and pioneer Mr. Japheth Kasanga, said he is excited that the new MCSK board has been able to pay a reasonable royalties to musicians and to also implement a quarterly distribution plan which is more frequent than the past years. "Musicians had to wait for a year before they can receive royalties. We are aware of the current delay experienced to have all our 14000 members all paid up but we are doing our best to clear the list the soonest possible." He promised all members a bright future with the current support of the government which translates to more compliance by users of our music hence more royalties to musicians. Sauti Sol are the highest earners in anticipated royalty pay-outs announced by the Music Copyright Society of Kenya at the end of February. Through a press briefing, the society confirmed releasing Sh37.5 million to the various Kenyan artistes for the period of July 1 to December 31 and to be dispersed as from February 28. The body’s payments were based on audio-visual play and logs from various media houses and would be its first scientifically calculated payouts. Last week on Thursday, another CMO, Performers rights society of Kenya (Prisk) sent Ksh 3000 to artistes not revealing the audited account. Through a statement, Prisk has announced to its members that they will distribute Quarter 1, 2020 collections of Kshs. 14.7M on 9th April 2020 to 4,033 members (3,665 Musicians,259 Actors and 109 Actor/Musician).