Knock! Knock! “Otieno… Otieno… I know you are awake!” Knock! Knock! I was shocked that someone was knocking on my Mercedes’ door. “Maybe it’s a phone thief…. I thought to myself” …but it persisted “Oti bana, wake up… its an emergency” That’s when I slipped in to semi-consciousness. Upon realizing it was a dream, I tried to get back to sleep. “Mercedes… please come back to me!” I said in desperation, but sleep had betrayed me. Maina, my neighbor, persistently knocked on the door to which I responded “I’m coming… relax”. At the back of my mind, I was reluctant to answer the door but on many an occasion, Maina had saved my life, so it was only fair that I went to find out what the problem was. “Sema Maich… what’s going on? How can I be of assistance?” I said in a polite voice without a hint of anger from someone who had just been interrupted from driving his dream car. “Remember that job I had been telling you about? I applied and they called me for the interview. Tomorrow is the big day” he said in an excitement that had a tone of concern. Assuming that he wanted tips, I interrupted and said “You know what, just be confident. Read their financial reports…. Take two showers and don’t shower with your usual bar soap……..” “It’s not that…..” he interrupted. In the midst of the excitement of preparing for his big interview Maina had forgotten to pay his rent which was past due. He even said the infamous quote that has made many a bar owner skeptical “I don’t have money on my phone right now. Can you pay for me?”. Imagine losing your dream car and now almost giving the same person who ruined it your money. “The landlord has sent me a nasty text threatening to lock the house in the afternoon. Would you have some money on your phone that I can use to pay the rent? I will give you the cash tomorrow after I get to the bank”. Without hesitating, I got my phone and launched my Standard Chartered mobile banking app. Always handy! In a matter of seconds we were paying the rent through the landlords Paybill number as we spoke about the interview and how I’ll probably have a Mercedes dream again. We spoke about how it is now easier than ever to access our cash from the bank account especially when we have unexpected emergencies and social distancing. I even convinced him to try out mobile banking. This is something that was unheard of years ago. “Thanks for helping me sort that out. I am downloading and registering the app tomorrow morning after my interview” Maina said as he went back home an optimistic man who knew that he won’t have to bother his neighbor again if he wants some money ASAP. Open your account now – https://www.sc.com/ke/open-account/