The boundaries review by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is in limbo, with government’s full attention now on the coronavirus pandemic. The IEBC had planned to begin the exercise last month, albeit with grumbles it did not have cash for the activity. On February 14, the electoral agency announced it was ready for the process, having crafted a boundaries review operations plan. But events are likely to turn for the worst for the IEBC amid the uncertainty of when the pandemic will end. This in the wake of the government sanctioning budget cuts for ministries, state agencies and independent commissions. The agency bosses have over time complained of insufficient resources hampering the preparations for the contentious review. IEBC has also been unable to conduct by-elections owing to the restrictions setting a 1.5 metre social distance for public gatherings. Following the Covid-19 situation, the IEBC postponed by-elections in Msambweni constituency and other four wards. Elections that were scheduled for April 30 at Dabaso (Kilifi), Kisumu North, Kahawa Wendani (Nairobi), and Wundanyi/Mbale (Taita Taveta) wards were affected. The IEBC was yet to get back to the Star's Siasa on questions regarding the way forward for the affected activities. Commission CEO Marjan Hussein Marjan said on the phone that chairman Wafula Chebukati was best placed to respond, being the poll agency’s spokesperson. In an earlier notice, however, Chebukati indicated that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the commission’s day-to-day operations to unprecedented levels. “It is inevitable that meetings will be held…all involving human contact. It would be difficult to achieve these activities without exposing the public to the risk of contracting the virus.” The commission says it lacks resources for the procurement of materials and training of staff for the boundaries review. The National Treasury allocated Sh101 million for the delimitation of boundaries this financial year, with another Sh421 million projected for 2020-21. Before a House committee in 2018, the IEBC projected that the drive would cost Sh8 billion over a four-year period. However, despite the budget cuts affecting various state agencies, the commission got an additional Sh49.1 million in recurrent expenses for the delimitation. Electoral processes’ allocation was reduced by Sh282 million, bringing the net reduction in allocation for the commission to Sh233 million. Of this, Sh118 million will be in respect of the procurement of goods and services, whereas Sh119 will be allocated for compensation of employees. With Kenya National Bureau of Statistics indicating that they are "now in talking terms with the commission" over the row on shapefiles, money and movement could be all the polls agency needs. KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi told Siasa that they had released the requisite population data to the electoral agency. “We released the reports with information on the population of the various electoral units. We are in agreement on how to deal with the matter shapefiles,” Mwangi said. JULY 2021 DEADLINE WORRY But with no clarity on how the coronavirus situation will pan out, there is little hope the commission would meet the July 2021 deadline. The commission has until that time to conduct the review if the outcome is to be factored in the 2022 general elections. However, the law says the review can be done between eight to 12 years, meaning the agency has a leeway to conduct it by August 2024. But the prevailing situation – staging movement restrictions, is likely to deny the agency room to address concerns that have been raised in periodic boundaries reviews. The last review was in March 2012 by the Andrew Ligale-led commission and resulted in the creation of an additional 80 constituencies across the country’s eight regions. With the country’s population at over 47 million, the population quota is bound to rise to 164,000 – a situation that would affect the sizes of various constituencies. The 2009 census put the threshold at a population of at least 133,000, with exemption to some 26 that had special attributes. The constituencies are Budalang’i , Bura, Galole, Isiolo South, Kangema, Keiyo North, Kilome, Laisamis, Lamu East, Lamu West, and Marakwet East. Others are Mathioya, Mogotio, Mbeere North, Murkurweini, Mvita, Mwatate, Ndaragwa, North Horr, Othaya, Saku, Samburu East, Tetu, Vihiga, Voi, and Wundanyi. This was factored on whether the constituency was in an urban or rural area; geographical size and population patterns. Constituencies in cities are allowed 40 per cent above the set threshold, while those in sparsely populated areas could have 40 per cent less. Polls expert Felix Odhiambo holds that waiting for 2024 would present challenges as the regions would have seen a surge in population by then. He told the Star in an interview that this would require a mechanism of estimating the population in 2023 and 2024. “This will have to be done to tie that exercise as close as possible to the 2019 Census report,” Odhiambo said. His take though is that Article 89 gives two windows of opportunity — this year or potentially before July 2021 for the boundaries to apply for 2022. “The alternative is to review them after 2022 elections, which I have a feeling is what the government wants,” the executive director Electoral Law and Governance Institute said. An IEBC (Amendment) Bill, 2020 setting the legal framework for the boundaries delimitation is yet to be processed in the National Assembly. Before the Covid-19 stopped meetings, ELGI convened a retreat of the commission and members of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee to discuss the bill, which is still at infantry stages. Political observer Frankline Mukwanja, however, reasons that there is no crisis, even if the review does not meet the requirement for its use in 2022. The tenure of the legislation which was used by the Ligale team elapsed at the closure of the last review. Parliament’s operations have been constrained by the virus, with restrictions issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta limiting MPs’ and staff travel. With sittings scheduled for just a day every week, the House Business Committee of the National Assembly is likely to prioritise matters related to Covid-19, hence more days for the Bill to be ready. The Centre for Multiparty Democracy executive director said, “Reasonable politics would be to prioritise the lives and the livelihoods of the people affected by the Covid19 pandemic.” “We have room. There is no crisis. We are just in the eighth year. There are no constitutional deadlines broken yet,” Mukwanja said. The developments may come as a setback to leaders who have been looking forward to the review to ease resource constraints. During Building Bridges Initiative rallies, several leaders, among them Suba South John Mbadi (ODM chairman) called for a stop of the delimitation until the constitutional review is complete. Their argument was that the BBI process may resolve to retain the 290 constituencies hence may render the IEBC process a nullity or an unnecessary expense.