Clerical operations at the Kenya Ports Authority have resumed following the reconstitution of a new team after the previous one was taken into quarantine over Covid-19. The decision comes after complaints from importers about slow activities, with most offices closed and few machines operating and mostly serving the standard gauge railway. The importers had also complained that there was no allocation for containers because the boardroom, where the activity goes on, had been closed. KPA principal public relations officer Hajji Masemo said the six clerical officers who constituted the previous team were taken into quarantine on Mombasa Beach on Tuesday last week after one of them tested positive for the virus. The clerks are responsible for ensuring that the allocation of containers to freight stations are implemented. “Once the head of internal operations and CFSs conclude the nominations, the clerks’ responsibility is to implement it in the system and importers then organise for the pickup order for the containers to leave,” Hajji said. He said the boardroom was closed for fumigation and reopened on Friday. The exercise was conducted for two days - Wednesday and Thursday. “On the equipment side, no one has been found to be unwell. So work is going on as usual,” Hajji added. KPA managing director Rashid Salim said in an earlier interview that the authority was trying as much as possible to meet its targets, despite the challenges. “None of the ships docking so far has brought in Covid-19 positive crews and we ensure that our staff does not mix with the foreign crew,” he said. KPA was in the process of procuring thermal guns that had by last week run out of stock. “We have 20 so far but we want to ensure we get over 100. We have to go through the procurement process,” Salim had said. The acting MD said they were also in the process of acquiring and installing sanitiser walkthrough entrances. “Now, we only have one at gate number 9 and some 107 water points,” he said. So far, KPA has suspended ship crew change, bagging services at the quayside for arriving vessels, among other services. By Friday, confirmed Covid-19 cases had gone up to 29 after having tested more than 600 workers out of a workforce of 7,000. Between March 25 and April 22, cargo volumes via SGR recorded an increase, with Africa Star Railways transporting 52 TEUs of Covid-19 materials, including ethyl alcohol and disinfectants. Tea, coffee, tobacco, clothing, canned seafood, canned fruits, imported goods such as auto parts, ceramics, fertilisers, plastic goods, and paper products were also transported within that period.  (Edited by F'Orieny)