Are some political brokers now trying to broker a deal between Governor Mike Sonko and Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohamed Badi? Corridors understands that a group has been trying to reach out to the county boss to convince him to meet Badi. Insiders say an influential city MCA is at the centre of the plan to unite the two. It is not clear if they have succeeded in meeting the governor but the men were seen coming out of his private office in Upper Hill late last week. A governor in Central is a wanted man. Residents of his county are unhappy with his efforts to combat Covid-19 and are said to be quietly planning to teach him a lesson. They accuse him of making very little effort, if any, to fight coronavirus. They say less prominent people in the county have made huge efforts to fight the disease but their governor can only distribute cheap masks. A resident told Corridors well-off locals are donating sanitiser, water tanks and soap to the less privileged but the governor has only been seen donating low-quality masks. Rumour has it that residents plan to chase him away with his cheap masks if he does not up his game. A CEC from a county in Western is the subject of social media debate over his lack of decorum. The official is said to be arrogant and insults anyone who seems to criticise the county chief or his administration. He is said to go to the extent of reprimanding colleagues who keep quiet when residents complain about various issues. What annoys residents most is the fact that the executive is quick to take to social media to defend matters that are not under his docket. He is said to comment on anything that touches on the county and tries very hard to portray his boss like an angel. Politicians are perhaps taking advantage of the measures announced to curb the spread of coronavirus to keep away unwanted guests. A resident of a constituency in the North Rift told Corridors that no one is allowed near the home of the area legislator, not even MCAs. The legislator is said to have instructed guards at the gate to tell visitors to instead call him if they have pressing issues they want addressed. However, his phone has been off for some time now. Visitors are further told appointments will be made after the coronavirus measures are lifted. Residents are wondering how the local leadership will discuss intervention measures in the constituency with the legislator in hiding.