The county government of Busia has earmarked 28 schools to serve as quarantine centres during Covid-19 pandemic. The Health department on Wednesday said the institutions, which have a total capacity of 14,100, include 26 schools, one university and a Technical Training Institute. They are spread across the seven subcounties of Teso North, Teso South, Nambale, Butula, Matayos, Samia and Bunyala. Health and Sanitation Chief Officer, Dr Isaac Omeri, said that the border county is not taking chances in the fight against COVID-19 because of the porous border between Kenya and Uganda, which now has 53 positive confirmed cases. “We shall admit and monitor suspected cases in these quarantine sites especially those who were in contact with the positive ones,” Omari said. The institutions in Teso North are; St Thomas Amagoro Girls, t Joseph’s Kocholia Mixed, Achiya Echakara, Bishop Sulumeti Girls as well as Kolanya Boys and Kolanya Girls. The ones in Teso South include; St Paul’s Amukura Boys, St Mary’s Amukura Girls, St Monica Chakol Girls and Alupe University while in Bunyala has Namenya Girls, John Osogo Boys and Budalang’i Boys. In Samia they are; Sigalame Boys, Nanderema Boys, Nangina Girls and Bumbe Technical Training Institute will play host to COVID-19 suspects while in Matayos the schools selected to play the same role are St Mathia’s Busia Boys, Mundika Boys, Lwanya Girl, and Our Lady of Mercy. For Nambale; Nambale Boys, Kisoko Girls and Madende will be used while in Butula subcounty they include Bukhalalire Boys, Bujumba Boys, Busiada Girls and Bujumba Girls. The identification of the institutions followed a directive from the Council of Governor that mandated all counties to identify facilities to serve as quarantine centres. The Council of Governor’s said on Wednesday that through the county emergency response teams, all county governments will identify additional facilities to serve as quarantine centres. “We assure the public that the above schools will be safe for children when schools re-open because they will be fumigated. We will provide beds, which will be disposed of later,” the council said in a letter. “Busia has not yet registered any coronavirus case although 19 people are under quarantine. Medical services director Janerose Ambuchi is among those who tested negative and discharged. Edited by Frank Obonyo