Former Gor Mahia skipper Haron Shakava claims the coronavirus-induced break is a blessing in disguise since it has accorded time to fully concentrate on his recovery from an ankle injury. Shakava, who plies his trade with 12-time Zambian champions Nkana FC, was missing in action for the better part of the second leg owing to the injury he suffered during a training session. The towering center-half, alongside his three compatriots at the club, opted to fly home after the pandemic grounded all sporting activities globally. The other Kenyan stars at the club are Musa Mohammed, Duke Abuya and Duncan Otieno. In addition to recovery, Shakava says the break has also accorded an opportunity to reunite with his family while insisting that he is now fully recovered awaiting the pandemic to end. "I got injured in training at the start of the second leg and consequently, I was sidelined for months. After the Zambian federation suspended the league, I flew back home, a decision which has proved to be the best," said Shakava. "I have used the time away from football to work on my rehabilitation and to be close to my family. I have been working under the watch of a local doctor, who has given me a clean bill of health to resume training." Meanwhile, the former Kakamega Homeboyz defender challenged his counterparts in the Kenyan Premier League to invest in personal training equipment. While revealing that his training had not been greatly affected due to a mini gym he has installed in his house, Shakava urged his compatriots to do the same. He also called upon players to invest heavily in education and other income-generating ventures to complement what they earn from the pitch as well as sustain their lives after hanging their boots. "I have heard players complain that they are gaining weight now that the government through the Ministry of Health do not allow activities in public gyms. That should not be the case for sportsmen," said Shakava. "They should consider installing small gyms at their houses. I have my personal gym in the house where I train daily to remain fit. I also do a lot of road work which has helped me to keep fit," he added.