The Nyandarua county assembly has accused the executive of sidelining it in the war on Covid-19. MCAs say Governor Francis Kimemia's administration has instead turned the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity for self-aggrandisement. They say they cannot understand why the executive has not discussed or shared with them the way forward insofar as the fight is concerned. The assembly says the two names forwarded by its Health committee to the County Emergency Response Committee have not been invited for any meeting. “This is sending a very dangerous signal that we are not required to know what is happening so we can't oversight. That is very sinister for this county,” Speaker Wahome Ndegwa said. Ndegwa remarked on the situation following a motion moved in the House on Tuesday by Majority leader Wambugu King’ori on the status of the county in relation to the Covid-19 crisis. King'ori wants the Emergency Response Committee to provide a comprehensive report on the county's preparedness and contingency response to Covid-19, highlighting the learning institutions set aside as isolation centres and funds allocated towards combating the virus. The motion also requires the committee to highlight the challenges and successes experienced so far, the number of ventilators and ICU beds available, and the measures taken to protect health workers. Further, the motion seeks to know the families identified to get assistance in case of a lockdown and the role of the county assembly in the whole matter. King'ori said that while the MCAs are supposed to oversee everything done in the county, they have been kept in the dark. They have, therefore, threatened to shoot down a supplementary budget expected to be presented to the House soon for them to allocate funds for fighting the disease “should the executive continue to treat the war against it for personal glory”. “We are not going to approve any funny budget. It is going to be a budget with items and their names so that the money goes to serve our people for the purpose it is meant,” Ndegwa said. Assembly Budget Committee chairman Kiiru Gachomba said the county government must come with a “very clear policy if this assembly is going to pass in a supplementary budget". Gachomba said more than Sh200 million sought to be allocated for the Covid-19 fight must be appropriated to the very critical departments, citing gross inadequacies in personal protective equipment for medics. “When all that is done, let us appreciate we have a health committee in this assembly. Let the executive involve that committee in all that is done, even in outreach plans in their policy, so that we can understand in our villages and other small areas, “he said Gachomba’s views were echoed by Wanjohi MCA Isaac Kung’u, who accused the executive of issuing misleading statements on its level of preparedness. Kung’u singled out the Covid-19 isolation centres as an indication that the county is not prepared. During a press briefing on March 25, Governor Kimemia said they have four isolation centres, all with a 42-bed capacity. Of these, he said J.M.Memorial Hospital had eight beds, North Kinangop Mission Hospital (eight), Engineer County Hospital (six) and Ndemi health centre at Kipipiri with 20 beds. But Kung’u said there is neither an isolation centre nor 20 beds at Ndemi health centre, adding that the information that appeared in the mainstream and social media was misleading. “I visited the area and there is nothing. No beds, nothing of an isolation centre. So we really need to know what we are referring to when we talk about an isolation centre,” he told the assembly. A tour by the Star of the three government facilities – J.M. Hospital, Engineer and Ndemi – confirmed that no isolation ward is ready at Ndemi health centre. In what is said to be an isolation centre, there were only three beds used by pregnant mothers for delivery. Reached for comment, however, county Health executive Njenga Mungai declined to respond. (Edited by F'Orieny)