Visa and Pesapal have partnered to enable consumers and small businesses to accept digital payments across Africa. African businesses will have the privilege of enjoying a world-class connected payment experience through various form factors including Visa QR, MPos, Mini POS and POS by leveraging Visa’s superior capabilities. This partnership means that all users of Pesapal Mobile will be able to use universal Visa QR capabilities and the Visa Token Service to make contactless payments. “We are excited to work with Pesapal to broaden our offering to a larger number of merchants and consumers, especially as governments and communities are increasingly focused on cashless and remote payments,” said Vice president and general manager, Visa East Africa, Corine Mbiaketcha. Pesapal will become a Visa Principal Member driving small business, acquiring and issuing. Mbiaketcha added that the partnership reinforces the digital firm’s commitment to expanding payments acceptance across Africa to drive the much-desired financial inclusion in communities. “We are excited to partner with Visa and to become a Visa Principal Member. Small businesses form a big part of our economy and with Visa’s support, we will be able to support more businesses and offer more to consumers,” said founder and CEO at Pesapal, Mark Mwongela. He added that over the last nine years, the company has benefited greatly from Visa’s expertise and platforms for payments processing and fraud management. Pesapal has created Africa's only payments ecosystem that offers e-commerce, point of sale and consumer applications on one platform. The firm recruits and supports businesses to be able to digitise payment collection securely while integrating to business internal systems such as POS, ERP, accounting and billing systems. By integrating businesses, Pesapal will be able to drive consumer payments to the merchants on the same platform. Since its inception, Pesapal has been driving a connected payment experience for merchants and consumers although previously, digital payments were only available to large businesses Pesapal has changed this with Sabi—a mobile point of sale solution that enables small businesses to accept card payments securely.