Hardly two weeks to May, AFC Leopards striker Elvis Rupia is crossing fingers that the club will renew his contract which is set to expire this month or land lucrative offers elsewhere. The Harambee Stars trialist arrived at the den in January from Wazito on a short term contract, anticipating regular playing time which would guarantee him a return abroad However, the coronavirus pandemic has worked against his plans and the former Nzoia Sugar-man is hoping that his goal-scoring prowess in the brief stint he has been with Ingwe will earn him a new contract or secure him a move to another club. Leopards opted for Rupia after the exit of John Makwata to Zambian champions Zesco United and the former has not disappointed as he is among the players jostling for the 'Golden Boot'. His goal-scoring instincts at Leopards caught the eye of Stars coach Francis Kimanzi who handed him a return to the team. Despite his superb performance, the forward says Leopards seem not keen to renew his terms neither has his agent Asman Noor sourced for another club. "My contract with Leopards expires at the end of this month, potentially rendering me jobless. It's worrying me as the league is not only be suspended here at home but globally. Leopards have not initiated the process of retaining me neither do I have offers from elsewhere. But I strongly believe I will get a solution within the remaining two weeks of the month. I have worked hard in the clubs I have featured before and I feel my achievements are there to be seen," said the former Nakuru All-Stars player. Rupia in the meantime is counting on his investments made from the pitch to successfully fend for his family should he fail to sign a contract in the next two weeks.  The former Power Dynamos (Zambia) marksman revealed that he had made a handful of investments which supplements his earning out of playing football. "Thank God I do not solely rely on football as a source of income. I have made a number of investments which I  hope will take care of my needs and that of my family. From the word go, I was aware that I will not play football forever hence I had to invest," he added.