Posta Rangers head coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo can afford a smile following the return of his youthful striker Calvin Odongo from a long term injury. Odongo, alongside the club's skipper and former Harambee Stars defender Jockins Atudo, went under the knife in September last year but according to Pamzo, the former is ready to kick the ball again. The two players were sent to the surgeon's table after tearing their Anterior Cruciate Ligaments (ACL) while on club duties. Pamzo revealed that Odongo was supposed to feature in competitive matches by the end of March but that did not happen as the government suspended all sporting activities as a precautionary measure to the coronavirus pandemic. The league winning tactician with Tusker in 2011 said the former Kariobangi Sharks' man had gone through all the rehabilitation stages before the league proceeded on an unprecedented break and was just a matter of time before he returns to the pitch. He, however, expressed uncertainty with the expected date for Atudo to return,  thanks to his injury which he described as serious compared to that of Odongo. "Odongo has fully recovered after undergoing surgery last year. The doctor had given March as his expected month to resume light training. He had gone through all the rehabilitation processes and he should be ready to play again. He is a young player and I am not surprised that he healed within a short period. Atudo's case was slightly serious and we expect him to resume training from next season," said the former KCB assistant coach While Pamzo was elated to have Odongo back, he conceded that his holding midfielder Michael Luvutsi was in double trouble as he had not recovered from a long term injury and at the same time, his contract had lapsed. He, however, exuded confidence that his bosses would renew Luvutsi's terms. "Luvutsi got injured hardly two games into the season and he is yet to be cleared by the doctor. His contract has also ended but I will engage the management to see if they will add him more years," he said \Meanwhile, the former Harambee Stars' defender hailed the club's physical trainer Geoffrey Okoth for keeping the boys fit without congregating for their usual training programs. He said he was satisfied with his work thus far. "'Okoth has done a tremendous job in keeping the players fit. His online training programs are good and I think we are fit to play for around 60 minutes if the league was to resume today," he added.