Wazito attacking midfielder Eric Odhiambo is not shying away from making good use of his experience in the field of Journalism to create coronavirus awareness during this time the local action is suspended. Odhiambo, a Bachelors degree holder in the field of Communication and Psychology from the University of Nairobi, spends the better part of the day reaching out to Kenyans on how to stay away from the disease which has halted all sporting activities globally. The midfielder, who has a bias in communicating through Social Media, has been on the front line in appealing to Kenyans to observe the guidelines given by the government through the Ministry of Health. Odhiambo, who currently works with Sahibu, a monthly magazine located at Upper Hill after leaving Nation Media Group where he worked for two and half years, says journalism has helped him spread the gospel and according to him, the impact is there for all to see. "We are currently off the pitch but I am on duty as usual. I am using my skills to sensitize the public on the coronavirus pandemic and its bearing fruits. I am constantly reminding the public on the guidelines given by the government, " he said Odhiambo, who has been training for the past one month after going under the knife last year following a tear in his Anterior Cruciate Ligament, revealed that his employers have been kind enough to allow him to train in the morning hours before reporting to work. Odhiambo, who has been with Wazito for the last eight years, said he has since developed a culture of balancing between football and journalism. "I started playing professional football while at the campus where I got used to juggling between playing and studies. My employers have always granted me the opportunity to train and attend match days making it possible for me to balance the two," he added Odhiambo further challenged his fellow players to embrace education as a fall back plan once they retire from the game ."Footballers should understand that they will never play for the rest of their lives hence should invest in education. It has paid dividends from my end and I challenge the rest to take some part-time courses to enrich their profiles. It's always difficult at the start but within a short period, they will get used, " he added