Suspected bandits have mounted attacks on residents of Baringo North, killing two people in a week. The spate of attacks has caused over 800 residents from Chepkesin, Yatya, Kagir, Chemoe, Barketiew and Kosile in Bartabwa ward to flee their homes. In the latest incident, bandits on Wednesday attacked Shakanin near Chepkesin in Bartabwa division and killed Kenneth Argut, 30. They then stormed Chepkesin Primary School, stole solar panels and vandalised other facilities. Earlier on Tuesday, suspected Pokot bandits had attacked Yatya around 8pm and stole 65 cows and goats from Thomas Kiburet and his mother. “There was a fierce exchange of fire between our officers and the bandits which lasted until 3am. We overpowered them and they surrendered all the animals,” Baringo North police boss Fred Odinga said. Odinga said no suspect has been arrested. Kiburet said 10 heads of cattle were still missing after the attack. He said the animals were driven towards Barsuswo and Lochomel villages in Ripko-Kositei ward in Tiaty subcounty. “After the Tugens laid retaliatory attack on Pokots in Ng’ingany, we asked them to drive their animals and vacate their volatile homes in Yataya, Kagir and Chemoe to save their lives. But I wonder what they are still doing,” Odinga said. Displaced families including children have fled to Rormoch, Karimo, Rondinin, Chapin, Barbarchuch, Sibilo, Akoroyan and Chepkowel. “The security officers have surrendered to them. We don’t know where to run to,” Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said on Thursday. He asked why the security officers, Pokot chiefs and elders were silent every time the bandits attacked Tugens. “The people left their homes and they are now crowded in the bushes risking the deaths from coronavirus, malaria or hunger,” Chepchomei said The latest attacks reflect how volatile the region has been. On April 4, armed Tugen youths attacked Ng’inyang in Tiaty subcounty. They shot and injured a Pokot herder and drove away 60 goats towards Yatya and Kagir areas on the border of Tiaty and Baringo North subcounties. On April 2, Chepkok Napol, a boda boda rider, was ambushed and shot dead by Pokot bandits at Kamachakwa area along Loruk-Yatya road.  He will be buried Friday. Four unarmed men who rushed to the scene to rescue him were also attacked and robbed of their money and mobile phones. Another group of bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village, shot and injured a Standard 6 boy before stealing several animals. “We wonder if we are in Kenya or another world. The government just watches as the bandits kill without any response” Chepchomei said. He accused the government of failing to protect its people and their property. But Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said the shooting of the Pokot herder was unusual. Wafula said since he assumed office two years ago, he has known the Tugens as a peaceful people. “Pokots have been known for frequent attacks but our security officers have had a way of frustrating them. They have moved from livestock theft to highway robberies,” Wafula said. He urged the Tugens to stop arming themselves against the Pokots as it will only further aggravate the matter. Wafula lauded the Pokots in Tiaty for returning at least 12 illegal firearms during disarmament operation last month. “We haven’t collected any illegal firearm from either the Tugen or the Ilchamus communities,” he said. The commissioner said he was not aware that idle schoolgoing children are mingling with bandits to terrorise their neighbours. “I have worked with the education department and World Vision-Kenya to return to school 4,131 children in Tiaty,” Wafula said. (edited by o. owino)