Kisumu county assembly will this week vet newly appointed Health CEC Boaz Otieno Nyunya. The nominee, according to an advert in the local dailies, will appear before the assembly appointment committee on April 30. “We wish to notify the general public that the governor of Kisumu county has submitted to the county assembly the person nominated as the CEC health. Otieno is therefore invited to appear before the committee on the set date,” said clerk Owen Ojuok. Nyong’o nominated veteran doctor Nyunya as the county executive for health and sanitation early this month. "Pursuant to powers conferred by Article 179 (2) (b) of the 2010 Constitution and Section 30 (2) (d) of the County Government Act 2012, I have today nominated Nyunya to serve as the county executive committee member in charge of the department of health and sanitation," Nyong'o said in a statement last Wednesday. Nyunya is a consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist, a public health practitioner, researcher, leader in reproductive health, educationist and programme specialist. He was an associate professor at Moi University College of Health Sciences and is currently the associate director for programmes at the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Kisumu. Nyong'o was acting as the county's acting health executive. He took over the role after Judith Miguda was reappointed to the Business Cooperatives and Marketing docket. The first health CEC, Rosemary Obara, was sacked by Nyong’o last year. Nyong'o said he would manage the docket until a substantive executive is appointed. The governor’s move followed numerous challenges in the docket. Local leaders and residents have been agitating for the governor's impeachment or his resignation because of the numerous challenges in the sector. In February, some health facilities closed after medics boycotted work over a pay dispute. A recent report by an ad hoc assembly committee painted a grim picture of the county’s health status. The issues include inadequate human resource, debt, accountability and lack of water, among others. Edited by Frank Obonyo