Kenya is among 76 poor countries likely to receive debt relief planned by 20 wealthiest countries in the world following innervation by the World Bank and International Monitory Fud (IMF). The initiative, due to be finalised when finance ministers meet later this week would see a freeze on sovereign debt repayments for six or nine months, or possibly through to 2021. ‘’The G20 group is planning to offer lower-income countries a moratorium on bilateral government loan repayments as part of an “action plan” to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and stave off an emerging markets debt crisis, an official told an international paper after the Saturday meeting. The official added that the wealthy nations and multilateral institutions would use the period of the moratorium to draw up clear criteria, country-by-country of what exactly is going to happen. Focus Economics lists Kenya at position 17 among poorest countries in the world with a Gross Domestic Product Per Capita of $1960.5. It is expected to fall further to position 15 in 2023 despite improving to $2357.12. The country is also among 76 world’s poorest nations that are eligible to receive the World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA)funding. Early this month, the global lender approved $50 million (Sh6 billion) in immediate funding to support Kenya’s response to the global COVID-19 pandemic under a new operation - the Kenya COVID -19 Emergency Response Project. Established in 1960, IDA helps the world’s poorest countries by providing grants and low to zero-interest loans for projects and programs that boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve poor people’s lives. It is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world’s 76 poorest countries, 39 of which are in Africa. The moratorium is good news to Kenya that is currently struggling to repay huge public debt currently at Sh6.15 trillion, half of it owed to international lenders, amid low revenue collection. It is waited to be seen if China, the most owed country especially by developing countries in Sub Saharan Africa will heed the call, considering that it was non-committal at the G20 Meeting. According to the Institute of International Finance (IIF), countries receiving bilateral development assistance are estimated to be due to make repayments of about $40 billion (Sh4 trillion) to external creditors this year, with low-income countries paying a further $130 billion (Sh13 trillion) in domestic loans. Concerns have been mounting about the debt sustainability of many lower-income countries that borrowed heavily in the years after the 2008 global financial crisis and now lack the resources to deal with the economic problems caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. During the G20 Spring Meeting over the weekend, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva appealed to rich countries to provide urgent debt service relief to the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries, thereby freeing up scarce resources for medial spending and health-related and other immediate needs during the pandemic. At the IMF, the Catastrophe Containment and Relief Trust (CCRT) provides the Fund’s poorest and most vulnerable members with grants for relief on IMF debt service. ‘’The Fund recently took action to enhance the CCRT to provide debt service relief to our poorest and most vulnerable members while they combat the current COVID-19 pandemic,’’ Georgieva said. She added that at a time the world economy is at a standstill, official bilateral creditors could make a major contribution by offering a debt standstill to IDA-eligible countries. “And I support the G20 to urgently work on further easing the debt burden of our poorest members,’ she added.