 Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane has caution traders against hiking prices of foodstuff, saying there is no reason to do so. Dagane on Monday said transportation of food supplies has not been restricted and as such, traders should not extort buyers. Prices of basic commodities have slightly increased following the announcement of measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 6 announced restrictions of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale to contain the spread of Covid-19. The President, however, said food supplies and movement of other essential goods would continue as usual. Dagane said it would be morally wrong for the traders to take advantage of the restrictions to unnecessarily hike food prices given that many Kenyans are going through hard times due to the new restrictions. A spot check in the town showed that prices of groceries have increased. The price of a kilo of tomatoes that was previously selling at Sh80 has doubled while a kilo of onions that selling at Sh100 is now going of Sh180. Prices of cereals such as beans and vegetables have also gone up by similar margins. "We are undergoing a difficult moment as a country and that calls for goodwill, support and donations from all of us. Let us refrain from actions that will make the situation even worse for our people," Dagane said. He was speaking at the Garissa Main prison where he delivered hand-washing detergents and buckets donated by the Kenya Progressive Nurses Association. The deputy governor appealed to more well-wishers to join hands and make food donations to wananchi.   He said the prison is among the facilities that require support due to its big number of inmates. Dagane thanked the public for cooperating with the County Covid-19 Response team by reporting suspected cases. Health executive Ahmednadir Omar said the team has upscaled their surveillance to ensure any suspected cases are immediately dealt with. He said none of the suspected cases have so far tested positive. Omar asked residents to ignore messages circulating on social media, saying they were meant to create fear. He said people should rely only on the updates given by the state through the Ministry of Health. "We are having a lot of problems because people have got a lot of time to spread rumours and false information. Some for them even publish names of people that claim to be coronavirus positive just because their samples have been taken for testing. This needs to stop otherwise they will be arrested," he said. Kenya Prisons regional commander for Northeastern Gacheru Kamore thanked the county government and the Kenya Progressive Nurses Association for the donations saying it will improving hygiene in the prison.  Edited by Peter Obuya