A Nairobi Jubilee politician who had started taking on Deputy President William Ruto during the BBI rallies before Covid-19 struck Kenya is rethinking his political direction ahead of 2022. The spread of the coronavirus halted the BBI activities that were billed to be the game-changer ahead of the general election. The legislator who had started warming up to ODM is said to have made several attempts in the last one week to meet the Deputy President. A source whispers to Corridors that his team of think tanks told him that it was now “safe for him to play neutral” on both the DP and ODM leader Raila Odinga as their support is crucial in 2022 as he seeks a higher position. Just who cursed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Kiambu county? Two senators were on Tuesday overheard along the corridors of Parliament saying that barely months after changing of the guard at the county leadership, trouble is brewing again. From their discussion, it emerged that a powerful individual has been exerting undue pressure on the ongoing World Bank Kenya Urban Support Programme tender process. This has even led to the cancellation of some earlier advertised tenders to sneak in a preferred list of tenderpreneurs. Through proxies, the official has been working round the clock to get the preferred companies all the required statutory tender documents to apply for KUSP. Those who have been pushing for an open process and fairness in the tendering process have been left with mouths agape, wondering who will save the county from itself. An MP from Ukambani has caught the attention of many with his generosity towards requests pushed his way by voters in WhatsApp groups where he is a member. The first-term lawmaker has been kind enough to share airtime, M-Pesa and data bundles with his constituents whenever he is requested. Savvy residents are now joining the politician’s groups via weblink, with the hope of getting handouts ostensibly to save them in the face of the coronavirus. A mole intimates to Corridors that the lawmaker is contemplating leaving the groups, but fears a backlash from his voters.