A woman who fell into Mathare River while escaping police whips during curfew hours is still missing. The woman and her husband were returning to their house in Mathare when she fell off a bridge a few metres from their house. In Joseph Oduor's mind, the picture of his wife, dressed in a Maasai wrap skirt and a white vest falling off the wooden bridge is stamped. Oduor says he goes to bed and wakes up with the same image and now only wishes that his wife’s body can be recovered for a proper sendoff. Oduor and his wife Christine Aoko were returning from visiting a relative in Bondeni on Thursday when they ran into the officers. “It was around 7.30pm when we arrived in Mathare. In Mathare North area, there was a commotion and people were running in every direction,” he recalled. Certain that they were evading police officers on patrol, Oduor and his wife hit the road, running towards a bridge across Mathare river that leads to their home. Oduor who was running behind his wife saw her slide and fall into the river while screaming for help. “I ran behind her but it was too late. I could not jump off at the same point so I watched her body drop into the river helplessly,” he said. He crossed the bridge while screaming as he tried to follow the flow of the river in hope of rescuing his 30-year-old wife. “It was no longer a case of discretion being curfew hours. I forgot all that as we tried to get help and save my wife,” he said. As the sky grew darker and only a few people out, Oduor was convinced that his wife might have been washed further away and opted to report the matter to the police. “The river is full and the water moves really fast nowadays due to the heavy rainfall. So, I knew that she had probably been washed further away,” he explained. At the police station, however, Oduor was asked to wait till daylight before a search for Aoko could begin. “I went back to the station on Friday morning but the officers only promised to help. They have never shown up to date,” he said. Local volunteers have been exploring the depths of the waters hoping to find the mother of two or any item she had that could indicate how far she has been swept without success. “They have swum all the way to Kiamaiko trying to find her body but nothing has been discovered,” Oduor said. “I have gone to Ruai where there is a trap that harvests everything from the river but the authorities said they had not seen Aoko’s body.” Oduor is pleading with the authorities to help him find the body of his wife. (edited by o. owino)