The Big 4 Agenda is the most significant policy intervention by President Kenyatta and has the capacity to, significantly, uplift livelihoods and transform Kenya's economic outlook for many years to come. However, this is dependent on its full realization, which is now threatened by the Covid-19 pandemic that has caused global uncertainty and has had a very disruptive effect on economies across the world. Economies cannot thrive in conditions of instability and Covid-19 shall depress the Kenyan economy thus necessitating a reorganization of our national development priorities from Kenyatta's legacy projects to economic recovery after the end of the coronavirus crisis. This also comes at a time when Kenya's national priorities had already increased from the Big Four to include the BBI where we saw the massive allocation of resources and a redirecting of national attention from economic development to large scale political mobilization. This weakened the all hands on deck strategy that had been deployed to aid in the realization of the Big Four as other priorities emerged and shifted national attention. It is imperative that once this pandemic is cleared, the country should embark on massive development expenditure devoid of politics. We are almost two years to the next general election, the post-Covid-19 projects should be people-oriented and those that can be felt within the shortest time possible. These could be in agriculture and a stimulus package that can resuscitate SMEs that must have been slowed down by the effects of the virus. SMEs in this country are the key areas in our economy that employ youth who are a majority in this country. It will not augur well, once we bounce back to normal, to see massive resources being spent on none core projects. The country will also embark on boundary review then within a short time, start budgeting for 2022 general election.  These are the pitfalls we need to avoid. Notwithstanding the challenges facing the realization of the Big Four in the remaining two years, it is worth noting that significant progress has already been realized in the Big Four roll-out especially in the housing and manufacturing pillars. Charles Kipkulei is a Governance and Policy Expert