A man charged with murdering his brother’s employee got a reprieve after the Makueni High Court reduced his charge from murder to manslaughter. Mathias Munguti was charged in 2018 with murder.  Court documents say that on the night of March 30, 2018, at Kyumu village Makueni county, he murdered Dominic Matheka. A friend of the two, Michael Nzalu, had hosted a feast at his home in Kyumu village on that evening. Munguti helped Nzalu slaughter a goat after which he sent for alcohol and they started drinking. Around 10.30pm they decided to go to a bar for their final drinks. The host went to his house to pick a jacket and on his return, he found Munguti boxing and kicking Matheka outside his gate. He pleaded with the accused to stop since the man was drunk, lying down and quiet. Munguti inclined and stopped. They immediately took him home, headed to the bar briefly and parted later. The next day, they learnt of Matheka’s death from the accused. When placed on his defence, the accused testified that Matheka had died after taking bottles of undiluted alcohol. “Nzalu’s wife had sent him and another man for four Guinness, one whiskey and three Kenya Cane bottles from the shop. They returned at 8pm and Matheka drank bottles of Kenya cane undiluted,” he said. He added that they ate supper after which Matheka was again sent for more alcohol. “He then took one bottle of the spirit, his tobacco and left for his house. Half an hour later, a friend who came on a boda boda informed us that Matheka was lying at the gate,” he said. This differed with a witness’ testimony which revealed that during the party at Nzalu’s house, Munguti and Matheka had argued before Munguti boxed the man until he collapsed. An autopsy revealed that the cause of death was severe abdominal injury and blood clot in the heart due to blunt trauma. “This unfortunate incident occurred when the accused and others plus the deceased not charged were in a drunken state. They even carried Matheka to his house. They may not have been aware of the injury they had caused him,” Justice Hellen On'gundi ruled on April 3. He thus reduced the charge to manslaughter and convicted the accused on the reduced charge. Edited by R.Wamochie