Residents of Mwingi North subcounty have received sanitiser, face masks, soap and water drums from area MP Paul Nzengu to combat the spread of Covid-19. The main beneficiaries were boda boda riders who received sanitiser and hand washing water drums which were strategically placed in their sheds. Market businesswomen also received the donations as they interact with many people in their day to day activities. Other residents were issued with face masks during the exercise. Nzengu told residents the disease was real and they must adhere to the health measures to fight it. “The challenge we are facing is that there are no masks and I urge the government to use the money donated to provide free masks to Kenyans,” Nzengu said. The MP said the masks available were very expensive especially for boda boda riders. He said the government should donate food to the worst-hit members of the community. Nzengu added that Kenya could not afford a lockdown as that would completely collapse the economy. Boda chairman in Kamuwongo John Mumo Maketa lauded the donation, saying they were adhering to the government’s directive of carrying a single passenger, keeping distance, washing hands and wearing a face mask. Mumo said the masks go for Sh100, which is expensive as they have to buy for their customers too. Mary Mawia from Kathumbini village in Kyuso was grateful for the equipment, saying in the villages the masks were expensive. “Police have been on our case if they find us without masks yet the masks are too expensive for us," Mawia said. David Mutemi Kilonzo, a boda boda rider, urged fellow riders to continue observing the measures issued by the government to combat the viral disease. Zacharia Muriuki, a Kamuwongo resident, said the gesture was kind as people had no money to buy due to economic hardship. “I urge other politicians and well-wishers to emulate this gesture to help the vulnerable fight coronavirus during these tough economic times,” Muriuki said. Edited by Henry Makori