The US Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter has challenged more Kenyans to wear face masks as well as practising the social distancing rule. McCarter, through a tweet, said the majority of Kenyans are not wearing masks to prevent themselves from the novel coronavirus. The ambassador asked Kenyans to take precautions given by the government through the Ministry of Health in order to prevent the situation from getting out of hand. "None of us knows the magnitude of this Wuhan flu but we must take basic known wise precautions," McCarter said. He added that the current measures imposed to prevent further spread should be embraced as it will only last for a short time before people resume their normal way of life. "We will come back to the prosperity and culture of Kenya closeness soon," he added. The government's clarion call to Kenyans has been to stay home, wear masks as they visit public places and maintain social distance to curb further spread of the Covid-19 which now stands at 270 in the country. The death toll due to the virus in Kenya is 14 while the number of recoveries stands at 67. On Sunday during the daily brief on the situation of the virus in the country, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said wearing face masks prevents infection if the virus by up to 50 per cent. "We are witnessing another unbecoming phenomenon, where people are assuming that face masks alone can beat this virus," She said. The CAS urged Kenyans to continue sanitising, maintain personal hygiene as well as following precautions issued by the government. Mwangangi also warned unscrupulous traders collecting used face masks from bins, recycling them and selling to unsuspecting Kenyans. "We will crack the whip on anyone found endangering the lives of fellow Kenyans for selfish gains. I urge Kenyans to undertake basic due diligence on the face masks they are buying so that they do not fall victim," the CAS said. The government has eased access and the distribution of the face masks across the country. Kenyans can buy masks at a lower price from as low as Sh20.