Two Travellers, worn out by the heat of the summer’s sun, laid themselves down at noon under the wide-spreading branches of a Plane-Tree. As they rested under its shade, one of the Travellers said to the other, “What a singularly useless tree is the Plane! It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man.” The Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, “You ungrateful fellows! Do you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade, dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?’ In a time of crisis such as the pandemic we are going through, we all seek to survive. We are mostly concerned about how to go through the crisis in order to come out of it strong and sane. As we do this, there are those who are going beyond the call of duty to ensure that everything is in order and we are all safe. They are the ones who are ensuring that we have the necessary supplies for us to survive. These are the heroes who most of us forget exist in our race for survival. They are in our midst but we cannot recognise them enough and those are the people we need to recognise today. Without a doubt, the country’s medics have been the heroes who have stood out throughout this crisis. They have led from the front and ensured that we have the necessary personnel in our medical centres and hospitals. Our medics are at the highest risk but they continue to serve and make this sacrifice to ensure that we overcome this crisis. Even with the limited resources available, they are working their hearts out and ensuring that all patients are attended to. There are those forgotten heroes, those that have been delivering food and supplies ensuring that our markets and supermarkets are always stocked. It is not easy not only going through roadblocks but also ensuring that you do not put yourself at risk of contracting the virus. In addition, one has to ensure that the deliveries made are fresh and clean. And even more important are the millions of farmers who are every day working to ensure that those supplies are available. They have to ensure that the farms are attended to at all cost and the harvesting is done in time. We must appreciate the security agencies. Despite the fact that there was the initial violence when the curfew began, this has completely turned around and they have ensured that peace and security have prevailed. Our security forces have ensured that people do not take advantage of the curfew to commit crimes against others. It is also highly commendable that they ensured that they overcame the hiccups that were experienced in the beginning. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho has provided leadership at the Coast, coming up with measures and programmes that have stood out. He ensured that there are sanitiser spray booths in key areas, provided masks at the port and also recently set up a fully equipped isolation centre. Mombasa residents have also been receiving food rations courtesy of the county government. Joho has shown what leadership means in times of crises. We can also not forget all the teachers who are ensuring that students receive material to continue learning. As well as the parents who are doubling as teachers at home to ensure children stay educated. There are other people who are ensuring that things continue to run as normal. These include engineers who have ensured that there is Internet, the media can broadcast, water is running and electricity supply continues. All Kenyans who have religiously followed all the directives put in place are also heroes as they are working hard to ensure we beat the virus. Kenyans who are helping those who do not have and feeding our medics are also heroes. The crisis is not over and we must all become heroes in our space and also help those who are on the frontline.