Title-winning coach Sammy Omollo believes that the 2019-2020 Kenyan Premier League season should be cancelled should it not resume by June. The league managers last week suspended the season indefinitely and Omollo conceded the havoc wrecked by the coronavirus pandemic has left everyone in a catch-22 situation. “It’s a tough balancing act for the decision-makers where if the league is finished right now, other teams (Kakamega Homeboyz and Tusker) will feel they would have had the opportunity to catch up with Gor Mahia and maybe win the league while on the other hand, should it be cancelled, Gor will feel hard by,” Omollo said. The Posta Rangers coach added: “The same situation applies to the relegation fight where if it were to end, some teams will say they could have survived.” Omollo joins a raft of club officials who have come out with their own opinions on how the league should be decided. He further pointed out that it’s a tough situation for KPL and Football Kenya Federation who also have to decide which teams from the National Super League should be promoted to the KPL. “It will be unfair for clubs like Nairobi City Stars and Bidco who are favourite for promotion should the season be declared null and void. A decision has to be made but it will not please everyone. My honest opinion is that if the league doesn’t resume by June then it should be called off,” he reiterated. Omollo said financial considerations will definitely have a role to play in whether the season resumes or a fresh one starts. “Teams have budgetary constraints and will struggle if the situation drags on longer. For example, our sponsor (Postal Corporation Kenya) has taken a gut in their revenues due to the current lockdown and they will have to weigh that when making their budget,” he noted. Omollo said since the government directive that limited public gatherings and encouraged social distancing as a way to curb the spread of coronavirus his concern has been the health of his players and not how fit they keep themselves. “What matters to me is if my players come out of this situation healthy. If the season resumes tomorrow, my players will play as long as their health and safety is guaranteed,” he remarked. 