Enterprise Cup champions Kabras RFC have come up with innovative ways to keep the players busy due to the coronavirus pandemic. Head coach Henley Du Plessis said the players have been sent individual coaching programmes to keep themselves fit ahead of the remaining season. "Like everyone, we have been affected but the players are training on their own and we are monitoring them to ensure they stay in peak fitness despite the pandemic,” he added. The South African tactician said the boys need to maintain peak fitness so that by the time the league resumes, they are in good condition. Du Plessis urged all rugby fans to stay safe during this period. "We all love the game and the excitement but in this period, I am asking all the fans to stay safe and observe the directive by the government. The Kakamega-based outfit will await the winner of the Mwamba vs Impala in the Kenya Cup playoffs semis and were due to play Homeboyz in the Enterprise Cup semis. The Kenya Rugby Union are yet to give the way forward on the remainder of the season with the government suspending all sports activities until the coronavirus pandemic is dealt with. KRU chairman Oduor Gangla said they are monitoring the situation very closely. "I know fixtures committee has been consulting with the clubs as we keep assessing the situation and what's possible," said Gangla. He added: "Now you can't do anything. No decision has been made yet on the leagues but we have several options to consider. "We wait to see if the government will give new directions on social events and games but with new cases being reported every day, I think it will be hard. We have been under quarantine for some time now," he added. With Rugby Africa putting their 2020 activities on hold, resumption of league action and aligning of competitions for next season will be crucial. "Next year's competitions are crucial and will be decided once the pandemic is dealt with. Remember Rugby Africa Cup is a qualification for the 2023 World Cup and we want to give ourselves the best chance to qualify," said Gangla.