Kenya had 110 confirmed cases of the coronavirus as of yesterday, with three fatalities and six hotspot counties. Trying to curb the number of people infected with the Covid-19 disease, the government has issued stern directives restricting the movement of Kenyans. The government has also urged Kenyans not to travel upcountry because older persons are more vulnerable to the coronavirus. However, for Ruiru businessman Samuel, 30, staying in urban areas only means struggling to pay rent and put food on the table. Sam, as he is often referred to, sells smokies, boiled eggs and sausages around the town. With the sun's unapologetic heat filling the air, his legs are placed on his travel bag and he intently stares out the open window, waiting for the 14-seater matatu to get full. "I'm going back to my parents' home, where I can help on the farm and not have to worry about rent or food," he said. "Hustlers have been left without business. The number of people buying smokies is very low because most people are not walking out and about anymore." To maintain hygiene, he would have to purchase soap, water or sanitiser to clean his client's hands each time someone bought a food item. "It's too expensive and the business does not make money to support both myself and cleaning other people's hands," he said. However, even as he relocates upcountry, his wife and children who live in his parents' compound still need to be taken care of. "I have been sending some money to them for upkeep, but now that there is no business, I'll have to go stay with them and hope for the best," he said. NO TIME FOR KIDS The 30-year-old adds the government should help with food support and direct landlords not to ask for rent for the remaining months. "Despite my leaving, my items are still in my house here and if they want rent, I don't know how I will pay for it. I have no money because business is down," he said. A few cars behind Sam, two little girls are trying to capture the attention of their mother as they bicker over who gets to eat the last sweet. Their mother, who is next to them, seems annoyed as she ignores them and continues to scroll down on her phone. She also seems impatient with the duration of time the matatus are taking to fill. There are currently about five more seats that need to be occupied. "They are taking more time than usual because there are no people right now," she said. This seems odd because the bus stop is filled with people moving up and down as they fight for space, with the vehicles moving in and out of the bus stop. The mother of two, who identifies herself as Sarah, is moving her children to her mother's home until the disease is gone. "They are better off with her because I do not have any time to stay home all day with them," she said. "I've made arrangements with my younger brother to help my mother take care of them." Sara, who stays with her husband in Ruiru, says they cannot afford to have them home. "He works at a construction site and I sell groceries at the market. We cannot stay home and take care of them and we cannot afford to hire help to look after them," she said. The two girls, who resolved to cut the sweet in two pieces, seem excited to travel. Sarah has talked to them about washing their hands often and keeping away from people who are sick. "There have not been any cases reported upcountry, so I know they are safer there. The only problem may be constant water access since my mother still goes to the river," she said. She adds they might join them if things get worse. DAILY COMMUTE Njenga gets out of the car, holding a big package wrapped in gazettes, and pays the conductor in cash before finding shade and making a phone call. The 56-year-old has just arrived from his home in Githunguri to Ruiru town, where he does business. He is carrying some meat he bought at a pit stop the matatu made to pick up more people. "I have no option but to travel back and forth daily because of work," he said. Njenga, who operates a shop within the market, adds he cannot afford to close the business and stay home. "We do not have the luxury to just close up and go home because then where does the food come from?" he said. Njenga makes the daily commute, paying Sh240 daily to travel between the two places. However, the matatu in which he arrived appeared overloaded and the conductor took cash and went to look for loose money from a group of other conductors. "We are observing hygiene but you cannot control everyone. People will still shake hands, exchange money and not observe social distancing," he said. "I think if the government gave options for food and rent, we would maybe stay at home until it was over." On March 30, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe asked people living in Nairobi to stop travelling upcountry. "We would like to urge those in Nairobi to stay in Nairobi... those living in upcountry to avoid travelling to Nairobi," he said. Addressing the media, Kagwe said people living upcountry are the elderly and might contract the disease. "Statistics show most elderly people in Kenya live in rural areas. This kind of movement messed up Italy. The elderly are more vulnerable," he said. By the time the CS was making the announcement, Kenya had 50 confirmed cases of Covid-19. Kagwe said the current trend of spread of the Covid-19 has been established to be through community transmission and not imported. COUNTIES UNDEREQUIPPED The Council of Governors has said the total number of ICU beds available in all counties is 162, while 22 counties do not have ICU facilities. Council chair Wycliffe Oparanya on Wednesday said the government has agreed to support counties in recruiting 6,656 health workers in different cadres for emergency response. By March 20, Kemsa had distributed 694 surgical masks to counties, 32,000 face masks, 910 pieces of medical disposal overalls, 735 face shields, 610 goggles and 769 boxes of examination gloves. Also, counties received 140 pairs of gumboots and 2,000 pieces of N95 masks. Oparanya said only 167 sets of complete personal protective equipment were fully distributed to counties. The county governments have also raised concern over a testing centre for the virus, which is currently being done by Kemri and the National Influenza laboratory. “This in itself is a great risk for the country should the disease spread rapidly in many counties at the same time as it is projected in the coming weeks,” Oparanya said. Edited by T Jalio