As the coronavirus pandemic makes it impossible for athletes to attend normal training, most of them have turned to innovative ways of keeping fit with the hope that normal activities will resume soon. In coping with such demands, World Under 18 400m silver medalist Mary Moraa has constructed a 'homemade gym' to ensure that she remains fit and prevent herself from being caught off-guard when the pandemic ends. Reigning Africa under 20 400m champion is using a 30kg weight lift after filling two cans with cement. “I use home-made weights in the evening to keep fit because there is no gym around to train. In the morning, I train at Karura Forest after the National Youth Service (NYS) training ground was condoned. In Karura, the rule remains that there is no group training," said Moraa. “I paid someone Sh2,700 to make weights for me and I love them. This is the best way to keep myself fit during this COVID-19 break. I had good plans for this year including making a debut in the Diamond League but that is now a dream,” said Moraa. She said the postponement of sporting activities is 'double tragedy' for her. First, she wanted to compete at the World U20 Championships at the venue, where she won a silver medal three years ago in the U18 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani and secondly, she was set to debut in the Diamond League in Doha but this is now a lost course. “Missing Diamond League and the World Under 20 is a big blow not only to me but to other athletes as well. As runners, this is the only way we make a living," she said. With all these, the disappointed Moraa is optimistic that God has his own plans and all that remains is for her to ensure she is ready for competitions when things return to normal. Moraa, who recently started her training for 800m, said: “I was to compete in both the 400m and 800m at the WU20 but t's sad that my dream is over." The World Under 20 championships was to be held between July 7 and 12 in Nairobi but has been postponed 'until further notice'. Moraa will not be eligible if the event is not held this year and therefore will not have a chance to redeem herself after a fourth-place at the previous championships in Tampere, Finland.