Three ward reps are among 41 people forcefully put into a quarantine facility in Kisii for flouting curfew rules. The three were picked up by police on patrol from a bar in Kitutu Chache South Sub-County, where they were partying. Also arrested were some county employees during the Friday night curfew swoop and were taken to the Kenya Medical Training College, Kisii Campus, for two weeks. At least 17 people were arrested in Kisii town from various drinking joints on Friday alone. Two former MCAs and the proprietor of Embassy Resort, where the MCAs were arrested, were also picked up, said Kisii County Police boss Jebel Munene. Munene said the arrests were a product of scaled up efforts by security agencies in the region to stem the spread of Covid-19 in the country. "We want to ensure to ensure nobody breaks the curfew guidelines with impunity. Every person can, in his own right, can make his contribution towards this fight by staying at home," said Munene. The suspects had locked themselves in a resort at Embassy area in Nyamataro, where they were enjoying drinks without observing social distancing and other stringent guidelines by the government to curb the spread of Covid-19, said Munene. They will spend 14 days at the Kenya Medical Training College, the quarantine facility in the county, where they will undergo tests before charges will be preferred on them, Munene told the Star. In Nyamira, at least 42 people are being held at three schools. Nineteen people are being held in forced quarantine at Menyenya High School and others at Sironga and Kebabe Girls High Schools. They were found drinking in various towns including the county headquarters. The 19 being quarantined at Menyenya include women and children. Some of those held travelled from Nairobi while other were found drinking at Nyansiongo and Keroka towns. They will pay Sh14, 000 each for the days they will be there but yesterday they complained that the conditions at the schools are deplorable. They asked the county government to give them soaps, sanitizers, masks and mosquito nets. “The county government of Nyamira has received masks and sanitizers from various donors. They should be brought here,” said one man who asked not to be named. Last week, Kenya Pipeline Company donated 3,600 litres of sanitisers, which were received by county commissioner Amos Mariba, while Kisii National Polytechnic also donated masks to the county. Mariba said those found flouting the coronavirus containment regulations will be arrested, charged and held in forced quarantine at their cost.