Suspected coronavirus cases within the North Rift region will be tested at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital beginning this week. Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said the training of all personnel required to handle the coronavirus outbreak is ongoing. Dr Aruasa said social distancing remains the most effective strategy in stopping the spread of the disease. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said the hospital will be ready once experts finish setting up equipment and reagents. “We will work closely with the hospital and other government agencies as we team up to battle this coronavirus pandemic,” Mandago said. The North Rift Economic Bloc's eight governors met at the hospital and issued new directives to residents. They ordered persons above 60 years not to move out of their homes from Monday to avoid exposure to the coronavirus. “We're taking these measures to ensure that we protect elders who have a higher risk of being infected and killed by the Covid-19,” Mandago said. The county chiefs also resolve to ban boda boda operations if they do not use masks and sanitiser beginning this week. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba said the counties will also help the police to enforce directives made by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Covid-19 control. The governors said they would be taking stern action against those defying government orders on public transport and the ongoing curfew. “Our main interest is to protect our people for the future of this country,” Khaemba said. Governor Mandago defended the police officers's use of force to implement the nationwide curfew. He faulted the government for interdicting police officers alleged to have brutalised Kenyans at the start of the curfew on March 27. He said stubborn Kenyans who defy curfew orders must be dealt with firmly to save lives. The county chiefs said all Covid-19 isolation facilities in North Rift will be supplied with drugs essential for containing the virus. All the isolation facilities will be fully operational by April 9.  (edited by o. owino)