Lawyers and officials of the Independent Oversight Policing Authority have been exempted from the curfew order to contain coronavirus. Judge Weldon Korir ordered that they be included in the list of essential services following a petition by the Law Society of Kenya. Ipoa was an interested party. The orders followed the need to check against the excesses of the police when enforcing the curfew orders. The Judge agreed with the lawyers, Ipoa, Fida and Kituo cha Sheria that the state tends to overreach in a time of crisis. Korir said it was “necessary for defenders and upholders of the rule of law to be extra vigilant whenever the state exercises emergency powers.” It is on these grounds that he ordered that Ipoa be made part of essential service providers ‘for the policing of the security personnel.’ “In that regard, an order shall also issue exempting the police of the police service from the operations of the Curfew Order,” the judge said. He also asked the National Police Service to take a cue from the state and allow the media to do its work. LSK had reasoned with the court that the failure to exempt legal services from the curfew order violates the rights of arrested persons to access a lawyer. They further argued that the situation went against the right to fair hearing and fair trial as spelled in Article 50 of the Constitution. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho had brushed off the request saying that courts operate during the day. But Judge Korir is his ruling held that the work of advocates is not limited to the courts. “They also attend to persons arrested by the police. There is, therefore, merit in the contention by LSK that its members should have been exempted from the operations of the curfew order,” the judge said. “The petitioner’s concern becomes more important when the manner in which the curfew has been enforced is taken into account.” Exemption from curfew has been a heated conversation amid complaints by MPs on why Parliament is not on the list. Both the National Assembly and Senate have crucial activities in line with the Covid-19 emergency response, some which run late into the day. However, Parliamentary workers are not exempt from the curfew much as the lawmakers themselves cannot be stopped from attending to their duties. LSK sued Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, and Chief Justice David Maraga. IPOA, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Fida, and Kituo cha Sheria were interested parties. The lawyers also prayed for an extension of time of the start of the curfew from 7pm to 10pm. They, however, got orders prohibiting the police from using excessive force while enforcing the curfew order. (edited by o. owino)