The Kenyan government on Monday launched a special isolation and treatment facility for health workers who are at the forefront in coronavirus fight. Addressing the press on Monday on the update of the virus, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the 100-bed capacity centre will be able to offer both critical and basic care services for healthcare workers. "All costs incurred during treatment shall be met by the Government," Kagwe said. The centre is a product of collaboration between the Health Ministry, the Rockefeller Foundation and AMREF. Rockefeller Foundation MD of the Africa regional office William Asiko said they fully supported the government's strategic fight against Covid-19. "In just under two weeks we have been able to come and support your strategic fight against Covid-19. We will not tire, we promise to stand by you the government," Asiko said. The President of the Kenya Medical Association Jacqueline Kitulu thanked the healthcare workers for being at the frontline in the fight against the pandemic. "We are using innovative measures to ensure health care workers also know how to protect themselves," she said. "We have set up weekly debriefings to ensure health care workers get psychological support. We urge all medics to ensure they get tested for the benefit of our families and patients." Kagwe said the country's success on Covid-19 treatment is highly dependent on the ability to protect our frontline healthcare workers and heroes in this fight. 4 "We have distributed 4,759 complete Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits and 237,047 assorted components (Goggles, surgical masks, N95 masks, gloves, gowns, rubber boots and shoe covers), he said. The CS said all quarantine sites and port health facilities have also received assorted protective gear. "We have also trained30,000 healthcare workers and training is still ongoing. The target is to re-sensitize 100,000 more in the next few weeks," he added. The CS also appealed to the National and County health facilities to settle any debts owed to oxygen suppliers. "Those holding oxygen cylinders should also make plans to return them to suppliers, so that we can have them filled up," Kagwe said.