The National Transport and Safety Authority has withdrawn its services from Container Freight Stations citing risky operations exposing its staff in the wake of Covid-19. In a letter to Interior PS Karanja Kibichio, NTSA director general George Njau expressed fears of a possible risk of exposure to employees who have been issuing physical motor vehicle number plates and stickers after registration. “This follows the reported death of employees from the Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya Ports Authority as a result of the virus. Consequently, a number of employees from the two state corporations have been put under quarantine as a result of having interacted with the deceased,” Njau said. “This has not only affected our services at the CFSs but also exposed an inherent risk to our employees at the CFSs where services require physical examination of documents as well as physical issuance of number plates.” The transport authority has since last month been offering most motor vehicle registration services electronically. This is after it suspended collection of logbooks, PSV badges, number plates, smart driver’s licence, driver testing and motor vehicle inspection, which were to be done physically. In the letter dated April 8, NTSA further proposed that KRA should authorise the release of duly registered motor vehicles from CFSs pending issuance of physical plates. This will not only help to reduce demurrage costs to vehicle owners but also employees’ physical interaction with motor vehicle dealers and importers, hence protecting the employees from exposure. “The vehicles will, however, be parked at owners and dealers yards until issuance of physical plates at a later date,” the letter read. Car Importers Association of Kenya chairman Peter Otieno welcomed the directive saying it will be a relief to vehicle owners. The official said almost 10,000 vehicle units have their registration details submitted monthly. “This, however, depends on the volumes by different CFSs. Auto Port, Unifreight, Consulbase, Mitchell Colts, Awanad among others, are the leading CFSs and could hold up to hundreds, and at times, 1,000 units cumulatively per day,” Otieno said. The letter was copied to Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, KRA commissioner general James Mburu, and KPA Acting MD Rashid Salim. Edited by R.Wamochie