A youthful MP nearly caused trouble at a city spa in Kilimani last week. The man is said to have gone for a massage in the high-end parlour that offers “happy endings” but refused to pay after the services, complaining they were unsatisfactory. The tipsy lawmaker threw Sh5,000 at the masseuse instead of Sh8,000 and began to walk away. At this point, one woman remarked that they “would see if the MP survives coronavirus”. The MP and his bodyguard interpreted this to mean that the girls could have knowingly infected the MP. It’s said the man caused trouble that drew everyone's attention. The owner of the parlour, a renowned businesswoman, had to be called to sweet-talk the angry mweshimiwa. Some elected senators who were locked out of Tuesday’s sitting are not happy with the criteria used to pick members who attended the session. They were heard asking why they were barred and their nominated counterparts, who do not represent any constituency, given access to the debating chamber. The lawmakers said they wanted to raise pertinent issues. They are planning to petition Speaker Kenneth Lusaka to consider reviewing the list of designated members before the next sitting on Tuesday. Two textile companies seem to have defied government’s directive to reduce the number of their workforce for purposes of social distancing. The entities in Nairobi are still operating normally with more than 1,000 workers at their premises nearly every day. Insiders intimated to Corridors that the bosses careless and are bragging of their connections with the powers that be. The companies also operate past 5 pm, despite Interior CS Fred Matiang’i ordering companies to release employees by 4 pm to beat the curfew. Residents of areas neighbouring the factories say they are at high risk of infection with coronavirus as they mix with the workers who have rented houses in the area. A senior police officer in Western is on the spot over allegations that he effected the transfer of a junior colleague even after the headquarters made it clear no officer would be moved during the coronavirus pandemic. Police headquarters reportedly sent a signal on March 24 suspending all transfers because of the virus. However, a junior officer confided to Corridors that an officer in the region was transferred to a new station days after the directive was given. He said the area OCPD has even ignored the transfer but the new officer has reported and is waiting to be received and shown around.