The 2006 champions Sony Sugar are hoping the season will be cancelled to enable them to reclaim their spot in the Kenya Premier League. Sony were axed from the top flight in the first leg after dishing out three walkovers. Sony believe it will be unfair to determine the KPL winner and relegated teams from the first leg results. However, KPL's Chief Executive Officer Jack Oguda drove the final nail into Sony's coffin on Tuesday evening after confirming that the season will not be rendered null and void. Instead, he insisted that article 2.6.1 of the FKF statutes would come into play in determining the champion and relegated teams should the coronavirus persists. The article states, where the league format due to circumstances of force majeure fails to be completed within the season, the league winner shall be determined as follows; 2.6.1.1: Before each and every club has completed its first round fixture the league shall be declared null and void. 2.6.1.2: where all the clubs in the league have completed the first round fixture but less than 75% league games have been played, the table standings at the end of the first round shall be considered as the final. Oguda said prior to the suspension of the competition,  the 75 per cent mark had not been attained and his office was justified in using the first leg standings. He also added that Sony's results in the first leg had been cancelled early in the season and the decision was irreversible. "Sony's fate is sealed. They stand no chance of returning to the elite league after failing to show up in three matches. We will determine the champion and relegated teams based on the first leg results in case the pandemic persists. Sony first leg results were cancelled and were hence dropped to the second tier," said Oguda. Sony chairman Gabriel Otiende, however, believes KPL should borrow a leaf from European leagues and consider voiding the season for fairness purposes. He alleged that a host of teams would still be relegated for failing to honour matches if the remaining matches are played, thanks to lack of money thus disrupting the composition of the league further. He also lamented on the time left between now and the start of the new season. "It is unfair for KPL to declare the winner and relegated teams from the first leg results. Even if the league resumes, I am certain a number of teams will dish out walkovers due to lack of money and would be relegated. Time is also not on our side considering that we aligned our calendar with that of Caf which means the pre-season and the new season is around the corner,"' he said. Asked if he would challenge KPL at the Sports Disputes Tribunal, Otiende said: "We will cross the bridge when we get there but we maintain that the season should be cancelled if status quo remains. We are ready to assemble a team which will compete in the league," he added.