Nearly 800,000 Kakamega residents are poor, vulnerable and require assistance during the Covid-19 outbreak, the governor has said. The majority are those living with disability and the elderly, especially from rural areas, Wycliffe Oparanya said. “We have 780,000 poor and vulnerable people and this number is too big for the county government to satisfy in provision of their needs, which include food and other personal necessities,” Oparanya said on Monday. The county administration has set aside Sh20 million to address the plight of such groups during the war on Covid-19. The amount is part of Sh110 million the county government has set aside for the war against the spread of coronavirus. Oparanya said Sh85 million will be used to pay medics’ allowances, purchase personal protective equipment (PPEs), oxygenators, expand hospitals identified for Covid-19 patients, facemasks and training of medics. The county assembly is set to hold a special sitting on Tuesday to discuss and approve the second and final supplementary budget for the war on the pandemic. Part of the money earmarked for shifting includes travel and seminar funds for both the assembly and executive and allocations to votes whose absorption is slower considering the financial year is drawing to a close. Oparanya said although the Sh20 million set aside to support the vulnerable was not enough, it would supplement the national government support through the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund. The fund is already supporting the poor in Nairobi on a pilot basis. “I am aware that the national government has rolled out a programme to bail out the poor in the county and we will use the cash on programmes that supplement their assistance to them,” he said. Oparanya welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s decision to increase the stipend for the elderly to Sh8 billion, saying it was a move in the right direction in cushioning them against the effects of the pandemic. The governor asked police officers implementing the curfew to desist from using excessive force on people found out past 7pm. He said he had received complaints from wananchi that they were suffering in the hands of the officers who beat them indiscriminately. The officers were going against the curfew enforcement rules, he said. The governor pointed out that some of the people beaten up by police had a genuine reason to be out during curfew hours. Oparanya, however, asked citizens to strictly follow rules and directives by both the county and national governments aimed at fighting the spread of the virus. Edited by Henry Makori