Four legislators want the government to come clean on the sacking of a top Covid-19 scientist. MPs Charles Njagua Kanyi (Jaguar) of Starehe, William Chepkut (Ainabkoi), Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Ledama Olekina (Narok Senator) have questioned the circumstances under which Kemri director of Centre for Virus Research Joel Lutomiah was dismissed. They said the reasons given were insufficient. Lutomiah was fired by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for allegedly failing to provide Covid-19 sample results on time. However, sources who sought anonymity said the scientist was fired for demanding personal protection equipment for his staff and pointing out that his office was financially constrained. “Lutomiah has demanded PPE, vowing not to allow his staff to be exposed to the virus,” the source told the Star. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman defended the sacking, saying the decision was made to streamline and improve coordination of test results. Lutomiah was asked to resume his role as a research scientist at the Centre for Virus Research. He also served as chairman of the Kemri’s rapid response team, a position he lost. Lutomiah has more than 40 years’ experience in entomology, parasitology, pandemic influenza and arbovirology. The legislators regretted that a top scientist with vast experience was fired in the middle of a pandemic. “Lutomiah has over 40 years of research experience. He has written dozens of scientific papers and he leads 6,000 top minds at Kemri,” Kanyi said. Savula said the reasons given for his sacking are not satisfactory and Lutomiah should have been given an opportunity to defend himself. The MP said there could be technical and other logistical issues that the ministry is acting blind to. "It is important that even as the ministry strives to do everything possible to fight Covid-19, no one should be punished without any compelling reasons," Savula said, If it's true that some results were delayed, he said, it could not be the mistake of one individual. Scientists at Kemri have questioned the move, noting that the delay in results was occasioned by the fact that the CS chose to address the nation early in the morning instead of the usual evening briefings at Afya House. "I call on the CS to give him a second chance because we are all dealing with a strange enemy and no one can be perfect now," Savula added. Chepkut said it was wrong for Kagwe to sack a top researcher for not releasing test results in time for his presser. “To the PR expert, nothing is more important than the cameras. He would rather have those test results cooked than delayed. One day he will be held outrightly responsible,” he said. Olekina said the quality of work from the scientists is more important. “We really don’t care about daily press briefings. We care about quality service from our scientists. Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet,” he said. Consumer Federation of Kenya said the country is proud. “Only yesterday, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that the team led by Dr Lutomiah was working on a Covid-19 vaccine. He cannot be sacked the same day,” the organisation said. Edited by R.Wamochie