Tatu City has commissioned a water testing laboratory that will cater for more than 150,000 residents and tens of thousands of day visitors at the multi-billion shilling project in Kiambu County. The laboratory is equipped with advanced technology to analyse basic physical and chemical parameters as well as microbiological aspects of samples collected from different sections of the city’s supply chains. Staffs have been trained in Laboratory Management System ISO/IEC 17205:2017 and water quality and safety planning. Tatu City is a 5,000-acre, mixed-use development project with homes, schools, offices, a shopping district, medical clinics, nature areas, a sport & entertainment complex and manufacturing area. The lab is operated by the Tatu City Water and Sanitation Company, which is licensed by the Kenyan Water Services Regulatory Board under Section 74 of the Water Act. Speaking at the launch over the weekend, Grace Muriithi, the Utilities Manager at Tatu Connect- Tatu City’s utilities company, highlighted the benefits of having a water laboratory run by the city. “The Tatu City water lab allows us to monitor the quality of water as part of our process control, and ensure our residents receive the highest quality of drinking water in line with World Health Organisation standards. The opening of this facility underscores Tatu City’s commitment to providing top tier utilities in the city,” said Muriithi. Muriithi noted that 68 per cent of humans will be living in cities by the year 2050. “As Kenya’s leading urban developer, we must put great emphasis on the provision of potable water,” she stated. In 2017, Tatu City was awarded Special Economic Zone status, giving businesses in the zone benefits such as low corporate taxes and zero import duties Schools and businesses are already open at Tatu City, and a range of houses are under construction to suit all incomes. Since its international investors secured legal support in 2016, Tatu City has grown to be one of the most promising urban developments in Africa with its long-term goal of de-congesting the crowded capital of Nairobi. The total value of the project is expected to exceed Sh200 billion. The Tatu Industrial Park, which is one of the largest industrial zones in East Africa, currently hosts over 50 operational companies. As part of contributing towards the government’s Affordable Housing program, and the Big Four Agenda at large, Tatu has set aside 100 acres for the construction of 5,000 affordable houses.