Kenya on Thursday recorded 12 new cases of Covid-19, raising the number to 396. Another two patients have died, raising the number to 17. Health CAS Rashid Aman sent condolences to the families affected. At the same time, a total of 15 new discharges were recorded in the last 24 hours, bringing to 144 the number of recoveries. Seven of the new Covid-19 cases are from Mombasa, three from Nairobi,  one form Wajir and one from Kitui. This marks the first case being recorded in Wajir. The Nairobi cases are from Eastleigh, Fedha and Kileleshwa. Aman said April has been a difficult month in the war on Covid-19. "As we cross into the month, let us strengthen our resolve against the virus... We will not allow any distractions...," he said. The youngest new case is one-and-a-half years old. The new cases are from 777 samples tested in 24 hours A total of 20,268 tests have been done so far. Aman reiterated that Kenya is not out of the woods yet. "We are faced with realities about the trajectory the disease will take." Ministry of Health acting director general Dr Patrick Amoth once again reiterated that the projections of cases are based on modelling and are 'worst case scenarios', meaning that the number does not have to be realised. Meanwhile, Aman said the EAC has agreed on a protocol to ease traffic at the borders. This will involve facilitating the testing of drivers in an efficient way while not impeding the flow of trucks across the border. The ministry will issue a detailed report on the use of World Bank funds. On Wednesday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi expressed disappointment at how individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 have been treated when trying to reintegrate into society. The CAS said that stigma could become a barrier to winning the war on the coronavirus. "We appeal for compassion, understanding and celebrating those who have been able to recover," she said. Mwangangi said she and other ministry officials had held a meeting with a recovered patient who had said he and his family had experienced stigmatisation as he tried to reintegrate in the community. 