The welfare, safety and health of players come first for Kenyan Premier League title-chasers KCB, club chairman Azu Ogolla has re-affirmed. There has been widespread angst among players from the topflight league over a possible loss of earnings due to the suspension of sporting activities in the country in line with the government directive on public gatherings as a means to control the spread of coronavirus. “Of course it’s not business as usual for our club because of the loss of match-day revenue. However, our players are getting paid their salaries. We are aware that the reduction of income of our players can have adverse effects on their lives and as a club, we have not reached a situation where such measures need to be taken,” said Azu. The bankers’ club chairman confirmed that they were in constant touch with their members and continued to advise them on the need to stay safe. “We are encouraging our players on the need to adhere to the government directives on social distance. We are aware they have initiated ways of remaining fit at this moment and we hope the situation improves but until then, they remain in the safety of their homes,” Azu remarked. Fellow Premier League side, Wazito were the first side to go public in declaring that their playing and coaching staff will get their incomes regardless of the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. On Tuesday while officially extending the suspension of the 2019-2020 league season indefinitely, KPL CEO Jack Oguda said contractual issues between players will be dealt with at the club level. “Regarding the KPL players and their contracts, individual clubs will discuss the situation with their players on the way forward during the interim period that the current league is suspended,” read the KPL statement. The  KPL statement did not divulge how issues declaring league winners and relegation will be dealt with. “Once the pandemic has been contained and the Kenya government confirms lifting of the curfew and other control measures put in place to curb the virus, KPL will convene a KPL shareholder meeting/government council to decide the best way forward that will be good for the integrity of the competition and the clubs after thoroughly looking at all available options and pros and cons for each option.” 