A posthumously released De Mathew song that praises his second wife as ending his sexual frustrations has left fans worrying it disrespects his first wife. The Benga musician's second wife Caroline Waithira released the song 'Nikio Ngukuraciria' (That is why I will pay a dowry for you), terming it a dedication to her. De Mathew's first wife is Sabina Wairimu. The song praises Caroline for the good things she did to him when he married her in a manner that appears to throw shade at the first wife. Some of the lyrics are, "I now understand there is love. I had not kissed before I met you, and I only got it when I married you. "My shirt was always torn for coming late. I was insulted to go back to the prostitutes I was with after I got home from work at night. "That is why I am paying dowry for you... I could sleep in a car and I never enjoyed my bedroom." Peter Kairu commented, "If the second wife was wise enough, she couldn't have participated in this song, or rather, she could have prevented it from being released, considering her 'good relationship' with the first wife. Whether it's a personal experience or not, the song humiliates the first wife. Speaking to Word Is, Caroline says she released the song because it was a dedication by her husband. "That was a special dedication on my dowry payment day. I am not a singer or musician. I have just done what my husband did not finish. If he was alive, he would have released it," she said. According to a source close to the family, the song was initially audio, but the second wife Caroline added her photos, which made it a video. "Those photos are from her dowry payment event," the source said. Caroline said she will be releasing other songs but told people to stop overthinking things. "As DeMathews' wives, we are okay. I will release what he left unfinished. He was my husband and the songs were dedications to me. I am not doing that because of anyone," she said. "We are okay with the first wife but the only person who can talk about the message in the song is the late Demathew," she said."Mama Shiko (Sabina Wairimu) also has songs dedicated to her and at her own time, she will release them." When Word Is reached out to the first wife, she said fans should call her to know what she thinks about the song and not anyone else. Edited by T Jalio