Four men sentenced to seven years each for being found with dangerous weapons were set free by the High Court for lack of evidence. Erick Maina Mbugua, Jesse Mwenda Mkiungu, Simon Kanati Njenga and Evans Wanjala Juma were convicted and sentenced by a magistrate's court for preparing to commit a felony. It was alleged that on May 22, 2016, at Kibera Laini Saba the men were jointly found armed with dangerous weapons, namely two daggers and one handcuff Serial No.00879 in circumstances that indicated they intended to commit a  robbery. Mkiungu was separately charged with being found with handcuffs and was found guilty and sentenced to another two years making it nine years for him. In his judgment, Justice Luka Kimaru faulted the trial magistrate for convicting the accused persons without the alleged dangerous weapons ever being produced in court as exhibits. “This court agrees with the appellants that failure by the prosecution to produce the said exhibits into evidence fatally damaged the prosecution’s case,” the judge ruled. Judge Kimaru further held that an essential ingredient to establish the offense of preparation to commit a felony is the possession of dangerous or offensive weapons which were never brought to court. In their appeal, the four said they were aggrieved that they had been convicted in the absence of cogent evidence, which was supposed to establish their guilt to the required standard of proof. They faulted the trial magistrate for failing to take into consideration the fact that crucial witnesses were not produced in court to give their testimony. During the appeal, the state conceded that the prosecution failed to establish to the required standard of proof that the accused were indeed found in possession of dangerous weapons in circumstances that indicated that they intended to commit a felony. Further, the state argued that their arrest did not indicate that they were found in circumstances that pointed to the fact that they intended to commit a crime. “The fact that there was general insecurity in the area should not have been visited on the appellants,” the state argued. The judge released them all unconditionally on all the counts including Mkiungu’s second count of being found in possession of handcuffs. “They are ordered set at liberty forthwith and released from prison unless otherwise lawfully held,” the judge ordered. At the magistrate's court trial, one police officer APC Samuel Manyindo had told court that he received information from an informer that there were four young men seated outside California Bar in Kibera Laini Saba in circumstances that were suspicious. He testified that the area where the four young men were said to be hanging out was known for being insecure. Police went to the place and found the four men. Upon search, were allegedly found with weapons and were booked at Capital Hill police station. However, the weapons were never produced in court as exhibits and the investigating officer never appeared in court to testify against the accused. Edited by Henry Makori