The government has moved to avert mass layoffs and job losses as a result of the Covid-19 crisis. The economy has taken a hit following measures announced to prevent the spread of the virus. Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui on Monday told a Senate committee that his ministry has engaged the Federation of Kenya Employers and the Central Organisation of Trade Unions to ensure employees do not lose jobs. Among the measures he said they have agreed on include having employees sent on unpaid leave or take pay cuts for the period of the pandemic. The ministry has also agreed with employers and Cotu to have employees work from home where possible. Chelugui said many workers, especially in horticulture and the hotel industry, were on the brink of being retrenched after many employers closed businesses. “We had a number of workers laid off or declared redundant because of production. We have sat down, discussed and agreed through a tripartite meeting to allow the workers to go for leave or be maintained at half-pay or unpaid leave,” Chelugui told the senators. The CS appeared before the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on Covid-19 chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, which seeks to among others, to provide social protection and address labour issues. He was accompanied by Labour Principal Secretary Peter Tum during the virtual meeting. The CS said they were forced to agree on a middle ground that would not hurt both the employee and the employer during this period of reduced productivity. Chelugui supported the Senate’s Pandemic Responses and Management Bill, 2020, which protects Kenyans from being laid off or coerced to take a pay cut by their employers. The Bill will go through the first reading when Senate resumes sittings on Tuesday. The CS told the committee that 1,094,238 Inua Jamii beneficiaries will be receiving Sh8,000 each to cushion them. The payment will cover the months of February, March and April. Usually, elderly persons enrolled for the programme receive Sh2,000 monthly stipend from the government. Another 293,967 categorised under orphans and vulnerable children, he said, will receive Sh2 billion out of the Sh8.5 billion announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. A further 34,000 with severe disabilities will receive Sh272 million. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya