Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has until Thursday this week to append his signature to the Nairobi City County Supplementary Appropriations Bill, 2020. The Bill was passed by the County Assembly of Nairobi on April 2, 2020, and saw the newly-formed Nairobi Metropolitan Service allocated around Sh15 billion for the transferred functions. This was after the assembly in a special sitting adjusted the Financial Year 2019-2020 budget subject to the Deed of Transfer of Functions from the Nairobi City County Government to the National Government. By law, Sonko is mandated to sign the bill in order to give the Nairobi Metropolitan Service powers to access the funds. He also could send the bill back to the assembly with some minor changes. However, If Sonko does not append his signature, it becomes effective when the 14 days lapse. Chairman of the Finance, Budget and Appropriation of County Assembly committee Robert Mbatia on Sunday confirmed to the Star that the bill had not yet been signed. “Yes, Thursday is the end of the 14 days before the bill becomes law but I understand that there are some amendments from the governor. However, we are yet to get the revised copy,” Mbatia said. While realigning the budget, the MCAs slashed around Sh203 million from the Office of the Governor and that of the deputy. Effective March 17, the county government relinquished control over Health, Planning and Development, Transport, Public Works and Ancillary Services, which are now under the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. In line with the provisions of Article 187 of the Constitution, the County budget therefore had to be adjusted. To provide the above resources, some amendments were effected in the budget. Sh98 million was cut from the budget of administrative and support services under the office of the governor and his deputy. The recurrent allocation for security and safety management programme under the governor and his deputy was also trimmed by Sh40 million. The other department under the governor, the Disaster Management and Coordination, had its budget been trimmed by Sh65 million. The allocation for Information and Communication Services under ICT has been reduced by Sh90 million while the Public Finance Management under the Finance and Economic Planning has been reduced by Sh220 million. The recurrent allocation for General Administration and Support Services under the Education Sector has also been reduced by Sh50 million. The development allocation for Wards Development Fund will be reduced by Sh180 million while its recurrent allocation has been reduced by Sh30 million. As a result of the reduction, the new Nairobi Metropolitan Service headed by Director General Mohammed Badi was allocated Sh15 billion for the transferred functions. Sh1.025 billion was allocated to fight the Covid-19 pandemic under the Emergency Fund, while a sum of Sh85 million was allocated to ward-based interventions at Sh1 million per ward. For general health interventions related to the Covid-19 pandemic, Sh940 million was allocated through the emergency fund. Sh75.9 million was set aside for maintenance of the Data Centre and under the Fire Department, a sum of Sh65 million was allocated for training of new recruits and purchase of their uniforms. An additional Sh90 million was also allocated for the contract on the Integrated Revenue Management System. Allocation for medical insurance has been increased by Sh150 million. To cater to the National Youth Service (NYS) expenses, casuals and other garbage collection costs, Sh400 million has been allocated to Solid Waste Management under Contracted Guards and Cleaning Services.