There are 62 different coronavirus vaccine candidates that have been developed across the world, the World Health Organization says. The number, given on Friday last week, is a significant jump from 41 candidates reported on March 13. The WHO said only two of the 62 candidates have entered clinical evaluation, meaning they are being injected into a small group of people to test if they are safe and if they evoke an immune response in the body. Kenyan experts expect the earliest any vaccine would be available is 2021. The first candidate is being trialled by China's Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical Science on 36 adults aged between 18 and 60 years in Wuhan. China's Ministry of Science and Technology said they expect to complete the Phase 1 trial by December 31. The second candidate already in Phase Trial is the mRNA-1273 vaccine, developed by US's Moderna Therapeutics. It is being trialled in Seattle, Washington State, and in Maryland and Georgia states, on 45 adults 18 to 55 years old. "Subjects will be followed through 12 months post-second vaccination," says the study description available at clinicaltrials.gov. Phase 1 is expected to be completed by June 2021, and if successful will go for accelerated Phase 2 and 3. However, if the trials currently underway in Seattle are successful, an early version of the vaccine could be ready by October and available first to most at-risk groups such as healthcare workers. Kenyan researchers said it would take at least a year before any vaccine is available on the market. Any vaccine has to undergo four stages, which can be accelerated before it's allowed in the market. In the first stage, it is tested on animals. "It can be a monkey or a mouse but scientists prefer a monkey since we have many things in common,” Dr Nelly Mugo, chief research officer at the Kenya Medical Research Institute, said. “The vaccine is later used on a small group of people who are extremely healthy in the second stage to see if it can work,” Mugo said recently. She said the number of people is expanded in the third stage. However, the Seattle vaccine candidate — called mRNA-1723 — was not tested in mice before beginning human clinical trials, angering some researchers who are concerned about what they call lack of ethical and safety standards that could put trial participants at greater than acceptable risk. Edited by A.N