Real estate firm–Myspace Properties Kenya has extended its food and personal protective equipment(PPE) distribution to informal settlements, in the wake of massive job losses and tough economic times. This, even as it calls for support from the public and private sector to cushion families which are struggling, a time when companies and businesses remain unproductive as a result of the coronavirus. According to CEO Mwenda Thuranira, thousands have been rendered jobless as construction sites remain closed. Casual jobs have also shrunk as industries cut on operations with the stay at home order making it even worse for those who depend on daily wages. Hotels, bars, eateries and SME businesses have also scaled down operations with some sending home their staff on unpaid leave, a move that has seen the number of unemployed rise. Local and international non-profit making organizations are struggling to meet clients’ needs as coronavirus sickens thousands of people and forces layoffs and school closures, the firm noted in a statement on Saturday. “Things are tough out there. We have to join hands and support the vulnerable within our society,” Thuranira said. Adding:“This year’s Easter comes at a unfortunate season when the World and especially Kenya is reeling from the pangs of hunger, disease and hopelessness.” The firm is distributing maize flour, soap, cooking oil, salt, sugar and beans to households, a programme that commenced at Deep sea slums, Westlands, Nairobi. At least 300 families benefited from the first phase. “We are calling on well-wishers to partner with us in feeding these families for a meal or two. Our Nairobi office remains open to receive the donations or any support in this regard,” Thuranira said. The firm which expanded to Nairobi this year, from Mombasa, is also running a masks, sanitisers and blankets distribution programe for street families. “By sanitising and keeping your hands clean you save yourself, by feeding a family you save tommorrows nation,” said Thuranira. Lack of enough food reserves for majority of households is among reasons the government is avoiding a lock-down as a measure of controlling the spread of coronavirus. Speaking on Kikuyu FM stations on Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said it is the last option when all other measures fail. "We do not want to lock-down Kenyans in their houses like in other countries because what will they eat," the President said. He, however, warned that Kenyans must follow all the directives issued by the government if a lock-down was to be avoided. "If we don't follow the directives given by the government we shall have no option than ordering for lock-down,” Uhuru said.