The Kenyan embassy in China intervened recently to have a Kenyan teacher, his wife and their one-year-old child forced into quarantine. Ambassador Sarah Serem said her office was forced to step in and have the family returned to complete quarantine. “Intervention led to all the three being quarantined in their apartment,” Serem said in a media brief. The embassy also intervened in another case in which two students were picked up and taken to quarantine while their two European housemates, one of them Serbian, were left. Serem denied reports that Kenyans have been sleeping on the streets after they were thrown out of their homes. “The embassy intervened in some cases where landlords had threatened Kenyans. These were all either retained in their houses or taken to designated hotels funded by local authorities,” Serem said. In the last few weeks, as the Chinese authorities implement measures to combat Covid-19, residents of African descent have complained of harassment and being kicked out of their houses on accusations they are spreading the virus. Videos and photos of African immigrants sleeping on the streets while others are barred from entering shops have emerged on social media platforms. Serem said since the beginning of this month, Chinese authorities in the southern city of Guangzhou have tightened control measures. “On April 6, the Foreign Affairs Office of Guangzhou Municipal Government published on its WeChat account an open letter to foreign nationals living in Guangzhou issued by the Guangzhou Municipal Health Commission regarding health declaration. This specified quarantine procedures as well as intention to test everyone in Guangzhou city,” she said. The envoy said that where there have been clear cases of harassment of not only Kenyans but other Africans, African ambassadors in Beijing have taken action including writing protest letters to the China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “The embassy wrote a protest note to Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing and detailed specific cases of mishandling. Through intervention by the embassy, many unfairly targeted cases were reconsidered including release to self-quarantine as opposed to supervised one,” she said. “The embassy has promptly informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – Nairobi – of the challenges the Kenyans face in Guangzhou.” She also said that her office has engaged Kenyans and advised them to avail themselves for testing as this “will guarantee their health to ensure they are not subjected to quarantine outside their residences.” “We have also advised Kenyans to respect and adhere to the host country regulations and health measures particularly in this time of Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. On possible deportation of Kenyans whose travel documents may have expired, Serem said her office has had talks with the Chinese government to ease immigration operations until the situation improves to enable Kenyans to return home. There are close to 7,000 Kenyans, mainly traders, in Guangzhou city. Serem said at least 400 Kenyans in China do not have legal documentation, and they risk being arrested as the country screens for Covid-19. Most of them are private teachers, small businesspeople and casual workers. There are over 1,200 students, most of whom are on scholarships. Others are self-sponsored. They have been quarantined within their respective universities. Serem said there are at least 200 professionals working in companies such as Huawei, adding that 54 Kenyans are in jails, mainly for drug trafficking. Edited by A.N