Divers of tankers have appealed to the government to list fuel loading and transportation as an essential service to reduce congestion at the KPC depot in Eldoret. Fuel loading at the depot has been slowed down by 60 per cent, thanks to the curfew and other Covid-19 control measures. Tankers from Uganda and other countries in the Great Lake region have formed long queues as they wait to load. Kenya Pipeline Company that used to operate for 24 hours a day now has limited working hours. Fuel loading is only done during the day owing to the curfew. More than 300 truck drivers from Uganda have expressed their frustrations over the slow pace of loading and want the depot operations classified as essential services so they can operate at night. Some of the drivers have been queuing at the depot for the last two weeks waiting for their lorries to be loaded with fuel. They say the delay had left them incurring huge costs of upkeep and other necessities. The Eldoret depot is located at Maili Nne on the Eldoret-Webuye road. “Fuel is an essential commodity and it's important that the government in Kenya considers allowing the depot to operate for 24 hours so that we are not held here unnecessarily,” the drivers' spokesman Abdulk Aziz said.  Aziz said they respect the measures taken to curb the spread of coronavirus but insisted that the supply of fuel was essential for operations. “In this region, we rely on this Eldoret depot to get fuel products and we don’t think this congestion we are witnessing will help because we have ambulances and generators even in hospitals which use fuel products,” Aziz said. He said classifying the KPC operations as essential will allow loading of fuel products on a 24-hour basis and end congestion. Aziz said they had not budgeted for being away for two weeks and accused depot managers of favouring local drivers. “We should be given priority because of the distance we cover and the cost factor. We urge the KPC management to urgently look into our plight,” Paul Nkuruza said. He said they have been forced to sleep in the trucks to avoid the wrath of police officers enforcing the dusk-to-dawn curfew. “We have to be inside the cabins by 7pm so police officers enforcing the curfew do not harass us,” Aziz said. Eldoret depot manager Anthony Sang said he was not in a position to comment on the matter. “We do have the congestion problem and I will later link you to the right person who should give details on what is going on,” Sang said. Edited by Peter Obuya