The Siaya priest accused of spreading Covid-19 after returning from Italy last month has been released from custody. Father Richard Oduor on Thursday pleaded not guilty after he was charged with exposing Kenyans to the virus. He was granted Sh500,000 bond and alternative Sh150,000 bail. He had been in police custody since Thursday last week. The Catholic cleric was arraigned before senior resident magistrate Martha Nanzushi who directed him to go into mandatory self-quarantine for 14 days upon depositing the bail/bond. Oduor's lawyers opposed the directive, saying the priest had been discharged from Mbagathi Hospital after testing negative on two separate occasions. But the magistrate dismissed their objection and insisted that Oduor must self-quarantine. Oduor said he would quarantine at a facility run by the Franciscan Sisters in Adams Arcade, Nairobi. On Tuesday, the court granted police two more days to detain him as they completed investigations. Father Oduor had been seized by the police after he was discharged from the Kenyatta National Hospital where he had been receiving treatment after testing positive for the virus. The state says he was positive for the virus when he arrived in Kenya but that he ignored his status and travelled to Kisumu county where he interacted with people, before proceeding to Siaya and later returning to Nairobi. Oduor arrived in Kenya on March 12 from Italy and went to Utawala Catholic Parish, the next day he left Nairobi for Kisumu by public means and on arrival, he went to a guest house in Milimani in Kisumu. “On March 14, he went to Ugenya and later his parent’s home in Ambira within Siaya county, later he proceeded to Sega Parish where he spent two nights,” the police say. They further claim that on March 16, he went back to his parent’s home and later boarded a bus and alighted at Kisumu International Airport where he boarded a Jambojet plane to JKIA, Nairobi. “Upon arrival at JKIA, he went to Utawala where he stayed until March 20 when he proceeded to a clinic on Eastern Bypass where he was referred to Mbagathi,” the officers say. It is alleged that at Mbagathi, he tested positive for the virus on March 21 and was isolated and put on medication. On April 4 and 7, two further tests were conducted and he was found negative and was subsequently discharged from KNH. (Edited by F'Orieny)