Law enforcement agencies have been asked to move swiftly and stop illegal fishing in Lake Naivasha. Lake Naivasha Riparian Association Thursday said the lake was a gem that should not be allowed to disappear. Association manager Silas Wanjala said the lake was faced with massive pollution, human encroachment and water abstraction. However, the upsurge in the number of illegal fishermen is a major concern for the association. “The number of people fishing in the lake has gone up,” Wanjala said, attributing the increase to tens of sacked flower  who have turned to the lake for livelihood. Flower farms around the lake as well as hotels have been shut to curb the spread of Covid-19. Most workers were sent home without pay. The closure of schools has forced children to join the fishers despite the dangers posed by hippos. The animals have killed more than 10 people this year. Naivasha fisheries officer Nicholas Kagundu said the lake was under pressure due to the new entrants referred to as foot fishermen or poachers. Kagundu noted that the closure of farms and hotels had contributed to the crisis. Karagita, Kamere, DCK, Tarembete, Kihoto and Kwa Muhia estates employed most of the now jobless workers who have turned to the lake for livelihood. Wanjala said they were yet to address the challenges as most of the investors in hospitality had closed. They want to involve the fisheries department in finding a solution to illegal fishing. “It is a livelihood issue that also poses a security challenge,” Wanjala said. He said licensed fishers are about 200. A scientist who requested anonymity told the Star that human-wildlife conflict had gone up as a result of illegal fishing. “Fish feed on the droppings of the hippopotamus. When a hippopotamus has given birth, one will be left behind to take care of their young ones while the rest go to feed. The illegal fishermen invade their territory, leading to conflict,” he said. According to him, there is a need for agro-forestation, reforestation and building of terraces in the upper catchment to prevent the siltation of the lake. He said the farmers upstream must also be made aware of the need to conserve the environment. The scientist warned that the illegal fishing was likely to deplete fish stock in the lake. National Environment Complaints Committee secretary John Chumo said laws must be enforced. “Illegal fishing, as well as encroachment on wetlands, must be prevented as the laws have not been suspended,” Chumo said. He said everyone was aware that there is a crisis.“We should not damage the ecosystem as the world has not come to an end.” Wildlife around the lake includes buffalos, the endangered Maasai giraffes, zebras and antelopes. There are more than 400 species of birds, all supported by thousands of plant species, making it a destination for over 1.5 million visitors each year. The lake supports a wide range of biodiversity, including hundreds of different migratory water birds, fish and plant life. Edited by Henry Makori