Are there double standards for church services during the Covid-19 pandemic Well, Corridors has learnt law enforcement agencies appear to be more lenient to churches broadcasting their services from major towns as opposed to those in the countryside. Over the weekend, Corridors observed a number of churches televising their Sunday services with congregants in excess of the maximum 15 stipulated by the Ministry of Health. But similar services with many congregants in rural areas will land the church leadership in mandatory quarantine at their own cost. Many ministers are wondering whether Health CS Mutahi Kagwe (pictured) has different sets of rules for different churches. A governor from the Coast embarrassed himself when he tried to wish the Muslim community a blessed Ramadhan (Ramadhan Kareem) in Arabic as they began the holy month. He instead posted, "God forgive me," drawing anger from some quarters. He quickly deleted the social media post after learning he had made a terrible mistake. Corridors was told his gaffe was not an accident. Some of the governor's handlers took advantage of the county chief's ignorance of Arabic to embarrass their boss. A county commissioner from Western is a chief beneficiary of Covid-19 disaster funds, thanks to notorious cartels running county affairs. The commissioner is running Covid-19 affairs unilaterally after the governor, his deputy and all elected leaders disappeared. He is said to be working with junior officers to share the county’s emergency cash allocation. They give out sanitiser, bars of soap and a few supplies from the national government but claim they are from the county, trying to hoodwinking the public that their local government is responsive to the coronavirus crisis. But residents know something's not right. They are demanding their governor put in an appearance and address the mess before it gets out of hand. Still in Western, a county secretary whose word has been the law in matters of administration and resource allocation in a Nyanza county has been operating as the de facto governor. Last week he was shut down by his boss who told him to stop his stupid highhandedness with county staff. The governor was threatened by state machinery that had exposed nepotism in the county and promised dire consequences. The governor's survival at the hands of the DCI, EACC and Assets Recovery Authority remains a mystery to residents. He told his county secretary that all hell will break loose, and soon if he continues frustrating employees. And then he will carry his own cross. Three of the Treasury operatives of the county who take their command from the county secretary were equally warned that all is not well and they should go slow.