Kenya has listed alcoholic beverages and tobacco among essential products during the Coronavirus pandemic. This is according to a notice published by the Ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Enterprise Development. In order to appropriately respond to the issues affecting the business sector during COVID-19 outbreak, CS Betty Maina formed a Business Emergency Response Centre (BERC) that identified the products. The Centre comprises of a 24-hour Business Emergency Response Committee and a Technical Committee of analysts. "The Committee identified the manufacturers, producers and suppliers of the under listed as essential to the sustenance of lives and efforts must be taken to keep them operational throughout the crisis period," read a notice from the ministry. It said due to their significance, workers and providers of logistics to these sectors need protection and/or, special permits and transport in the event of a lockdown. Below is the list: Food and beverages: 1. Cereals 2.Sugar 3. Wheat products (bread, confectioneries and breakfast cereals) 4. Sugar Confectionaries 5. Dairy products 6. Processed foods 7. Meat and meat products 8. Fish 9. Edible oils 10. Salt and cooking spices 11. Fruits, vegetables and nuts 12. Water 13. Juices and non and/or carbonated drinks/diluting drinks 14. Tea, coffee, tobacco etc 15. Alcohol beverages Other products include essential Textiles and Apparels like face masks, medical uniforms, medical equipment and essential supplies like oxygen, pharmaceuticals and medicament. Essential footwear like gumboots used in medical facilities, shoe covers, animal health medicaments, soap, detergents and washing materials, hygiene and personal care products like toilet tissues, serviettes, sanitary pads and diapers are also listed. Others include agro-chemicals and pest control products like mosquito nets, farm inputs, insecticides,  animal feeds, petroleum fuels,  cooking fuels, including wood fuels and matches, motor vehicle parts, motorcycle and parts The list also includes essential plastic and rubber used for packaging such as bags, water bottles, plastic tanks, cling film, goggles, face shields, gloves, disposable gowns/overall. Also on the list are essential paper products used in packaging, Sacks Converters, Labeling, Paper converters, Printers and Allied- Stationery. "Timber & Furniture including clinical furniture, beds, fit-outs, coffins to the extent that they are providing support in the COVID 19 response for the urgent requirement of hospital, laboratory or clinical furniture, beds, fit-outs required to set up temporary facilities or to convert existing facilities for medical support," read part of the notice. According to the ministry, support distributive networks for the listed essential products/services will include supermarkets, provision and convenience retail stores, Chemists/Pharmacists/crop or animal laboratories, open/built wholesale and retail markets for food, fruit and vegetables. Others will be essential food outlets, butcheries, slaughterhouses,  wholesale and retail markets for cereals, gas distributors, petrol stations, sellers of wood fuels, sanitary and waste management, motor vehicle and motorcycle parts shops/distributors and transporters of essential products. President Uhuru Kenyatta while announcing mitigative measures aimed at stopping the spread of the COVID-19 virus imposed a 7pm to 5am curfew. Uhuru said during this time no movement would be allowed except for those listed under essential services. Uhuru on Monday announced a total ban on movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties perceived to be epicentres of the virus. The head of state, however, said only the movement of cargo and essential services will be allowed.