Fears of contracting coronavirus and the dusk-to-dawn curfew have forced most expectant women in Siaya to deliver at home. Residents told the Star they fear going to hospitals knowing very well that all illnesses, including Covid-19 cases, end up in health facilities. Lilian Owino said though the government and health officers are trying their best to stop the spread of the virus, the fact that the virus takes approximately 14 days to show symptoms is more than dangerous. "You can appear in the same hospital as someone who has not presented symptoms, only for you to learn later that he or she tested positive for Covid-19," she said. No case of Covid-19 has been reported in Siaya county. Winny Akinyi said though expectant mothers are encouraged to deliver in hospital, the fear of exposing themselves and their newborns to the virus has forced most of them to deliver at home. Delivering at home is risky for the mother and the baby. The dusk-to-dawn curfew has also complicated issues. "Most of the deliveries occur at night. At the moment, you can't call a boda boda operator at night to take you to the hospitals because of the curfew," Akinyi said. Amref, through the health system advocacy programme, has started educating residents on the need for expectant women to deliver in hospitals even with the challenges of Covid-19. Isaiah Ochieng, who works for Ugunja development initiative community-based organisation in partnership with Amref, said the programme has been rolled out in two subcounties. He said they have engaged Ugunja residents on the importance of mother-child health. "We are working closely with community health volunteers to sensitise residents that hospitals are observing government directives on Covid-19 and there is no need to fear seeking services from health facilities," Ochieng said. Innocent Oluoch, the nursing officer in charge of Tingare in Ugunja subcounty, said there has been a low turnout of patients since the outbreak of coronavirus. He said the curfew has majorly affected the transportation of patients to hospitals as boda boda operators fear being caught on the wrong side of the law. "All health facilities have forms to identify boda boda operators ferrying patients to hospital but riders still fear encountering police officers," Oluoch said. Governor Cornel Rasanga has urged residents to observe the government's guidelines. Edited by A.N