The Kenya Airports Authority has defended their move to suspending of a contract with Colnet Limited for casual work at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport within a short period. This was after a social media outcry of some of the workers who claimed that they were unfairly dismissed from work. Reports indicated that the JKIA cleaners were sacked on Tuesday night as they prepared for their shift. They could not go back home because of the curfew forcing some of them to spend their night in the cold covered only by shawls. Others claimed that there was no communication on the termination of their contracts. But KAA Managing director Alex Gitari said Colnet Limited was requested to make a deduction on the amount that they earn but declined to do so. "On October 16, 2018, the authority entered into a contract with Colnet Limited for the provision of cleaning services for general areas and toilets at Jomo Kenya International Airport and cleaning services for toilets at Terminal 1 B, C, D, cargo freight terminal," Gitari said. The MD said they entered into contracts of Sh45m and Sh40m per year respectively with each contract going for a term of three years. But he noted that since the outbreak of coronavirus, business has not been good particularly for airports. "In the wake of the coronavirus there is evidence of a negative impact on and among others the economic and business environment which has led to the issuance of a raft of measures and directives by the government," he said. "JKIA and other airports have particularly been faced with a significant reduction of flights, passenger movements and operations owing to these directives." Gitari said they engaged the labourers with a view or reducing their charges to the authority owing to the reduced scope of service primarily on the use of consumables during the pandemic season. "However you have you have adamantly declined to make any reduction stated in your letter dated April 20, 2020," he said. "...the authority has no choice but to invoke the contracts and issue notice on the grounds of the pandemic being an event under force majeure." He noted that business and operations have been heavily affected as a result of the reduced number of passengers and airport operators thus shall be unable to meet the cost of consumables not utilised. "Kindly be advised that the contract stands suspended with immediate effect with no liability on the part of the authority until such time when the pandemic is over and normalcy restored."