Majority of Kenyans are worried about not having enough food as the coronavirus continues to spread, a new survey shows. The study conducted by Geopoll released yesterday reveals that within the last seven days 86 per cent of Kenyans were worried about putting food on the table due to lack of money and other resources. This is above the continental average of 80 per cent. The figure is higher in the DRC (88 per cent), Rwanda (87 per cent), Kenya (86 per cent) and Uganda (86 per cent). “One of the greatest concerns surrounding the coronavirus outbreak is the impact it will have on food security, especially in countries that already suffer from high food insecurity,” the report states. The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation has already warned of an impending food crisis if actions are not taken to protect supply chains and distribute food to vulnerable populations. GeoPoll conducted the study through a questionnaire between April 2–  9 throughout 12 African nations. The study was run through SMS and mobile web to gather data from populations without access to smartphones/internet (through SMS) and wealthier, more urban populations (through the mobile web) with 400 respondents. According to the Institute of Economic Affairs, the informal sector employs up to 85 per cent of Kenya’s workforce. This has seen a number of Kenyans defy the government orders to stay at home because most live from hand to mouth. “Traders in informal sectors largely depend on their daily sales to make ends meet, due to the low-profit margins that characterise the sector,” IDB Capital managing director Karen Kandie said. She added that the social distancing measures, as well as shelter-in-place directives, would adversely impact traders in the informal sector. The report by Geopoll shows that food-purchasing habits have changed, with 60 per cent of respondents saying they are shopping for food less often than usual. Around 42 per cent of respondents said they are opting for bigger packs when they were shopping for food. Of the 86 per cent respondents in Kenya, 72 per cent said they have had to switch to an alternative brand that is cheaper rather than going for their usual brands. “Countries such as South Africa and Kenya were already experiencing weak economies before the coronavirus outbreak and will be hit hard by the restrictions and trickle-down effects related to COVID-19,” the report states. Geopoll added that the economic effects of COVID-19 will be felt even harder in the country due to the reliance on informal trade and exports of commodities that are falling in value. The World Bank has already warned that sub-Saharan Africa is likely to experience its first recession in 25 years due to the pandemic. The study found that populations are aware of the looming economic crisis, with 71 per cent stating that they are very concerned about the economic effects of coronavirus.