Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has said Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi intentionally contravened the government's directive to self isolate. Haji on Tuesday said the Saburi knew he had travelled from a country that had reported Covid-19 cases and instead of self-isolating, he mingled with members of the public. "In our view, we see the deputy had an Ill intent. He intentionally did what he did against the directive issued," the DPP said. He said Saburi's actions have left several people infected and risked many other lives. "This is a serious crime, we are not taking it lightly and the DG will face the law," he said. According to Haji though defense lawyers are pushing for the release of the DG on bail, he is a threat to the society and the prosecution team is pushing hard to keep him locked up until the case is heard and determined. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday during his address to the nation said that there should be consequences for those who are reckless citing the case of Saburi. "Do not be like the Kilifi Deputy Governor who moved recklessly despite the knowledge that he was possibly sick. And despite his position, I asked that he be arrested and I am hoping that he is jailed for 10 years," Uhuru said. Saburi has since apologised for his actions, saying he is remorseful for the panic he caused to the people of Kilifi county. In a conversation with Kilifi South MP Ken Chonga shared on social media, the deputy governor termed his health status "perfect", adding that he "did not feel anything unusual". However, he found himself under fire from Kilifi residents, who termed his actions “selfish and irresponsible”. MCAs promised to impeach him once the dust settles. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the government would use Saburi as an example for those who refuse to adhere to the anti-coronavirus measures issued by the government to try and check the spread of COVID-19. Efforts by Saburi to be released on police bond have proven futile. The DG was arrested on Friday, hours after he was discharged from the Coast General Hospital Isolation Centre. He is currently being held at the Port Police Station after he recovered from the coronavirus.