A Kitale High Court has set free a teenager convicted of defiling his girlfriend after a successful appeal. A lower court had convicted Charles (not his real name), 17, of the offence and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. The High Court said it considered the possibility that the offence was committed as a result of two minors experimenting with their bodies. The particulars of the charge were that on the diverse dates between February 27 and March 5, 2013, within Trans Nzoia county, Charles intentionally defiled a child aged 14 years. The alternative charge was committing an indecent act with a minor. In court, his girlfriend June (not her real name) testified that she was aged 17 and in Standard 6 in a local primary school although she had already dropped out. She said the appellant who was in Standard 8 at their school approached her on February 5, 2013, to be his girlfriend and she accepted. “On March 3, 2013, we went together with another teen couple to my boyfriend’s home where we engaged ourselves in consensual sex the whole night,” the court heard. June stayed at her boyfriend’s house until March 5 when her father came looking for her. The man forcefully opened the door forcing the girl to hide under the bed. In his testimony, June’s father explained how she disappeared from home for two days and on inquiry he was told where she was. He went to find her with the village elder. He found his daughter but the appellant took off. On visiting a local hospital, it was discovered that Charles had infected the complainant with syphilis. When placed on his defence, Charles gave sworn evidence denying the charge and said the complainant was his girlfriend for a year. Dissatisfied with the ruling, he moved to the High Court seeking to quash the conviction and sentence on grounds that there was no sufficient evidence to convict him. In his ruling, Kitale High Court presiding judge Hillary Chemitei concluded the case was a societal problem and that the two minors went through a discovery class. “These are things besetting our teenagers in society. Notice for example that they were in the same school and from the same village,” the judge said. Justice Chemitei thus allowed the appeal and set the appellant free.  Edited by R.Wamochie