Kenya first reported its first coronavirus patient on March 13. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe broke the news that the majority of Kenyans were dreading. "We have received confirmation....." CS Kagwe said as he was accompanied by government officials at the Harambee house. After a few seconds, all screens on major televisions were glaring with "BREAKING NEWS! first coronavirus case confirmed in Kenya" as social media went abuzz. But with what is happening in other countries where deaths have become a new norm, some Kenyans became disturbed and began panicking. Minutes after the news broke, some Kenyans rushed to the supermarkets to buy commodities out of fear of the unknown. During this pandemic, there are three categories of people. These are people in the fear zone, learning zone and growth zone. FEAR ZONE In this category, a person tends to grab food, toilet paper and medication that he or she does not even need. And this is what happened when Kagwe announced the first patient. Panic shopping set in across Nairobi with posts and pictures of people panic-buying toiletries and foodstuffs proliferated on social media. Also, an individual tends to spread emotions related to fear and anger. These people complain frequently about how and why the government allowed the virus to come into the country They also forward all messages they receive on coronavirus and gets irritated very easily. LEARNING ZONE Here, an individual starts to give up what he or she cannot control. It is true that the virus has already arrived in Kenya, as an individual you cannot control this but try to live with it while trying to prevent its spread. Also, these people tend to stop compulsively consuming what hurts them from food to the news. Psychologist Riziki Ahmed tells the star, that during this time a person tends to filter the kind of news that they want. "This is a simple guide to being mentally stable during this pandemic," she says. In this category, a person also identifies his emotions and becomes aware of the situation and starts to devise ways of dealing with the issue at hand. One evaluates information before spreading something false and recognising that we are all trying to contain the situation. GROWTH ZONE Here, a person starts thinking about others and how you can help them. Talk about the street children, the vulnerable, those who do not have food during such times, those who cannot afford sanitisers and soaps to wash their hands in a bid to stop the spread of coronavirus. These people live in the present and focus on the future with an aim to be empathetic with himself or herself and others. This person appreciates others and keep a happy emotional state and spreads messages of home. In this category, one looks for a way to adapt to the situation instead of complaining. On Thursday, CS Kagwe told Kenyans to start adapting with staying at home to curb the spread of coronavirus. He announced 29 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total number of patients past the 100 mark to 110.