Joy Mukami arrived home from MCK Luthie Primary School in Meru on August 28, 2017, took off her uniform and wore home clothes to start domestic chores. Then 13 and in Standard 6, Mukami was upbeat as she left home to collect firewood from a thicket in the family land to prepare dinner. Unknown to her, Kenya Power personnel had left a live electric cable touching a piece of wood Mukami wanted to collect. She was electrocuted the moment she touched it. Nearly three years later, a judge awarded her Sh22,056,160 compensation and ordered Kenya Power to pay. Since the tragedy, Mukami has suffered stigma, isolation and dropped out of school to recover. Meanwhile, her hands were amputated. Now 16, Mukami wants to return to school and be a doctor. “I thank God, my lawyer and the court. I had refused my hands to be amputated but doctors promised me a future even without them." She says will not be too old to return to school after she is fitted with the recommended myoelectric prosthesis. “I aspire to be a doctor to save lives like I was also saved,” she told the Star at their home in Karama in Tigania East on Sunday. Mukami's mother Ambrusina Kiulio recalled her daughter's tribulations and admission to St Theresa Mission Hospital, Kiirua, for eight months. Ambrusina told the court that her child is now disabled and dependent on her for everything due to the accident. A July 5, 2018, medical report by Dr Nicholus Koome presented in court shows that Mukami sustained electric burns on both upper limbs with dry gangrene up to the level of mid forearms. "There were electric burns on the outer side of the sole of the right foot and the left dorsal side of the sheen (leg near the ankle),” the report says. Both Mukami's forearms were amputated below the elbow. She underwent surgical toileting of the wounds on the lower limbs. The doctor said Mukami underwent physical and occupational therapy as well as psychological counselling. At the time of making the report, both wounds had healed but  there were scars on both soles of the feet. Meru High Court judge Alfred Mabeya ruled that the prosecution witnesses proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. Mabeya found KPLC negligent and that its naked electrical cable had caused Mukami's electrocution. “I saw the minor testify. She was full of life and upbeat that she may yet again have a chance of going back to school and study on Dr [John] Muchoki’s assurance. She could do absolutely nothing by herself,” Justice Mabeya said. Dr Muchoki, an orthopaediatrician, had told the court that Mukami could still lead a near-normal life if she was fitted with a functional myoelectric prosthesis. “It is the mother who had to remove her clothing for the court to see the injuries sustained. She stated that she cannot bathe, eat, clothe herself or go to the toilet without her mother's help. “Surely, she must live her life at whatever cost. Her normal life needs to be restored,” the judge said. Lawyer Michael Ngunjiri said the ruling is outstanding and should be a warning to KPLC against negligence. “I thank the judge for hearing and quick determination of the case to the satisfaction of Joy. I urge KPLC not to wait for execution but expedite the payments to benefit the girl,” Ngunjiri said. The Sh22,056,160 is for future medical expenses, loss of earning capacity, general expenses and special damages. (edited by o. owino)