In a world full of uncertainty, trust is priceless – especially in times of increasing uncertainty or crisis like the COVID-19 pandemic. Trust is no longer a cute soft skill. Post COVID-19, trustworthiness will be one of the key factors that will determine the future of businesses. In the twenty-first century, distrust can sink businesses in the blink of an eye. Distrust is now very expensive. The cost implications are high. Here are four ways in which distrust will cost you. Brand Damage: Before I travel anywhere, I go to credible travel websites to check on hotels and make other travel arrangements. Now, travelers can make plans with detailed information because of people’s reviews. So, you have brands that soar high due to great views and those that sink due to bad ones. What is the difference? Those with great reviews have earned the trust of customers and those with less than tasty reviews suffer loss. I never stay at a place with bad reviews. Businesses that don’t care about earning their customers’ trust, suffer brand damage. Loss of Customers: Brand damage leads to people avoiding your brand – you lose customers. They won’t want to associate with your business and that means financial loss. Technology and the internet have empowered customers with many options. They don’t have to waste their time waiting for you to get your act together. Distrust for your business will make them move away quickly because beyond buying your products, customers want to build a good relationship with a credible, trustworthy brand. Loss of Social Capital: Trust is also called social capital. This means that you can cash in on your brand equity and goodwill when your business needs it. Like good credit with the banks, your business shouldn’t loss social credit due to distrust. Business leaders must be careful to constantly build social capital, online and offline. Effective business leaders consciously build a strong, healthy relationship with customers that is strongly rooted in trust. This is always a smart move. High Operations Cost: Ask any CFO and they will confirm that business relationships with no or low trust are more expensive to manage. This is because trust isn’t just a soft skill, but one that is hard, measurable with business outcomes that are financially quantifiable. In countries or regions of low trust, it’s more expensive to run businesses. Distrust has grave socio-economic consequences and we must wake up to the impact, especially now. Trust is always good for business. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com