National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has said only 70 MPs will be allowed to transact business in the chamber at a time during a special sitting Wednesday. This and other stringent measures are meant to contain the spread of the coronavirus. There are fears some MPs might have been exposed to the virus. The remaining 239 MPs will be accommodated in designated waiting areas and will be admitted in the chambers upon vacation of a seat by a member. “Once seated in the chamber, members shall not change seats or draw closer to other members, the speaker or clerks at the table for whatever reason,” Muturi said. Muturi appealed to MPs over 58 years, those with pre-existing medical conditions, expectant or lactating mothers to work from home in line with Ministry of Health’s advisory. The lawmakers will debate the establishment of the Emergency Fund to respond to the Covid-19 outbreak. The special sitting was gazetted on Friday in line with the provisions of Standing Order 29 (3). Other elaborate hygiene measures will seek to protect the MPs replacing any of the first 70. “Upon vacation of a seat by a member, prompt disinfection of the seating area, the seat, table, electronic system, the microphones and chamber tablet shall be undertaken by the relevant officers before being occupied by another member,” Muturi said. Minority leader John Mbadi on Friday said party interests should guide the selection of the 70 members to be allowed in the House during the special sitting. The Suba North MP said he has already written to the clerk to ensure the party’s interest is factored in selecting the first 70. According to Mbadi, both the ruling Jubilee Party and opposition ODM should be allocated a specific quota to ensure balanced representation. Only six members have priority. They include the Majority leader and his Minority counterpart, deputy speaker, Majority whip and his Minority counterpart and a member scheduled to move a business listed in the Order Paper for a particular sitting. Visitors will also be locked out of Parliament during sittings. Committees will be conducted with minimum Parliamentary staff to reduce the chances of physical contact. No catering services will be available. Only drinking water will be provided during sittings. (edited by o. owino)