If you are experiencing any physical or sexual gender-based violence at home, seek immediate refuge with neighbours. The Law Society of Kenya also advises that a police station or a nearby justice centre could help. Further, women should preserve the evidence of an attack by retaining soiled clothes in the case of rape or defilement, taking pictures of injuries and record videos with witnesses. They can also keep tattered clothing, damaged property for example broken furniture or phone in cases of physical violence. "As soon as possible, head to the nearest police station and seek assistance at the Gender Desk, keep the OB number and record your statement clearly then seek medical attention at any nearby facility," the law society said. In a circular shared on social media, survivors of gender-based violence were also advised to alert trusted family members, friends or relatives for support. "Reach out to organisations listed below for legal, medical and psychosocial support," the lawyers said. The State Department of Gender hotline, which operates 24-7 is 1195. Fida Kenya can be reached on 080072150, Gender Violence Recovery Centre 0719638006, and Childline Kenya 116. Data from the government shows 45 per cent of women and girls across Kenya aged 15-49 have suffered physical violence, while 14 per cent have experienced sexual violence. However, the numbers could be higher due to high instances of non-reporting to authorities and few women choosing to seek medical attention or pursue justice. Last year, 118 women were killed through acts of physical and sexual violence with data showing that at least eight women were killed each month. February was the worst month for women in Kenya with a record of 17 deaths. According to data from Counting Dead Women Kenya, between  January and April this year, 21 women have been killed through acts of physical and sexual violence. Last Tuesday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said data from the Gender Violence Recovery Centre and the National Council on Administration of Justice showed cases of physical and sexual violence had increased during Covid-19 partial lockdown period. Most of the time, the violence has been perpetrated by close relatives and guardians. According to the World Health Organization, 38 per cent of murders of women are committed by a male intimate partner. “During the Easter weekend, neighbours came to my house to report a case of domestic violence. There is a woman who was thoroughly beaten,” Mwangangi said. She said the ministry is in communication within relevant departments to see how the problem can be addressed. “We are calling on Kenyans to focus on fighting the virus and to handle disputes within the laid down civil structures, devoid of any violence,” the CAS said. According to a UN Women analysis of gendered impacts of Covid-19 in Kenya, domestic violence has reportedly tripled in countries practising social distancing. "Strain due to a reduction or loss of incomes and lack of healthy outlets to deal with the psychological strain of not meeting the social expectations on being a provider by male heads of households will lead to more cases of intimate partner violence," reads the report. Additionally, the reduction of operating hours of bars will lead to higher rates of alcohol abuse, which potentially lead to higher cases of intimate partner violence. In light of this several organisations have set up hotline numbers for women to contact them if they experience violence in their homes. (edited by o. owino)