Nairobi City Stars goalkeeper Levis Opiyo dreams of playing for national team Harambee Stars. Opiyo, who recently an opportunity to seal a professional deal in Germany after unsuccessful trials, said he is now ready to battle for the one thing that saw return home empty-handed, international caps. “When I was in Germany recently, I couldn’t land a deal in a team among the top tiers since I don't have international caps," said Opiyo. "This left me challenged and I promised myself that I must work harder to play in the national team.” The experienced goalkeeper, who has played for Posta Rangers, Western Stima, Mahakama, Mathare United and Thika United added: “I believe in myself and I know I have what it takes to be there.” He says the regular change of goalkeepers at the national team Harambee Stars gives him hope that if he works hard, he can find himself there. “That will crown my career as well as give me a better chance of playing abroad,” added Opiyo, a younger brother to teammate Peter 'Pinchez' Opiyo. Levis says Pinchez, who is a Harambee Stars veteran,  is his role model. “He advises me all the time and pushes me a lot. When I make mistakes, he corrects me. And when I make the right decisions, he applauds me,” revealed Opiyo. Opiyo, who joined the Kawangware-based side last year, is confident of guiding City Stars back to the Kenyan Premier League next season. “At the moment, we are doing well, sitting on top of the NSL table. My aim is to see the team maintain top spot and win the league and in the process earn promotion to the Kenyan Premier League,” he added. He named former Gor Mahia strikers Michael Olunga, Meddie Kagere, Jacques Tuyisenge and Dan Sserunkuma as the players who gave him nightmares. The ball-playing goalkeeper admires Barcelona goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen and Manchester City’s Ederson. And despite former players moving into coaching once they retire, Opiyo has other ideas.  “I do not want to be a coach, maybe a team manager or venture into business. Soon I will head to school to pursue a course that will help me manage people,” he concluded.