The assertion conveyed by this Facebook publication which says that the American president Donald Trump announced that tests of injection of disinfectant to fight against the new coronavirus will begin in Africa, is disputed. The post, illustrated with a photo of Donald Trump, quotes the President saying that the disinfectant has been analyzed and found to be an effective remedy for coronavirus. He adds that Trump has said that the disinfectant injection test will start in Africa. Curiously, one might wonder why a remedy declared to be effective still needs to be tested. Hence, a contradiction in the post. The source of the information is not mentioned in the publication, and neither Donald Trump's personal Twitter account , nor the official account of the Presidency of the United States of America, show any trace of the statement. In addition, President Trump makes daily press briefings at the White House. It was also during one of these daily press briefings that, on April 23, 2020, the applicant had suggested that Covid-19 patients receive injections of disinfectant in the lungs to cure the disease. A speech which did not fail to indignant the entourage of the president as well as the international community. And faced with the surge of acerbic reactions that triggered it, Donald Trump quickly tried to catch up the next day, assuring that he was "sarcastic". In addition, an analysis of the author's account of the publication reveals that the credibility of said account is ambiguous. Indeed, PesaCheck had already discredited one of its publications according to which, Professor Didier Raoult would have revealed plans of sabotage of COVID-Organics, remedy developed in Madagascar, by the World Health Organization (WHO) and France. Compared to the remedies and vaccines against Covid-19, the WHO affirms that until now, there is no vaccine or specific antiviral drug against the disease today. PesaCheck has verified the claim that President Trump has said that the test for injecting disinfectant into the lungs to fight COVID-19 will start in Africa and find it FALSE. This post is part of an ongoing series of fact checks by PesaCheck, examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms. By partnering with Facebook and similar social media platforms , third-party fact-checking organizations like PesaCheck help sort out fact from fiction. We do this by giving the public a deeper insight and context to the posts they see in their social media feeds. Have you spotted what you think is false information on Facebook? Here's how you can report it . And here is more information on PesaCheck's methodology for checking questionable content. This fact check was written by fact checker Keyna Iteriteka and edited by article editor Collins Nabiswa . This article has been approved for publication by deputy editor Bilal Taïrou .