Two Meru legislators have slammed Governor Kiraitu Murungi for alleged lack of development in the county. Imenti Central MP Kirima Ngushine said there are no tangible development projects initiated by Kiraitu’s administration to transform residents' lives in his constituency. Abuthuguchi Central MCA Ayub Bundi said hospitals in the constituency are grappling with lack of drugs and a shortage of nurses. The MCA said the county should pay health workers their two months' salaries. “Hospitals have no capacity, no personnel and no drugs, we have not received water pipes. Where do the ward funds go? I have become a leader laughed at and forced to use my own money to conduct developments. Then the county officials come and take pictures and claim the credit. That is saddening," Bundi said. Let the county return the money I used for Ruiga Dispensary, he said. Ngushine said if Agriculture CS Peter Munya makes true to his word and picks Bundi to deputise him for 2022 governorship, he will not relent mounting a powerful campaign against Kiraitu to ensure the CS takes the seat. “If Munya comes to seek votes with Bundi as his deputy, the whole constituency will rally behind them. Listen to me carefully, I could not be insane to support someone else. Because when he wins, we are assured of transformation, development and uplifting of our people," the MP said. “I have noted no developments from the county. No leader is to be slaughtered for electorates to feast on his meat. A leader is celebrated due to his developments. If it’s by fire, let it be,” Ngushine said. Munya and Bundi have been close friends and Munya has been introducing the second-term MCA to his supporters as a development-oriented leader. “In August 2022, I will be here not seeking your votes for MCA, I will come with another crown.  I have talked to people from other regions and God has shown me, I am qualified to be Munya’s deputy,” the Minority leader said. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said Meru nurses will withdraw their services from April 6 if the county government does not pay their February and March salaries. “We demand salaries for all the nurses for February, March and statutory deductions be made payable by close of business on Friday, April 3, failure to which all nurses will not report from April 6 noon,” the letter addressed to Meru Public Service Board and county secretary reads. The health workers have been at loggerheads with the county after the county suspended Clinical Officer’s secretary general Moses Baiyenia for disagreeing with its officials on unpreparedness to equip and train health workers on Covid-19. The MCAs are demanding the reason for his suspension and have threatened to impeach Health executive Misheck Mutuma if Baiyenia is not reinstated. Edited by R.Wamochie