National team head coach Cliff Owuor is pleased with the progress being made by his diaspora players ahead of the Fiba AfroBasket qualifiers in November. With the coronavirus pandemic gripping the global sporting activities, Owuor said self-discipline exhibited by the players will be key when the action finally resumes. “Their discipline is important at the moment. They must all take care during their training and I will continue engaging them in as far as training is concerned,” Owuor said. Diaspora players, he noted, remain key to Morans' qualification in the Fiba AfroBasket show slated for November at a venue yet to be announced. Kenya face against Africa powerhouses Angola, Senegal and Mozambique according to the draws conducted earlier in the year and three teams will qualify from this group. Kenya will go into this tournament well aware of the fact that their last continental outing was at home in 1993. Owuor, who guided the national side to their first podium finish earning a bronze medal during the inaugural Afro-Can show in Mali last year, is upbeat about their chances. “If I get all my players who are based outside the country in good form, we should do well. That is why I am really interested in their progress during this time,” he said. Rwanda-based Tom Wamukota and Ariel Okal, who plays in Algeria had their leagues cancelled but Owuor is following their daily training. “Exposure is something good. If they are able to play out there; that will do a lot to their confidence. It will also boost the confidence of others who they play with,” he added. Yesterday, he revealed that in the last 24 hours, he has been in touch with USA-based forwards Ronny Gundo and Robert Nyakundi as well as guard Tyler Ongwae. “I am working out from home and only have access to an outdoor court. We can go out for runs and the likes,” he added. Ongwae said: “I am doing well. I started doing the hill work and I hope to be in good shape when we resume. I haven’t touched a ball yet and all the gyms are closed.” Nyakundi noted: “I am ok. The courts are closed and everyone is practising social distancing so all I can do is run or do body workouts.” Kenya qualified for the show in Nairobi in January, winning a six-team Zone Five event that included Burundi, Eritrea, South Sudan, Somalia and Tanzania. The winners from all the seven zones were then drawn to meet the 16 teams that qualified from the previous championship in Tunisia.