Muslims in the country have differed on the start of the holy month of Ramadhan. Chief Kadhi Ahmed Mundhar on Thursday directed that Muslims in the country should start fasting on Saturday, which will be the first day of Ramadhan. He said the moon had not been sighted anywhere in the country or in the African continent. However, a section of Muslims argued that Thursday was 30th Shaban hence Friday should be the first day of Ramadhan according to the Hijri calendar. Kenya Assemblies of Ulama and Imams secretary General Sheikh Badru Khamis said the proclamation by the chief Kadhi was right and it is in line with the dictates of the Qur’an and the teachings of Prophet Muhammed. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Badru said those who will start fasting on Friday are using a pronouncement from Saudi Arabia. "Despite the sighting of hilal (new moon) in Saudi Arabia, it is not permissible for Kenyans to start fasting as we have not sighted the hilal. The chief Kadhi made frantic calls across the country and the East African region but no one confirmed to have sighted the moon.” Badru said some Muslims are forcing the country to follow Saudi Arabia. “It came as a surprise that at 9pm some people claimed the moon was sighted in Lamu while some said it had been sighted in Kwale. When Kadhi called he was informed that both Lamu and Kwale were cloudy and rainy. This means no moon was sighted but because they want us to follow Saudi Arabia, they claim they sighted the moon,” Badru said. Former chief Kadhi Sheikh Hammad Kassim said the misunderstanding about the start of Ramadhan is not a new thing. Kassim said the misunderstanding is brought about by different interpretations of the Qur’an. “We are supposed to start fasting when we sight the new moon. Some have interpreted this to mean whenever the moon is sighted anywhere in the world, then we can fast. Some believe they must see the moon in their country to start or end the fasting. These varied interpretations could have been addressed if the Prophet was with us but he is no more,” he said. He said both interpretations are accepted provided Muslims complete the mandatory days for fasting. “This has always been contentious. This depends on when the month of Shaban ends. To some Thursday was Shaban 29 while others believe it was 30. To avoid division and discord both scenarios are accepted,” Kassim said. Mundhar also shared a similar opinion. “The Islamic law accepts both provided Muslims complete 29 or 30 days of fasting,” Mundhar said. Edited by A.N