The High Court has ordered the reinstatement of a member of the Siaya County Public Service Board who was irregularly removed from office. Justice Mathew Nduma Nderi of the Employment and Labour Relations Court said  Ishmael Onyango Noo was supposed to serve for six years as a board member in the  Siaya county government. Noo had filed the petition citing the governor of Siaya and the county government as first and second respondents. Justice Nderi said, “ The appointment of the petitioner as member Siaya County Public Service Board is declared to be for a six-year fixed term by operation of the law (Section 58(4) (a) County Governments Act, No. 17 2012).” The judge directed the respondents to pay the petitioner full remuneration and gratuity in respect of the full six-year term he was mandated to serve. He noted that the petitioner was appointed a member of the Siaya County Public Service Board by a letter dated March 27, 2014, for a period of five years. "At the time of appointment, one year had elapsed from the date of the General Elections, and so, the petitioner’s term was to end with that of the board being one year after the next general elections in 2019,” he said. The judge said the petitioner wrote to the governor of Siaya on November 7, 2014, requesting that the appointment be rectified to the statutory term of six years. It was heard that the secretary of the board also wrote to the governor on October 5, 2017, notifying him of the resolution by the board to have the anomaly corrected. Justice Nderi said the appointment of the petitioner for a five-year term was a clear violation of Section 58 (4) (a) of the County Governments Act read with Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. “That this was also unfair labour practice in violation of Article 41 (2) (b) of the Constitution and also violated the dignity of the petitioner protected under Article 28 of the Constitution,” the judge ruled. He ruled the conduct of the respondents discriminated against the petitioner in violation of Article 27 of the Constitution in that the petitioner was subjected to different treatment from that of other members of the board who were appointed on a six-year term as mandated by law. Edited by Henry Makori