The government will use DNA tests to help families in Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot identify the bodies of their relatives who were killed in mudslides and floods. At least 32 people died in the tragedy when floods and mudslides swept through several villages in the two counties. Chesogon market was flattened, and so was a school and a police station. Two police officers died. Of the 32, some 16 are still missing. Only four full bodies have been recovered, the rest are body parts. “As per our records, 16 people are still missing, and we have only recovered body parts which cannot be identified except through DNA tests,” Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said on Tuesday. He said search teams have recovered only four full bodies. The majority of those who died were from the Elgeyo Marakwet, where about 150 families had been displaced. Another 130 families were displaced on the Pokot side. Natembeya said recovered body parts are being preserved in morgues in Tot and Kapenguria. The government has ended the search mission for those missing but residents said they are still searching for the 16 missing people. Leaders led by Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar and Soy MP Caleb Kostany have faulted the government for terminating the search. “The search should continue until residents are satisfied that no other body is lying out there,” Kamar said. However, Natembeya said a combined team, including the military, had extensively searched the area before calling off the exercise. Natembeya said each of the families that lost a relative would be given Sh50,000 to help with burial preparations. “Once the remains have been identified, or we confirm there is a missing person, the families will be given the money as assistance from the government,” Netembeya said. The government has also distributed food aid to all the displaced families along with all other starving residents in the area. So far, the Red Cross and many other organisations have distributed food that will last the families three weeks. “We lost more than 28 people in Elgeyo Marakwet. We are working with the state to ensure the affected families are assisted in the best way possible,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Edited by A.N