The Environment ministry on Thursday gave out Sh12 million equipment to handle medical waste generated during the coronavirus outbreak. The equipment will be distributed to 13 health facilities in different counties, including Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Kisumu. The equipment comprises colour-coded bins, bin liners, weighing scales, safety boxes, aprons, overalls, gloves and gumboots, eye-protective gear, helmets, and surgical masks. "In order to protect the environment and human health and prevent the spread of infections, there is a need for timely, orderly, efficient and harmless disposal of medical waste," Environment PS Chris Kiptoo said. More than 200 healthcare workers have been trained on the best available technologies and practices of biomedical and waste disposal to ensure safety in line with the World Health Organization guidelines. "Medical institutions and facilities must lead the way in how this should be done," Kiptoo said. The United Nations Environment Programme had urged countries to ensure that medical waste generated during the pandemic is managed well to minimise secondary impacts on health and the environment. UNEP said during such an outbreak, hazardous waste is generated, including infected masks, gloves and other protective equipment. “Unsound management of this waste could cause unforeseen knock-on effects on human health and the environment,” UNEP said in a statement. Kiptoo said open burning of waste should be seen as the single-most-important source of air pollution as its effects are direct and immediate. The PS said the country is cognizant of the grave danger in our dumpsites in Dandora, Mwakirunge, Gioto, Kachok and in numerous institutional and factory sites where solid waste are burned in the open. Ministry of Health Director in charge of Environment Dr Kepha Ombacho  said they will collaborate with Nema to deal with people who fail to properly dispose of face masks. United Nations Development Program Kenya Resident Representative Dr Walid Badawi said the project is timely. Edited by A.N