A man who cut a boda boda rider with a panga on the head, killing him after he found him with his wife in bed, has been found guilty of murder. Boniface Barasa was found guilty of the offence after the prosecution proved its case beyond doubt. Barasa was charged in 2017 with killing Boniface Ekesa in Busia county. It was the prosecution's case that the accused suspected the deceased to have had an affair with his wife. He armed himself with a panga and forcefully entered the house of the man where he fatally injured him. According to the evidence of Victor Barasa, who was a neighbour of the deceased, he was attracted by screams around 7pm. He went out to the house of the deceased where the screams were coming from. He found Barasa who was armed with a panga and was struggling with the deceased. The deceased was bleeding from the head and the right hand. He said Ekesa was unarmed. Corporal Geoffrey Jefwa testified that the incident was in the house of Ekesa, the deceased.  He said after Victor had reported the incident, they rushed to the scene and rescued Ekesa from the accused who was still beating him. The court noted that the postmortem report indicated that the cause of Ekesa's death was chemical peritonitis secondary to gall bladder perforation due to blunt abdominal trauma. The accused in his defence contended that when he returned from a journey, he found his wife and Ekesa in his (accused’s) bed naked and asleep. When he roused them, a struggle ensued between him and Ekesa. However, in the judgement delivered by Justice Kiarie Waweru on April 8, he found that contrary to the contention by the accused, the incident was in the house of the deceased. The judge also considered the evidence of Victor and that of corporal Jefwa who not only testified that the scene was in the house Ekesa but also that the door had been broken. He noted that Jefwa said when they visited the house of Ekesa, they noted signs of struggle and blood. "I therefore make a finding that the accused did not react to provocation," Justice Kiarie said. The judge added that he found that though Barasa may have had a genuine belief that his wife had an affair with Ekesa, Barasa had time to seek redress without resorting to taking the law into his hands. He said the accused plotted his action and armed himself with a panga before forcefully entering the house of the deceased. That was premeditated, Waweru said. "I therefore, from the foregoing, find that the offence of murder has been proved to the required standards. I find him guilty and accordingly convict him,” he ruled. Edited by Henry Makori