The body of a former senior Central Bank of Kenya employee Christopher Namachanja lies at the Lee Funeral Home as a woman fighting for recognition as his widow awaits a court ruling this week. Namachanja died two weeks ago after a six-month stay in hospital.  He was to be buried last Saturday but the woman - Daisy - went to court after Lucy Namachanja refused to recognise her as a co-wife and second widow of the deceased. Biological brothers and sisters among them Henry and stepbrothers Edwin and Geoffrey, have weighed in, supporting either of the women. Edwin is the principal of Maranda High School while Geoffrey is the financial controller of the National Museums of Kenya. According to Henry, his stepbrothers are interfering with the burial of his brother by siding with Lucy yet they knew Daisy was also married to Christopher. He spoke in the company of lawyer Dunstan Omari and one of his sisters. He claimed that none of his siblings visited Christopher in hospital and only showed up at Lee Funeral Home after his death. Henry said there was something fishy about deaths in his part of the family. According to him, his father Mathias Namachanja died of a heart attack. His mother too died of the same complications. “My late brother Pius, who was Kenya's ambassador to Brazil, died of heart attack and our sister too,” he said. He said that since his stepbrothers had sided with Lucy in demanding the DNA test of Christopher's children, then they too should undergo the same test. According to him, Silas, one of his stepbrothers, was included in Christopher's final rites Whatsapp group but pulled out. Henry and his sister have filed a consent document in court confirming that Daisy was their brother’s second wife and they were present during bride price negotiations in Kisii and Bungoma. He says that Lucy knew that Daisy was her co-wife and that they met on several occasions when Christopher was in the hospital. He says both women accompanied him to hospital visits and it was wrong for Lucy to disown Daisy. On Friday, both parties were before senior resident magistrate Karasi Orenge and confirmed they will not be filing any documents in court. The hearing resumes today. Daisy moved to court two weeks ago and stopped Christopher's burial of Christopher accusing Lucy of refusing to acknowledge her as a co-wife. The court halted the burial that was scheduled for last weekend pending the determination of the case. The Star called Edwin to respond to Henry's complaints but he declined to respond.