A lobby group in Mombasa wants the Kenya Ports Authority board to televise interviews for the managing director position. This is among a raft of measures the Commission for Human Rights and Justice wants in place to ensure transparency in the recruitment process. Apart from televising the interviews, CHRJ wants the list of all applicants for the job published in the local dailies. The lobby also wants the date of the interviews and the steps taken to ensure the process is free, fair and transparent announced to the public prior to the interviews. In a letter to KPA board chairman Joseph Kibwana, CHRJ executive director Julius Ogogoh says the measures will ensure the board picks the right person for the job. The MD post has attracted 10 applicants, the lowest in many years. The deadline for online submission of applications was last Friday. Among the people who applied for the job are acting MD Rashid Salim, KPA finance general manager Patrick Nyoike and former corporate service general manager Justus Nyarangi, the current executive secretary of the Northern Corridor Transit and Transport Coordination Authority. Others are general manager in charge of the Lamu port Abdullah Samatar, Sudi Masingo, in charge of the Kisumu port, head of strategy at the Kisumu port ICD Yobesh Oyaro and former engineering general manager Joseph Atonga. Last Tuesday, Transport CAS Chris Obure assured the applicants and Kenyans the recruitment will be above board. "We will ensure the exercise is open and transparent to the satisfaction of the stakeholders and the government," he said. Obure said only the deserving candidate will be recommended by the board to the Transport CS. “No name that does not deserve will be forwarded to the CS for appointment. That will never happen,” he said. Ogogoh on Tuesday said the holder of the position must be a person of impeccable character. “The port of Mombasa is a major gateway to East and Central Africa and, being the busiest port in the region, it plays a significant role in the economic empowerment of the people of Kenya through employment and revenue collection,” Ogogoh says in the letter. Failure to comply with the demands, the lobby will challenge the process in court, Ogogoh said. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali has called for a free and fair process in the recruitment exercise. He said the port is a crucial installation that has vested political, social and economic interests. “I would personally like to have a local as the MD. This will only be fair to the Coast people,” Ali told the Star on phone. The position fell vacant after Daniel Manduku resigned on March 26 through a letter to Transport CS James Macharia. Edited by Henry Makori