The majority of Kenyans believe more people than reported have been infected with the novel coronavirus and they are unaware they have it, a poll released by the Infotrak indicates. According to the poll results released on Sunday, 78 per cent of Kenyans believe that more cases are yet to be confirmed. The poll was conducted between March 30 and April 2 when 831 respondents were interviewed and the poll covered 24 counties out of 47. On Saturday, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said the country recorded 16 new cases, raising the number to 262. Kagwe said that the country has tested a total of 11,909 samples so far. Also, a total of 2,609 contacts have been monitored, out of which 2,036 have been discharged. At the same time, the poll shows that 64 per cent of Kenyans believe that the virus depends on personal health and personal finance issues. Responding to the measures outlined by the President to keep the economy running as the country continues to tackle the virus, 55 per cent believe that the measures set are adequate. Also, 50 per cent of Kenyans are not satisfied with the measures put in place to contain the spread of the virus. They feel that the vulnerable people in society should get a stipend from the government. The poll also reveals that many Kenyans are interested in the news regarding the outbreak. The polls show that 85 per cent of Kenyans are following news about the pandemic, while 82 per cent are feeling anxious and stressed about what is happening. At the same time, 87 per cent of Kenyans trust information about the virus given through the Ministry of Health. The performance of the Ministry of Health has been rated favourably with 61 per cent in the way that they deal with the crisis while the President has been rated at 59 per cent. CS Kagwe is backed by 87 per cent of the respondents who believe that he is giving the right information, while 85 per cent trust the information from the President. Both the television and radio were rated third and fourth respectively in terms of information given about the virus. 82 per cent trust television while 77 per cent trust news transmitted through the radio.