An additional 800 city county government employees have been seconded to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. They are drawn from the Inspectorate, administration and investigation departments as well as subcounty administrators. NMS director general Mohammed Badi published the names of the workers in a public notice on Friday. They are to report to their respective stations next week. The list includes 759 workers from the Inspectorate department, 21 from investigative, 14 subcounty administrators and six from the administration department. “The staff under-listed have been seconded to Nairobi Metropolitan Services with effect from April 22, 2020, and are hereby notified to report to their respective subcounties/duty station on Monday, April 27, 2020, and Tuesday between 8- 4pm for documentation and collection of letters of secondment,” reads the notice. Public Service Commission chairman Stephen Kirogo said the 800 are in addition to the 6,052 seconded to the NMS early this month. “Yes, these are new staff bringing a total of 6,852 now under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The additional ones are mostly for enforcement,” he said. The 800 are required to bring their original national identity card and staff identification card. Badi said any employee who fails to report on the stated days shall be deemed to have absconded duty and action will be taken in line with the relevant laws. In the first phase of the secondment of staff, Governor Mike Sonko had told employees to ignore the directive by the Public Service Commission. He said the NMS and the PSC had no jurisdiction over the employees of the Nairobi City County Government. “As it stands, the responsibility still remains with the Nairobi County Public Service Board to notify its employees of the purported secondment. The Public Service Commission, on the other hand, should operate within its mandate, and can only second national government officers to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services,” he said. However, workers ignored his order and collected their secondment letters at Uhuru Park, an exercise that took at least five days. The secondment of staff to the national government is provided for under Article 5.6 and 5.7 of the Deed of Transfer. The transfer deal was signed by Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa on February 25 in the presence of the President. As a result, the Planning and Development Services, Transport, Public Works, Utilities and Ancillary Services, and Health departments were handed over to the national government for two years. The transfer of functions followed complaints of mismanagement. The transfer deal became official on March 18, 2020, during the handover at State House. Consequently, President Uhuru created the Nairobi Metropolitan Services and appointed Major General Badi as the director general . He is deputised by Physical Planning PS Enosh Onyango Momanyi. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya