President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to issue fresh guidelines on cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi as the initial 21-day period lapse on Monday. There are fears the head of state may order tougher measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus following a spike in infection to 211 cases in the capital city alone. Kenya had 336 confirmed Covid-19 cases by Friday, with 14 deaths. Ninety-five patients had recovered. Uhuru on Friday chaired the National Security Council meeting at State House, Nairobi, to evaluate and review the coronavirus containment measures. The city is already on partial lockdown, with movement in and out of the capital banned, save for food transporters who have to get approval from the authorities. There is also the dusk-to-dawn curfew but more infection continues to be reported. The police have intensified enforcement of curfew and cessation of movement orders, with all bars and restaurants closed in compliance with social distancing measures. However, the state has arrested hundreds of Kenyans found on city estates breaching the regulations by hosting parties or locking themselves up in bars while drinking. Most of the violators have been rounded up and put into forced quarantine for 14 days. Experts say the high noncompliance level among residents has spiked the infection and would force the President to toughen measures. The current cessation of movement into and out of the Nairobi Metropolis took effect on April 6, while Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi were partially locked down from April 8. Mandera county, with eight Covid-19 cases, became the fifth county to be placed on partial lockdown on Wednesday. The spike in Covid-19 cases in Nairobi has been attributed to failure by residents to comply with the Ministry of Health's sanitation and social distancing guidelines. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has previously warned that the state will not hesitate to enforce more stringent measures to curb the spread of the virus. According to the CS, almost every other city estate has reported cases. Those on the infection list include Karen, South C, Utawala, Donholm, Eastleigh, Hurlingham, Ruaka, Kawangware, Lavington, Runda, Ngara, Madaraka and Kasarani. “I want to plead with all of us to take the measures we have announced more seriously,” Kagwe said in his Wednesday update. When he issued the Covid-19 containment guidelines on April 6, the President called on all Kenyans to put aside their differences and stand together to defeat the virus. “Make no mistake, we are at war and we must be together if we shall win this war. I issue these enhanced measures well aware that they will inconvenience many Kenyans. However, by not doing so, this can only lead to even greater suffering for the people of Kenya,” he said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)