A soldier has been ordered to pay his former wife the Sh2 million she spent in the construction of their four-bedroom matrimonial home. This followed a successful divorce application by Sadia (not her real name) in  Isiolo's kadhi court case. Sadia had sought the dissolution of her 20-year marriage to Ali*, a Kenya Defence Forces officer, payment of dowry, custody and maintenance of their six children and division of matrimonial property. The divorce application was pegged on her husband's cruelty and negligence of his parental responsibilities. Principal Kadhi Abdulhalim Arhman's verdict on April 9 was: "I find and hold that her prayer has merit. It is hereby granted. Defendant to refund petitioner Sh2 million as her share of the matrimonial property.” The kadhi noted that the petitioner had only prayed for a refund of Sh2 million "although her contribution is more than that". Sadia had in court papers said her husband "insulted her in vulgar and abusive words, assaulted her and, despite interventions by elders, he failed to reform”. She filed for divorce after village elders unsuccessfully tried to reconcile them for more than 30 times. Ali denied the accusations, asserting that he was the sole breadwinner and had been taking care of his children with money collected by Sadia from his rented properties. He said he bought the petitioner a car, opened a butchery for her and gave her money for the construction of their house when he was out of the country on official duties. The two were married under Islamic law in 1999 in Isiolo and had six children. Sadia runs a butchery in Isiolo town while the respondent is a KDF officer based at Isiolo. The petitioner, according to court papers, had been forced to leave the matrimonial home more than 20 times due to mistreatment, violence and death threats. The final straw was when she allegedly saw a knife under his pillow. This prompted her to leave the house. The court heard that even after she had left, he followed her to the butchery, hurling insults at her. He also accused her of having an affair with another man. A witness told the court that Ali had promised to divorce Sadia if he was paid Sh150,000, but when this did not happen he threatened her with a knife. - mwaniki fm