More than 11,000 people in areas prone to mudslides and flooding have been ordered to move to higher ground in West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi and parts of Baringo counties. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya and county commissioners said families in the risky areas should move immediately or they would be moved forcibly to avert disasters such as the one in West Pokot. The confirmed death toll is 12 but it is expected to rise. More than 25 people are missing. Search and rescue teams are combing through the rubble. Two policemen died.  More than 4,000 people have been displaced by mudslides and flooding in West Pokot. Governors in the North Rift Economic Bloc have teamed up with the national government to help those displaced in West Pokot and evacuate others. “We urge those in areas prone to flooding and mudslides throughout the region to move away as quickly as possible. We are mobilising resources to help more than 4,000 people affected in the West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. He is the Noreb chairman. The mudslides swept away Chesogon Market and villages along the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. “We have sent out geologists and other experts to asses all areas especially those that are hilly and have escarpments. People there should move out," Natembeya said. The government and the Red Cross society are distributing relief food, clothing and supplies to displaced people in West Pokot. Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Ahmed Omar and his West Pokot counterpart Apollo Okello are leading efforts to help displaced families camping at schools. Residents suffered heavy losses from the destruction of their homes and market businesses. “It’s still raining quite heavily in most areas and people must move out quickly to avoid a disaster," Okello said. Families camping in schools and other places will be assisted in controlling the spread of the coronavirus. They are to be given soap and water and are encouraged to practice social distancing. In Nandi county, more than 600 people in the Tinderet were told to move to safer grounds as mudslides hit Chepkaroi village. Many displaced families camped at Chepkaroi Primary School. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said the county was assessing the safety in flooding and mudslide areas. (Edited by V. Graham)