Are there powerful political hands pushing for the removal of a woman governor beyond the county? Sources whisper to Corridors there are at least two things at play beyond the governor’s differences with a section of MCAs. First is her stand on national politics that seems to have rattled the Tangatanga wing. Then there is President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession politics. Some politicos from her county's region believe the impeachment plot is the only way to slow down the governor, who is plotting for a bigger seat in 2022. According to some county officials, this explains why some MCAs are pre-occupied with the removal bid at a time other assemblies are grappling with how to contain the coronavirus. A Jubilee MP from Kiambu county could be plotting a gubernatorial run in 2022. The politician is said to be laying firm ground to challenge Governor James Nyoro. The MP, who has been a close friend of Nyoro, has reportedly told confidants he would go for nothing short of the governor's seat. He has started mobilising some MPs from the region to support him, a move that has brought about premature campaigns in the populous county. The battle lines are likely to become hardened and more evident given the high temperatures marring campaigns in the region. There is word former Governor Ferdinand Waititu could be brought to this camp. This would likely boil over as a revenge war seldom witnessed in Kenya. A CEC from a county in Western seems to be more powerful than even the governor. The man, who is in charge of a critical docket, has been issuing instructions not only to his peers, but he has also been taking the county chief head-on. Sources revealed he has clashed with the governor on several occasions during CEC meetings. The official is said to be a relative of a top politician who handpicked the current governor in the last two elections. The CEC has been telling his colleagues that he does not fear the county boss as he was given the seat on a silver platter by his relative. Are police officers above the law? Or immune to the highly contagious coronavirus? Without nitpicking, they put themselves at risk of contracting the disease every day in enforcing the curfew. While the government has been clear on how Kenyans are indisciplined, little do they know that their very own disciplined officers are violating Covid-19 rules. Corridors yesterday zoomed into a police van, fully packed with officers and civilians at Umoja. The driver of the mini-van seemed unaware why the government is taking drastic measures, including ordering a curfew. Maybe a little training would help.