Machakos governor Alfred Mutua has waived water bills for household consumption for the next seven months effective May 1. Mutua said the move was a way of cushioning Kenyans during these difficult times as the country fights the coronavirus pandemic. Mutua urged service providers to work together and cushion Kenyans by making their lives more comfortable in these trying moments. "On my part, I am waiving all water charges for household consumption in Machakos county," he said. "Effective from May 1st until the end of the year, Dec 31st, 2020, as we continue working towards free domestic water in the whole of Machakos county." In a statement sent to media houses on Sunday, Mutua proposed that electricity and water bills should be waived and VAT removed from essential commodities like gas and paraffin countrywide. "Due to the slowdown of the economy perpetuated by the coronavirus pandemic, and in anticipation of further stringent measures by the central government, I propose more economic actions to further cushion mwananchi from its effects," Mutua said. He added that Kenya Power should waive electricity bills for household consumption for six months. "I also call on public water companies around the country to also not charge water for household consumption for a similar period," Mutua said. The governor urged the National Treasury to waive VAT charges on cooking gas and paraffin to allow households to have money left in their pockets to buy food and other essential commodities. Mutua said the electricity waiver can be up to a certain level that is enough for household use for lighting and other household appliances. He said businesses’ and industries’ bills should also receive a 50 per cent discount to cushion them during these slow economic times. The Maendeleo Chap Chap leader said Kenyans, especially those from poor backgrounds and the marginalised, should be cushioned by practical measures that only reduce the profits of some companies without affecting their operations. "We should remember that Kenya is not only for the able and rich. Most Kenyans live from hand to mouth and struggle to make ends meet," he said. "Last year, for example, KPLC declared a whopping profit of Sh334 million. Studying the company's declared financial estimates and revenue, it is clear that KPLC can afford to waive power charges for households for even a year."