Lugari MP Ayub Savula has filed a motion in Parliament to compel the government to suspend the payment of Chinese loans. Savula argues that China, Kenya’s largest creditor, should help the government address the economic challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government needs a grace period on its loans to meet the huge cost of social protection stimulus package for its citizens,” he said. He said that the national economy will contract because of the coronavirus hence be unable to pay Sh71.4 billion in loans to China in the current financial year. The proposed motion notes that China makes Sh650 billion of total external debt with over half the annual budget set aside for debt repayment. On March 25, the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund called on all official bilateral creditors to suspend debt payments from International Development Association countries that request forbearance. This is to help with IDA countries’ immediate liquidity needs to tackle the challenges posed by the coronavirus outbreak. The break would also allow time for an assessment of the crisis impact and financing needs for each country. The two institutions asked G20 leaders to task the WBG and the IMF to make these assessments, including identifying the countries with unsustainable debt situations, and to prepare a proposal for comprehensive action. The World Bank Group and the IMF said they believed it is imperative to provide a global sense of relief for developing countries as well as a strong signal to financial markets Savula explained that the pandemic has already disrupted businesses and the labour market due to declining commodity prices and a weaker shilling. “The government faces significant fiscal challenges including a drop in tax receipts, which means it may not be able to pay all its debtors,” he added. Already, commercial banks have been ordered to provide relief to borrowers on their personal loans, with loans eligible from March 2 extended by up to one year. Central Bank of Kenya governor Patrick Njoroge said the move would alleviate the adverse economic effects borrowers may face due to the pandemic. And to boost the private sector, Njoroge ordered for the assessment and restructuring of loans being serviced by medium-sized businesses and corporate borrowers. Njoroge said the banks will meet all the costs related to the extension and restructuring of loans. The coronavirus outbreak is likely to have severe economic and social consequences for IDA countries, home to a quarter of the world’s population and two-thirds of the world’s population living in extreme poverty. (edited by o. owino)