The Communications Authority of Kenya has been allowed to resume consultations with mobile network operators over the development of a system to aid in identifying counterfeit devices. Court of Appeal judges Martha Koome, Daniel Musinga and William Ouko set aside the orders of a lower court that stopped the implementation of the device management system (DMS). They further directed the CA to continue with the discussions to complete related technical and consumer guidelines.  They want the guidelines subjected to public participation. On April 19, 2018, trial judge John Mativo declared that the policy or regulation seeking to implement the DMS was adopted in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. He subsequently annulled it. He also cited lack of public participation. But the appellate judges said Mativo clearly misapprehended the issues before him when he found the freedom of right to privacy of consumers threatened and that there was no public participation. They said there was no concrete evidence that the DMS was going to spy or intrude into private communication other than the unsupported newspaper cuttings adduced in court. The judges expressed their displeasure, saying it was unfortunate that the challenges posed by Safaricom could no longer be addressed owing to Mativo's declaration on the illegality of the process leading to the implementation of the DMS. “The challenge that was there in the mobile communication sector remained unaddressed and this lends credence to  CA’s legitimate concern about their mandate as the regulator and the challenge of the illegal mobile operators,” they said. The DMS was still in the configuration design stage and consultations with stakeholders were ongoing, they added. It was also clear to them that there were genuine issues raised by the operators, including security concerns and consumer awareness that were still being discussed. They said even if the DMS was for installation, there was no credible evidence to demonstrate that the system was meant to spy on consumers' private information rather than to net out the illegal operators. Regarding public participation, the judges held that records of consultative meetings held between the stakeholders and the operators demonstrate that it was given a chance. However, the final working document on how the DMS would operate was not agreed upon as the process of consultation was not completed. “Since the process was not completed, it would be premature to decide whether public participation was adequate or not,” they said. What triggered the dispute in the appeal was a series of letters by the CA to the major stakeholders, including mobile network operators Safaricom, Airtel and Telkom Kenya.  The letters generally requested the operators to provide access to CA’s technical team for purposes of survey and installation of the system. When Mativo declared policy seeking to implement DMS null and void, the authority, through lawyer Wambua Kilonzo, appealed against the decision. He submitted that although the device had been procured, the methodology of its use and interaction with other operators was still under discussion. He said there was no evidence in support of the petition to inform any of the conclusions reached by the judge on alleged spy capabilities of the proposed system. The lawyer said stopping the installation meant that the cartels who extort and demand money for the call ends cannot be blocked and cloning of counterfeit devices without detection continues unabated. Kilonzo also faulted the judge for finding that there was inadequate public participation prior to the process leading up to the acquisition and the attempt to install the DMS system. Activist Okiya Omtatah, who was the petitioner, on the other hand, opposed the appeal. He argued that the DMS was clawing back the gains protected by the Constitution by giving the regulator powers through the back door to interfere and spy on consumers' telephone communications, hence violating the right to privacy.