The Kirinyaga government has moved traders to car parks to decongest major markets. The agricultural county hosts some of the busiest fresh produce markets, which attract thousands of traders from across the country. Governor Anne Waiguru said on Friday busy markets are fertile ground for the spread of Covid-19. The governor, who was inspecting car parks on Thursday, said obeying the guidelines laid down by the national government, especially social distancing, is the only way to beat the virus. “We will utilise our parking spaces in Kagio, Kutus, Kerugoya and Kianyaga to expand the market spaces and if that is not enough, we will use the unoccupied spaces adjacent to the markets,” Waiguru said. The car parks have been demarcated to enforce the social distancing measure. Banana traders at Kagio market have been relocated to the nearby Kagio Secondary School grounds.  The governor had earlier abolished market days, usually on Tuesday and Friday, that brought together thousands of traders from as far as Mombasa and Nairobi. “The market days cannot continue but traders are free to sell their wares any day of the week to reduce congestion in the markets,” she said. The county Covid-19 task force decided not to close down markets as it would adversely affect the lives of many people who depend on them. The governor, however, urged the traders to be on the front line in the fight against coronavirus by ensuring that they adhere to the guidelines given by the government. She pointed out that law enforcement officers are going round the markets to ensure there is no crowding. The county has also established handwashing points in markets and shopping centres. “Our aim is to have at least one handwashing station every 10 metres in all public places because washing hands is the first line of defence against the coronavirus,” Waiguru said. The governor, who also supervised the fumigation of Kagio and Kutus markets, said the county will disinfect all public facilities. She said the county government has set up a schedule to disinfect markets, health facilities and shopping centres. Edited by A.N