The Kirinyaga Jubilee branch has asked the party headquarters to revoke the nomination of 13 MCAs for supporting the impeachment of Governor Anne Waiguru. Chairman Muriithi Wakang’ara and other party officials said the MCAs should put more effort in coming up with policies and frameworks in the war on coronavirus rather than engaging in “non-issues”, meaning Waiguru. Muriithi said on Monday a nominated MCA should fight for the interests of the party and not against it. He said it is disappointing for Jubilee ward representatives to join others in supporting the impeachment motion that was moved on Wednesday last week. “These nominated MCAs should be disciplined for violating the party’s constitution. I urge the party to revoke the nomination of the 13 MCAs immediately and [replace them with] others who have the interests of the party at heart,” Muriithi said. He said the nominated MCAs don’t care about the welfare of Kirinyaga. He hailed Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju for dismissing majority leader James Murango from his position over his involvement in the impeachment bid. In the impeachment motion, the MCAs accuse the governor of gross violation of the Constitution by not delivering the annual state of the county address to the assembly. Waiguru undermined the authority of the county assembly by not submitting county plans and policies for approval and failing to table annual reports on implementation status, they charged. She is also accused of violating the Public Procurement and Disposal Act and Public Finance and Management Act by establishing an irregular tender evaluation committee composed of her partisan staff, Pauline Kamau and Wayne Gichira, who take direct instructions from her, they said. Waiguru has dismissed the grounds for her proposed impeachment, terming them flimsy. On her failure to address the assembly, Waiguru said it was not a constitutional requirement, but she pointed out she had done so twice since her election in 2017. Regarding accusations that she pocketed travel allowances despite not travelling, the governor said when she was issued with an imprest and the trip did not materialise she surrendered the money. Edited by A.N