Some bishops and pastors in Rift Valley complain they are suffering economic hardship following government orders to end church attendance to control the spread of the coronavirus. Large gatherings everywhere are banned to observe social distancing and people are encouraged to pray at home. That means no Sunday offerings and tithes in hard economic times. The clergymen say many of them were directly employed by their churches and some even deployed away from their homes. The empty churches - and lack of offerings - have undermined their livelihoods. “We are asking the government to set up a fund to help many church leaders who cannot make ends meet following the closure of churches," Bishop Wilson Kurui said. He is chairman of the Bishops and Pastors in the North Rift region. Kenyans have been hurt economically by the virus and cannot afford to pay regular tithes or make Sunday offerings and give other support. These contributions fund church operations, including salaries for pastors and bishops. “The government should help us because we are also Kenyans and with needs to meet. The government should not always call us for prayers when there is a need and then abandon us when we are in need," Bishop Kurui said. Several pastors including John Nangabo, Paul Kimutai and Joseph Lokuri said the closure of the churches had hurt them financially and spiritually. Kurui and the pastors said, however, they fully support efforts to control the spread of the coronavirus. He said the government should consider partially opening the churches to allow the clergy to pray while fully observing Covid-19 control measures. A section of the bishops in Rift Valley has been sending out Sunday messages to their congregations, urging them to all follow government regulations to control spread of the virus. Following the ban on religious gatherings, some of the bishops have been preaching online or using recorded sermons broadcast on radio and TV. Many sermons urge people to follow virus control measures. Kurui said they were worried by the casual manner and ignorance of some people who deliberately defy virus control measures, such as the dusk-to-dawn curfew and social distancing. “There are some Kenyans still shaking hands and hugging each other, completely ignoring social distancing requirements outlined by the government,” Bishop Kurui said. (Edited by V. Graham)