The court has ruled Daisy Namachanja is indeed the second widow of senior CBK employee Christopher Namachanja. The Thursday ruling brings to a close the burial dispute lodged in court by Daisy against the first wife, Lucy Namachanja. That led the court to stop the funeral. Namachanja died last month. Daisy had argued that she had been alienated from taking part in her husband’s final rites, insisting she was the second wife and they had three children. In his ruling, senior resident magistrate D.M.Kivuti ordered the Lee Funeral Home to release the body to both widows for burial in Bungoma. “Daisy Kenyuri Moraa Onguti and Lucy Ijai Bureza Namachanja shall have equal rights of participation in the burial preparation of the deceased,” he ruled. The court further ruled that both widows are at liberty to attend the burial on par with other family members in conformity with Luhya customs and practice. Kivuti also had expressed the desire that the parties would strike an amicable agreement on the burial procedures and accord a befitting sendoff based on their culture. Regrettably, he said, that did not happen and his court had a duty to settle the dispute. He said enough evidence was produced in court by Daisy to show that she indeed had been married. The magistrate said when evidence suggests more than one widow, both ought to participate in the burial in the interests of justice and fair play. Daisy had produced the admission note at Nairobi Hospital describing her as a spouse to Namachanja and the birth certificates identifying him as the father of their three children. She also showed the court photographs of their traditional wedding ceremony and dowry payments both in Kisii and Bungoma, with the full participation of the Namachanja as father and husband. She also attached a joint account at NIC bank in both their names. The court said Lucy never challenged any of Daisy's evidence as not being authentic. The magistrate said there was no indication the interaction between Daisy and Namachanja would have been constrained by any provision of the Marriage Laws. “It is, therefore, my take that the deceased affianced himself in a customary setting of a marriage, which practice allowed polygamy dealings. It's only on this platform that the applicant found herself on board. Moreover, the materials in support of her case now placed before me are satisfactory enough to presume a marriage between the applicant and the deceased," Kivuti ruled. The blood brothers and sisters of Namachanja had thrown their weight behind Daisy by recognising her as his second wife, while they alleged that their stepbrothers had backed Lucy the first wife. In her defence, Lucy had told the court that she did not know who Daisy was calling a stranger in their marriage. Through her lawyer, she claimed that she was not aware that her husband had a second wife but Daisy told the court Lucy knew about her and they would even meet in the hospital when Namachanja was ill. (Edited by V. Graham)