  Prices of basic commodities have increased in Migori as residents grapple with dwindling supply amid the fight against coronavirus. Food prices, especially vegetables which are often being sourced from Rift Valley counties, meat, fish and charcoal have skyrocketed in the last one week. The Star conducted a spot check on Saturday and Sunday and found a kilo of meat selling at Sh400 down from Sh300 previously. Pices of women and fresh water sardines have increased by between Sh50 and Sh100 for a 2kg packet. Anne Atieno, a Migori town resident, said the price of a sack of charcoal which used to trade for between Sh1,500 and Sh2,000 has doubled. “We have been faced with increased prices of nearly all commodities. We believe traders have colluded to hike prices amid coronavirus fight while blaming government directives,” Atieno said. Samuel Migore, chairman of the Migori Small Traders Association, said the closure of markets and increased transport charges caused by tough measures to push social distance in public service vehicle has pushed up the cost of doing business. “Most businesses have been affected, the few remaining ones are struggling to meet high demand over disrupted supply of goods, which has affected trade,” Migore said. He accused overzealous police officers enforcing the dusk-to-dawn curfew of intimidating traders. “In Awendo last week, police officers threw foodstuff away while in Migori several goods were confiscated,” Migore said. Rice, cattle and maize which are often imported from neighbouring Tanzania have stopped after the border was closed. Already, Migori Governor Okoth Obado in a bid to cushion businesses waived taxes to cushion traders. “We should avoid crowded places at all cost, Kenyans should know if we don’t follow the measures fully we will face a lockdown,” Obado said on Friday. He said businesses and traders should ensure they adhere to Health directives of using face masks in public places and maintaining social distance.  Edited by Peter Obuya