Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company will repair existing public toilets to help with sanitation as they re-organise water equitability. This is to enable the government to curb the spread of coronavirus. So far Kenya has reported more than 100 confirmed cases with three deaths. In a statement on Friday, board chairperson Beryl Odinga said they shall ensure that handwashing facilities are available in all the public toilets and police stations within the city. She noted that they have reorganised the equitable water distribution in high demand areas such as Mukuru, Mathare and the informal settlements. The demand for water in the city is over 810,000m3/day against an installed production of 525,600m3/day giving unmet demand of 284,400m3/day. "These places will start getting water five days in a week, while other high-density areas will now receive water twice a week," Odinga said. Odinga said the company will deploy 10 water tankers to be distributing free water for hand washing in Kibera, Mukuru, Mathare and other informal settlements. "To increase access to water in these settlements, we shall be drilling 20 boreholes in Kibera, Mukuru, Mathare, Gatina, Mihango, Kangemi, Riruta, Utawala, Ruai in Kayole, Matopeni among other areas," she said. "We shall also be monitoring the boreholes to ensure the public is accessing clean and safe water." She said that the NCWSC in partnership with Athi Water Works Development Agency is currently installing over 800 free hand washing points across Nairobi. "We shall also distribute and install 60 water storage tanks in those facilities as well. We appeal to the city residents to make good use of these handwashing points," she said. "We condemn the unscrupulous and selfish behaviour by individuals who have no regard or public safety and have since tried to sabotage our efforts by vandalizing some of these points." Globally the death toll has surpassed the 45,000 mark with over 1,000,000 confirmed cases. On Thursday, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe confirmed two new deaths over coronavirus. This brings to three the number of people killed by coronavirus since the disease was reported in Kenya on March 13. The first Covid-19 death in Kenya was reported last week at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi.