The anti-graft agency is investigating a million-shilling contract linked to curbing the spread of coronavirus in Kilifi county. In a letter seen by the Star, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has written to the county secretary requesting original documents of a tender was awarded to Pharmaken Limited. The tender is for the repair and maintenance of equipment in county hospitals as part of measures to address the Covid-19 pandemic. The letter dated April 14 and signed by the Coast Upper North EACC regional boss Ignatius Wekesa is addressed to county secretary Arnold Jefwa. Contacted for comment, Wekesa said the commission was still gathering information into the issue. The county is supposed to submit the procurement plan, requisition and approval of the procurement. It should also provide the budgetary allocation, prequalified list of medical suppliers, a detailed scope of work and the tender advertisement. “Kindly avail the tender opening advertisement, opening register, opening minutes, evaluation minutes and letter of notification of awards,” the letter reads. Other documents requested are the acceptance letter, signed contract and payments vouchers. Jefwa confirmed receiving the letter and said he would liaise with the relevant department (health) on the issue. “I am aware of the letter. I have alerted those concerned and they are to give the official position over the matter,” Jefwa said. So far, Kilifi has confirmed 10 cases of coronavirus, with the county’s Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi facing charges of knowingly passing the infection to others including his driver. Saburi, who is battling to be released on bond, had travelled to Germany for an official trip. He has since denied, through his lawyer, testing positive for the disease. Several county officials, including Governor Amason Kingi, had to go on self-isolation. The county has established six isolation centres so far. It was the first to report a case of the virus in the Coast but Mombasa now leads with 38 cases. Edited by Henry Makori