Former Kenya Meat Commission CEO Ibrahim Haji Isaak has been ordered to refund Sh11.5 million he fraudulently took while at the helm of the parastatal. Justice John Onyiego said the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had proved that Isaak withdrew the money from the KMC account but failed to account for it. He will repay the money with interest at court rates of 12 per cent from April 30, 2012. The EACC case was that on or about April 2012, Isaak proceeded to the head office of First Community Bank situated at Jamia Mosque in Nairobi and presented a letter requesting to withdraw Sh11.5 million. Bank officials approved the withdrawal. Subsequently, the commission received information that the amount withdrawn by the CEO was not accounted for. No paper trail was filed with the KMC office to show how the money was spent. Investigations conducted by the commission revealed that Isaak did not follow the laid-down procedure in requisitioning the money. The withdrawal was termed fraudulent and in total breach of trust placed in the office of Isaak by the public. EACC said the withdrawal was made purportedly on behalf of KMC, but the funds were used for private gain as no receipts of accounts were filed. Judge Onyiego said Isaak failed to account for the public funds. He was duty-bound to refund the money to the corporation through the EACC. He said the former boss did not explain to the satisfaction of the court how he spent the money withdrawn. Isaak defended himself that the Auditor General's financial report for the year ending June 30, 2012, did not flag any irregularity and that the commission was given a clean bill of health. But Onyiego ruled that the absence of an accurate auditor's report could not invalidate the available strong evidence. “I looked at the report attached by Haji which seemed not to have captured any specific expenditure on the account in question,” the judge said. The report, he said, was not conclusive per se and if there was other available strong evidence to hold a party liable, a court could not be swayed by an auditor's report especially when they are conflicting. Isaak had claimed that he used the money to buy livestock for the commission in Narok and Garissa. But evidence on record by various witnesses indicated that he was not authorised by the corporation's management or board to withdraw the cash. He was also not supposed to go to the market to do direct cash purchase of livestock. Onyiego in his judgment said it was incumbent upon the ex-CEO to prove that he did spend the money according to the required procedure. “He claimed to have bought the livestock in the company of one Mutemi and Billy. He, however, did not call any of those people to confirm their role in the purchase of the animals,” the judge said. He faulted Isaak for failing to call any of the people who accompanied him to the market from where he bought the animals. “It is not enough to state that he bought the animals and surrendered all necessary supporting documents without proof,” the judge said. Edited by Henry Makori