Two insiders are among the applicants for the post of Kenya Ports Authority managing director to replace Daniel Manduku. They are Yobesh Oyaro, a long-serving senior manager in the procurement department who was moved to Kisumu in a major reshuffle in 2018, and Vincent Sidai, the GM infrastructural development. There are only nine days left before the deadline for applications. On Tuesday, KPA board chairman Joseph Kibwana said all applications should be in by April 24. “We shall continue receiving applications and since it is online, there is nothing we can do until that day,” Kibwana told the Star, adding that several other individuals had expressed interest. The seat fell vacant after  Manduku resigned on March 26 through a letter to Transport CS James Macharia. His resignation takes effect from June 1.  He is on terminal leave until then. Manduku became the MD in May 2018, taking over from Catherine Mturi. The board advertised for the position on April 6. Joseph Atonga, a retired general manager Engineering Services at KPA, is also said to have applied for the position. Rashid Salim, a long-serving KPA engineer, is the MD. Sources said Salim, who has been with KPA for 38 years, is not keen due to either his age (he has a year to serve before retirement) or the pressure that comes with the job. There have been reports that he was being fronted for the seat due to his vast experience. And as a shift from tradition, the MD recruitment will be overseen by the board, rather than the leading consulting firm, Deloitte Kenya. In the past, the firm advertised on KPA’s behalf, shortlisted, called for interviews, vetted and forwarded names to the Transport Ministry. After Manduku's resignation, KPA said it would recruit an individual with a high degree of integrity and professionalism, impeccable administrative capabilities and strategic orientation. “The person should be a holder of a bachelor's and master's degree in either Port Management, Maritime and Shipping Logistics, Engineering, Business, Social Sciences, Public Policy or Science and Technology from a recognised institution.” The candidate is expected to have at least a year of relevant work experience and must have served for not less than eight years in a managerial or leadership role in a large organisation. Candidates who have an understanding of the port industry and naval operations will have an added advantage. “An attractive remuneration package and benefits determined in line with prevailing public sector guidelines awaits the successful candidate,” Kibwana said. The appointment is contractual for an initial period of three years and  renewable for another term based on performance and business. The position has in the past seen several MDs fired, resign or unceremoniously leave before the end of their term. Since 1979, the position has been held by 15 people, Salim being the latest in an acting capacity. Since then, seven bosses have been sacked, while four were forced to resign. The reasons for their sacking range from graft allegations, incompetence, and embezzlement of funds to sabotage and witch-hunt, infrastructural developments, port privatisation, unscrupulous dealers and political meddling. Edited by A.N