The Nyeri government is fumigating all markets and bus parks to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It started with the three markets and three bus parks in Nyeri town at around 7pm on Tuesday. The exercise will continue until the virus is contained and the designated areas will be cleaned once or twice a week. “We shall be fumigating all areas where many people frequent such as markets and bus parks. We are doing the same in Karatina town,” Governor Mutahi Kahiga said. “The fumigation exercise is part of my government’s plan in fighting the virus and will be carried out weekly by the firefighting department.” The county firefighting team was expected to disinfect Naromoru and Mweiga towns in Kieni constituency on Wednesday, before proceeding to Othaya, Tetu and Mukurwe-ini on Thursday. The governor said many people arrive from different parts of the country through the town’s bus parks and could have dispersed the virus. In Nyeri town, the fumigation started at the lower bus park used mostly be vehicles plying the Nyeri–Nairobi route, and the open-air and Mudavadi markets that sandwich the bus stage. Nairobi has been named as the epicentre of the infection. By Tuesday, 59 cases had been confirmed positive across the country. No case has been reported in Nyeri. The operation was set to start on Monday but was postponed to Tuesday following downpours. Kahiga appealed to residents to religiously adhere to the directives given by the government and medical experts to prevent the spread of the disease. He thanked the Nyeri business community, led by Ephantus Thuku of Adonai Foundation, for pledging support to the county government through the provision of masks and foods. “Other stakeholders such as the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology and Kibos Sugar Company have pledged their support,” he said. The university is already mass-producing hand sanitiser, face masks and protective gear for hospitals staff and the frontline responders so they don’t expose themselves to the virus. “The national government will provide 10,000 sanitiser weekly to key sectors such as the transport industry,” the county chief said. (Edited by F'Orieny)