A driver of a leading hardware firm in Mombasa who almost lost his life in a botched robbery attempt is now demanding Sh5million as compensation for incapacitation. Aboud Nyenye, 26, has sued Mohammed Kassam, manager at A.N Isaak Hardware Limited, over the incident that occurred two years ago which caused the death of an accountant, Rashid Omar. Police are also running a parallel investigation into the killing of the accountant even as reports emerge that property wrangles within the family company could be linked to the incident. Several letters from the family have been sent to the Inspector General of Police, protesting over multiple cases over the same incident being investigated. The incident occurred along Jomo Kenyatta Avenue when armed gunmen shot at them killing the accountant and seriously injuring Nyenye. A report was filed at Makupa Police Station through OB number 60/5/11/2018, by one of the relatives leading to the summoning of one of the hardware owners, who has since recorded statements on several occasions. Among the issues being pursued is that a ballistic report is availed, that would give indications over how Omar met his death and weapon used, also how the vehicle KBV 896A station wagon had been trailed. Through his lawyer, Daniel Wangila, Nyenye says despite being shot at the neck, just below the jaw, and at the chest, his manager insisted they drive to bank the cash that had been stashed in a sack. His lawyer now wants police to investigate the shooting incident. He has written to the DPP who has in turn directed that the file be forwarded to the DPP’s office. Wangila confirmed that his client had already taken a medical examination, which was to assess incapacitation, as they prepare to file a claim. “We shall use the medical reports from the hospital, to argue our case. We need to understand why the cash was being transported without escort, endangering the workers’ lives,” he said. The DPP has also ordered police officers to speed up investigations into the matter that is allegedly linked to a protracted family tussle. The driver turned down a Sh231,680 offer from his employer who had also paid through insurance, over Sh1.2million for his treatment during his nine days of admission. The family has written protest letters to the Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, on how police are investigating the case. A senior police officer who sought anonymity said the case is strong and I premised on a family wrangle. He added that there is one member who will be interrogated further. “This is a family issue, no need of rushing it. We have identified one member whom we are zeroing on soon. I must get statements from him since he has been mentioned severally,” said the officer.