Human rights groups say quarantining curfew violators is counterproductive to the war on Covid-19. They have criticised the government for the directive. Amnesty International and Economic and Social Rights Centre (Hakijamii) told a parliamentary committee that the Health ministry directive exposes a number of Kenyans to the risk of contracting the virus. AI executive director Irungu Houghton recommended that violators be fined or imprisoned for six months, instead of being put together with people who may be infected. He said quarantining violators is likely to put the lives of many Kenyans at risk. The organisations added that the directive creates a wrong perception that being quarantined is a punishment, which will hurt the objective of creating such centres. “By so doing, we are criminalising quarantine. Mixing violators with suspected cases puts them at risk of contracting this particular virus,” Irungu said. He spoke during a virtual meeting with the Senate Committee on the Covid-19 situation in the country, chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja. Last Sunday, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi announced that Kenyans found outside during the curfew period will be assumed to have been in contact with suspected cases of the virus and will be placed in quarantine. “Going forward, all those who break curfew rules will be assumed to have been in contact with suspected cases, hence they will be quarantined for 14 days,” Dr Mwangangi said. But Irungu expressed concern that the directive on mandatory quarantine and the isolation of people affected by Covid-19 is uncoordinated, unplanned and not guided by any guideline available to the public. "There has been recklessness in the way people have been handled or had to face exorbitant costs. Too many mandatory centres have exposed persons in quarantine to deplorable living conditions and a lack of information,” he said. “It is our view that those quarantined have a right to know what to expect in terms of the quality of the services provided, period, costs and for those serving them to have personal protective equipment.” Irungu urged the government to adhere to its own guidelines and meet the cost of providing safe, clean and hygienic facilities. He said it should monitor the physical and mental health of those quarantined and promptly discharge those who test negative or meet the cost of keeping them isolated for longer.