Kiambu county urgently needs 3,000 tonnes of food to feed vulnerable families, Governor James Nyoro has said. Among food items required are 900 tonnes of unga, rice (600 tonnes), beans (600 tonnes), sugar (350 tonnes) and 300 litres of cooking oil to help more than 10,000 families. Nyoro spoke on Thursday while receiving food donations from various businessmen in Thika. Several Thika traders and community members donated food to feed over 5,000 families within the subcounty. The governor, who was accompanied by county assembly speaker Stephen Ndicho, also sent out an appeal for cash donations to be channelled through the county emergency fund. He said a committee comprising 30 eminent persons from Kiambu, headed by former Cabinet Minister George Muhoho and chaired by Eddy Njoroge, has been formed to coordinate the donations. "Our revenue collections have dropped drastically as a result of the pandemic and at least Sh6,000 is required to feed each of the afflicted families for a month. That’s why we have a committee in place to coordinate funds mobilisation as well as food supplies," Nyoro said. The county chief said the committee has opened an account with Equity Bank and registered Pay Bill number 5183353, where the cash donations will be channelled. “We have also set up warehouses in Juja, Ruiru and Kikuyu for storing all food donations,” Nyoro said. At the same time, the governor announced that Tigoni Hospital will be turned into an exclusive Covid-19 facility. The hospital, he said, has 200 beds and there are plans to add a 100 more. “All patients currently admitted in Tigoni Hospital will, starting tomorrow, be transferred to other hospitals to pave way for the exercise. I know it will inconvenience many people who get health services at the facility but this decision has been reached after wide consultations with the national government,” he said. Nyoro further said the county government is in the process of preparing a supplementary budget to cater for the required medical and non-medical supplies in health facilities across the county. He said the county requires 60 ventilators, over 120 monitors, over 300 beds and pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products. Edited by A.N