The Nyeri government is planning to put up a perimeter fence around Karima Hill in Othaya to prevent wanton destruction of the forest. Environment executive Beth Karimi told the Star on Tuesday that the devolved unit is undertaking a survey of the hill land to determine its boundaries before fencing it. There has been a dispute between the county government and the local community over the ownership of the hill and its boundaries, with some community members claiming the hill is part of their land. There is also the encroachment of people living near the hill on the land, Karimi said. Loggers are suspected to be people neighbouring the hill. After surveying, she said, the county will be able to fence what belongs to the county government before enhancing surveillance. “This is why the county needs to ascertain, through survey, what belongs to the hill and what belongs to the community,” she said. “We want to get into a partnership with the KFS because from our end we only have two enforcement officers so that they are able to help us with their rangers. This will enhance enforcement." The fencing of the hill is also in the Nyeri County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) Karimi said. Three people were on Monday arrested and locked up at Othaya police station for allegedly engaging in illegal logging of trees on the hill. According to the Kenya Forest Service Facebook page, the suspects have been illegally harvesting trees from the hill and carting them away to their homes. “A KFS team from Nyeri county has unearthed the syndicate that if unchecked places the sustainability of the critical hill in jeopardy,” the post reads. “The matter has since been handed over to the Kenya Police Service and Othaya police station for further investigation and prosecution.” The Nyeri government has been the custodian of the 107-hectare (264-acre) hill. The post also stated that the service will continue to engage with the county government and other stakeholders to ensure its protection through public awareness, boundary alignment and restoration. Edited by A.N