The controversial Sh15 billion Nairobi Supplementary Budget Appropriation Bill will automatically become law on Friday regardless of whether Governor Mike Sonko assents. ODM ward representatives say Sonko has until Friday 4:04pm to assent to the bill or it will become law on its own. County assembly Minority Whip Peter Imwatok says the bill has only seven days from the moment the governor received communication from the county assembly to become law. That time elapses on Friday 4:04pm according to the Makongeni MCA. Sonko last week rejected the bill that wants Sh15 billion allocated to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service that has taken over the management of health, transport, planning and development and public works. But Speaker Beatrice Elachi swiftly sent back the bill to the governor without the assembly effecting the amendments Sonko wanted after a special sitting last Friday. Imwatok on Monday said the speaker based her ruling on Standing Order 146 (4) which provides that when a governor’s memorandum on any bill raises a question of constitutionality, the speaker is free to give a determination. Standing Order 145 states that when the governor sends a memorandum, the assembly can either amend or pass it as it is by a two-thirds majority. “As things stand, at the expiration of the seven days from when the governor received communication from the assembly, the bill shall become law whether he (Sonko) assents to it and only the courts can overturn such a law,” Imwatok said. He said the speaker has the power to publish laws passed by the assembly as long as it is after the prescribed period lapses. Imwatok told off Sonko and said the speaker is not subject to the governor. “Sonko should know that the speaker of an assembly and the governor are two centres of power. The office of the speaker is independent and shall not be intimidated by a governor who handed over his county due to incompetency,” the Makongeni MCA said. Imwatok rubbished claims that the governor’s memorandum was not circulated to MCAs as required in the Standing Order. He said that upon receipt of the memorandum, the former leader of the Majority Charles Thuo, via a memo dated April 15, requested the speaker to convene a special sitting on Friday April 17 to consider the memorandum. “The speaker had received several objections in form of petitions from members, both from Jubilee Party and the Nasa coalition against the memorandum. There are records to this effect. These objections partly informed how the speaker guided the house,” Imwatok said. He said the speaker’s ruling is the final decision from the assembly. “The speaker’s ruling binds all members and becomes the decision of the assembly. On this matter, therefore, the ruling of the speaker is the decision of the assembly as far as the memorandum by the governor is concerned. They should not expect any communication from the assembly.” The stand has attracted opinions with senators condemning Elachi’s decision to turn down Sonko’s amendments. Edited by P.O