The task force on the Building Bridges Initiative has suspended its activities to allow everyone to concentrate on the fight against coronavirus. The writing of the BBI's final report has been suspended until the country is cleared of Covid-19, task force chairman Yusuf Haji said on Wednesday. The Garissa senator told the Star both the 14 members of the task force and the secretariat no longer meet as directed by the Ministry of Health to curb the spread of coronavirus. “Our activities have all been suspended until such a time as the government issues a new directive on meetings,” Haji said. The majority of members of the task force formed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga in 2018 are elderly. Such people are at risk of serious illness if they contract the virus. Other members are Busia Senator Amos Wako, Major (retired) John Seii, Bishop (retired) Lawi Imathiu, Archbishop (retired) Zecchaeus Okoth, Marompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu, Maison Leshomo, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura and Adams Oloo. The task force’s joint secretaries are lawyer Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani who also coordinate experts co-opted by the task force to help in compiling the final report. The Haji team was formed shortly after the handshake between Uhuru and Raila on March 9, 2018. The task force submitted its report to the President last November before embarking on a national validation exercise. It is mandated to “outline the policy, administrative reform proposals and implementation modalities for each of the identified challenge area”. The broad areas the two leaders challenged the task force to recommend lasting solution to are how to end ethnic antagonism, the lack of national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, divisive elections, security, corruption and shared prosperity. The BBI task force concluded physical submission of memoranda a month ago and last Wednesday marked the end of submission of proposals through online platforms. In January, Uhuru extended the mandate of the task force to June. The 14-member team is supposed to propose statutory or constitutional changes necessary for the implementation of the final BBI report. Edited by Henry Makori