Funds allocated for travel and seminars by the Kakamega assembly should be diverted to the fight against the coronavirus, Senator Cleophas Malala has said. Malala told the county assembly to reconvene and channel the money mopped up from the activities to emergency response including humanitarian support. The assembly was forced to recess following the outbreak of the virus on March 13 and subsequent measures to contain its spread. MCAs resume on April 28. “This money should be recalled through a supplementary budget to be used for the purchase of food supplies and other social support in the event of a lockdown,” he said. The senator said Kenyans were going through a trying moment and that all leaders should sacrifice to cushion them. He asked the assembly to consider an economic stimulus package as a priority in the budget-making process. “Since we are in the next financial year's budget-making process and the assembly has not approved the budget outlook policy, they should avoid approving new projects and vote on undertakings that will put money in the pockets of the people,” he said. The lawmaker said more money should be pumped into small and medium enterprises because the county economy is taking a beating. The suspension of key revenue generation activities by both the business community and the county government have hurt the SMEs, he said. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Thursday extended the Covid-19 leave for staff in all departments that offer non-essential services for another two weeks. Oparanya had on March 20 closed all county departments except revenue collection, fire brigade, enforcement and security departments to promote social distancing by the staff and encourage stay-at-home orders. County governments have closed all open-air markets, greatly affecting the small traders. At the same time, Malala has asked the police and county enforcement teams to stop using excessive force in enforcing the market closure and the 7pm curfew. “Unfortunately, the coronavirus has not killed anyone in Kakamega but we have already buried two people because of police brutality,” he said. (edited by o. owino)