The Ministry of Health on Tuesday cleared all 31 people quarantined n a city hotel after 14 days. They had been locked up at the Mash Park Hotel along Ngong Road after they tested negative for Covid-19. They were given Discharge Summary sheets from the ministry late Tuesday. The forms indicated they had completed the full term of quarantine as directed by the government. They were signed by Dr E. Onyago.Onyango, the physician in charge of the Mash Park Hotel zone. The ministry required his approval before they could be released. All were placed in quarantine because they had arrived from countries with coronavirus outbreaks. They were forced to self-quarantine in the hotel. After all the 31 persons were released, six of them were unable to leave the facility owing to the government sealing off the Nairobi Metropolitan Area to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Two of those released are from Kajiado county. “We are here because we do not know how we will travel to Kajiado. We are in touch with our governor to see if we can be allowed as a special case,” Ken Matampash said. Earlier a Ministry of Health doctor had claimed the 31 could not be released until the results of the last test have been released. Dr Asper Mwala called for patience among those in the quarantine saying because of an increased load of testing, it may take a little longer to get the results. She is the doctor on call on the Covid-19 hotline provided by the ministry. Mwala had also said that even if the results of the 31 people under quarantine turn negative, a report from the medical officer in charge of the zone where Marsh Park Hotel lies will be relied upon. “If the medical officer will report anything sinister about the conduct of those in the quarantine, say, for example, they did not follow the quarantine rules during the 14 days, they will be placed in quarantine for another 14 days,” Mwala said. She said those in the quarantine will receive a communication from the Ministry of Health later on Tuesday. Matampash, who flew in from France, and Captain Leng’ete Pertet, who arrived from the United States on March 24 through Qatar said they were tested on Sunday but not given the results. “I have just completed 14 days mandatory quarantine,” Matampash said. “I do hope they will release us Monday to go home and not have another 14 days of self-quarantine because of the intimidating cost of staying in this hotel.” The hotel is charging Sh7,500 for full board. Matampash said he and others were worried because the health ministry was not in constant communication with them. “We all depend on the minister’s daily briefs for all the communications. As of now, none in our group has been taken to isolation centres. The cost of staying here is prohibitive,” Matampash said. On arrival at JKIA at 8am on March 24, they were shown a room where they completed paperwork. “We were kept standing for close to eight hours without chairs, food or water. Every one of us at the airport, including those from the government, looked exhausted and very tired. Nobody was even keeping the required social distancing,” Matampash said. Others who spoke to the Star on the phone from the hotel but did not want to be named claimed brokers from various city hotels were at the airport waiting to take them on arrival. “This is big business, brokers collude with government officials at the airport to mint money from those forced into self-quarantine. There should be government guidelines on this,”  another man said. On March 3, the government said it had observed that those within the various facilities had not maintained optimal social distancing, prescribed hygiene measures and had close contacts and interactions. It said those factors facilitate transmission and cross infection and it is impossible to determine whether those who were quarantined in the facility are safe to be released. Fortunately, they were. (Edited by V. Graham)