Tea farmers and trucks delivering the produce to collection centres are essential services, Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga has said. Nyagwanga said the trucks should be allowed to deliver past the 7pm curfew and the farmers to monitor their produce. The administrator said tea farmers should be cushioned from losses in case the vehicles delay to collect tea or to deliver to the factories on time. He gave the directives on Friday after a meeting with Kenya Tea Development Authority officials. The President imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 27 to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Essential services were exempted from the directive. The administrator also reminded curfew enforcers that vehicles ferrying foodstuffs should be allowed to operate to ensure that residents have enough supplies. He called on parents to ensure they engage their children who are currently out of school in farming activities. “This will train the pupils and students on agricultural activities such as how to milk and pick tea leaves. The homesteads will be food secure in future,” he said. The administrator told residents to take advantage of the ongoing rains and the favourable weather conditions to go back to their farms. He warned matatu operators against congestion at the bus park while their crews remain around the stage. Nyagwanga said they should look for an alternative parking area and only have the vehicles that are being filled with passengers. “They should only bring in the next vehicle after filling the previous one so that we don’t congest the stages,” he said. He also warned people against locking themselves in bars as it may bring friction between law enforcers and residents. “There are reasons why we opened take away restaurants and takeaway stockists. It is to allow people to buy and go home earlier. But people should not lock themselves inside bars,” he warned. He discouraged people from visiting major towns such as Nyeri and Thika and in case they visit, to get what they need and get back home. He called on members of community policing at sub-location level s to establish a partnership with security officials to ensure those who fall sick or require maternity services are rushed to the hospital. “They should also identify the needy or people experiencing various problems and ensure they are assisted,” he said. (edited by o. owino)