A decision on the status of the Kenya and Enterprise cups and other competitions will be made this week by the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU). KRU Director of rugby, Thomas Odundo, said consultations have been ongoing for the past two weeks on the way forward. “We have been talking to the Kenya Cup, Championship and Nationwide teams and a decision will be communicated by the end of this week,” he added. The government of Kenya banned all sporting activities in the country on March 13 following the first case of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Odundo said it was difficult to predict when the pandemic will end and they have been left to adopt ‘wait and see’ attitude. “Like everyone else in the country, we have to wait for government directive to resume but right now it’s very difficult with cases increasing every day. It’s very hard to make a prediction on when our various competitions will resume but we hope to make a decision on the way forward by close of the week,” added Odundo. The Kenya Cup had entered the playoff stage with Impala set to host Mwamba and Homeboyz battling out Menengai Oilers. The winner of the Impala vs Mwamba showdown was due to meet league leaders Kabras in Kakamega with the winner of the Homeboyz vs Oilers match facing champions KCB in the last four. The Enterprise Cup semis were set with holders Kabras due to host Homeboyz and KCB facing Impala. The top Kenya Cup clubs outfits have sent individual programmes to their players to keep them fit and avoid being rusty once the season resumes. Kabras, KCB, Impala, Homeboyz and Mwamba are just some of the clubs who have innovated programmes to keep their players in shape as the season takes a break from the virus. The suspension of all sporting events by the government has seen the popular Great Rift Valley 10-a-side tournament slated for this weekend in Nakuru postponed to next year. Odundo said Kenya Sevens preparation schedule for the remainder of the calendar will be be made soon following the postponement of the London and Paris tournaments to September. The management team and we are having discussions on what needs to be done for the team,” added Odundo. The players were put in quarantine after returning from the Los Angeles and Vancouver Sevens tournaments last month and are now training on their own as part of the government measures to curb the spread of the virus. The team currently lie 11th on the log with 35 points from six tournaments played in the 2019-2020 World Sevens Series. 