The Kenyan Premier League have been urged to “stop deluding themselves” and publicly admit that the 2019-2020 season can’t end as expected. Zoo Kericho chairman Ken Ochieng was adamant that even the best plausible forecast for the end of coronavirus pandemic in Kenya could not allow for the campaign to be played to the end. “The truth is that we have a tough health situation to contend with whose end nobody knows. Even if the lockdown was to end this month, there will still be restrictions on public gatherings to avert a possible reoccurrence. What this means is that it will be hard for football to resume soon,” noted Ochieng. The Zoo boss also pointed out to the lack of resources by many clubs should the league managers decide that the season has to be played conclusively. “Right now, most clubs have used up their revenue streams. Even a club like Tusker, who have sponsors, will have probably used their budget for the season which was due to end in mid-May.” “Will the company (East Africa Breweries) avail more resources to the club to continue the season or will they prefer to fund the next campaign,” posed Ochieng, citing struggles of other clubs like Zoo, Gor Mahia and Kisumu All-Stars. With the KPL contract to run the topflight league coming to an end in September, Ochieng alluded that it would be unrealistic for them to run the league in uncertain circumstances. “I doubt if KPL will be motivated to run the league say in July or August with limited resources and knowing their contract is up. The best they can do is to follow the rules and declare the season over.” According to Ochieng, the standings at the end of the first leg will be used to determine the final standings as the second leg was incomplete. If the Force Majeure principal in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) statutes was to be applied, Gor Mahia will be crowned the 2020 Kenyan Premier League champions with Chemelil FC and Kisumu All-Stars relegated. According to the FKF rules and regulations, if any circumstance beyond the reasonable control of management or any person that impedes or prevents the league to be completed, the league winner shall be decided via three options. “If it is stopped before each and every club has completed it’s first-round fixtures, the league shall be declared null and void,” reads rule 2.6.1.1 of the FKF statutes on failure to complete league. Further Rule 2.6.1.2 says: “Where all clubs in the league have completed the first round fixtures, but less than 75 per cent league games have been played, the table standings at the end of the first round shall be considered the final table standings of the league.” The final rule on the incomplete season due to Force Majeure states that, where at least one club has played more than 75percent of the league games, the table positions shall be determined by the total number of points earned from the number of games played being multiplied by the total number of games supposed to be played divided by the number of games played. With no team having played 75 per cent (24) of the scheduled 32 matches following the relegation of Sony, Gor would be declared champions vide rule 2.6.1.2 with Chemelil Sugar and Kisumu All-Stars relegated. At the end of the first leg, Gor were leading with 38 points with Tusker (34), Kakamega Homeboyz (33) second and third respectively. Chemelil were bottom of the standings with four points, Kisumu All Stars had nine points. Last week, KPL indefinitely suspended the 2019-2020 campaign while CEO Jack Oguda previously indicated that they would await guidance from Caf and Fifa and also see how other leagues worldwide in a similar limbo will deal with the unforeseen scenario.