Millers have asked the government to waive the 14 per cent duty on maize imported from Mexico. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said on Tuesday that the government will allow millers to import four million bags of the cereal to  stabilise food prices. “With the current stock estimated to last a month, the government has allowed private millers to import two million bags of white maize and a similar tonnage of yellow maize for making animal feeds to avert shortages,” he said. The CS said white maize from outside the Comesa trading bloc will attract a 14 per cent duty, down from 50 per cent while the yellow maize will attract 10 per cent duty to cushion consumers from price increments. But millers want the government to waive the duty because of the Covid-19. “There should be no duty at this point and our aim at this time should not be to protect farmers but to ensure that every Kenyan can get adequate food at affordable prices,” a large-scale miller who sought anonymity told the Star. But Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said even with the 14 per cent duty, millers will still be able to buy maize at the global market price and that of Comesa and EAC regions. He said even if a consignment gets to Mombasa at Sh3,000 per bag, the price of a two-kilo packet of flour should still retail at between Sh120 and Sh130. But United Grain Millers Association chairman Ken Nyaga said this will increase flour prices. “If maize gets to Mombasa at Sh3,000, it will increase to Sh3,400 to Sh3,600 by the time it gets to Nairobi or Nakuru and shoot unga prices to almost Sh150,” he said. The millers said the two million bags of white maize is not enough to bridge the deficit. “We need three million bags per month for the next six months, up to September. This should be about 18 million bags,” the miller said. According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture on 2019-20 maize production, the country has about 10 million bags of maize. With a monthly consumption of 4.25 million bags per month, the shortfall is to be met from imports. Edited by R.Wamochie