Police have arrested a 19-year-old suspect linked to the theft of three guns from Kibos police post in Kisumu county. The suspect is also linked to the subsequent robbery of Sh230,000 from an M-Pesa operator at Daraja Mbili. On the night of March 29,  a gang of five men armed with aG3 riffle tracked Judith Akumu Ambani to her home in Kapuonja South village and robbed her of the money, three mobile phones and a TV set before escaping on two motorcycles. They took Sh200,000 in cash and forced her to send Sh30,000 through M-Pesa during the attack in Kisumu West subcounty. The Director of Criminal Investigations tweeted that their officers in Kisumu jointly with others from headquarters narrowed down on the suspect whereupon his arrest and search in his house a G 3 riffle was found wrapped in a sack. “The said riffle was identified as having been stolen from Kibos police post on the night of 28th March when unknown persons took advantage of the downpour”, DCI  twitted. The thieves broke into the armoury and stole three riffles, four magazines and about 150 rounds of ammunition. “Upon interrogation, the suspect led officers to the house of another of his accomplices within the same locality where other items were recovered,” DCI said. The recovered items included three police jungle jackets and trousers, three jungle belts, three service colour belts, two berets, a police manual, a pair of military boots and a TV set. “The said items were identified as having been stolen from the house of an inspector of police on March 10 while he was undertaking a course at the National Police College main campus - Kiganjo.” The suspect was placed in custody as detectives pursued the rest of the gang. There has been outcry by locals of thieves taking advantage of the curfew to terrorise them in Lolwe, Migosi, Carwash and  Mamboleo estates in Kisumu. County commissioner Susan Waweru issued a toll free number 988 to residents to report cases of insecurity during curfew. “Send a message to this number and tell us where you are. The officers will be dispatched to that place immediately," she said. On Thursday around 2am, one person was killed by locals in Migosi area thwarting his alleged attempt to steal from the area. “Since the beginning of the curfew, we have not been sleeping. These thieves have been coming to this area on a daily basis," said Winnie Oduor, adding that police officers should patrol the estates in turns. On Sunday night, thugs broke into a shop belonging to ODM Nyanza coordinator Kennedy Ajwang and stole everything. They gained entry from the rooftop. Ajwang said the thugs used a hacksaw to cut the roof and grills. Edited by Henry Makori