The Murang’a government is building a 35-bed Intensive Care Unit at Murang’a Level 5 Hospital in the war on Covid-19. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said on Tuesday that construction of the unit started last week and it will be operational in a month. The county government is also procuring ICU machines, he said. “This is an emergency project and will be completed in 21 days. It will not only serve Murang’a people but neighbouring counties too,” he said. Wa Iria said the county has already advertised for specialised health workers who will work in the facility. He said the project is being done on labour basis to considerably cut cost instead of awarding a tender to a contractor. Wa Iria said his administration has invested heavily in preventive measures but the county has to prepare for infections. Two positive cases have been confirmed from the county, both of whom were visitors from abroad and had been quarantined in Nairobi. “We need to ask ourselves what we will do when patients flood hospitals and they require ICU machines,” Wa Iria said. The governor, who was speaking in Mukuyu market while issuing face masks to traders, said his county government will also ensure more than 120,000 tea farming homes are supplied with masks. He said farmers have to continue picking their tea as they rely on it for survival. They are, however, forced to converge in buying centres every day where their tea leaves are picked by their respective factories. The masks, he said, will be disbursed through the 10 tea factories in the county. The governor said about 25,000 face masks are being produced every day through local polytechnics and will be issued at all shopping centres. Over 100,000 pieces were distributed in Murang’a town and its environs with priority being given to traders in markets. By the end of the month, Wa Iria said, he will ensure all people operating in towns have masks. “Afterwards, we will have the right to question those walking around without masks and hold them accountable,” he said. He appealed to residents to only board boda bodas whose operators have face masks. The governor also pointed out that the county government has procured enough devices to check residents' temperatures. He cautioned residents against idling in towns. “Many people are acting as if they are on holiday and allowing their children to loiter in the streets. Most of the people in towns are idle youths and children.” He said the national government should outlaw idling in towns, which would do away with more than half the population in them. Edited by A.N