None of us saw it coming. It all started like a joke. Little did we know that this was going to be our reality for the next few months. We first heard the news about the coronavirus (COVID-19)  around mid-January and assumed that this was just a Wuhan problem and that it would pass over soon without spreading to us. We thought it was just a passing seasonal winter flu that would be over within a few days, boy were we wrong! We literally had our normal lives one day and it all turned upside down the next day. From being busy, going out freely every day to work, to dinners and meetings with friends, shopping, without too much care for anything in the world, and taking things for granted, to being isolated and not allowed to leave the apartment. It all happened quickly without a warning. In the beginning there was so much uncertainty and lack of information. Fear, uncertainty, lack of information, hopelessness, anger, too many questions, my mind was racing. Cities were locked down indefinitely. First in Wuhan, and then the rest of the Chinese cities followed suit in the coming days. And we have been in isolation for 2 months since then. Restaurants, coffee shops, parks, malls, bars, clubs, everything was shut, maybe except hospitals and select supermarkets. The international media scared me, calling it “a deadly virus”, or “China” virus, we felt isolated, with the world watching us. As the days went by, reality set in. We were caught in the middle of a health crisis, a serious pandemic that nobody really knew much about. Two months down the line, and when I recall the events from the beginning, it only feels like yesterday. I have lost count of days and nights. My body clock changed, and I started sleeping in the day and waking up at night. Checking the time didn’t matter anymore. Knowing the dates and days of the week didn’t matter either. Things that we took for granted such as the sunshine, freedom, fresh air, going for a walk, going to the gym, nature are the things that I would give anything to have. Every morning, I would wake up, and the first thing I’d do is to check the app on WeChat that shows the data about new cases and deaths in the last 24 hours. I checked with hope that the curve had been flattened, but every day brought bad news, more cases, more deaths, and further spread, and that is when I knew that this wasn’t going to be over anytime soon. Every day I would peep through my apartment window to see the ghostly streets down below. Nobody was about, no cars, no sound, all was very still, as if suddenly all humans had been abducted by aliens. It was very scary, and it felt so lonely. As I write this, it only feels like yesterday when all this started. I can’t believe it’s been over 2 months already. We went through stages of disbelief, denial, then came anger, depression, withdrawal, uncertainty, fear, panic, about the new disease and also about financial unpreparedness on  how to survive without an income for the next coming months. As days went by, I learnt to cope and survive living within 4 walls. At some point I was almost losing my mind, went through depression and withdrawal from everything, I cried myself to sleep every day, and this was true for many people. Outsiders were not allowed into the apartment buildings either, and that means that we could not have friends over for a pity-party. My Chinese friends told me they were also about  to lose their minds as the family unit was all locked in one house, including pets. Here I was alone, wishing I could have been locked-in with any living thing, even a cat or a dog, and there they were, wanting to escape to be alone, everyone had problems. We started WeChat support groups where friends, mainly foreigners who had no family in China and were mainly alone in isolation would chat about their day and support each other, vent and give emotional and mental support. Many people were also worried about how they would survive financially without work. In the beginning there was hope that by Mid-February we would return to work, but every week things got worse and work was postponed even further, and many people were not financially prepared for this disaster. A few weeks later, a system was developed where one person per apartment unit was let out once in 2 days for not more than 2 hours, and in some cities with severe cases, it was once in 4 days only, to go and buy grocery and be back within 2 hours. There were so many new apps and software developed in China at that time in order to track infected victims and know how far they were form you. This only made it even scarier. I remember the first time I checked around mid-February, the nearest victim was 1.4 km away from me. In order for the government to track and know where everyone has been for the last 14 days, an QR-code system was developed on WeChat where every individual would register and put all information required such as, passport number, residence area, apartment building and house number and whether or not you had visited Wuhan, been in contact with anyone from Wuhan or had a fever. The QR-codes were colour coded, with green meaning you were free to exit the apartment or enter supermarkets. Yellow meant that maybe you needed to quarantine and red meant you should probably go to the hospital. Going to the supermarket became a very exhausting task because at every check point I had to do the same things: wearing a mask was mandatory before leaving the apartment; couldn’t be let out without it, show exit/entry pass at the gate, check temperature. I needed to carry my passport in order to board the metro. Life became very complicated. Some people turned to certain habits to help them cope, be it a new hobby or an old addiction, alcohol,  or learning new things, comfort eating or binge watching TV shoes and sleeping, anything that would make the days turn to nights quickly. I personally turned to writing, blogging, and tried to focus so much on thing that I had put aside for a while, tried to finish pending projects. Created a website and designed a logo for my new company by myself. I turned to poetry and art for consolation. I edited pictures all in the same theme of darkness. I learnt to do things by myself because I was bored, and had the time, thanks to the unpaid vacation that I didn’t ask for. I also revisited my Old Chinese language books to try and perfect my language skills. I therefore explored many new hobbies and discovered I could do so many things that I thought I’d never be able to do. I also tried new recipes as food was a source of comfort. I must say, my cooking skill shave improved greatly, and I have learnt to improvise. In the end, I saw that trying to remain positive and using this time to do things that I had been procrastinating wasn’t such a bad idea. And that is when my attitude changed from sadness, loneliness, boredom, to actually being excited to revisit things that I’m passionate about even though they did not give me any sort of income. Once in a week I would go to the supermarket for a couple of hours to stock up my fridge. I looked forward to that so much, I was so excited like a bird being let out of a cage. I remember the first time I was allowed to exit after I got the gate exit/entry pass, I almost kissed the ground, I couldn’t stop laughing and tears rolled down my cheeks when I felt the sunshine on my skin. Mixed emotions, and I could see the look on the security guards as they opened the gate for me, I sensed empathy and understanding. The security guards have been so helpful, patient and friendly throughout the whole period. They were constantly exposed to the virus and cold winter; hats off to them. I have learnt to be patient and understanding to everyone as we are all human. I almost want to hug the gate keepers, and strangers in the supermarket when I see them, as they are the only closest humans I have interacted with for the last 2 months, and I can sense that they feel the same. But there are also some psychological problems that come with being locked away for so long.  In the end, one gets comfortable in the box. Anxiety, panic attacks and PTSD. I remember the first time I saw my friends when we arranged to meet by the riverside one afternoon for an hour, I was so stressed and when I saw them tears streamed down my face, there was a mix of emotions, I had too much adrenaline that we just wanted to go back to the 4 walls we had been so familiar with the last 2 months. This experience has definitely brought our innermost human instincts and survival tactics to the surface. Two months down the line, I stopped hoping, stopped asking questions, stopped looking on the apps for hope. I even stopped watching the news as I craved a corona-free life. Washing hands, wearing masks, getting checked at every point, became our 6th sense. I miss the sunshine and the fresh air. I am looking forward to life going back to normal again. I wish the world a quick recovery. Please remember to wash your hands for at least 20 seconds before you touch your face and keep a social distance. Caren Rutto is a Kenyan living in China.