North Rift governors have banned well-wishers from giving direct assistance to families made vulnerable to Covid-19 control measures. North Rift Economic Bloc chairman Jackson Mandago said that all assistance must be channelled through government systems. Mandago said some of the donors giving direct assistance were causing crowding and scrambling which was against Covid-19 control measures. “We will not allow crowding of any kind because of giving out food. That will defeat the very purpose of banning gatherings or ensuring social distance to avoid spreading the virus,” Mandago said. He said the government had elaborate systems starting from the Nyumba Kumi, village elders, chiefs and ward representatives all of whom can identify the needy cases for assistance. Last week, Kesses MP Swarrup Mishra was summoned and grilled by the Uasin Gishu security committee after he clashed with senior police officers who had been sent to stop him from  distributing food to 12,000 poor people in his constituency. The MP was forced to apologise for mishandling the senior security officers and defying measures to control the coronavirus. County Commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa ordered the MP not to hold any meetings that would expose elders and other residents to the coronavirus. “We will work with the counties to ensure that any form of assistance reaches the needy cases in a manner that will not expose them to possible infection by the coronavirus,” Jaldesa said. Governors Stephen Sang of Nandi and Josphat Nanok of Turkana said they had started mobilising resources from all sectors. They said they were prepared to handle possible food shortages or other needs during the fight against the virus. The governors currently hold meetings on virtual forums to discuss measures on control of the coronavirus. The county bosses have held three meetings at the Moi Referral Hospital in Eldoret but they will now avoid physical meetings. Mandago, who is also the Uasin Gishu governor, said they had made good progress in ensuring that the counties in the region are well prepared to handle the virus. The MTRH staff will be part of the virtual meetings among the governors every Thursday to review the situation.  (edited by o. owino)