Migori leaders on Wednesday eulogised Legio Maria Pope Romanus Ong’ombe as a charismatic leader at a low-key burial ceremony at Got Kweru Hill, Suna West. The place is considered holy. Other church leaders, including founder Melkio Ondetto who passed on in 1991, were buried there. Ong’ombe died on Monday at 96. The government had called for speedy burials to combat the spread of Covid-19. Ong’ombe’s assistant Lawrence Ochieng’ was immediately installed as the new pope in a bid to block any attempt of a flare-up on leadership wrangles with Ong’ombe nemesis Raphael Adika, who had also claimed to be head of the church. Adika and his supporters kept off the event. He told the Star earlier that he was not aware of any plans and would give a comment later. Legio Maria has millions of members in Kenya and across Africa. “We don’t have any leadership vacuum, we will move on seamlessly after burial,” Ochieng’ said. Ong’ombe has left behind seven children, including three sons, and his remains were taken from St Joseph Mission Hospital mortuary on Tuesday evening. “We requested a short extension from the government, which gave us until Wednesday for burial, he will rest with the angels,” Ochieng’ said. "We had a low-key burial, most members have been turned away and no leader invited because we don’t want a mass gathering. Those who will want to see the grave will come later.” Migori Governor Okoth Obado, Senator Ochillo Ayacko, county assembly speaker Boaz Okoth and Suna West MP Peter Masara eulogised Ong’ombe as a charismatic leader and church elder. “May his legacy provide a solid example for younger generations to emulate?” Obado said. Masara said he was a servant leader and was consulted by leaders and business people in the area for spiritual and life examples. Ondetto founded the sect and Ong’ombe was one of his first converts and loyal disciples who ensure the church had a foothold in Migori county and God Kweru, where members go on a pilgrimage. After the death of Ondetto in 1992, Timotheo Atila was the first pope. He died in 1997. Lawrence Chiagi took over and died in 2004 and was succeeded by Raphael Adika who worked for five years until 2009 when wrangles between him and Ong’ombe started. Their feuding had yet to end. Last September, more than 20 people, including a priest, were hurt and several vehicles burnt in skirmishes at the holy hill as leadership wrangles persisted. Police officers intervened to end the clash. The annual pilgrimage starts on September 5-17 when Ondetto died, with members walking from Amoyo village, which they call Jerusalem, all the way to Got Kweru over 50 kilometres away on foot. The final place, on the holy pilgrimage, is God Kweru, which is currently controlled by Ong’ombe supporters, while Adika is holed up in Amoyo with both sides conducting prayers. In August last year, the High Court in Migori declared Raphael Adika the duly elected pope, while Ong’ombe was to be patriarch. The court ordered that Legio Maria shrines such as God Kweru be accessible to both sides. Ahead of the ruling, the two leaders, Adika and Ong'ombe, had tried to end their differences that had spanned more than 10 years, but their truce never lasted.