The government is considering resettling more than 4,000 people whose homes were destroyed by mudslides in West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet where an estimated 32 people died. The mudslides flattened several villages,  Chesogon Market Centre, schools and a police station where two officers died on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot. "These people live in very dangerous areas on the escarpments and what happened was a horrible tragedy. The rocks and boulders just rolled down the hills, sweeping away people and everything in sight," Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said on Thursday. He said they so far had listed more than 350 displaced families. “Resettlement of these families is part of our long term plan because it’s an issue that must be handled by various agencies and budgeted for so alternative land is found for them," the coordinator said. It was not known when resettlement might take place. Natembeya visited the area on Wednesday to assess the humanitarian situation. Agriculture CAS Linah Kilimo and Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos have proposed families on the escarpments be moved away and the land turned into forests to help reduce flooding and mudslides. “The priority here is to save lives because the mudslides occur every rainy season and we lose many lives, Kilimo said. Families are still searching for bodies of their relatives. the government said it will use DNA tests to identify body parts. “Sixteen people are still missing and we have searched all over the area where we only recovered many body parts that cannot be identified except through DNA tests," Natembeya said. He asked families to give DNA samples so body parts can be identified. They are being preserved in morgues at Tot and Kapenguria. Each family who lost a relative will be given Sh50,000 to help with the burial. “Once relatives have identified the remains and we confirm the missing people, families will be given the money," Natembeya said. Most of the dead were from the Elgeyo Marakwet side where Natembeya said about 150 families had been displaced. Another 130 families were displaced on the Pokot side. About 70 families have been moved from risky, mudslide-prone areas. Natembeya said the team including the military had searched extensively before calling off the mission. Families said they should have continued to search. “We have been on the ground and searched all over. We cannot resume the search, it's clearly not possible to trace any more bodies," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)