Police in Nairobi and Thika are investigating the mysterious disappearance of a city activist, his cousin and a taxi driver. Micheal Njau, 35, his cousin Adan Mohammed and taxi driver Samuel Mungai were reported missing on April 24. Njau, aka Gorba, is a Kiamaiko Social Justice Centre activist and a well-known community leader. His wife Njeri Njau, a mother of three, said they have unsuccessfully searched for them in police and quarantine stations in Thika and Nairobi. A team of human rights defenders on Wednesday visited Kenyatta National Hospital and its morgue, then proceeded to City Mortuary,  Mama Lucy and Thika Level 4 Hospital but received no reports of the three. Njeri said Njau was making frequent calls last week, showing concerns about her and their children, something she found odd. “We do not live together. He lives with his cousin in Huruma. Now I am left in the dark and confused. I hope we find them safe and sound,” she said. The three were travelling back from Thika to Nairobi the same day and all of their mobile phones were switched off at around 3pm-4pm after several calls attempts from Mohammed’s brother to confirm if they got home safe. On Sunday, April 26, police discovered the abandoned car (a grey-silver Ractis) in Githurai 45 and took it Githurai police station. Only a Jacket believed to be the taxi driver's was found. Social Justice Centre working group on Wednesday said residents saw one person parking the car. Njau’s phone was last traced to Ruiru  bypass at around 4pm on Friday. On Tuesday, the Githurai social justice team accompanied Njeri, Njau's family and the owner of the cab, as the police tried to retrace the movements of the missing persons from where the vehicle was found. They asked buildings that have CCTV's to produce footage for that day. Only two buildings have surveillance cameras.  One is a wines and spirits business and not much was captured as there was a lorry blocking the view. The other one was a church whose officials said their footage was last updated on April 21. They asked for time to update it then send the footage to the driver and Njau's wife. The vehicle will be dusted for fingerprints. Human rights defender Ruth Mumbi said Njau empowers children and the youth from the slums by helping them build talent through football and modelling. “In a span of two weeks, Kiamaiko has experienced forceful disappearances. Two young men and young women went missing on April 10 and their bodies traced at City Mortuary.” “The bodies bore marks and indications of torture. The ladies' breasts were detached, tongues removed and the men's eyes were gouged out of their sockets. All the bodies did not have fingernails.” She has asked relevant institutions to speed up in the investigations. Njau was a Kaimaiko ward MCA aspirant in the 2017 election. Edited by R.Wamochie