 Mandera has joined four other counties in partial lockdown. The government on Wednesday ordered cessation of movement in and out of the county. President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 6 ordered cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale to curb the spread of coronavirus. The counties have the highest number of confirmed cases and are considered hotspots. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said Mandera was added to the list because it was witnessing a rapid community transmission of the virus. It means there will be no movement into and out of the county either by air or road for 21 days effective April 22. The county has eight confirmed positive cases of Covid-19. Mandera has also been on the spot for defying health regulations to curb the spread of the virus. Last week, 32 people escaped from quarantine in unclear circumstances. “Further, the President has directed the national command centre on the coronavirus pandemic to immediately review the enforcement of public health measures rolled out to stem the growing rate of infection in Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi with a view to introducing more stringent measures to enhance the enforcement of the same. The results of this review will be announced in the next 24 hours,” Matiang’i said. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe yesterday said the government plans to test at least 250,000 people by the end of June. Seven more positive cases were confirmed yesterday from 707 samples tested bringing the total of Covid-19 cases to 303. The seven are all Kenyans aged between 21 and 61. None has recent history of travel. Six are from Mombasa and the other in Nairobi. Six were sampled from targeted mass testing and one was picked by the surveillance teams. Kagwe said five were men and the rest women. There were nine additional recoveries recorded, bringing the total number  discharged to 83. Some 15,124 samples have so far been tested. Mass testing started last week with focus on high risk areas of Mombasa and Nairobi, including healthcare workers. “We currently have 25,000 testing kits which have been deployed for the activity. Globally, every country is working on testing targets. All have fallen short of these targets because of the disrupted global supply chain,” Kagwe said. He said the 250,000 target will not match the population, hence the need for the ministry to work with development partners to ramp up the surveillance testing mechanism. “The plan entails community-based surveillance, hospital-based surveillance and population-based surveillance. For the community-based surveillance, we are looking at 100,000 households. For the hospital-based surveillance we have mapped out 20 hospitals in 16 regions.” The CS, however, warned that this is not the time to witness a lapse in behaviour, saying "significant changes in infection rates among our neighbours is an issue of concern." He said the general sentiment of comfort being witnessed in the country is misplaced, adding that when as a nation is complacent with a few officials exploiting the pandemic for personal gain, then the country is headed in the wrong direction. In the last one week, Covid-19 cases in Somalia have multiplied nine-fold from 26 cases to 237 by Tuesday, while in Tanzania, the numbers had risen from 32 cases to 254 in the same period. “These developments should worry us. What we are learning is that this virus transmits silently. It may move at a slow pace but, as we have seen in countries like Spain and Italy, it takes on such frantic speed that even developed nations can't catch up with it,” Kagwe warned. He directed those who escaped quarantine to present themselves to the centres for their own good and that of the nation, saying they will be arrested if they fail to do so. “A slight lapse in behaviour, like the ones we witnessed in the last few days, could roll back all gains we have made so far, and by effect the destiny of the nation,” the CS said. He asked those with information on the hideouts of those who escaped to report to the police. The CS urged county governments to ensure continuity of other health services without losing sight of coronavirus. To this effect, county governments will be required to share their county health service delivery scorecards in the coming days. On the effects of Covid-19 on mental health, the CS said a psychiatric and psychological care help guide had been prepared and asked those who feel distressed and need counselling or psychological care to call 1199. “For any inquiries on continuity of psychological care or psychiatric emergencies or crisis, please call our hotline 0721336017.”  Edited by P.O