 Many youths in the North Rift are frequenting illegal alcohol dens with the hope it will boost their immunity as the myth that local brews can cure Covid-19 takes root. Governors have warned that many people were frequenting such dens in total disregard of health measures that require social distancing and wearing of face masks. Led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jack son Mandago, the county chiefs said they will conduct a swoop on all dens selling alcohol and those rounded up will be put in mandatory quarantine at their own costs. The myth that alcohol including illicit brews can treat Covid-19 has gained appreciation after experts recommended the use of alcohol-laced sanitisers. The governors said there has been increased brewing and consumption of illicit liquor at dens which entertain gatherings thus threatening efforts to control the spread of coronavirus. Mandago said some of the brewers were well-off people taking advantage of the closure bars to entertain revellers. “These people are the ones undermining our efforts and that of other good Kenyans to stop the spread of Covid-19 and we will not accept to have them continue with such irresponsible behaviour,” Mandago said. He said chiefs and police officers had even been attacked on several occasions during raids at some of the dens. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa said they will step up the crackdown. “We will also charge them in court after the quarantine. The myth that chang'aa treats Covid-19 is not true and no one should believe that,” Jaldesa said. Last week, a police officer and two chiefs were injured after they were attacked by villagers while carrying out an operation to arrest those involved in the brewing of chang'aa and busaa. Jaldesa said the officers were attacked at Matunda while several other chiefs have been threatened with death in Ainabkoi area. In Elgeyo Marakwet, 10 people including former Marathon World record holder Wilson Kipsang and MCAs are still under forced quarantine at their cost after they were arrested while drinking during curfew hours in Iten town. Kipsang and Kapchemutwo MCA Ambrose Kiplagat along with eight others were charged in court and fined Sh5,000 each but the government ordered they be quarantined. Kipsang is also a police officer. Elgeyo Marakwet health executive Kiprono Chepkok said they will take all necessary measures to ensure residents comply with measures to control the spread of coronavirus.  Edited by R.Wamochie