 The Kenya Magistrate and Judges Association has protested to the National Council on the Administration of Justice against working in an open court. The association through secretary general Derrick Kuto in a letter dated April 16 said  working in open courts exposes them to coronavirus. “KMJA wishes to call the following concerns from our members to your attention for appropriate redress and/or directions: The Association is aware that it is not a member of the council. However, members have regretted that there was lack of consultation before the directions were issued, especially at this time when the cases are rising exponentially, “ Kuto said in the letter. Kuto said the rate at which Covid-19 cases have increased in the country poses a greater risk to judicial officers. “We are surprised that with the cases spiralling to disturbing levels, our members are being highly exposed by the scaling up of cases and It is worth noting that most government services are suspended due to the virus for instance the Lands office extended closure in a public notice.” it added. There are 246 cases in the country and 11 deaths as of April 17. He noted that most judicial officers, as is the case with the majority of their client, use public means to commute to work, further exposing them to the virus. “... At our place of work, the clients get into contact with the judicial staff. In turn, the judicial staff gets into contact with judges and judicial officers. This produces a snow-balling effect, just in case one of them is infected,” the letter noted. KMCJ said the Judiciary has a enough technology that can be used in dealing with court cases rather than exposing its members to the disease and requested the National Council on the Administration of Justice to respond on their pleas This comes a day after the Judiciary announced  measures to scale up court functions by reviewing its operations in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The measures allowed all suspects to be now be arraigned in court within 24 hours, irrespective of the nature of the offence. Edited by E.KIbii