One man’s meat is indeed another’s poison. While the coronavirus pandemic has hit the world like a sledgehammer, some lords of corruption are celebrating that it has slowed down the anti-graft war. Aides of a governor were overheard saying their boss is once again jovial. Before the pandemic, the governor was always angry and edgy. Detectives were investigating him for money laundering and illegal award of tenders. It is said there were attempts to freeze his account. However, the agency has gone slow. Maybe DPP Noordin Haji (pictured) and his colleagues in the justice department should push for handling anti-corruption cases to be classified as an essential service. Just why was a Senate committee quick to convene to discuss the conduct of a governor whose action became fodder on social media? Corridors understands that the panel is planning to summon the county chief to explain his conduct. The governor has been the subject of banter for days. Questions are being asked as to why the committee, which is charged with overseeing devolution, was swift to summon the governor, especially when the counties are fighting Covid-19. The committee has been blamed in the past for not addressing wrangles in the counties and its swiftness to summon the governor came as a surprise to many senators. Did a close political ally of Deputy President William Ruto make futile attempts to reach out to a former official of one of the parties that formed Jubilee? With the DP under siege in his own party, there are reports that a close ally made frantic efforts to contact the official for support. The message was that the ex-party official would publicly denounce President Uhuru Kenyatta’s changes to the Jubilee Party National Management Committee. In fact, a number of calls were made on Friday night and Saturday morning seeking to set up a small meeting at another Ruto ally’s Karen home. However, the ex-official rebuffed the DP’s emissary and maintained that he supported the President’s changes. Residents of a populous constituency in Nairobi are asking about the whereabouts of their MP. The residents have not seen or heard from the legislator since the Covid-19 outbreak. They are disturbed that while their MP has 'disappeared',  neighbouring constituencies are receiving goodies from their leaders. Just last week, an MP in a neighbouring constituency donated detergents and food to more than 2,000 households. In another area, an MP gave out water tanks and cash. Residents said they are closely monitoring him and will not hesitate to teach him a lesson at the ballot if he does not show up to help them.