The High Court in Naivasha on Thursday has ordered the retrial of nine suspects acquitted of manslaughter in the Solai dam tragedy that killed 48 people. Judge Richard Mwongo termed the acquittal of the nine by the magistrate's court as defective and an injustice to the victims. Mwongo said the victims were left "high and dry" and the lower court did not properly exercise its powers under the Constitution. They were acquitted on February 3 in connection with the disaster on May 9, 2018.. DPP Noordin Haji appealed the acquittal. In his ruling delivered through a video-link, judge Mwongo said the interests of the victims and their suffering were not considered. “The suspects shall be charged afresh in another court and the previous bond terms remain,” he said. Last month, Naivasha chief magistrate Kennedy Bidali set the nine free for lack of what he called willingness and support from the DPP's office in prosecuting the case. The magistrate said little progress had been made, with adjournments being common since the trial started. Mwongo ruled the new trial should be expedited, having delayed for almost two years. “We are currently faced by the Covid-19 crisis, which has scaled down various operations but we should work around the clock to make sure this case kicks off,” he said. The judge said the victims, who were represented by the DPP, were never given a chance to have their grievances heard. “The case never started and all the witnesses lined up by the prosecution are available. They have vivid memories of what happened and should be allowed to testify,” Mwongo said. He also directed that the case should not be adjourned for more than a month, adding that an application seeking to have the victims enjoined in the main suit be determined first. Farm owner Perry Manusukh and eight others are charged with 48 counts of manslaughter when an earthen dam gave way in Solai Nakuru. He was accused of failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report. The other eight are Vinoj Jaya Kumar, Johnson Njuguna, Luka Kipyegen, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odo Odhiambo, Willie  Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot. Acquitting the suspects, magistrate Bidali said the DPP had failed to produce a single witness or witness statement 18 months since the case started. Following a public outcry, the DPP moved to the High Court to challenge the ruling. Edited by E.Kibii