The National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and his Senate counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen have hit out at each other over sittings scheduled for Tuesday. Duale and Murkomen differed over Parliament’s role in fighting the current Covid-19 pandemic that has left 208 people infected and nine dead in the country. The clash started after the Standard newspaper published an article calling the legislators ‘traitors’ for failing to provide leadership over the matter. "There lacks leadership from the MPs since the coronavirus outbreak. Not a single initiative to cushion Kenyans; no slashing of their hefty salaries as the disease wipes out jobs and businesses. Kenyans are truly on their own,” read part of the article. Murkomen in his response supported the article, saying that it was true Parliament was dead. “For the first time, Standard has boldly called out my colleague Sen. Moi and his brother. I hope they were quoted in the story. I can, however, confirm that Parliament is dead. It’s an extension of Executive and the opposition is causing a stampede trying to be more government than the government itself,” Murkomen said. This statement did not go well with Duale who hit back at Murkomen saying he should be specific with his claims. “Be specific! It is quite unfortunate that the Leader of Majority Party of the Senate, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has been quoted saying Parliament is "dead". Well, Senator Kipchumba please be specific because unless you mean Senate is 'dead' or 'died a long time ago', the National Assembly is alive and doing what it knows best, that is resolving issues of concern of the people of Kenya,” he said.. Duale added, “Tomorrow, I invite you to follow our proceedings as we sit to deliberate on measures geared towards cushioning Kenyans from the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic”. “Just to be specific, tomorrow among other urgent priority business we will get to discuss tax measures aimed at cushioning Kenyans among them reduction of VAT and PAYE the Supplementary Budget, Estimates & Tax laws amendment bill that shall ensure we have the resources to fight the pandemic”. Duale said the House will also consider regulations on prevention and control of Covid-19, and the regulations on the establishment of the Emergency Response Fund. “We shall also consider other proposals by individual members all aimed at fighting the Covid-19 Pandemic. As the National Assembly, we shall walk with Kenyans until the end. They can trust us on this,” Duale said. He added, “The unprecedented time we are facing now calls us as leaders and institutions to pull together. It is not time to assign blame or look inward by calling the institution you head, dead.  What hope do you give our people! It is indeed, sad and I hope you know when you call Senate “Dead" it beats logic for its existence”. The matter did not rest here, Murkomen hit back saying the reason the National Assembly will be meeting is to rubber-stamp decisions by the Executive. “Bro, you are going there to rubber stamp Executive decisions. Don’t lie to Kenyans. Let’s return Parliament to what it ought to be not a puppet. If we return Parliament to be the Independent institution anticipated in the 2010 Constitution then we shall be of help to our Jubilee in governing the country better and give greater benefit to the people. If we continue this way history will judge us harshly,” Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said the rebuttal was written at the behest of some other forces. “In future take the courage to exercise your own independent judgement,” he said. Duale hit back saying the National Assembly will create synergies when there is need to and oversight on all measures by the Executive amid efforts to fight the virus. “That is what we were elected to do. To represent, legislate and oversight. We are alive and ready to stand for Kenyans. We shall do so until the end of this pandemic. That is why we were established. We will give hope where there is none and give Kenyans the reason to be resolute to fight this Pandemic.” he said. The Garissa Township MP added, “As the National Assembly, we will go through all means seek to implement the proposals by the Executive. However, in doing so we will also oversight as we have always done in line with our constitutional mandate espoused in Article 95. To those who think being at loggerheads with other arms of government is the evidence of a mortal institution have no idea about their constitutional duties.” According to him, he cannot think of a perfect time to live true to their three functions. He said, “The time is now and to all Kenyans National Assembly will do the three with excellence until the Covid-19 Pandemic is defeated”.