President Uhuru Kenyatta has rolled an initiative that will create jobs while making the environment healthier. The National Hygiene Programme will commence on April 29. The first phase of the programme for the next 30 days will employ 26,148 workers and eventually grow to over 100,000 young people across the country. "This added to the already existing 108,000 vulnerable households that are presently receiving cash grounds and the Sh8 billion that our senior citizen programme and vulnerable families are getting which I believe will continue to provide tangible relief to the most needy in our society," Uhuru said. He spoke during a press briefing on Saturday at State House Nairobi. The President added that the inaugural cluster of employment will involve residents in 23 informal settlements across seven of the most affected counties. "To demonstrate the principles of this approach, the manufacturing of face masks will be undertaken by 4,048 tailors residing in these settlements and for their neighbourhoods and they will make up to 250,000 masks a day," he said. The government has decided to move in phases to ensure that those being employed work under proper health standards and protocols that limit the risk of infection, he said. As the first phase is rolled out on Wednesday, Uhuru said, phase two will be getting prepared. Its scale will be much greater and its areas of focus will be nationwide. "Additionally, there are already aspects of the post-coronavirus economic recovery plan that we are progressively rolling out. My Administration shall activate micro, small and medium enterprises across the country to manufacture basic medical equipment and supplies for domestic use and export." He further stated that this initiative shall be nested under the Universal Health Coverage agenda and will utilise Sh1.5 billion. The Jua-Kali Sector shall take centre stage in production, while leveraging our Technical Vocational Education Training Centres and the Constituency Industrial Development Centres. The country has recorded seven new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. Uhuru announced the extension of the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale and Mandera by another 21 days. In accordance with the advice of the National Emergency Response Committee on the Coronavirus Pandemic, Uhuru also said the nationwide 7pm to 5am curfew has been extended for another 21 days. Kenya's death toll from the virus remains at 14. Edited by R.Wamochie