A senior government official whose love for social media is well known could be in trouble. Sources whisper to Corridors the man, who pretends to be holier than thou, is facing accusations of sexual abuse and major corruption. He is also said to be earning illegal salaries and operating with impunity. Staff who question his wayward ways are kicked out without regard to civil service procedure. Yet the man still wants to convince everyone that he is heaven-sent. As wrangles continue to rock the Jubilee Party, it appears former officials of defunct parties that merged to form JP are desperately trying to get the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The officials, who mostly held peripheral positions, have not missed any opportunity to hammer Deputy President William Ruto. Sources within Jubilee say some of the individuals were expecting to be given direct nominations to Parliament after the 2017 polls while others were to be appointed to government positions. Since that did not happen, they have blamed Ruto for frustrating their careers. A subchief in a South Rift county has become a nightmare to residents. The young administrator has crafted a new way of milking constituents dry. A mole in the sublocation tells Corridors that he uses brokers to look for petty offenders and people with money in the village. Not only that, but it is also said he recently allowed young girls to undergo FGM after collecting Sh6,000 to Sh12,000 per girl. If any man then wanted to marry a girl, he is required to part with a fixed fee of Sh5,000. And if a man gets a schoolgirl pregnant, the cost to bypass jail is Sh8,000. Who will save the residents from the claws of this man meant to be a protector of the people? A governor from the Mt Kenya region is a troubled man. Why? It is said that corporates, companies and individuals, among others, have been reluctant to give donations to his county through his office. This is after the county chief was recently scorned by the wananchi for using Covid-19 donations to campaign. Several donors are said to have donations but refuse to channel them through the county boss for fear he may politicise the donations and take credit for the aid. Despite the governor imploring them to channel the donations through his office, they are adamant that they will look for other channels of giving out donations to the needy, including through churches and other institutions.