More than 6,500 families in Kisumu county have been displaced by floods. Rising water levels on Lake Victoria and burst river banks have left homes submerged after heavy rains hit the county. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said parts of Nyando subcounty, Muhoroni, lower Nyakach, Kisumu East and Central, and Seme have been affected. “The raging floods have caused massive disruption to the lives of our people causing extensive damage to property and infrastructure,” Nyong'o said. The governor said the floods had increased the county's vulnerability as it is already dealing with the prevention of the Covid-19 spread. He said approximately 80 acres of maize, beans and other crops have been destroyed in Muhoroni alone. Nyong’o called for an immediate provision of relief food, mattresses and blankets, mosquito nets, clean drinking water, purification chemicals, masks, sanitiser and medical supplies to the victims. “I call upon all stakeholders, the national government and all people of goodwill to join us in addressing this humanitarian crisis,” he said. Fear is rife that more people would be affected by the floods. The meteorological department announced that more rains will be experienced across the country. On Tuesday morning, River Nyando broke its banks, leaving several people stranded and sweeping away household items. At Kombura location, at least 500 people were moved to a camp at Lela Secondary due to the floods. Chief Nick Opundo said efforts to establish the exact number of affected families is underway. Dorcas Juma said she did not salvage anything from her home owing to the danger posed by the raging waters. “We are in a desperate situation here after the floods destroyed our houses. We ask the government to save us from this devastating situation,” Juma said. John Okello said they were shocked by the floods. He urged the government to provide a lasting solution to the perennial crisis. In Muhoroni, families affected were residents of Ombeyi, Obumba, Obiayo and Kibigori areas where houses have been submerged. The displaced families were evacuated to the neighbouring primary schools. Evacuation centres such as Achuotho have been surrounded by floodwaters. Roads were also rendered impassable, making it difficult to access the evacuation points Muhoroni deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said at least 10 acres under maize crops and sections of rice farms were destroyed. “The affected families have been advised to go to safer grounds as the government looks for mitigation measures which include the provision of relief food, nets and medicines,” Wanyonyi said. The administrator said the flood victims are in dire need of food and non-food items. He appealed to non-governmental organisations to support. (edited by o. owino)