Comedian Mulamwah, real name David Oyando, has quit comedy over cyberbullying and losing his unborn child. On Monday, an emotional Mulamwah burnt his signature shirt, announcing he had decided to take a back seat in the comedy industry, following constant trolls on social media. He then revealed his girlfriend Carrol Sonie had lost their three-month-old unborn baby, following stress caused by online trolls. Part of his message read, “What was to make me happy makes me sadder, more enemies than friends, too much negativity, trolls. I wasn’t here for fame and bad blood but fun," he wrote. He went on to thank his fans for the support and all who made it a success. "To those who always wished the worst for me, I hope y’all happy now, the stage is all yours. "My prayer is that no one else goes through the same again. I once posted Carrol Sonie (girlfriend) while in a hospital bed. We had just lost our baby at three months following stress after being trolled online." Mulamwah added that he has not been the same. "For all who looked up to me, especially the kids, I have failed you, but keep your heads up,” he said. However, Mulamwah’s announcement was objected by many celebrities, who advised him not to allow critics to kill his comedy career. MC Jessy asked him to keep on doing what he knows best. Dr Ofweneke wrote, “Small bro, no one promised you it was going to be easy, but nobody says you can't overcome it as well," he said. "A man was made to talk, whether it's positive or negative. God is the author of your destiny and many great stories are made out of people like you. You must wake up." This is not the first time Mulamwah has gotten depressed. The other time was after a popular comedian stole his content and used it as his. "I even deleted all my social media accounts and stopped doing comedy anymore," Mulamwah told Word Is in an earlier interview. "It was so hurting, especially because I could watch the person on TV sharing my content. That was the lowest moment in the comedy industry." Edited by T Jalio