Kevian Kenya Limited has donated Sh5 million beverages to police officers in Kiambu. Every police officer in Kiambu county will receive water, fruit juice and energy drinks daily until the Covid-19 pandemic is suppressed. Kevian Kenya is the producer of Afia and Pick ‘N’ Peel juice brands. The beverages will be distributed to all police stations and police posts across the county. Speaking at the factory premises in Thika town on Tuesday, factory manager Njenga Kariuki said the company will supply water and beverages until the country is declared free of the coronavirus. He said the company will give officers its products, which include Mt Kenyan water, Afia fruit juice and Afia energy drinks. “Every police officer who’s working within Kiambu county, including those manning the 24 roadblocks that have been erected in the county to restrict movement, will be receiving one litre of water, one litre of Afia juice and 500 ml of Afia energy drink daily until the pandemic is contained,” Njenga said. “We want our officers to stay well-hydrated, energized and refreshed as they enforce the government directives, including the dusk-to-dawn curfew as well as manning movement barriers and maintaining law and order in our county during this difficult time.” The company owned by business mogul Kimani Rugendo also donated 50 handwashing units to be distributed to all road barriers within the county. “Even our officers need to maintain their hygiene in their line of duty and that’s why we have dispatched the handwashing units. We will be providing them with soap. The number of donations will increase,” Njenga said. Thika subcounty police commander Beatrice Kiraguli, who received the donation on behalf of county police bosses, hailed the company for the gesture saying it will motivate the police officers. “This is a rare and noble gesture, and we appreciate it. Our officers will be energized and motivated to work around the clock to ensure that all government directives are adhered to,” Kiraguli said. Kiambu assistant director of Public Health Samuel Gichimu said the donation will help the county in the fight against the coronavirus. “We have taken a multi-disciplinary approach in the fight against the coronavirus in Kiambu. With such donations, we will upscale our work together with the police to ensure our people are safe," Gichimu said. Gichimu said six people who exhibited Covid-19 symptoms after screening at different roadblocks within the county have been referred to a quarantine centre in Nairobi. “We will soon take screening to the community level so that we can safeguard the health of our people. Other preventive measures that are still ongoing include fumigation of public places like bus parks and markets,” he said. Edited by A.N