Not long ago, gospel artist Rose Muhando sang that Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp had turned the young generation into zombies. Muhando, a sensational in Tanzania, sang that even in the church, they didn’t pay attention, no longer interested in the word of God but wasted their productive time on chats. “I foresee a great disaster taking over under the sun, wonders and shame that Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp are turning to be modern-day worshipped god and an advocate of their needs. Christians have become fools, clerics have lost their ways. Who has bewitched you, utandawasi (globalisation)?” she sings. Muhando blames marriage breakups, students failure in academics, misdiagnosis in hospitals, MPs failure to attend sittings and their lateness among other society breakages to use on social media. However, with the advancement of technology, many have been caught off-guard, unawares, stuck to the dark characterisation of online as immorality. But this has enormously changed over the Covid-19 impact. The Ministry of Health issued a directive against gatherings, effectively shutting the church doors. Once regarded by some pastors as a tool for gossip, propaganda and social evils, social media platforms have turned to be platforms to preach the Gospel of God. For the gospel to continue or to maintain their relevance to their congregants, many preachers have now turned to Facebook Live to conduct summons. Others are on other social media platforms as well as radio and television. Pastor Abraham Nkanata of New Birth Covenant Church, Makutano in Meru said Covid-19 has caused many inconveniences but emphasised on repentance and forgiveness, telling Kenyans not to panic but hold firmly to the faith they profess. “We have a WhatsApp group and I am in touch with the majority of my members. We have a chain of prayers in different church cells. The season will pass and God is in control,” Nkanata said. On his Sunday Facebook streaming live church service, he mentioned faithful following his sermon from as far as Kigali, Rwanda, Nairobi, Kirinyaga and Murang’a. Nkanata gave several reference verse including Exodus 3-6-7, Hebrews 13-8 among others and prophesied the pandemic will vanish. Bishop Kiogora Magambo of Jesus House of Praise, Meru town, told the Star the church has postponed their fourth and eighteenth weddings until further notice. Magambo has opened faith-based TV and radio stations - Destiny TV and Radio - and also conducts live sermons on Facebook. “I am currently utilising TV, Radio and Facebook but nothing can replace the congregation in church. An amen from them is my assurance that the Word of God is delivered. Things are not the same. I am in touch members but I am missing the critical contact with them,” Magambo said on Monday. KAN International Church pastor Kiambi Atheru said they have turned onto Facebook and WhatsApp to nourish their followers. “We have a challenge with some members who are not online. I had to cancel three of my international travels one to Thailand this April, another to Sweden in June and the other to Taiwan in August,” Kiambi said. Reverend Nathan Kirimi said they have postponed three weddings and six dowry payment ceremonies, and other meetings stand called off until the government lifts the ban on gatherings. Catholic priest David Kaberia said they have suffered uncountable inconveniences, including the holy month towards Easter Monday. “This is a holy month for Catholics. The pandemic has hit hard on us and some believers, and we are told they are tense but everything will be under control. “Many faithful are not on the internet but they do have a radio. We have cancelled all weddings, baptisms, burials this month. Workers are also not working as usual. We will overcome,” Father Kaberia said. Edited by E.Kibii