 A lobby group has called for a mandatory testing of all port authority workers in Mombasa following the death of a staffer from Covid-19. A worker at Kenya Ports Authority is said to be among four Kenyans who have died from the coronavirus. Another 15 staff members are suspected to be infected and have been quarantined. As such, the Commission for Human Rights and Justice on Saturday said there is need to test staff because the port is an essential service provider and all workers and users must remain safe. “We, therefore, wish to ask the management to conduct mandatory testing of all its staff and that of port users entering the facilities across the country as a matter of urgency,”  CHRJ executive director Julius Ogogoh said. Ogogoh told KPA acting managing director Rashid Salim the mandatory will allay further fears of the spread of coronavirus and a possible closure of the port. The Mombasa port has employed about 7,000 people with another people using the facility either directly or indirectly. On Wednesday night, a 58-year-old female KPA employee died at the Mombasa Hospital and was buried at the Mbaraki cemetery on Thursday in a low-key function. Her 38-year-old daughter is in quarantine. At least 15 other KPA employees who worked in the same department as the deceased have also been put in quarantine. On Saturday, Ogogoh said Salim needs to do more to ensure the safety of workers and users of the port because their health and safety are in his hands. The rights activist said though the port has done a commendable job in trying to ensure safety standards are heightened, more has to be done. "The Mombasa port is not only the gateway to East and Central Africa but also an important international maritime seaport,” Ogogoh said. “It is reported that KPA has had a confirmed case of Covid-19 and that there could be a likelihood of a surge among the huge workforce at the port,” he said. KPA has already taken steps to ensure they keep the virus at bay, including requiring that any ship docking at the port present a maritime declaration of health form. Ships are required to provide a voyage memorial of the last 10 ports they called, presentation of a valid ship control/exemption certificate and provision of a list of all the crew aboard the ships that call on the port for testing.  Edited by peter obuya