Police in Africa are using too much violence in enforcing curfews, lockdowns and states of emergency to fight the spread of the coronavirus. The Network of African National Human Rights Institutions (Nanhri) said many security agents in Africa abuse government-imposed restrictions on movement. Many people have complained of being beaten and tortured when found in violation of these measures, it said. Executive director Gilbert Sebihogo also said police in some countries have been treating people in isolation centres like criminals. Kenya was not mentioned by name but similar complaints have been made about Kenyan police. “To combat further spread of this highly contagious disease, movement restriction measures have been put in,” Sebihogo said. “This has, however, been abused by security agents, who have beaten and tortured those found to be in violation of the movement restriction measures, with others being treated as suspects for Covid-19 cases, therefore, forcefully quarantined,” he said. Nanhri brings together 44 national human right organisations in Africa. Sebihogo said in a statement the temporary measures taken by governments to contain the spread of the coronavirus is prisons are not sustainable. He said the risk of holding high numbers of people in detention when social distancing is a critical practice in defeating Covid-19 may derail the war against the pandemic. Many governments have suspended visits to prisoners and detainees to prevent the spread of the virus into these facilities. “This is, is, however, not a lasting solution as most prisons and detention centres in Africa remain congested with petty offenders and pre-trial detainees some of whom have been held for years. Most of these facilities are holding more than three times their recommended capacity,” Sebihogo said. The fifth observation of the Africa Pretrial Detention Day on Saturday, April 25, took place as the globe is struggling to contain the novel coronavirus and the Covid-19 that it causes. This day aims to seek justice for those in pretrial detention, at least 296,098 men and women. Sebihogo appealed to governments to consider thoroughly screening and unconditionally releasing petty offenders and pretrial detaineeas a way to decongest prisons. He also urged alternative solutions to the custody of petty offenders, such as warnings and free police bond, to limit congestion in already-strained facilities. Nanhri urged national human rights institutions to ensure no one is subjected to torture and other inhumane, cruel and degrading treatment or punishment during this health emergency threatening the continent. No one in quarantine should be treated as a criminal detainee, it said. (Edited by V. Graham) 