It is unfounded for anyone to suggest that Covid-19 thrives at certain temperatures. The world came to know about the disease just a few months ago and there are a lot of theories all over. You can remember it started with people saying that the disease does not affect Africans. After some time, people came to realize that these were lies because Africans too, were getting sick and were also dying. Now that the disease has been reported in almost all corners of the world, you will realise that the virus is also in some of the hottest places on earth. In Africa for example, the disease is causing a lot of problems in northern parts of the continent. A country like Algeria is among nations that have recorded the highest number of deaths. The disease is also rampant in Thailand, Vietnam, the United Arab Emirates and Iran. It does not winter in those countries. These are countries that record very high temperatures and still have a lot of confirmed cases. It is therefore totally unfounded to make claims that the disease thrives in cold temperatures. Tests in the laboratories are done on a Petri dish and you cannot use those temperatures to imagine that it is the same out there. It is, however, important to remember that Covid-19 is a flu virus. That being the case, it is important to remember that flu is seasonal because it follows certain temperatures. We must remember that there is so much information about Covi d-19 that is still unknown. More research needs to be done for one to make conclusive findings about the disease and how temperatures determine how it thrives. Also, we have not yet done mass testing in most of Africa to really know where the disease is prevalent. There is a lag in the curve and we cannot accurately tell whether we are peaking or slowing down. I think we are at the foot and beginning to climb. We are not anywhere near the peak. Until we have enough testing kits, we will not have a clear picture of how far the disease has spread. This is a problem not just in Kenya but also in developed countries. For now, we cannot talk about the country doing well in handling the pandemic. Dr Mark Nanyingi, an infectious disease epidemiologist, spoke to the Star