Former CBK staffer Christopher Namachanja will be buried in Bungoma when court lifts an order that has temporarily halted his interment. His two wives have agreed on the burial place even though they are locked up in a bitter dispute on the fate of the second wife. The second wife, Daisy, obtained orders stopping the burial after first wife Lucy refused to recognise her marriage to Christopher. The court is expected to give a ruling on Thursday on whether burial will proceed. It is also not clear how they will transport the body to Bungoma given the government's directive on cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi. Speaking to the Star, Daisy's lawyer Dunstan Omari said they hope the state will exempt them and allow a hearse with a few people to ferry the body home for burial. According to Daisy, Christopher who died last month of heart complication was to be buried in Nakuru by Lucy without her input. However, in court on Tuesday, both women said Christopher will be buried in Bungoma but Lucy maintained Daisy was not her co-wife. Omari told senior resident magistrate D.M Kivuti that they were okay with the burial being held in Bungoma and the body should be released to the clansmen and not to Lucy. Omari said the body be released to the clan which is represented by Henry Namachanja, the blood brother of the deceased. The clan will decide who to recognise as the wives of the deceased. According to Omari, both Lucy and Daisy have no role to play at the burial because it will be a purely Bukusu affair. He also dismissed arguments by Lucy that photos produced by Daisy showing Christopher and his second family don’t speak or bring status. Omari said the photo evidence and all the other exhibits including the birth certificates of the three kids are admissible in court unless challenged. However, Lucy through lawyer Judith Guserwa maintained that Daisy is a stranger and she does not know her neither was she married to her husband. Guserwa dismissed the evidence produced by Daisy showing that she signed Christopher’s medical records while he was sick in the hospital. “You have been told that Daisy filled admission forms at Nairobi Hospital for the deceased as her husband. When someone is sick, you carry him to the hospital and the hospital will want to know who you are and who will pay the bill. If I sign in the form, how will the hospital know I am the wife,” Guserwa said. She urged the court to direct that the remains of the deceased be buried in Bungoma among his clan and family. "Those who want to attend in whatever capacity can go there where they (clan) will see them there." Edited by Peter Obuya