Rain water is yet again going to waste as authorities across the country do not have the capacity to harvest it. Lack of funds is cited as the main problem hampering water harvesting and storage. The ongoing rains have wreaked havoc across the country, leading to loss of life and property. Over 20 lives have been lost, thousands displaced and properties worth millions destroyed. The Meteorological Department had early in the week warned that the rains would intensify from Thursday and reduce on Saturday in Western and Central Kenya. "Heavy rainfall is expected to reduce across the country on Saturday," Met director Stella Aura said. The Water Resources Authority has identified more than 20 rivers, dams and lakes that are likely to burst their banks. Authority CEO Mohammed Shurie said the more than 20 rivers and dams are giving him sleepless nights. “Due to the magnitude of the ongoing floods, most water resources including rivers are at critical stages in terms of threatening to burst their banks or break their embankments," he said. The water bodies include Suam, Perkerra, Molo, Lake Naivasha, Awach Kibuon, Malaba, Lake Victoria, Nzoia Webuye, Ragati, Nzoia, Yalla, Sio, Tana, Nyando, Gucha Migori, Awach Tende, Nyamasaria, Sondu, Mara and Seven Forks. Water levels at Masinga, Kamburu, Gitaru, Thika, Sasumwa and Ruiru dams have also risen. “The public is therefore notified to move to higher grounds and adhere to relevant flood alerts given through various media channels and community forums to avoid further destruction of lives, properties, spread of waterborne diseases and loss of biodiversity," Shurie said. He urged entrepreneurs to ensure their developments factor in at least 3,000-litre storage tanks for every household. "Storing water will ensure that reserve flows are maintained in water resources, thus saving our resources from depletion during reduced flows,” Shurie said. Kenya is a water-scarce country, with a per capita water availability of less than 600 cubic metres, which is below the global per capta threshold of 1,000 cubic metres. The 2019 Population and Housing Census shows that only 10 per cent of Kenya’s households have access to piped water in their houses. Further, about 14 per cent have access to water from a nearby standpipe. According to the Kenya Demographic and Household Survey 2014, about 40 per cent of rural households spend more than 30 minutes looking for water. The National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority has said lack of funds limits water harvesting and storage in the country. Authority acting CEO Geoffrey Sang said 27 small dams and water pans have been completed in various parts of the country. Sang said the dams and water pans, which cost between Sh5 million and Sh10 million, will harvest between 10,000 cubic metres and 25,000 cubic metres. They are in Nakuru, Embu, Makueni, Kajiado, Garissa, Mandera, Turkana, Baringo, Nyeri, Kiambu, Wajir, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bungoma, Bomet, Narok and Lamu. Sang said the main challenge facing the authority in rolling out its work was a lack of funds. Edited by A.N