 The ongoing mass vaccination of livestock in Garissa will not be halted despite the threat of the spread of coronavirus. Garissa livestock executive Mohamed Shale on Saturday said stopping the drive midway would be catastrophic to a sector he said is the economic mainstay of residents. More than 80 percent of the larger Northeastern region are pastoralists. At least 800,000 animals are targeted in the exercise.   “We want to stop the further spread of livestock diseases and outbreaks in order to protect pastoral livelihoods. It’s a source of livelihood for a huge population,” Shale said. He spoke in Dujis is Balambala subcounty where he launched phase two of the vaccination drive. “While we respect all rules that have been set by the national government and the Ministry of Health, we don’t want to be left out. We shall observe all the rules including social distancing,” Shale said. He said over 300,000 goats and sheep will be vaccinated against Contagious Caprine Pleuromonia (CCPP). Also to be vaccinated are 500,000 cattle against lumpy skin disease and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP). Shale said the livestock will also be dewormed and sprayed to control pests and ticks. The vaccination follows last year's heavy rains that caused massive flooding that is normally associated with animal diseases. He said the exercise will be majorly confined to 10 wards acres all the six subcounties of Lagdera, Dadaab, Balambala, Fafi, Holugho and Ijara. The exercise is being carried out in collaboration with the National Drought Management Authority, Save the Children, Kenya Resilient Project, Kenya Market System and the Kenya Climate-Smart Agriculture project. “The contribution of these partners before, now and going forward is truly invaluable and is one that needs to be strengthened even more because as a county we can do very little,” Shale said. Shale urged the technical staff that will be involved in the exercise to work closely with farmers for maximum results.  edited by Peter Obuya