@magatinews Kisii county has begun fumigating shops, markets and streets in major towns to stop the spread of the coronavirus. On Saturday night shops along Hospital Road and the greengrocers' market in Kisii town were fumigated. County secretary Patrick Lumumba, Administration executive Edna Kangwana and municipal officials joined workers to fumigate the town. Kangwana said more towns across the county are scheduled for fumigation to keep the virus at bay. "We have just started. We will not set a timeframe for when we will stop yet as the Covid-19 infections appear to be going up," she said. Kangwana said continues are at a greater risk of infection because people are still lax with social distancing rules. Shops along the Kisii- Kisumu Highway were also sprayed on Saturday as fumigators plan to move to the suburbs before going to the subcounties. The county will improve the collection of garbage, Kangwana said. "All these are part of the efforts aimed at supplementing the national government efforts to roll back infections of this disease," Kangwana said. The executive appealed for more stakeholder support as the country confronts the pandemic. By Saturday, 126 people had tested positive for Covid 19. They are undergoing treatment at various health facilities in Nairobi and Mombasa. Hundreds of others, mostly returnees from foreign countries, are in quarantine and are waiting to be tested. Kangwana urged the residents to observe the sanitation regulations and the social distancing announced by the government. "These remain the best-proven methods to avoid the infections and we strongly urge our people to observe them," she said. Bars and clubs in the county shall remain shut. Restaurants and hotels are to stick to offerings take-away services for the time being, Kangwana said. The Kisii town business community has donated Sh1 million to help in the purchase of drugs for the fumigation exercise. Lumumba said all markets will remain closed.  He ordered subcounty and ward administrators to work with chiefs and security agencies to ensure no meetings or gatherings are held. "This is not the time to drop the ball. We urge every one of our administrators wherever they are to ensure we have no gatherings, especially in the towns in their areas. They will have themselves to blame if they sleep on their job," Lumumba said. He said unnecessary congregations are fertile grounds for the spread of the coronavirus. He asked the residents to acquire masks as part of the efforts to prevent infections. (edited by o. owino)