With Mombasa county recording more than 80 coronavirus cases, a nutritionist is advocating for a healthy diet to curb the spread. Tiny Totos Kenya Field and Partnership coordinator and nutritionist Martina Adega said it is important to have a strong immune system through a healthy diet. “Building a strong immune system is important so that one does not contract coronavirus and even if one has contracted the disease, they would just have a mild infection,” she said. The nutritionist said no special food is needed for this. “Just the ordinary foods we eat every day but in the right portions.” First, she said, one should eat meat but only the size of a chicken leg. With cow and goat meat, she advises on 60 grams of it - just four chunks. One can substitute meat with either a glass of milk or an egg. With cereals, measuring two-thirds a cup is enough. “All these foods mentioned above will help because they will give us zinc, iron, folate and Vitamin A which will help build a strong immune system,” she said. Adega said it is important not to overcook vegetables to avoid destroying nutrients. “These greens are important because they will give us vitamins A, C and K. And apart from the vitamins we also get fiber.” She added that cabbage, carrots and cucumber are important for vitamin C, together with citrus fruits such as tangerine, oranges and pineapple. Intake of a variety of fruits is also very important because they supplement Vitamin A. “Apart from boosting the immune system, fruits help in faster recovery of wounds.” People are also urged to eat energy-giving foods including maize, rice, wheat, millet and starches like cassava, arrow roots, potatoes and cooked bananas. Adega, however, insisted that when these foods are taken in large amounts, they would lead to lifestyle diseases like hypertension and diabetes. “We should only measure a small cup of rice and a fistful of ugali,” she said. Eating of nuts and seeds for Muslims during the month of Ramadhan is recommended. While following this dietary advice, she said, one should always drink clean water. Edited by R.Wamochie