An assistant chief in Kajiado is under investigation for alleged involvement in a raid on a chang'aa den that left one person dead on Saturday night in Korrompoi sublocation. Assistant chief Agnes Sayia denied the claims and accused a politician of telling police officers lies about the raid. Isinya subcounty police boss Kinyua Mugambi told the Star on Sunday he was heading to the crime scene where more than 10 people were beaten by an unknown group of people at a house where they were drinking in Korrompoi. “The information I have is that an assistant chief led some youth into a chang’aa den and beat up revellers and in the process, one man died after the attack. We are yet to establish what happened,” Mugambi said.. Sayia said she heard noises from her house and decided to walk to the scene but before she arrived people had already fled. She blamed a politician for trying to 'fix' her. She did not identify the person. It was impossible to immediately verify her claim. “We have never been friends with this politician lied to the police that I was involved in last night's attack at a home in Korrompoi. I heard people crying out near my home, and I walked there but they had run away in different directions," Sayia said. “I immediately called my boss, chief Stephen Tipanko, and told him about it. Sayia went on, “I am ready to record a statement with the police. I have nothing to cover up over the attack. Had I not gone there in time, many  people would have been seriously hurt.” Chief Tipanko confirmed he was alerted by Sayia at 7pm and immediately called Isinya deputy OCS, who provided a vehicle and police officers to accompany him to the scene. “We arrived at the scene after 8pm and found about seven men and three women seriously injured. I called the police bosses to tell them about the injuries and they instructed me to take them to hospital,” said Tipanko, who is the Oloosidan chief. The chief said his assistant had told him she had arrested people found drinking chang’aa in a house in her area. “When we reached there, those injured claimed they were attacked by a group of youths who were accompanied by the assistant chief," Tipanko said. He said he recovered four litres of chang’aa at the scene of the attack and could not establish how much had been consumed. The chief said he received the information about the death after midnight. Doctors said the victim had lost a lot of blood before he arrived at the hospital. MCA Joshua Olowuasa claimed an official who organised the raid “is out to finish  his people." It was impossible to immediaely verify his claim. (Edited by V. Graham) 