Eight counties in the North Rift are working on a joint economic recovery plan to restore normalcy from the effects of coronavirus. They say the strict health measures imposed by the government to control Covid-19 have caused cumulative losses of more than Sh5 billion in the last two months. The governors of eight counties forming the North Rift Economic Bloc led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu say although the war against Covid-19 is still on, the pandemic will have far-reaching impacts on the lives of Kenyans, hence the need for a recovery strategy. The county chiefs welcomed the partial re-opening of hotels and restaurants they said will restore more than 20,000 jobs. "The re-opening of restaurants is highly welcome but we will still strictly enforce hygiene measures to ensure there is no lapse in efforts to control Covid-19," Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Counties will use part of the Sh10 billion released by the national government to pay pending debts. More than 350,000 people are faced with starvation in the North Rift region due to the effects of Covid-19. The counties have lost heavily after suspending collection of revenues and taxes usually levied during normal operations. Implementation of projects worth billions of shillings has also been put on hold. Mandago said Noreb would work with collaborating partners to mobilise donors to provide support for economic recovery. “We are also engaging our county assemblies to start discussing how we will put in place measures that will ensure our economies do not collapse completely”, Mandago said. He said the counties will implement measures to save small scale traders whose businesses have completely collapsed after the government enforced Covid-19 control measures that disrupted most activities. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) says more than three-quarters of major businesses in the North Rift region have shut down due to the effects of coronavirus. KAM North Rift chairman Bryan Cuthbert said supply of raw materials and other essentials have been cut off as companies enforce measures outlined by the state to control Covid-19. Cuthbert said health matters are of priority and enterprises which have been forced to shut down are keen to protect the lives of their workers. The counties have used more than Sh2 billion on measures to support farmers and ensure food security during and after the fight against Covid-19. The chairman of the Council of Governors Wycliffe Oparanya said many farmers were still receiving subsidies of fertiliser and seeds during the current planting season. Oparanya said farmers in all counties had been given for free more than 10, 000 metric tons of fertiliser, 1,376 metric tones of assorted seeds and 93,000 fruit trees. Mandago said aiding farmers was a sure way to keep the country food secure. Edited by Henry Makori