MPs have rejected President Uhuru Kenyatta’s choice of members of the Teachers Service Commission to fill vacant posts. The Education Committee of the National Assembly chaired by Paul Melly concluded that Mbage Njuguna and Leila Abdi Ali did not meet the cut. The two were due to fill vacancies at the commission for Northeastern and the youth. Njuguna was dropped on account that his appointment would lock out youths from being represented. “Average age of TSC members is 64 years. The nominee is also in the same age group and therefore, the commission would lack representation of the youth,” the vetting report signed by committee vice-chair Amos Kimunya reads. It adds that despite possessing relevant academic qualifications, Njuguna failed to demonstrate his knowledge and understanding of TSC operations. “The nominee’s abilities and qualities did not meet the needs of the commission,” the Kimunya report adds. Njuguna is has a Bachelor of Law degree from the University of Nairobi and two postgraduate degrees- MA in International Business Law and an MA in Agricultural Development – all from the University of London. For Ali, MPs cited inconsistencies in her employment history as spelt out in her curriculum vitae. “The committee was, therefore, unable to determine with certainty whether the nominee met the requirements for at least 10 years experience in matters relating to education, governance, management or law,” the committee concluded. Ali was also found to lack the requisite academic qualifications and professional experience relevant for a member of the commission. This was factored on a petition by Maalim Hassan - a resident of Mandera, who challenged her suitability for appointment as TSC member. Their future now rests on how MPs will vote at the plenary when the report is tabled for debate next Tuesday, the day the House resumes business. Approval of the nominations had been listed among the key legislative agenda of the cancelled special sitting. Should the House adopt the Kimunya report, President Kenyatta will revisit the selection panel’s report to pick fresh nominees. The interview panel’s report shows that nine nominees were rated, a list from which the President settled for Njuguna and Ali. Isaac Wamuthe scored the highest points at 75.2 per cent followed by Njuguna at 75.0 per cent and Margaret Lesuuda at 71.3 per cent. Pius Nduathi scored 69.8 points followed by Salesa Adano with 68 while Ali had 62.3beating  Mary Rotich and Florence Njau with 62.2 and 62 points respectively. Three of the nine successful applicants are from Central; one from Nairobi; two from Northeastern, and three from Rift Valley. If the National Assembly rejects any or all of the subsequent nominees submitted by the President for approval, fresh applications would be called. MPs further observed that the composition of TSC is skewed - as it lacks youth representation and has more members from the Eastern region. TSC chairperson Lydia Nzomo is married in Machakos while Kinoti Imanyara represents Meru, all considered as falling under Eastern. Tache Gollo represents Isiolo – also clustered under Eastern; while other members are Mbarak Twahir (Coast), Albert Ekirapa (Western), and Beatrice Adu from Coast but married in Kisumu. Edited by R.Wamochie