Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has urged Kenyans not to buy face masks from vendors who 'look dirty'. "Don't buy masks from people who look dirty and look like they don't wash their hands," the CS said on Wednesday during his daily briefing. He made comment following complaints that some vendors were allowing clients to try on masks and return them if they don't fit. This had raised concerns about the spread of the virus. Kagwe also hit out at Kenyans who are not cooperating with the police as they enforce the dusk-to-dawn curfew. He referred to a case in which citizens were captured throwing stones at police. "This is akin to anarchy," he said. The CS on Wednesday urged human rights organisations to not only be quick to point out bad behavour by police, but also by citizens. He commended the police for ensuring the curfew is adhered to. Kenya has reported  nine new coronavirus cases, bringing the country's total number to 225. The new cases were reported from 803 samples tested in the last 24 hours. All the new cases are Kenyans. None has a history of travel, nor were they from quarantine centres. Five are from Nairobi, four are from Mombasa. They are aged between nine and 69 years. There were 12 new discharges, bringing to 53, the number who have recovered. Another person died, bringing to 10 the number who have succumbed. The CS said 2,336 contacts have been monitored and 455 contacts are being followed. Kagwe on Wednesday said counties were put in notice and a high-level team was dispatched to Siaya county led by Ministry of Health director general Dr Patrick Amoth. The team inspected the isolation units. It also delivered supplies for health workers. "This battle will be won by Kenyans working together... it's not a government task," Kagwe said. The government received 18,900 swabs, protective clothing, thermometer gloves and equipment from the Jack Ma Foundation. Another consignment of gowns and other equipment was also received from WHO. "We are not out of danger," Kagwe said. 