Substandard sanitiser and face masks are on sale in Meru, according to residents. Some of the masks, they say, cause breathing problems while others make them sweat. Several of them told the Star that the masks and disinfectants do not meet the quality standards recommended by the Health ministry. County Health executive Misheck Mutuma shared similar concerns especially about the sanitiser. He accused some unscrupulous traders of taking advantage of the coronavirus to exploit residents. "I don’t trust sanitiser and the best way to kill the virus is washing with water and soap. Traders are selling funny things. Before you buy sanitiser, think twice. Some are taking advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic to exploit residents. I trust water and soap," he said. Mutuma, however, said the face masks are of high quality. He said all face masks are uncomfortable when one is not used to wearing them. The standard face masks must have three layers to filter and reduce the spread of germs, he said noting that air circulates slowly and those not used to the masks will complain for a few days. "They are all that way and you will be uncomfortable. They all have the same problem, but you get used to them. The NC95 is the worst, but doctors are used to it. No way will one be comfortable. When one breathes, the masks warm and temperatures rise - one either sweats or feels discomfort," he said. Mutuma cautioned residents against purchasing sanitiser, warning that some traders' thirst for money will aid the spread of Covid-19. The Star has established some traders Dettol detergent with either substandard surgical spirit or Jik to maker sanitiser. Mutuma was confident that the country will win the war against the virus contagion. "It may not have the same impact in terms of spread and deaths in Africa like in Europe and other countries,” he said optimistically. The Health executive urged Meru residents to strictly follow government directives and be disciplined to avoid run-ins with the authorities. "Don’t behave like children.  It's upon you to care about your health , not the police. The handwashing call is succeeding but people are not keeping social distance in towns and markets. Stay at home,” he urged.