Eden Hazard has recovered well from ankle surgery, Belgium’s coach Robert Martinez said on Sunday but without offering a time frame for a return to action for the Real Madrid forward. Hazard had the operation in Dallas last month after fracturing his ankle. The 29-year-old had looked set for another lengthy spell on the sidelines because of the injury but the suspension of football due to the coronavirus pandemic means that he could still feature this season depending on when action in La Liga resumes. Hazard was hurt in late February in Real Madrid’s loss to Levante, having only just returned weeks earlier after a three-month layoff. “I know he is recovering well. He is not far from running again and there are no complications,” Martinez said in an interview with several Belgian media outlets. “Everything went well with the operation, but you also hope that everything goes well in the four to five weeks afterwards without complications, and there were none,” Martinez said. “We know he will return stronger. We were also fortunate, of course, to have his surgery take place just before the coronavirus outbreak. Otherwise he would not be able to travel or be treated outside of Madrid. I have a positive feeling that Eden will be back soon,” he added. Hazard moved to Real Madrid from Chelsea at the start of the season but scored just once in 15 outings for the Spanish giants. Meanwhile, Feyenoord coach Dick Advocaat has had longer than he planned to think about his next step: Does he retire yet again or stay for another season as manager of the Eredivisie side? The suspension of the league in the Netherlands because of the COVID-19 pandemic means the 72-year-old can ponder a little longer. "There would have been clarity at the end of March whether I would stay or not but now that decision will take a few months longer," he told Dutch media, having turned around the fortunes of the former European champions. Advocaat took over from previous coach Jaap Stam who quit in October following a 4-0 loss at arch-rivals Ajax Amsterdam that left them floundering in the bottom half of the Dutch league table. The turnaround kept up Advocaat's reputation for successfully stepping in to a crisis situation, just as he did at Sunderland in 2015, when taking over from Gus Poyet, and guiding the club to Premier League safety. He then retired to keep a promise to his wife to finally quit the game. That was five years and six jobs ago. Advocaat's retirement lasted less than a month as he changed his mind and stayed on at Sunderland, only to resign four months later. Since, he has worked at Fenerbahce in Turkey, the Dutch national team for a third time, and at Sparta Rotterdam, Utrecht and Feyenoord. Advocaat is a beloved figure in Dutch football. His three spells in charge of the national team produced 37 victories – more than any other coach – and he has lost only one game in 21 since taking over at Feyenoord. The secret, he told the Dutch media earlier this year, was his bluntness. "I restrict myself to the basics, to the point. I'm then very clear in my instructions, what I want to see from them when in possession or when not in possession, and after that it's up to the players to do what's expected of them," he said. Advocaat also confirmed Feyenoord would be his last job. "That is definite," he added. His contract runs out at the end of June and an extension is likely to be offered, media reports said. But Advocaat has given no hint as to his intentions. "It's not clear how next season is going to turn out. What will the financial situation will be, how much money there will be for transfers? It is a difficult and unclear story," he said.