A nominated legislator has backed the new tea regulations tabled by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. Last week, Munya proposed regulatory measures to insulate small scale tea farmers who have been exploited by middle-men. In the regulations, tea produced locally for export will be sold through auction and not a sale by a private entity. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi described the regulations as the biggest step in reclaiming the sector which has been under cartels for years. “The proposed raft of measures will benefit the small scale tea farmers who have continued to suffer due to inefficiencies and corruption in the tea sector,” Osotsi said. Osotsi said proposals to improve the operations and automation of the tea auction in Mombasa and improve the bonus payment process were welcome. Munya also announced plans to carry out an evaluation of the impact of the Kenya Tea Development Agency's commercial behaviour, including on earnings to smallholders Under the new regulations announced by Munya, KTDA is set to lose its grip of the sector. President Uhuru Kenyatta on December 14, last directed Munya and the Competition Authority to oversee policy and structural reforms to the sector following an outcry by farmers. KTDA is owned by 54 corporate tea companies that have extended by setting up 15 satellite factories bringing plants under smallholder farmers to 69. The draft regulations await public participation before gazettement. They capture many of the views raised by MPs during the recent debate on Tea Bill sponsored by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruyoit. The bill is scheduled for the committee of the whole House. Cheruiyot’s bill proposes for the creation of Tea Board of Kenya as the sector regulator hence effectively abolishing multi-sectorial regulator, AFFA. “My expectation is that the proposed regulations shall complement the provisions of the Tea bill once it enacted into law and should not be used to stifle genuine demands to abolish the moribund AFFA that has failed tea, sugar and coffee sectors,” Osotsi said. 