The Council of Governors wants quick state action to crush increasing banditry in parts of Baringo that could undermine security and the fight against the coronavirus. Governors under the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) met in Eldoret and urged Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya to ensure security is quickly restored in Baringo. More than 1,000 people have been displaced from their homes due to violence. “The insecurity problem in Baringo must be tackled urgently so our focus remains on the fight against Covid-19,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said on April 22 in Eldoret. He is also Noreb's chairman. The money, time and manpower used to fight cattle rustlers and bandits should be diverted to fight the virus, the governors said. Mandago spoke after a meeting at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, which CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya also attended. Present were governors Stanley Kiptis of Baringo, Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia and Josphat Nanok of Turkana. MTRH CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa and Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa attended. Oparanya said the counties faced challenges such as how to deal with refugees in Turkana while fighting the spread of the coronavirus. “We are also trying to open more testing centres, including one in Turkana, to deal with the problem of those crossing from other countries, especially refugees," Oparanya said. The county bosses asked the government to quickly roll out the welfare package for health workers fighting against Covid-19, as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Oparanya said health workers require support and motivation to effectively stop the spread of the virus. He said the CoG has called an emergency meeting on Tuesday to discuss the disease. The government has given Sh5 billion to the counties for the fight. “We also want to thank the Danish International Development Agency (Danida) for donating Sh3.3 billion to county governments to cater for operations and maintenance of Levels 1,2 and 3 facilities. We urge the national government to release these funds urgently as we need them to counter the pandemic," Oparanya said. The governors, he says, may recommend further anti-virus measures. Oparanya said the counties will use Sh5 billion from the national government to increase their capacity. (Edited by V. Graham)