Garissa Governor Ali Korane on Thursday ordered the county borders closed in the war against coronavirus. The order, which was to be effected right away, is likely to be  resisted since the majority of Garissa town workers and business people reside in Madogo, Tana River county, from where they commute daily. Korane told journalists outside his office that the partial lockdown of Nairobi had exacerbated human trafficking by cartels who smuggle people to Garissa, Wajir and Isiolo in small cars. He restricted the movement on the Garissa-Tana bridge. No Tuk Tuk, boda bodas or matatus will be allowed in Garissa. “We have resolved to temporarily stop any vehicular movement into Garissa county to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus from other counties. Trucks ferrying supplies will be allowed into the county. "This is to limit movement of passengers from Tana River, Wajir, Isiolo and Lamu counties. We will only allow people to cross on foot,” he said, adding that trucks ferrying supplies will be allowed into the devolved  unit. Korane said the national and county governments would go to any lengths to protect lives. He urged security personnel to beef up surveillance along the Kenya-Somalia border to restrict the movement of people following increased cases of coronavirus at Kobiyo in the neighbouring country. Korane said the county had procured 10 thermal guns and intended to purchase 40 more to enhance the screening of residents at strategic places including those crossing on foot through Tana bridge and crucial public places. He announced that his government would support 6,000 vulnerable families during the month of Ramadhan. “We are determined to cushion our people from the economic hardships associated with the pandemic, particularly during the holy month of Ramadhan. It's in this regard that we will give food vouchers to 6,000 needy households. Chiefs and their assistants will help in identifying the most needy,” he said. The vulnerable families will also benefit from partner organisations like Unicef, Kenya Red Cross, National Drought Management Authority, UNHCR, Womenkind, Safaricom and Care Kenya. The governor promised to give 100,000 free masks to the public. More equipment will be procured for health personnel operating on entry points. The governor implored the public to pray at home during Ramadhan and to comply with curfew regulations. “Although the obligatory fasting during Ramadhan has coincided with a pandemic, our unwavering faith remains the same. I urge fellow Muslims to continue praying in our homes and to continue adhering to the social distancing advisory.” Ramadhan is an opportunity to be more steadfast in prayer and devotion, a moment of spiritual nourishment and renewal and a reminder of the plight of the less fortunate members of society, Korane said. He disclosed that all the tests done on suspected Covid-19 cases were negative. However, that should not give the residents a false sense of security. Edited by Henry Makori