The Kirinyaga MCA who tabled the impeachment motion against Governor Anne Waiguru was on Tuesday attacked and his home partially burnt. The undetermined number of arsonists descended on the homestead of Mutira MCA David Wangui in Kanjie and set a section of it on fire. The attack happened at 1am. The used petrol to torch a fodder shed but a farmhand alerted Wangui's family who extinguished it. Wangui said they found two jerricans of petrol and a jug they suspect was used to pour the fuel on the structure. “The farmhand was sleeping near the shed which my brother uses to store fodder. He smelt something burning and and raised the alarm,” the ward rep said. The arsonists escaped, but Wangui is worried that they could be planning to do worse things. He said the incident was reported to the police and investigations have started. Kirunda sub-location assistant chief Francis Muchiri said the two petrol jerricans had been handed over to the police. He appealed to residents to volunteer information that could help in the arrest of the attackers. It was not clear whether the arson was related to the impeachment motion that Wangui moved on April 1 in the county assembly. MCAs want Waiguru impeached for allegedly violating the Constitution, procurement and finance management laws and abuse of office. The attack happened two days after two other MCAs supporting the impeachment received threatening leaflets. On Monday, Ngariama MCA Erastus Ireri and Rose Njeri (nominated) recorded statements at Kianyaga police station in connection with the leaflets. Njeri alleged she was traumatised to find the leaflets warning her to keep off the governor’s affairs. She was told to focus on her office or face the wrath of the writer of the leaflet. On Sunday, supporters of Waiguru and those opposed to her clashed at Kithure market where both Njeri and the governor come from. MCAs led by former Majority leader Kamau Murango met on Monday  and demanded to be provided with security as they feared for their lives. Since the impeachment motion was tabled, there have been wrangles among MCAs. Some have accused Jubilee secretary-general Raphael Tuju of intimidation. It was Tuju who announced the dismissal of Murango, who is the Kerugoya MCA, as the county assembly’s Majority leader. Murango was accused of joining his colleagues for the governor's impeachment bid. Jubilee has ordered all elected and nominated MCAs to toe the party line and disassociate themselves from the impeachment of the governor. Tuju said the ward reps must exhaust all party resolution mechanisms before resorting to impeachment. The governor has  seven MCAs on her side while 27 support her removal from office.  Edited by Peter Obuya