The office of Homa Bay Woman Representative has established a temporary stitching workshop to make face masks in the fight against coronavirus. The workshop is tasked to produce 1,000 washable masks daily for one month. They will be distributed to boda boda riders and traders, among other groups, in the county. Gladys Wanga, the Woman Rep, and county commissioner Yatich Kipkemei said the workshop has been established using emergency funds provided by the government to cushion residents from contracting Covid-19. Wanga said NGAAF donated Sh522,000 to the kitty to initiate projects aimed at combating the virus. The material is sourced from Rivatex in Eldoret. “We’ve secured about 10 sewing machines and 40 trained tailors to make the face masks,” Wanga said. They have also purchased 4,000 litres of sanitiser, soap and water tanks for hand washing for distribution to all county 40 wards. “We’re working closely with partners to ensure residents get support during the Covid-19 outbreak. I appeal to residents to abide by precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the virus,” the Woman Rep said. The MP said through virtual communication that the materials used in making the face masks are 99 per cent effective against the virus. The mask makers are youths trained at National Industrial Training Authority, she said. “My office is using the opportunity to create jobs for youths who recently graduated at Nita. They will be rotating until the programme comes to an end,” Wanga said. Kipkemei, county NGAAF chairman Caroline Owidhi and NGAAF fund manager Jack Obonyo said the distribution of the sanitation items would be done fairly. The administrator said they are working with sub-county committees who in-turn work with officers at the ward level to distribute the facilities. “Let residents utilise the facilities prudently so they serve their purpose. The office of the governor will facilitate the distribution of the materials,” Kipkemei said. He said they will instal the hygiene items at bus parks and termini. “We want people to comply with rules given by the government in curbing the spread of the virus. A lot of information about how to prevent the virus is known,” he added. Owidhi encouraged all riders to ensure their customers wash hands before boarding their motorcycles. “The sanitiser should be shared among riders at the boda stage,” she said. Obonyo urged traders to maintain social distance as they engage in different market activities. Edited by R.Wamochie