The Murang’a government has issued 10,000 face masks to boda boda riders as the county scales up its fight against the spread of coronavirus. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said his administration took the initiative in line with the national government’s directive requiring Kenyans to wear masks when in public places. He said the boda boda sector was one of those at high risk because riders can easily contract and spread the virus since they interact with many people. Wa Iria said riders found operating without the face masks will be penalised. “We are working with the national government and those found operating without the masks will have their motorcycles impounded,” Wa Iria said. Those who flout Ministry of Health directives on curbing the spread of the virus will have their licences revoked, the governor said. He was speaking when he distributed the masks to chairmen of boda boda saccos at the county headquarters in Murang'a town on Monday. The governor said the county government seeks to produce 300,000 face masks before the end of April for distribution to residents. He said matatu operators will also be provided with the masks after which they will be issued out to traders. On average, the governor said the county has about 10,000 traders operating in local markets which he said have not been closed down as they provide food to locals. However,  market days that often attract thousands of traders to a particular market have banned. “We have already produced 30,000 face masks which will be distributed to high-risk cadres of people,” the governor said, emphasizing that traders who will fail to use the face masks will also face punitive action. Wa Iria said he plans to ensure locals who frequent shopping centres are all covered to minimise the risk of spreading the virus. Murang'a has a population of about 1.2 million people and Wa Iria said only about 600,000 are adults with only 300,000 frequenting shopping centres and towns. He said he is working with local polytechnics to produce the masks that he said have the required health standards. He, however, urged those capable of buying their own masks to do so, so that the masks can reach the less fortunate. The governor said if the spread continues to escalate nationally, the county will consider isolating those found in public places without masks at their own cost. He lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for ordering a cessation of movement in and out of the four high-risk counties of Nairobi, Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi. The decision will ensure the disease does not spread to other counties, Wa Iria said. He asked governors to consider limiting inter-county movement of people to further minimise the risk. “We don’t have to wait for the national government. If every county locked down and people appropriately used masks and washed hands, then new infections would be stopped,” he said. “It does not have to be forceful. Even talking to people on the risk of travelling from one county to another will help.” Edited by peter obuya