A 73-year-old man convicted of defiling his tenant’s daughter in Nairobi will spend seven years behind bars following a successful appeal. Kagori Kaboi was charged with the offence of defilement and committing an indecent act with a 13-year-old girl on January 12, 2018. He denied the two charges and was released on cash bail. In her testimony, the complainant told the court that she was 14 years old. On the fateful day, she came back from school at about 7pm and went to Kaboi’s house where she used to watch television and wash his utensils. When she was done, the landlord asked her to remove her clothes which she declined. He went ahead to forcefully undress her then defiled her. She was in her school uniform, a dress and a sweater. Kaboi warned the girl against telling anyone what had transpired. She put on her clothes and went back home. She did not immediately inform her mother what had happened, and only told her about the incident two months later, on March 4, 2018. On full trial at a Makadara court, Kaboi was convicted and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment after claiming he was an ailing old man who was diabetic. Dissatisfied with the court’s decision, the landlord moved to the High Court seeking to quash his conviction and set aside the sentence that was imposed on him. Kaboi said the prosecution’s case was inconsistent and full of contradictions, hence insufficient to sustain a conviction. In her testimony, the complainant’s mother said that when her daughter opened up after the incident, she told her that the landlord had been sexually assaulting her every time she went to his place. The prosecution objected to the appeal saying the 10 years imprisonment were sufficient since he was accorded a fair trial by the lower court. “In the premises, this court sets aside the 10 years imprisonment sentence meted by the trial court. The same is substituted with an order of this court sentencing the appellant to serve seven years imprisonment,” Justice Luka Kimaru ruled on April 8. Edited by Henry Makori