Vulnerable Nyandarua families will get food donations from Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau. Gitau said Tuesday that 5,000 people — the old, those with disabilities and laid-off casuals — will be targeted. Boda boda riders and police officers will also get donations. The package comprises unga and cooking oil but next week residents will get cereals including beans and green grams. Gitau said the foodstuffs will be delivered at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries in collaboration with the local administration. The delivery method is to avoid violation of government directive on social gatherings. “We have the data of all the people living with disability and other vulnerable groups including the elderly people in Nyandarua,” she said The office received Sh522,000 from the national government to fight Covid–19 but Giatu also got donations from well-wishers, she said. Other commodities being distributed are soaps, sanitiser, gumboots, gloves and face masks. The sanitiser will be distributed to offices while soaps will be distributed to handwashing points across the county. “We have also procured 30,000 masks for some of which will go to boda boda riders to protect themselves and their customers. “Health workers will get gumboots and surgical masks among other protective items,” she said. Gitau also distributed face masks, gloves and sanitiser to police officers. She said 2,000 face masks will be issued to police officers to give residents they meet without masks instead of arresting or whipping them. The lawmaker hailed the police officers in Nyandarua for being firm in enforcing the government directives on Covid – 19. There must be no compromise, especially on night curfew and social gatherings, she said. Already, nine people arrested while taking alcohol at a bar in Mirangine are quarantined at Nyandarua High school for 14 days. “That is the way to go for them to learn a lesson and be a warning to others,” Gitau said. Nyandarua county police boss Gideon Ngumi thanked Gitau for her donation to the officers. “We cover a very wide area. We go to quarantine facilities, markets, and bars among other areas. With this donation, we shall be in a position to give masks to those we find without and teach them how to wear,” he said. (edited by o. owino)