National women's volleyball team head coach Paul Bitok is hopeful Trizah Atuka could make the cut for now postponed Tokyo Olympic Games next year. Bitok said with the postponement, International Olympic Committee (IOC) could restart the process of submitting the list of 20 probable players to feature in the Tokyo Olympics Games. The tactician intimated that Kenya submitted their list of 20 players one month ago to the IOC. Atuka couldn't make the cut since she has been out with an injury since late last year. Bitok noted that in the next one year period Atuka will have fully recovered and reported back to training hence should be considered if she will be fit and ready for competition. Atuka, an experienced and an integral member of the Malkia Strikers, picked an anterior cruciate ligament  (ACL) injury in Kapsabet, Nandi County in October 2019 during the last National League circuit. She has since been sidelined from action for nine months to allow for a full recovery. "Trizah is one of our best players in the team and given the tournament has been postponed and she will have completed her treatment and recovery regime ahead of games, we'd like to have her on the list of 20. I hope the IOC will start the process anew after changing the dates," said Bitok, the 2019 SOYA Awards Coach of the Year winner. "If the list is returned to us, she will have to earn her place back in the travelling team," added Bitok. The Kenya Pipeline captain is optimistic of making a return the national side but is aware of the stiff competition she will face from players who earned the country the Olympic Games ticket in Yoaundé, Cameroon. However, National Olympic Committee of Kenya acting secretary-general, Francis Mutuku, said the list is only for the purposes of accreditation which can be amended. But even better and positive news for Atuka, Mutuku said the process will be restarted due to the disruptions occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. "There shouldn't be any worry. The process will start afresh and we will communicate the deadlines once IOC releases a revised schedule," said Mutuku.