Nandi county is running on empty. The county is unable to pay more than Sh400 million owed to fuel suppliers, causing shortages that have stalled most operations, including the fight against the spread of the coronavirus. The total amount of bills stands at more than Sh900 million. The county has been forced to ground most of its vehicles leaving only the official cars for the governor, his deputy and ambulances. These are only allotted a maximum of 50 litres per week, hampering health services. The county has grounded more than 100 cars including those that would have been used by the health department to carry out public education and monitoring the coronavirus situation. Governor Stephen Sang and his Finance executive Alfred Lagat were not picking calls and text messages asking them for comment. Communication officers under the governor’s office including Director of communication Gideon Sise also did not respond. “Thanks for your concern. Will follow up and revert back to you, " a text from a community actions officer said. Two months ago, Sang said the county had been forced to cut down on operations due to financial problems caused by delayed funding from the Treasury. “This was a measure to help reduce costs," San said, referring to vehicles that have been abandoned at garages in Kapsabet. Residents fear they are being vandalised and parts sold. The county is one of the regions hit by tough conditions by the Treasury over huge debts. Salaries have been delayed every month for more than 3,000 county workers. Last month 50 casual and contract employees at Kapsabet Referral Hospital were dismissed. They had demanded to be paid three months' salary arrears. A section of MCAs have threatened to protest against the sacking of hospital workers, saying they had only requested what was due them. Unlike Uasin Gishu and other neighbouring counties, Nandi has been unable to carry out sensitisation and active enforcement of Covid-19 control measures due to lack of vehicles and fuel. (Edited by V. Graham) 