Bura MP Ali Wario has urged Garissa Governor Ali Korane to consult his Tana River counterpart Dhadho Godhana before issuing orders or directives that impact on lives of residents of both counties. Korane last week issued an order banning the movement of vehicles, tuk tuks and boda bodas in and out of Garissa town. Most tuk tuk drivers and boda boda riders reside in Madogo in neighbouring Tana River county. They were angered by Korane's directives and temporarily barricaded the Garissa-Nairobi road in protest. The county government later rescinded the decision. Addressing reporters at his Madogo residence on Monday, Wario said Korane has twice issued orders that could not be implemented because he failed to consult. Mid last month, the Garissa governor banned transportation and sale of miraa within his county. But on April 6, President Uhuru Kenyatta classified miraa as farm produce whose movement is not restricted by health measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. The State House announcement rendered Korane’s directive null and void. Wario said had Korane consulted widely, his directives could not have been issued in the first place. “There are a number of people who depend on the miraa business. Last week he again issued another order banning vehicles and boda boda riders from entering and coming out of Garissa town through the Tana Bridge. He ought to have consulted,”  the legislator said. “Our history with Garissa is intertwined. Was there any consultation between the county governments of Garissa and Tana River or between different leaders at different levels before these orders were issued?” He said any decision being made especially now that the country is faced with the coronavirus pandemic should involve leaders from both counties. “I am appealing to the county governments not to come up with measures that are difficult to implement. They need to come up with a structure or forum before they make decisions where they consult widely before coming up with such orders,” the lawmaker said. He added, “My appeal to Korane and Dhadho is that before we make some decisions, we need to consult widely so as to come up with decisions that will not adversely affect the general population.” National Assembly Majority leader and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale while commenting on the matter said people should respect the law. "It is now clear who is eligible to enforce the cessation of movement orders. Governors have absolutely no powers. Everybody should now respect the law," Duale wrote on his Twitter page. His comment followed a directive from the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai that police officers should only enforce orders restricting movement if they are issued by the President or the Interior CS. "The IG directs officers not to enforce cessation of movement orders from governors. It is only valid when issued by Interior CS," the IG tweeted.  Edited by Peter Obuya