While local players continue to train from the comfort of their homes, Bandari goalkeeper and Burundi international Justin Ndikumana has the luxury of a normal and daily training sessions back in Bujumbura. By yesterday morning, Burundi had recorded three cases of the coronavirus but despite the effects of the pandemic which has seen sporting activities globally halted, their top-flight and other leagues are still rolling. Ndikumana who sought to travel home after the Kenyan Premier League was suspended, grabbed the chance to train with other internationals who had also returned with local teams in Bujumbura under the guidance of Burundi national team head coach Oliver Niyungeko. Among players, he revealed to be training with on a daily basis, are Jonathan Nahimana who plies his trade with Tanzanian outfit KMC, Fabien Mutombora of Vipers (Uganda) and experienced midfielder Pierre Kwizera. Ndikumana insists travelling home was the best choice as it has helped him maintain his fitness levels through regular training in a private academy as opposed to training in the house like his teammates at Bandari. "All the international stars, who returned home after the leagues which they feature in were cancelled, were summoned by our national team head coach for a non-residential camp for training. "We practice for almost two hours every morning in one of the private academies here in Bujumbura. "I feel I am fit as usual and I am looking forward to the league to resume. I think I made the right choice in travelling back home as training in Kenya is not allowed," he said in a phone interview The former Sofapaka goalkeeper, meanwhile, disclosed the national team was has taken healthy measures seriously to shield them from contracting the disease. He said prior to the first case, the players mingled freely but upon the first case, the players are now observing the World Health Organization's guidelines. "Before the first case,  it was business as usual but at the moment we are cautioned,  We have to be careful and we obey the directives given by the authorities. In the meantime I urge my fellow players and teammates at Bandari to stay safe," he added.