The conviction of a man accused of shooting his neighbour with arrows over a land demarcation row has been reduced from murder to manslaughter. Benson Mwanzia successfully appealed the charges at a Machakos High Court. Court documents say he murdered Kioko Kisoi on October 21, 2014, at Matungulu within Machakos county. He denied the charges. Kisoi’s father, Samuel Musimba told the court his son was called by the area chief and sub-chief to his farm that was to be demarcated, about a mile from his home. Musimba accompanied his son to the farm but instead of the administrators, they found Mwanzia who said they needed to meet. “The accused person left them and they waited for 30 minutes while debating whether to go home or not. However, the deceased decided to go to the accused’s home for more information,” court documents read. Musimba let his son go as he waited. “I then heard him crying and when I ran over to him, I saw him removing an arrow from his neck,” Musimba said. As Musimba was trying to stop his son’s bleeding using his handkerchief, he too was shot in the stomach. Though he did not see the person who was shooting, the arrows were coming from the direction of Mwanzia’s house. As he ran seeking for help, he was shot at again. He took all the arrows and went to the police leaving his injured son at the scene without getting time to establish his condition. An autopsy revealed that Kisoi died of excessive loss of blood caused by a sharp penetrating wound. In his defence, Mwanzia said Kisoi followed him and tried to break his house after he had locked himself inside. He then escaped through the window and went to the police post and did not know what transpired outside though he heard people screaming. “For these reasons and on the principles set out hereinabove, I reduce the charge of murder to manslaughter. I accordingly acquit the accused of the charge of murder but convict him of the offence of manslaughter,” Justice George Odunga ruled. (edited by o. owino)