Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has announced Kenya has confirmed 14 more coronavirus cases. This now brings the country's total number to 172 with four fatalities. 12 of these are Kenyans while two are foreign nationals. Speaking during the daily coronavirus briefing at Afya House on Tuesday, the CS said the 14 additional cases came after the government tested  696 samples in the last 24 hours. Out of the new 14 cases, seven are from Nairobi, two from Mombasa, two from Mandera while Machakos, Kisii and Kiambu had one case each. Four of these cases are from quarantine facilities while 10 were picked by the Ministry of Health surveillance teams. On a positive note, the CS announced three patients have been discharged after testing negative. This brings to seven the number of those who have recovered from the virus in the country. Kagwe said it is critically necessary for every Kenyan to wear masks. "Let us embrace that which will save us from lurking danger. It's important we adhere to measures if we are to score significant gains against this monster," he said. The CS warned that the government will not hesitate to take bolder measures in the coming days to curb the spread of the disease. Kagwe directed that all health workers, including those in private hospitals and rapid response teams and all staff in all facilities holding quarantined persons, must commence testing with immediate effect. The CS thanked the Mombasa County Government of Mombasa and Governor Hassan Joho in their complimentary effort to provide disinfectant sprayers at the Likoni Ferry. "We urge other counties to come up with innovative ways to compliment the national govt’s efforts," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday had announced an additional 16 cases raising the country's total number to 158. Addressing the media from State House on Monday, Uhuru said to date, the government have tested a total of 4,277 people. Uhuru at the same time declared the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties for 21 days. The President justified his action saying the containment counties were the epicentre of the coronavirus spread in Kenya. He said 82 per cent of Kenya’s reported cases of Covid-19 were linked to Nairobi, 14 per cent to residents of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa.