Bungoma Lands executive Bramwell Murgor is entangled in a fight to control World Bank cash with managers of Kimilili and Bungoma town boards. While the CEC has insisted that he should be in charge of the funds, the municipal board managers John Ndombi (Kimilili) and Gabriel Kibiriti (Bungoma) hold that they should be the accounting officers as enshrined in the Municipal and Cities Act. Bungoma Municipal Board already got Sh109 million from the World Bank as a grant while it awaits a further Sh84.5 million. Kimilili received Sh191 million and is awaiting Sh136 million. In correspondence seen by the Star and dated April 14, the protracted war has led Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to summon all the parties. He has also sought the interpretation of the law by his legal advisor. County legal advisor Cyril Wanyong’o wrote to both Murgor and the board managers advising that the executive member should only sit on the board as the accounting role is left to the municipal managers. Khalaba MCA Majimbo Okumu has said that the fight has derailed service delivery and could make the World Bank rethink its grant. “The county government has failed to operationalise the Bungoma and  Kimilili municipalities due to boardroom wars. This standoff has adversely affected the service provision," he said. Majimbo accused Wangamati of insisting that the development funds be managed by the office of the chief officer in charge of the docket, a decision that has caused the disquiet within the boards. “Why were the boards established if they can’t work and does the governor really know the roles of the boards?" he asked. Majimbo called upon the governor to "desist from micro-managing entities within the county government in total disregard of the respective statutes". He said among the services affected are garbage collection, street lighting and managing the petty traders, especially during this Covid-19 crisis. The board managers declined to comment. For his part, Murgor said, “The matter is being handled at a different level that's all I can say." Edited by R.Wamochie