Passengers who arrived at JKIA almost two weeks ago and were placed under mandatory quarantine at government facilities will have to pay up to Sh28,000 for the duration of their stay before they can leave. The travellers came into the country between March 23 and 25, when the last international flight was allowed to land at JKIA. Thereafter, international flights were suspended. A total of 2,050 people have been in quarantine at various designated hotels and government facilities. So far, 1,433 have been tested in a mass testing exercise the government kicked off on Sunday. The 14-day follow up period is set to end between Monday and Wednesday next week. Costs at state facilities vary from one facility to another. For instance, charges at the Kenya School of Government are Sh4,000 per day, while those staying at KMTC will be expected to part with Sh2,000. However, some being held at the Kenya School of Government had complained of being told to pay Sh2, 000, saying they had been initially been told that they would be accommodated for free. An official from the ministry on Friday said the passengers were aware they were supposed to pay as the Health CS had stated categorically that those jetting in will be put under mandatory quarantine at their own expense. “Those arriving were to choose where to stay depending on their pockets and affordability. There were around 11 Kenyans who came back from Dubai and when taken to KSG complained that the Sh4,000 was too much,” the official said. The government has listed 57 quarantine centres as the country continues to fight the spread of the coronavirus. In the list, the government has given names of hotels, universities, resorts and lounges. Some of the places include Hill Park hotel in Upper Hill. On a full board basis, the hotel charges Sh7,000 per night. There are 44 available rooms. “After negotiations it was agreed that they pay Sh2,000, but they still said they could not afford hence had to be transferred to KMTC, but on getting to KMTC, they found the charges were the same.” He said the other passengers were comfortable with the arrangement. The rates at the Boma Inn hotel are Sh12,500 full board with each individual is expected to stay in their own room irrespective of whether they are single or a couple. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe had said that all passengers arriving into the country will would go under mandatory quarantine. This decision was arrived at after some broke the directive to self-quarantine. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika had urged the government to pay the cost of mandatory quarantine for Kenyans arriving in the country. Kihika said those being quarantined may not be in a financial position to pay for the bills in various quarantine facilities. Other quarantine facilities are Safari Park, Pride Inn Hotels, Jacaranda Hotel, Trademark Hotel and Four points Sheraton. Kenyatta University, Crown Plaza airport, Mombasa beach hotel, La Mada hotel are also included in the list. 