Lang'ata residents can hope for a steadier supply of water after the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company started sinking boreholes in their area. One borehole is being sunk at Undugu in Highrise ward while another will be drilled at Kijiji in Mugumooni ward. Lang'ata MP Nixon Korir told the Star that water from the boreholes will be equitably distributed to the estates in the subcounty. “Water is one of the weapons that must be available in combating the coronavirus. Langata has been home to water challenges for years and it is a relief to see that a mid-term solution has been found,” he said. In addition to the two, another borehole at the Langata Police station has been rehabilitated. The borehole produces 15,000 litres of water per hour and serves the police station population of about 900 people. Korir said plans are underway to ensure that connections will be made to the nearby estates including Barrack estate. “The important thing is that residents have a source of water supply. Water being a basic need, our people will be able to utilise it for domestic use as well as prevent the spread of coronavirus,” he said. Water from the boreholes will also be used to ensure that water points at various places in the subcounty have an adequate supply. “We have water points at markets, bus stops and strategic places where people are fond of meeting," Korir said. The Nairobi Water Company has revised its rationing programme in efforts to help the fight against the coronavirus. Early this month, the company announced that residents in Kibera, Mathare and Mukuru kwa Njenga will receive water five times a week. The company said it had drilled 20 boreholes throughout the county to ensure water is redistributed. The fresh supply will enable residents to wash their hands to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Last year, Nawasco boss Nahashan Muguna said Lang’ata was not getting enough supply because their pipeline passes through Kibera where cartels divert water to sell. He said that they would reconnect all the pipes leading to Kibera and disconnect them from the main pipeline. “This will allow us to control water between Kibera and Lang’ata areas without any violence,” Muguna said. Lang’ata gets its water through the Sasumua-Kabete water pipeline from Aberdare Forest. Other areas served by the pipeline are Waiyaki Way, Naivasha Road, Kangemi, Lavington, Westlands, Parklands, MP Shah and Aga Khan Hospitals, Upper Hill and Kilimani. City Hall last year reported it had shut down 483 illegal water connection points. The main areas where water was disconnected are Huruma, Ngei, Pangani, Mwiki, Clay City Kasarani, Maji-Mazuri Kasarani, Githurai 44 and Zimmerman estates. (edited by o. owino)