@Yobramos4 Police in Mariakani on Thursday impounded two trucks of miraa that were headed for Mombasa county. Mariakani is in Kilifi county which has banned the sale and use of miraa over the Covid-19 outbreak. Authorities have ordered that no miraa truck should pass through the county. Kaloleni subcounty police boss Ezekiel Chepkwony said they impounded the two trucks as part of measures to stop the spread the coronavirus. Covid-19, the disease caused the virus, has claimed three lives in the country with the number of those infected jumping to 110 Thursday. “Kilifi county has banned the transportation, sale and use of miraa. We are helping the county to effect this ban,” Chepkowny told the Star on the phone. John Mwenda, a miraa trader, said it is unfair to stop young people doing business yet the government does not provide any alternative. “Yesterday, they impounded a truck transporting miraa to Malindi and burnt all the miraa,” Mwenda said. He said they pay Sh45,000 in levies per miraa truck and this brings revenue to Mombasa county. In a day, about six trucks deliver the stimulant to traders in Mombasa county. The traders want President Uhuru to intervene and prevent youth from turning to crime. However, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho also announced a ban on the sale and use of miraa and mitumba. He said miraa and second-hand clothes may be conduits in the spread of the virus. “The only businesses that will go on now are essential businesses. We have closed bars, nightclubs, mitumba and miraa. “You are susceptible to pick this thing from the least expected area,” Joho said. He spoke in his office after unveiling 10 ventilators donated to Mombasa by local and international well-wishers. The ban on miraa has been advocated by civil society organisations in Mombasa including the Muslims for Human Rights. Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma has been the most vocal against the sale and use of miraa and muguka. He argues that users disregard all anti-coronavirus measures including social distancing and handwashing. “These miraa and muguka dens are the most populated areas which increase the risk of the spread of the virus. “All the dens must be raided and closed,” he told the Star on phone. Mwenda and other traders promised to demonstrate against the seizure of miraa trucks and the ban on the sale and use of the stimulant. “We will paralyse Mombasa town,” Mwenda said. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo also reiterated the ban on the sale of mitumba. He said mitumba sale provides a potential ground for mass infection. One mitumba item can be touched by more than 50 people as they try to choose the best to buy. “We would like traders to stop that business for a short period,” Kitiyo said.  (edited by o. owino)