It is no secret that the world over is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic and it is becoming more apparent that the road towards the success of containing the spread of the virus will mainly fall on our collective approach as citizens. With global confirmed infections reaching more than 1.3 million across the world and over 78,269 deaths as of April 7, it is more evident that all countries around the globe are struggling with one issue—slowing new infections to flatten the curve. Back at home, since the first case was announced on March 13, the country’s level of infection has risen to 172 as of April 7 according to data released by the Ministry of Health. Kenya currently ranks at position 11 among African countries with Covid-19 infections. It is now upon us to internally develop and modify strategies and intervention measures that we will use as a country to fight this pandemic in the short and long terms. We are cognisant of the fact that many countries are designing elaborate response strategies to ensure that the crisis does not evolve into economic disruption. The government has announced a raft of policy measures, behavioural protocols and economic reliefs aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19. Further, it has established the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund to provide a framework to mobilise resources towards containing the spread, effect and impact of Covid-19. This fund is meant to support the implementation of targeted state interventions to cushion every Kenyan from the shocks arising from Covid-19. While the primary sources of the fund will be the money appropriated by the National Assembly and voluntary contributions from public officers and private persons; more than ever we need the support of Kenyans of goodwill to come together and be counted. Doing so will be total proof that there is more that brings us together as a country than that which separates us. The implementation of this fund will go a long way in ensuring that the government continues to guarantee all Kenyans, and most importantly the most vulnerable in our society, the opportunity to continue enjoying their social, civil and economic rights. We are, therefore, appealing to the private sector through its different segments, media houses, artistes, athletes, foundations and all citizens of goodwill to come on board and help fight this pandemic. Additionally, considering that county governments play a crucial role in public health, they should readily make available the emergency funds that they have established to enhance readiness and quick intervention from their end. Although mobilisation of funds is key to mitigating the pandemic, our primary personal responsibility is to ensure that we adhere to the government decrees as issued. These include directives on maintaining social distancing through minimising congestion in public transport, shopping malls, entertainment joints and social gatherings as well as self-quarantine. To this extent, we shall be able to collectively stop the spread of the virus and flatten the curve. To whom much is given, from him much is required. I urge all of us to come together and help the government fight this pandemic. Chairperson, Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund