Kenya on Wednesday recorded 10 new cases of Covid-19, raising the number to 384. One more person succumbed to the disease, bringing the total deaths to 15. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said another five people have been discharged, bringing the total recoveries to 129. However, with these discharges, the ministry has noted a 'disturbing' trend of stigmatisation of recovered patients by the community. Mwangangi has expressed disappointment at how individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 have been treated when trying to reintegrate into society. The CAS said that stigma could become a barrier to winning the war on the coronavirus. "We appeal for compassion, understanding and celebrating those who have been able to recover," she said. Mwangangi said she and other ministry officials had held a meeting with a recovered patient who had said he and his family had experienced stigmatisation as he tried to reintegrate in the community. The 10 new cases were from a total of 508 samples from 14 counties tested in the last 24 hours. One of the new cases, one is from Nairobi, while nine were from Mombasa. From the number tested, 284 were from Nairobi, while 89 were from Mombasa. All Mombasa cases were picked by surveillance teams. The new cases are between 12 and 63 years. Six were male, while four were female. Meanwhile, eateries have been directed to visit www.health.go.ke to access the protocols needed to reopen. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has said food distribution is ongoing to help families affected by floods. A total of 116 lives have been lost due to floods, he said. Wamalwa said 40,000 bags of rice have been distributed to communities affected by floods. The CS urged the Health ministry to go to the grassroots to assess the level of preparedness of communities to deal with Covid-19, floods and locust invasion. Wamalwa said all counties have set up an emergency unit to help deal with the emerging issues. "We also are releasing face masks to families and sanitizers. Even as we distribute food, we want to ensure that we do not take coronavirus there. We have enough food to support all those displaced," he said. Wamalwa further noted that more than Sh4 billion has been disbursed to counties to build capacity in regards to coronavirus.