Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga has termed changes to Jubilee's National Management Committee as scandalous, illegal and terrible. Ndwiga on Sunday said the people who initiated the changes, which have been rejected by Deputy President William Ruto and allies, are unknown to the members and were pulled out from the streets, thus not Jubilee’s bonafide officials. “This political party does not belong to an individual or a few people but to many people. I am a fully paid-up member of the Jubilee Party and it’s terrible to hear that things have been decided about our party by unknown people without our knowledge,” Ndwiga said. The changes to the NMC have triggered a fight over the control of the ruling party between Ruto and his allies on one side, and those affiliated with President Kenyatta on the other. Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu in a letter to Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju on Thursday rejected the changes. Instead, Nderitu directed Tuju to resolve the row before making the changes. She said she had received 350 written objections. Ndwiga said Jubilee members were not consulted before the changes were made, saying it is sad that the move took advantage of the focus on the war on Covid-19. Ndwiga called for Jubilee’s grassroots and national elections as soon as the country eradicates the coronavirus. “We want party elections from the grassroots to the national level so that party members can have elected people who make decisions on their behalf, and not individuals sitting at some place,” Ndwiga said. He said party leaders should be making arrangements for the elections. He at the same time demanded an audit of the party’s funds, saying he was afraid the money they contribute is not being used properly given the recent situation. The changes by Tuju sought to replace Fatuma Shukri, Pamela Mutua and Veronica Maina with Lucy Macharia, Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso, and James Waweru. Nderitu in a letter dated April 16 said she had received 350 written objections from Jubilee members concerning the processes of the intended changes to the top decision-making organ. Edited by E.Kibii