The Kenya Ports Authority management is worried about output and profits after many workers were locked out by the prohibition of movement among Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties. Operations at the Mombasa Port have so far remained steady despite a small variance on the weekly arrival of vessels due to the coronavirus. However, the cessation of movement order, which took effect on Wednesday at 7pm, has locked out at least 250 port workers who live in Mazeras and Mtwapa in Kilifi county and Ng’ombeni in Kwale county. KPA harbour master Captain William Ruto, who is also the authority’s general manager in charge of operations, has expressed concern the reduced workforce might undermine operations and services. KPA has been categorised as a critical government agency that provides essential services. Ruto said this makes it vital for 24-hour operations to be sustained. On Thursday, he sought special permission for its employees, who commute daily from Mtwapa, Mazeras and Ng’ombeni to be allowed in and out of Mombasa for the 21-day period that movement has been restricted. The harbour master said hr appreciates the government directives are meant to mitigate and contain the spread of Covid-19. “This letter is to request listed KPA staff to be granted through access in and out of Mombasa county for the 21-day period,” Ruto said in a letter copied to Coast regional coordinator John Elungata. On Sunday, however, Elungata said the idea of the cessation order was to reduce movement, thus, not all the people on the list will be granted special permission. Speaking on the phone, Elungata said KPA, like any other government agency, needs to scale down its operations. “We have our own criteria to decide who gets permission and who does not. We won’t grant permission based on the mere fact that one works at the KPA,” the RC said. He said there are non-essential services the KPA can do without. “We cannot, for instance, give permission to cleaners to move in and out of Mombasa daily because they work at the KPA. That is not a critical service." He said the government had good reasons when it ordered that workers aged 58 and above and those with pre-existing conditions should stay at home. “Only those needed specifically will be granted permission. Permission will be granted on a priority basis,” he said. Meanwhile, residents of Kwale who work in Mombasa and Kilifi counties fear they might lose their jobs. They have also pleaded with the government to allow them access their workplaces. Led by Fred Obiayo, the employees said some of them are not permanently employed, risking replacement if they fail to report to work for a long time.. “A big number of us have casual jobs and don’t have payslips. We earn as we work making it easy for bosses to consider employing the nearest people and do away with us,” he said. He said the company cannot paralyse operations because of a few individuals who are stuck someplace. Speaking in Ukunda, Kwale county, Obiayo said the government should at least make some adjustments and let workers pass but with some restrictions. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo had advised commuters to seek alternative jobs as efforts to contain Covid-19 heighten. Obiayo, however, said it is not easy for people to shift to other work within a short time. “Let’s say you start a business. It will take you almost three months to get profits.  Meanwhile, what will you eat in between?" Baraka Kazungu who works in Mombasa but lives in Ukunda said as much as the directives are meant to protect Kenyans, they are a burden to the poor. He said the government could have provided for the weak to cushion and spare them from stress and hunger. Meanwhile, the county government has appealed to well-wishers and other partners to raise Sh450 million to assist the poor as the coronavirus consumes jobs. Kazungu wants the county to disburse money to help save families from hunger. Edited by R.Wamochie