Kisumu Senator Fred Outa and Governor Anyang Nyong’o have clashed over the postponement of a visit by Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution) and Sicily Kariuki (Water) to flood-affected areas. Nyong’o said Wamalwa and Kariuki could not tour flood-affected areas due to bad weather in Nairobi. “Wamalwa has called to say they have canceled the trip due to bad weather. They have been advised that they cannot use a helicopter,” he told flood victims at Nyandega evacuation camp in Muhoroni subcounty. Nyong’o, who was accompanied by the security team led by county commissioner Susan Waweru, said the two CS will visit the area on a later date. Wamalwa and Kariuki were to land at Kigoche Primary school before visiting the affected rice farmers in Ahero Irrigation Schemes. They were also to visit West Kano to observe Lake Victoria backflow and its effects on the fields and residential areas, flag off clean water access programme, and disilting of natural streams in Miriu/Nyatini. The farmers are camping at the Nyandege rescue centre. Kisumu Woman Representative Rosa Buyu and Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo were present. Outa, however, dismissed the remarks claiming Nyong’o was behind the cancellation of the trip. He accused Nyong’o of playing politics while people are suffering. “We are aware of the intrigues that have led to such a decision. He wants to single-handedly take charge of giving food to people affected,” Outa said. Buyu attributed the cancellation to political wrangles. “It is not bad weather that has made the ministers not come. It is all about politics,” she said. “We are aware the National Irrigation Board bosses have been in contact with Regional Commissioners office over the visit. Why cancel such a meeting purporting that protocol was not followed. It was in the interest of our people,” she said. Koyoo asked leaders to unite and address problems bedeviling those displaced by floods. He called for a permanent solution to the perennial flooding. “Our people are suffering. Let us stop non-beneficial politics and tackle issues affecting them,” the MP said. Outa faulted Nyong’o for poor response in assistance flood victims. He said the governor was focusing on “stories” instead of distributing foodstuff and other items to those in evacuation camps. He wondered why the governor visited flood victims displaced from their homes empty-handed. “These people lack food and you come here to address them with nothing. He should stop story-telling and give food to families affected,” Senator Outa said. He also questioned the whereabouts of money meant for special programmes yet people are suffering. “He (Nyong’o) claims the food is in store. Why can’t he distribute the food to those in rescue camps? Residents are tired of stories and too much public relations,” Outa said. “Nyong’o can go and write a book but let him give people food and necessary items for victims.” The governor was addressing the media while Outa the public, Nyon’o wanted to face Outa head-on before being restrained by his bodyguards. “Let me face him,” he said. The senator said not even a single face mask has been distributed to residents and questioned Sh200 million that was to be drawn from expenditure cuts in the current budget and other sources. But Nyong’o said his administration has put in place measures to tackle Covid-19 and help flood victims. He said more than 32,000 people have been evacuated from various camps. “We are continuing to distribute foodstuff to those affected,” he said. He said he has set up a rapid response team at the county's Health department to support the Covid-19 coordination committee. So far, the county has trained 433 healthcare providers and sensitised a further 790 across the county, he said. Nyong’o and his deputy Mathews Owili have taken 30 percent pay cuts to raise funds for the county's coronavirus kitty. County executive members, chief officers, and directors will take 20 percent, 15 percent, and 10 percent pay cuts respectively. Nyong'o said on Thursday the deductions will be effected from April 1 for three months. The pay cuts are expected to raise Sh3.7 million per month for the coronavirus kitty. The county targets to raise Sh800 million for the kitty. While launching the county Covid-19 response fund, Nyong'o said the cash will cushion residents from the socio-economic effects of the pandemic. “We want to be able to provide food and supplies to those whose livelihoods have been adversely affected by this pandemic. This Fund will receive cash donations for food purchases and supplies. Beyond financial contributions, Nyong’o asked individuals and corporates to donate food, medical supplies, and other materials to assist residents. “As an investment in the fund, the county government will make available Sh200 million, to be drawn from expenditure cuts in the current budget and other sources,” the governor said. He said the county has increased the capacity of isolation centres. “We are expanding the Intensive Care Unit capacity at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital from 13 to 29 beds,” Nyong’o said. He said they are acquiring 16 beds for the facility to handle Covid-19 cases. The expansion is part of the county’s effort to equip hospitals to effectively handle Covid-19 cases. There are nine ventilators with an additional 20 ordered. The county has also bought 20 ambulances to respond to emergency cases. He said they intend to make Lumumba hospital a 70-bed quarantine centre. “This will bring our quarantine installed capacity to 398. We have KMTC with a 128-bed capacity and we are in the processing of completing a 200-bed centre at Kisumu County Referral Hospital,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie