No restaurant will be allowed to open until it is cleared and issued with a new permit, the government has said. Acting head of public health Dr Francis Kuria told a media conference that the permit can be gotten from the MoH county director. "You have to apply for a new permit and you must show that you can read and follow the protocol and requirements on the website," he said on Tuesday. Kuria said that every facility must install a contact-free thermometer and ensure that every person's temperature is taken. "Provide evidence that all workers have gone through medical screening and have tested negative. Those large establishments might seek testing in private facilities," he said. Kuria said all restaurants should provide sanitisers and maintain social distancing. "Any staff member with a temperature of above 37 degrees shall not be allowed into the premise. All food workers must be tested and certified to be Covid-19 negative," he said. "There are about 6oo,000 food handlers in this industry. We will move progressively to cover all of them without compromising the measures in place." Health CAS Rashid Aman said restaurants will only open after meeting the requirements, adding that the government is working on a plan for all food handlers to be tested in the face of challenges regarding testing. "A detailed protocol will be posted on the website in due course. Restaurant management must read and understand the guidelines on food compliance," he said. Meanwhile, Aman said 10 people have been discharged, bringing total to 124 recoveries. "The enemy is still in our midst and we need to strictly observe the measures advocated for by MOH," he said. He noted that Kenya has recorded 11 new cases out of 589 cases tested bringing the total number is 374. Out of the 11 new cases, there are two children aged three years. The oldest case is 75 years old. "Take extra care to prevent contracting the virus. The trend has been restricted to Mombasa and Nairobi," CAS health said.