She is royalty and stylish. She sings karaoke and is a lover of dogs. Meet Nyandarua Environment Court chief judge Mary Clausina Oundo whose grandmother was a queen in the Nabongo kingdom. Though the kingdom is long gone, the judge inherited her sense of style from her grandmother, Queen Veronica Ayieko Narotso. When she isn't wearing dark court robes, she could be twirling in an Africa-print skirt and singing soul. “I am stylish and my sense of fashion is an inborn thing," she told the Star in a recent phone interview. She fancies both African style and the classical English look. "My grandmother used to be very stylish. I hear when she went to the market and saw anyone in an outfit like hers, she would go home immediately and remove it and that would be the end of that outfit. She never wore it again,” judge Odundo said. Her grandmother Queen Narotso died in 1946. King Nabongo was Naroto's grandfather. The 51-year-old judge loves singing soul music and rhumba. Sometimes she sings for Judiciary colleagues together with fellow judges Boaz Olao, Winfrida Okwany and Teresia Matheka. Their stage name is Papa Olao and the Queens. When opportunity presents itself, she sings at family gatherings too. She used to sing karaoke before she became a judge. She was a prosecutor for 17 years before she was appointed a judge. “I sang in Nakuru where I lived in Nairobi,” she said. Like fashion, singing runs in the family. Her father, who was a civil servant, used to sing in a band called Bombax that used to perform in the 1960s in Nakuru and Nairobi. Judge Oundo also plays the piano and her only child, a son, also plays piano and drums. She swims for fun and for fitness. The down-to-earth judge keeps five small and fluffy Japanese Spitz dogs. “I love dogs, they are easily trainable and are good company," she said. The judge added, “Dogs have a way of knowing even when one is sad and they are loyal as opposed to cats. We had a cat and it walked out on us, leaving my son depressed." Judge Oundo, like many judicial staff members, has been working from home to ensure justice is dispensed despite the coronavirus outbreak that has left courtrooms empty. There's some virtual work. They are supposed to be returning to court this week, however. Judge Oundo is enjoying working from home despite its challenges.“I don’t really mind working from home. If there are any issues I can easily be found and respond easily. But if there’s a need for me to search for a file left at the office, it becomes difficult,” she said. For example, she says one of the downsides of working from home is having to contend with the constant interruption of one's flow of thought. Her other problem is how to cut down on the trips to the fridge to find something to nibble as she works. Working from home has in many ways slowed the administration of justice as cases are piling up and once the usual court sessions resume, judges will face a huge backlog. Through this season she has learnt that one should be willing to trade their freedoms for their own health. Justice Oundo called upon young people to adhere to the government directives to limit the spread of the coronavirus. She said mostly, they don't realise the gravity of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, so they keep disobeying directives. “They are always not adhering to rules of the government and end up putting their lives and those of their loved ones at risk," the judge said. "They should just stay indoors and if for any reason they need to go out, they should put on a mask and practice social distancing,” she said. Justice Oundo was appointed Lands and Environment judge for the Nyandarua court in 2017. She heads the court. She was among the nine judges nominated by the Judicial Service Commission in 2016. Before joining the Judiciary, she headed the Anti-Money Unit from 2014 to 2016 in the office of the Director of Prosecutions. (Edited by V. Graham)