Police in Kyuso, Kitui county, have expressed concern over the casual way in which residents have responded to the government directive on social distance and mandatory use of masks. On Wednesday, Kyuso subcounty police commander Charles Machinji said failure by the majority of people to adhere to the directive meant they were undermining efforts to curtail the spread of Covid-19. "We've been watching and giving people enough time to adapt to masks and social distancing. It is worrying that the general public is obstinate, despite the directives being put in place to save their lives,” he said. He consequently announced that the police will launch a random crackdown in all market centres across Kyuso to arrest those found without masks or not keeping social distance in public places. “People think it is business as usual. They do not realise that by failing to keep social distance or put on masks, they are not only breaking the law but risking their lives. We are immediately launching a massive crackdown on all persons ignoring the law. We are going to arrest some of them and once they appear in court and are fined or jailed, it will serve as a warning to others,” Machinji said. He added that such a move will make the people realise it is a grievous mistake not to wear masks or observe social distancing as the law demands. A spot check by the Star in a number of trading centres, including  Kamuwongo, Kandwia, Ghai and Kyuso, showed that most traders and buyers ignore the danger of not putting on masks or observing distance. Only a small percentage had masks and some hanging them under their chins or from their necks. A cereal trader at Kamuwongo, Gabriel Mutinda, who had his face mask on, said the masks cost Sh50 a piece and are way beyond the reach of the poor. He also blamed the situation on inadequate sensitisation. Mutinda said masks should be supplied for free. "Since the masks are being produced in their thousands by our own Kitui County Textile Centre, the governor should ensure they are dished out to locals for free," he said.