Over 200 groups from across the world have asked the World Health Organisation to endorse a ban on wildlife markets and the use of wildlife in traditional medicine. The organisations, in a letter to the UN health agency, say that with the suspected coronavirus link to a wildlife market in China, WHO must take action to achieve its mission to serve public health at all times by recommending a permanent ban on live wildlife markets. “ While a robust global response is critical in detecting, treating and reducing transmission [of Covid-19], it is equally necessary to take vital measures to prevent similar emerging infectious diseases developing into pandemics with the associated threats to human life, and social and economic well-being,” the letter says. The organisations include World Animal Protection, International Fund for Animal Welfare, Humane Society International, Born Free and Wild Aid. They said their suggestion would help protect human life from future pandemics such as Covid-19. Sixty per cent of emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic, meaning they originate from animals, with 70 per cent of this thought to originate from wild animals. The organisations said a ban on wildlife markets is urgently needed to prevent the unregulated and unhygienic conditions and the close proximity between humans and animals, providing the perfect opportunity for pathogens to spread. The risk is further exacerbated by the cruel conditions in which animals are typically collected from the wild, transported and held in such markets. This inevitably results in large numbers of different species being held in close proximity, causing immense stress and weakening of their immune systems. World Animal Protection wildlife campaign manager Edith Kabesiime said, “We commend WHO’s efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19.  Given this pandemic is believed to have originated at a wildlife market, we’re calling on WHO to unequivocally state the proven link between these markets and the serious threats they can cause to human health. "This could help save lives in the future and help protect millions of wild animals that are unnecessarily and cruelly farmed from the wild to supply this industry.  Plant-based alternatives are recognised and available.” The organisations also want the use of wildlife to be excluded - including from captive-bred specimens - from the WHO’s definition and endorsement of traditional medicine. "And the organisation to revise its 2014-23 Traditional Medicine Strategy accordingly to reflect this change." They called on WHO to assist governments and lead a coordinated response among the World Trade Organisation, World Organisation for Animal Health and other multilateral organisations worldwide in raising awareness to risks of wildlife trade to public health, social cohesion, economic stability, law and order, and individual health. "Support and encourage initiatives that deliver alternative sources of protein to subsistence consumers of wild animals." Edited by R.Wamochie