The government has said that Kenyans who die abroad in the current situation will not be brought home. Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Macharia Kamau on Tuesday said this includes either those who die as a result of the current Covid-19 pandemic or as a result of seeking treatment. He said due to the availing challenges and circumstances, "it is unfortunate the bodies will not come home." Macharia said, so far, five Kenyans have succumbed to the disease in the US in the last one month. According to Macharia, those bodies will be buried where they are in accordance to laid down protocols in their respective host countries. He said the deceased persons had underlying conditions that made them susceptible to the the disease. The PS said about 170 Kenyans are stranded in India, some with dead patients who had gone to seek treatment. "This is a matter of great concern to us that these Kenyans have found themselves on the wrong side of the lockdown currently being implemented in India. We would have evacuated them but unfortunately there is nothing we can do for now," Kamau said. He said many of those stranded had either traveled as patients or accompanied patients for treatment. "We are aware some have run out of money and sadly others have lost patients who they accompanied for treatment. It is tragic that they might not be able to bring their loved ones home," he said. Kamau added, "It is important that we send a clear message to all of us in the diaspora, just as we have said a Covid-19 patient should be laid to rest within 24 hours in Kenya, we should also be allowed to lay to rest our loved ones abroad in a short period of time. Bringing bodies will be difficult under current circumstances." The PS said they are currently in a purposeful engagement with the Indian government to see how those affected will be helped to lay to rest their loved ones. "In the midst of Coronavirus outbreak, the Ministry’s biggest challenge and concern is the Kenyan Diaspora which is spread to all corners of the world. The Kenyan Diaspora is concentrated in North America (400,000), Western Europe, Middle East (150,000), Asia and Australia (30,000) and Southern Africa," he said. The PS said the entire diaspora population is estimated to be three million. "It is to be noted that not all Kenyans who live abroad are registered with relevant Kenyan missions. Despite all these challenges and problems, the Kenyan diaspora is holding out well, save for a few pockets in China, India and North America," he said.