Five Kirinyaga MPs have condemned Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju for allegedly interfering with county assembly affairs regarding the proposed impeachment of Governor Anne Waiguru. Munene Wambugu (Kirinyaga Central) Kabinga Wachira (Mwea) George Kariuki (Ndia), Wangui Ngirici (Woman representative) and Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu) told Tuju to keep off what's none of his business. The five were responding to a letter from Tuju sacking Majority leader Kamau Murango for allegedly involving himself in the impeachment. The MPs said Tuju's move was an attempt to intimidate MCAs not to support the impeachment of Waiguru, who is an ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta. They said they are not supporting any side of the divide on the impeachment issue, emphasising that all they want is due process followed to ensure the public knows the reality of what's happening. The legislators said Tuju cannot purport to sack Murango since he is not an employee of the party. The MPs said Jubilee has not come up with a common stand on the impeachment of Waiguru, hence Tuju's letter sacking Murango is his personal view and should be treated as such. The leaders said that the governor should prepare her defence regarding the allegations levelled against her instead of seeking help from outsiders, adding that county residents want to hear what she has to say. The MPs, who were speaking at a local hotel, also told off county commissioner Jim Njoka for asking the assembly not to meet owing to the outbreak of the coronavirus. They urged him to stick to his work and provide security to residents. Njoka's move was seen as an attempt to prevent or limit a quorum, making it impossible to vote on impeachment. Mutira ward representative David Wangui moved the motion for Waiguru’s removal on April 1 for allegedly seeking more than Sh10.6 million payment for non-existent travels. Waiguru denies that and all other charges of abuse of office, financial mismanagement another alleged wrongdoing. Wangui accused the governor of gross violation of the Constitution, the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal and the Public Finance and Management Acts. He accused the governor of procuring a Sh5 million official vehicle using funds meant for the Contractors Retention Account. Wangui also blamed Waiguru for failing to deliver  the crucial annual State of the County address, undermining the assembly's authority by failing to table crucial documents. He also accused her of worsening the health services by sacking medics. Speaker Antony Waweru ruled the governor will be given seven days to defend herself and said the public can air their views through memoranda. Before the motion, 30 out of 33 MCAs had signed for the tabling of the motion. The number is more than two-thirds required for impeachment. Before the motion was moved, two of Waiguru’s supportive ward reps had unsuccessfully sought a court order against the impeachment process. (Edited by V. Graham)