The Malindi law courts have adopted virtual sessions to improve efficiency in delivering justice. In the wake of the coronavirus crisis, they have been using Skype. This followed emphasis by Chief Justice David Maraga on the need to use ICT to handle cases in a way that prevents the spread of the virus. On Monday, Maraga ruled out open court sessions, citing the risk of Covid-19 transmission. Since last week, High Court Judge Reuben Nyakundi of Malindi has been handling civil and criminal cases and delivering judgments virtually. Parties attend sessions using Skype. Nyakundi and lawyers say it has been effective. Nyakundi thanked the CJ for allowing them to use technology. He said Maraga is passionate about his work and seeks to transform the institution by reducing the time it takes to conclude cases. "Every time he speaks about this issue, about delays, efficiency and expeditious delivery of justice. His lordship is committed into this," he said. Advocate Samson Gekanana concurred, saying technology is the way to go as it reduces the cost of transporting suspects from prisons, among other expenses. Gekanana said judgments are delivered via a video link and the court has been able to decongest the Malindi GK prison in a big way since it started using technology. "We've heard decongestion at Mtangani prison. Some have been retained there because their judgments could not be set aside by the High Court, especially those in the appeal, while others have had their rulings, which will be coming on May 4," he said. He said the virtual courts have handled more than 70 cases, including civil matters, terming the method a positive achievement. Gekanana said the deputy registrar will be delivering judgments via Skype on Thursday, thereby reducing case backlog and decongesting prisons further. He urged the Court of Appeal to begin using skype to handle cases. He said the three appellate judges who were sitting in Malindi were recalled to Nairobi. The advocate said the court is now spending very little time and resources in dealing with cases.