The National Assembly has stepped up plans to conduct virtual sittings following complications of holding plenary sessions amid the coronavirus pandemic. The leadership has unveiled plans for bolstering the existing IT infrastructure for members to participate in plenary and committee sittings online. The assembly is in the process of reviewing the Standing Orders and is also crafting rules to guide online debates and resolutions. Speaker Justin Muturi said that once concluded, members would be duly informed to reduce instances of disruption – especially for committees. MPs have had challenges of conducting business after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s declaration of Nairobi as a containment area. It is required that at least members sit – with a mace in case of plenary - for any business to be considered as being a substantive sitting. Reports indicate committees will be held through web conferencing facilities while at the same time considering the place of public participation. Only nine people - MPs and staff, will be allowed in a committee room. The quorum is five members. Last Wednesday’s special sitting was called off at the last minute as there was no clear direction on members’ travel. MPs have been on recess and will resume sittings Tuesday afternoon as per the calendar approved before the short break. The lawmakers are under sharp criticism for inaction with some sections of the House leadership saying that Parliament was dead. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Leader of Majority, termed the assembly as an extension of the Executive. “I can, however, confirm that Parliament is dead,” he tweeted even as the House prepared to resume sittings. The feeling in the leadership was being criticised yet they had just received the instruments they were to ratify. Only 53 MPs will be allowed in the chambers, a reduction from the initial plan for 70 as was communicated for the special sitting. Seats have been mapped and each assigned a number. Members would not be allowed to exchange seats. A vacant seat would have to disinfected before use with members required to wear face masks within the precincts. Sources said the Wednesday sitting would have been premature if it proceeded. “The governing authority is the Executive. The instruments had not been brought to Parliament and we cannot operate from a point of populism,” a top ranking official said. The official said the Finance committee had been busy with tax proposals and was expected to do a report for debate. The Star is appraised that the Budget committee is looking at the supplementary budget while the Health and Delegated Legislation committees have been reviewing legislation before them. The Committee on National Administration and Security is expected to prepare a list of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 relief. “These are things that we are already seized of. If the committees were not ready, what business would we have dealt with?” a House leader asked. Leader of Minority John Mbadi said since the times were extraordinary, MPs would make do with what was possible. The Suba South MP said since MPs interact with a lot of people, there must be caution so that there is reduced risk of exposure to the people they interact with. He said they are working on a ‘first come, first occupy’ basis in arriving at the 53 members who will be allowed in the chambers. “A number of members have registered with the clerk. There are areas where members can wait for their turn to debate,” Mbadi said. In his guidelines for the sittings, Muturi asked those with preexisting health conditions and MPs who are above 58 years to stay home. Members will pass the Tax Laws Bill in all stages and also deal with the Covid-19 Emergency Fund regulations, VAT regulations and regulations by the Health Ministry. The House Business Committee is expected to move a procedural motion on the calendar for a way forward following the virus emergency. MPs will also receive a message by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani on the nomination of the CDF board CEO. A notice of motion for consideration of approval of Teachers Service Commission nominees will also be moved. Edited by Henry Makori