Just in case you thought that former US President Barack Obama was the only world leader with roots in Kenya, then you are mistaken. The newly-appointed UK Attorney General Suella Braverman has retraced her roots to Kenya, once again putting the country in the global limelight. Prime Minister Boris Johnson appointed Braverman as the new England and Wales Attorney General. She was appointed on February 13 to replace Geoffrey Cox, who was dismissed from government. The 39-year-old Braverman is currently the conservative MP for Fareham. She has served as a legislator since May 2015. The appointment makes Braverman the second only the second female Attorney General, and the first Conservative female to hold the office. In her website, Braverman says she was born to Uma and Christie Fernandes, migrants parents from Kenya and Mauritius in 1980. She was born in Harrow but grew up in Wembley. “My parents came to this country with very little in the 1960s, from Kenya and Mauritius. Mum was recruited by the NHS (National Health Service) as a girl of 18 years old and worked as a nurse for 45 years and Dad for housing association,” Braverman says in her personal website. The family settled in Wembley, North West London, where they joined politics. The mother was a Councilor for 16 years while the father was a campaigner for local politicians. The distinguished lawyer studied law at Queens College, Cambridge University. She holds a masters degree in law from Pantheon-Sorbonne University in Paris. She was first elected as Fareham MP on May 7, 2015. She has served on the on the Education Select committee as a Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Treasury. She also served as Brexit Minister. She, however, resigned from the position in November 2018 over terms of the Brexit deal. "I’m a Conservative because we are the party that says it doesn’t matter where you start. It's about where you are going. You can make your life and that of others better by taking responsibility, self-empowerment and service," she notes in her website.