Sarova Hotels and Resorts has volunteered to provide food to front line healthcare workers at both Kenyatta National Hospital and Mbagathi Hospital to boost fight against Coronavirus pandemic. The program which will run for 30 days will see Sarova provide daily lunches to the more than 200 healthcare workers who are providing the most critical services to patients at the facility. The move is a gesture by Sarova to say thank you and recognise the bravery and commitment of the heroes and heroines in the facilities who have put their lives on the front line to lead the war to eradicate the virus. While launching the exercise, Sarova Hotels and Resorts managing director Jimi Kariuki lauded the healthcare workers for their selfless devotion to save the lives of Kenyans during this trying period. “As a Kenyan company we will continue working with the government to lend our support in the fight against this deadly virus from all approaches. It is indeed a trying time for humanity and at the end, we must all work together to flatten the curve,’’Kariuki said. He added that It is very important that health workers who are working flat out every day to save lives are encouraged. “This is a deadly disease which can be fought through strict adherence to the recommended guidelines from the Ministry of Health. If we do so, we shall overcome,’’ he added. Kenyatta National Hospital chief executive officer Evanson Kamuri said feeding front line healthcare workers is a direct pat on the back that will boost their morale and make them feel appreciated. ‘’Thank you Sarova Hotels for this kind gesture,’’ Kamuri said. At the same time,Capwell Industries Limited, a food and beverage processing company headquartered in Thika – Kenya, has donated maize meal worth Sh20 million to the Covid-19 Emergency response Fund, to support vulnerable communities, as the pandemic continues to affect people's livelihoods. The company targets to feed over 85,000 Kenyans across the country, whose incomes and livelihoods have been disrupted by the  pandemic, with the donation packaged in its popular Soko Maize meal flour. Each family will be receiving two packets of 2kg of Soko maize meal. As a responsible corporate citizen and an indigenous Kenyan company, we have always been at the forefront and unwavering in standing with Kenyans for better or for worse, and this is one such moment,” said Capwell Industries CEO Rajan Shah.