The majority of Garissa residents are stocking more foodstuffs to prepare for a possible total lockdown as cases of Covid-19 surge. Residents who spoke to the press on Wednesday said foodstuffs have topped their lists for the past month. A secondary school teacher in Balambala who resides in Garissa said he has been forced to adjust his budget to accommodate the most essential items to sustain a family of five children and a wife. “I have been following closely how the virus has been spreading worldwide. From my own assessment, Kenya could be headed for a possible lockdown if we don’t stop downplaying the virus,” Mohamed Salan said. “When I walk through the streets of Garissa town and watch how the residents are taking government directives casually, I get scared." He said under normal circumstances, he stocks food rations that would last his family for two weeks. “But as things stand, I am thinking of stocking food that would last for one and a half months. This means I have to put more money on foodstuffs. Other items, for now, are not very necessary like clothing and household items." Halima Hussein, a county staffer, said her dream of acquiring a commercial plot has been bashed as she will require her "little" savings to stock up food. Halima said she supports an elderly mother and three of her siblings who are unemployed. She is married with two children. “My priority is to stock foodstuffs for my family that will at least last a month. I have also put on hold other expenditures until the virus, God willing, is contained,” she said. Meanwhile, businesses dealing in textiles, clothing and household goods have recorded low sales since the outbreak of coronavirus. Hellen Kasyoka who deals in second-hand clothes at the Garissa open-air market said the number of customers is the lowest it has been in years. “Even during the height of insecurity occasioned by al Shabaab attacks, we could make ends meet,” Kasyoka, who has been in the business for 10 years, said. “Since the virus outbreak, we hardly make sales. No customer has popped into my stall for the past three days to at least even inquire, leave alone buy." She said three of her colleagues have closed shop and left for their rural homes. Kasyoka pleaded with Kenyans to take the government's directives seriously. By Wednesday, the country recorded 22 new cases bringing the total to 81. The Ministry of Health as warned that the number could hit 10,000 if stringent measures are not put in place to stop the spread. Edited by R.Wamochie