A 20-year-old Tugen man was on Wednesday shot dead by bandits in Baringo, bring the death toll from retaliatory attacks in the area to six. “He was accompanying his three colleagues trying to repulse the armed bandits at Ng’elecha in Baringo South when he was ambushed and killed on the spot,” Marigat subcounty police commander Bonjolive Munuve said. Three people have been left nursing injuries with hundreds of families fleeing their homes owing to heightened retaliatory bandit attacks since February. Munuve said after a fierce exchange of fire, the bandits escaped with 37 head of cattle towards Kaptuya at the border with Tiaty subcounty. “Our officers pursued the criminals immediately and recovered 17 cows. We are working to ensure all of them are recovered," Munuve said. The body of the slain man was taken to Nyahururu Referral Hospital Mortuary in the neighbouring Laikipia county. Last Friday, ex-National Police Reservist Kenneth Argut, 30, was shot dead by a group of suspected armed bandits at Shakanin in Bartabwa. Earlier, bandits ambushed and shot dead boda boda rider Chepkok Napol at Kamachakwa area along Loruk-Yatya road on April 2. On February 21, the bandits ambushed and killed three Tugen NPRs at Mairo Hills along Mochongoi-Chemorongion-Marigat road in Baringo South. Last week, the bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village, shot and injured a Standard 6 boy before stealing livestock. On April 2, angry Tugen youths raided Ng’inyang in Tiaty subcounty, injuring a Pokot herder and driving away some 60 goats in a retaliatory attack. The animals were recovered. Residents say the attacks and retaliatory raids have worsened the situation. On Monday, suspected bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village in Baringo North shooting and injuring a disarmed Tugen NPR Enock Rong'uno, 28. They attempted to steal and drive away some 230 goats but police with the help of residents armed with bows and arrows managed to repulse the attackers and recovered the animals. Rong'umo is admitted at the County Referral Hospital in Kabarnet town with a bullet lodged in his right thigh. Doctors said he was in stable condition. Tension remained high with over 800 Tugen residents fleeing their homes in fear of attacks. The most volatile areas include Kagir, Yatya, Chemoe, Barketiew and Kosile villages. The Internally Displaced Persons are camping in the bushes at Rormoch, Karimo, Rondinin, Chapin, Barbarchuch, Sibilo, Chebarsiat, Akoroyan and Chepkowel. Residents of Ngelecha, Arabal, Chemorong’ion, Chebinyiny and Sirata in Baringo South have fled their homes too. On Tuesday, Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said the bandits have promised to follow them to their camps, “to shoot and steal our animals.” The residents have blamed the resurgence in attacks on "untimely withdrawal and disarmament" of 300 NPR officers last year. "The government should carry all the blame for these frequent attacks for the deliberate withdrawal of the NPR officers who use to help repulse the aggressors," Bartawa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said. He said the government should list down victims of bandit attacks the same way it does for victims of coronavirus. The MCA said it was time the state responded quickly before the bandits kill everybody. His sentiments were backed by his Saimo-Soi counterpart Richard Cheserem. The two blamed Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya for approving the disarmament of the NPR officers last year saying it has given the bandits freedom to attack harmless and innocent residents. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula and Baringo North deputy county commissioner Popwocha Obwocha have kept a loud silence over the attacks. Last week, Wafula praised Pokots for surrendering 12 illegal firearms in a peaceful disarmament exercise last month. "Tugen and Ilchamus communities have produced none," he said. He said Pokot people are known to harbour armed bandits. "But we will not bomb them. Police officers have got a way of frustrating them until you can see today they've moved from cattle theft to highway robberies," Wafula said. Residents have complained of poor roads and want the government to also strengthen police patrols. "After the Tugen youth laid a retaliatory attack on Pokots in Ng'inyang in Tiaty on April 4, injuring one and driving away some 60 goats, we asked them to vacate Yatya, Kagir, Kosile and Chemoe villages to save their lives from the wrath of the dangerously armed Pokots," Baringo North police commander Fredrick Odinga said. Baringo South's Arabal village resident Joseph Kipkorir said re-arming the NPR officers would improve security. "Although we support the work done by the police officers, we still suggest that NPRs be armed because they know the terrain better and can pursue the bandits to their hideouts," Kipkorir said. They asked Natembeya to recall the reservists as soon as possible. Edited by Peter Obuya