The Garissa executive is muzzling critics of the administration, some MCAs have said. Led by Jarajila MCA Mahat Osman, the group said they will not be cowed into silence. Osman told the Star on Thursday that the executive was using goons to harass them whenever they tour projects whose implementation they had queried. On Sunday, five MCAs from Fafi were allegedly attacked by goons at Alinjugur where they had gone for "development matters". The attackers allegedly injured a local television journalist who had accompanied the MCAs together with a police officer who was off duty. A report filed at Hagadera police station says MCAs Hassan Halane (Fafi), Hassan Omar (Nanighi), Yussuf Omar (Galmagalla) and Abdulahi Omar (Bura) ward were attacked at Osman's home. The attack was reported as a robbery with violence OB number 10/12/04/2020. But county secretary Abdi Sheikh said he was not aware of any official having been implicated the incident. “As far as I am concerned, my staff members are either staying at home as part of guidelines to limit the spread of Covid-19 or are involved providing essentials services,” Abdi said. The MCAs called on the police to carry out a thorough investigation into the incident. “Those who attacked us are well-known individuals. Some of them are employees of the county who were sent by county government to intimidate elected leaders,” Osman said. He claimed the attackers were travelling in a vehicle they hired from Garissa town with the sole purpose of attacking them. “We demand a full investigation into this incident and immediate arrest of those involved,” he said. Osman said they will not stop pointing out what the county government has failed to do. Star Television Network reporter Mohamed Moge said they had finished the assignment and we were preparing to leave for Garissa town when the incident occurred. “These people came from nowhere and started attacking us with blows and kicks as well crude weapons,” Moge said. The MCAs have in the recent weeks criticised Governor Korane's administration of mismanaging county funds. A week ago, the leaders claimed that flagships projects including a cancer centre, subcounty lodges, county headquarters, 30 ICT centres have stalled. (edited by o. owino)