The government has gazetted 4pm as the official hour for employees to leave work. In a Gazzatte notice dated March 30, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said employers will have to release their employees in good time to allow them get home before the stipulated curfew time. "In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 8(5) of the Public Order Act, the Cabinet secretary for interior makes the following order that to facilitate compliance with the order, all employees shall ensure that their staff who are not designated as critical or essential services providers leave the work place no later than 4.00 o'clock in the afternoon," read the notice. This came amid concerns of several people being caught up within the curfew time due to lateness from work. On Friday, several commuters were left stranded at bus stops as matatu operators closed shop in fear of harassment by security officers. Those stranded were beaten by the officers as they patrolled to enforce the curfew. This sparked mixed reactions and sharp criticism against police from various quarters. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe had said the government does not restrict anyone from going to work for both day and night shifts. Kagwe warned that the 4 pm directive does not give employers the right to reduce the salaries of employees. "To the employers, please, do not withhold people's salaries, wages just because of the situation that currently exists," he said. "Knowing now what we know and knowing that the transmission is here now, we should be telling ourselves that this is the time for us to do whatever it takes. This is a time to give sacrifice, not take advantage". Last Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced targeted interventions aimed at cushioning Kenyans from further spread of the COVID-19 disease. Kenyans risk a fine of Sh10,000, three-month imprisonment, or both if arrested by security officers for violating the curfew order. On Wednesday Uhuru apologised for the excessive force used by police officers at the start of the nationwide curfew that began last week. "I am aware during the introduction of curfew, there were some challenges. I apologise if there were some excesses that were conducted or happened," he said. Uhuru spoke during a live video chat on Wednesday with Kenya's two coronavirus recoveries - Brenda and Brian - who were at Afya House. "If we all work together, and if we all understand that this problem needs all of us and we all pull towards one direction, we will overcome," Uhuru said.