Kenyans have been asked to prepare for a wet May with the authorities urged to activate risk mitigation measures. Kenya is among countries set to receive above-normal rains, according to the IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre. The centre said on Tuesday cited eastern Uganda, Rwanda, central Burundi, Somalia, most of Ethiopia, eastern South Sudan, Djibouti, Eritrea and Sudan as the other regions to be affected. Normal rainfall is likely in most western Tanzania, western South Sudan, western Uganda and central Ethiopia. In Kenya, the weatherman has said that rains will continue over several parts in the next five days. Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia and Baringo will have morning rains in a few places on all days except Thursday to Saturday. The other counties in that category are Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely in several places throughout the forecast period. "Evening showers may occur over several places on all nights except on Thursday and Friday when they may be confined to a few places, "the department said. Aura said Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have morning rains in a few places on Thursday and Friday. The rest of the mornings are expected to be sunny. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely in several places with the exception of Saturday when the weather might be sunny. Evening showers are expected in a few places all nights except Saturday when the skies may be partly cloudy. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi are projected to have sunny mornings and rainy Sunday. Afternoon showers are likely over several places on all days of the forecast period. Evening showers may in a few places on all nights except Saturday and Sunday when they may spread to other places. In Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties, morning rains are likely over a few places on Thursday. The rest of the mornings will be sunny. Afternoon showers are expected in a few places all days except on Thursday when the weather may be sunny. Evening showers are predicted on all nights except on Saturday when the skies might be partly cloudy. Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta will have rains in the morning on Friday. The other mornings are forecast to be sunny. Expect afternoon showers in a few places throughout the forecast period. There will be evening showers over a few places on all nights except on Friday and Saturday when the skies will be partly cloudy. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale are likely to experience morning showers in several places on on Friday and Sunday. Early afternoon showers were likely over several places on Thursday and Sunday. Evening showers may occur over a few places throughout the forecast period. Edited by R.Wamochie