Movement into and out of four counties has been stopped for the next 21 days to contain the spread of coronavirus. The government has outlawed entry into and exit from Kilifi, Kwale, Mombasa and an expanded Nairobi metropolitan area. In his address to the nation Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the Nairobi metropolitan area comprises Nairobi city county, all parts of Kiambu county surrounding Nairobi along Thika Road up to Chania River bridge, Rironi, Ndenderu and Kiambu town. The metropolitan area also extends to Machakos county up to Athi River, including Katani and part of Kajiado county including Kitengela, Kiserian, Ongata Rongai and Ngong Town. Uhuru justified his action saying the containment counties were the epicentre of the coronavirus spread in Kenya. "A majority of the persons who have contracted the disease are residents of Nairobi metropolitan area and the Kenyan coastal strip," he said. He said 82 per cent of Kenya’s reported cases of Covid-19 were linked to Nairobi, 14 per cent to residents of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa. MORE POSITIVE, MORE DEAD The President said the Ministry of Health had by Monday tested 4,277 people, with an additional 16 persons turning positive. "In that regard, the total number of all persons who have positive for Covid-19 currently stands at 158," he said. Of those, four people have fully recovered from the disease. Six have died. Uhuru had said movement within the four counties was also banned, but experts said this was impractical without offering residents financial aid, salary replacements and food. However, State House clarified that residents of those counties were free to move within their borders during the three weeks between 5am and 7pm. "Please note, movement within the Nairobi metro area as defined in the Legal [gazette notice] is permitted subject to [the] existing curfew, wearing of face masks and social distancing.  What is prohibited is [the] movement into and out of the gazetted area for a period of the 21 days effective 7pm tonight," Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita said. Uhuru said the directives were sanctioned by the National Security Council. The travel bans apply to pedestrians, passenger-carrying bicycles, motorcycles, scooters, automobiles, vehicles, vessels, railway wagons or aircraft. "The movement of food supplies and other cargo will continue as normal during the declared containment period through road, railway and air. "Any cargo-carrying vehicle or vessel shall be charged to a single driver and designated assistants; all of whom shall be designated as such in writing by the owner or operator of the said vehicle or vessel with reference to that vehicle or vessel," Uhuru added. FACE MASKS A MUST Uhuru pleaded with Kenyans to wear masks when outside their homes, clean hands with soap for at least 20 seconds several times a day and avoid crowding, keeping a distance of at least 1.5 metres to other people. "Having received advice from our medical professionals and experts, Kenyans should wear face masks whilst in public places," he said. He said without severe measures, the virus will spread exponentially and overwhelm Kenya's medical facilities, leading to unprecedented deaths. "There is a choice we were asked to make as government and as a people: to carry on as normal or to treat this like the extraordinary emergency it is and to fundamentally change how we act. We chose the latter because even as we pray for the best, we must be ready for the worst," he said. The President further clarified that his orders must not lead to the closure of businesses and activities in affected regions, as long as they adhere to the 7pm curfew. He encouraged traders and farmers in those regions to grow crops to ensure the supply of the farm produce to the markets. "No one should be denied the ability to carry on with their legal trade within the boundaries of the protocols set out by the Ministry of Health," he said. He also directed the National Treasury to utilise the Sh2 billion already recovered from corruption proceeds to support needy people in the urban areas. He also urged landlords to either reduce the rent to tenants who are unable to pay or work out an arrangement, but not evict them. This means Kenyans who appeal to the Landlord and Tenant Tribunal are likely to get favourable hearings. Uhuru also directed the Nairobi Metropolitan Service to expand their provision of free water to all informal settlements. He directed the National Treasury to appropriate all domestic and international travel budgets for all state agencies within the Executive, the Judiciary, the Legislature and the county governments and to re-allocate them to combating Covid-19. He said the Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs, in collaboration with Kenya Copyright Board, Collective Management Organizations (CMOs) have established a framework to ensure full transparency for artist’s earnings. "My administration has projected that a total of Sh200 million every month will be paid to musicians through the system and other platforms," he said. "I further direct the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage to avail additional support of Sh100 million from the Sports Fund to our artists, actors and musicians, during the period of the Covid-19 pandemic," Uhuru said. (edited by o. owino)