A Kenyan has made it to the list of top 30 under 30 young Africans who are doing amazing things for themselves and their community. In a list released by Forbes Africa last week, founder and CEO, Women in Energy and Extractives Africa Ogutu Okudo, 28, made it to the coveted list. Okudo was listed in the Oil and Energy Industry category. In 2012, Okudo found herself at a conference on the outskirts of Nairobi discussing environmental sustainability and the strategic role women play. At the same time, on the opposite end of the continent in the Niger Delta in Nigeria, communities were protesting the negligence in operations by oil companies resulting in oil spills. “I vividly remember noticing the men dominantly speaking, but it was the woman performing the balancing act of her child on her right hip and yams to feed a family on her head that was the inspiration behind Women in Energy and Extractives Africa that initially began as Women in Oil and Gas East Africa," she told Forbes. During this period, oil hadn’t been discovered in Kenya but Okudo was on a mission, not knowing that fate would knock on Kenya’s doors months later in 2012. Oil reserves were discovered in Kenya’s vast and dry remote area of Turkana County and became a source of new wealth and a source of conflict for the pastoralist Turkana people. Part of her role then was to speak for women in the energy and extractive sector by informing industry participants and decision-makers of the challenges and opportunities women are finding in pursuing careers in these sectors. She then participated in market meetings and industry bodies to constantly increase the visibility of her organization. Today, her company is a social enterprise bridging the gender gap in the oil, gas, mining and alternative energy sectors in Africa They have 15 employees in five countries and over 75 volunteers in 10 countries and counting. CNN Africa Voices referred to her as “the woman on a mission to disrupt the energy sector”. She has been recognized internationally and is a recipient of numerous of awards including President Uhuru Kenyatta recognizing her in 2018 as one of the young female Kenyan trailblazers, being awarded the Under 30 Women in Energy East Africa (2018) and in 2019, the Kenya Upstream Oil and Gas Woman of the Year. In 2019, she addressed the Economic and Social Council at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, accompanying President Uhuru Kenyatta as part of the Kenyan delegation to the United Nations General Assembly. “The energy agenda being no different; under-utilized, overpriced, more than half a billion Africans living in darkness and exploited natural resources with little to no impactful gain to individual countries, people and communities,” she says. Okudo sits on numerous boards advising their strategic operations in East Africa including Bboxx Kenya, the London-based next-generation off-grid utility platform operating in 15 countries developing solutions for off-grid communities by providing affordable, pay-as-you-go solar power, impacting over a million people. 2020 is a big year for her as she plans to organize STEM outreaches, release a children’s book and publish guidelines to sustainably engaging Women in Energy and Extractive Sector Projects in sub-Saharan Africa. By the end of the year, Okudo plans to set up offices in all their East African satellite locations. Forbes received over 3,000 nominations from the start of 2020 for this Under 30 list. "While last year, we had 120 in total, with 30 finalists each in the categories of business, technology, sports and arts, this year, we chose to stay with 30," Forbes stated. "In drawing up the 2020 list, we sifted through piles of nominations that came in from across Africa, even the remotest corners."