A caretaker who defiled a four-year-old girl before dumping her in a bush will continue serving a life sentence after the High Court dismissed his Appeal. Habbert Etyeri Masika was convicted  of the offence in 2018 and sentenced to life imprisonment. He appealed claiming the trial magistrate erred by disregarding "gross infringement" of his constitutional rights and relying on evidence which had no probative value. Masika also said the trial magistrate erred in law by relying on DNA evidence which was produced contrary to the law. Justice Kiarie Waweru said in his April 8 judgment that other than the oral evidence of witnesses who interacted with the child, medical evidence showed that there was blood on the private parts of the minor and a torn hymen. "The three ingredients were proved beyond any reasonable doubt. From the foregoing analysis of the evidence on record, I find that the appeal lacks merit and I accordingly dismiss it," the judge ruled. According to the prosecution, the minor had been playing with another child one 2018 evening but on her way home, Masika lured her to his house and defiled her. He thereadter took her to the bush and abandoned her. She was rescued by good Samaritans the following morning.  She was shivering and could hardly talk. The court noted that Masika was linked to the offence by DNA evidence and the minor’s underpants that were recovered from his house. Masika claimed he was falsely implicated in the offence due to the money owed to him by his boss Ronald Wafula  who had testified that he had assigned Masika the responsibilities of a house caretaker. On January 8, 2018, Masika informed him by phone that he had been arrested. Wafula went to see him at the police station and retrieved the key to the house from where he found a child’s underwear and reported the discovery to the police. The clothiing item was identified by the child’s mother in court. "Though the appellant argued that the victim did not identify the perpetrator, the DNA evidence and the finding of the victim’s panty in his house was sufficient to link him to the offence," the judge ruled.  Edited by R.Wamochie