They have suffered, struggled and finally recovered from Covid-19. Now they face a new challenge: stigma and alienation from family, friends and communities who fear they are still infectious. They even include health workers who save lives and risk their own. People avoid them; it's hard to find work; some landlords won't rent to them. Many recovered Ebola patients have suffered similar discrimination. The Health ministry will partner with patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to create awareness about the virus in the country. And understanding and compassion. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Wednesday said it was unfortunate that despite the constant appeal and massive education, people are still being stigmatised. The number of recoveries is 129 after five more people were discharged from hospital. “We have recorded many recoveries of our people since we reported our first case,” Mwangangi said. “But as we celebrate these recoveries, we are disturbed that reintegration has not been easy for these people. We have reports of stigmatisation by members of the community,” she added. She urged Kenyans to welcome people once they are discharged from hospital. The total number of positive cases in the country as of Wednesday was 384, after 10 more tested positive for the virus. Nine of the positive cases were from Mombasa while one was from Nairobi’s Kawangware estate. The 10 were picked from 508 samples tested. Of those tested, 284 samples were from Nairobi while 89 were from Mombasa. The 10 cases were aged between 12 and 63 years out of whom six were men and four women. The nine from Mombasa were picked from contact tracing by surveillance teams. They were from Old Town, Santana, Miritini, Bamburi, Mikindani, Kibokoni, Ganjoni, Memon and Tudor. One more death was recorded, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 15. The ministry said a lot needs to be done to stop the spread of the virus in Mombasa and Nairobi. “As the national government, we continue to partner with Mombasa county on the containment measures to curtail the spread of the infection," Mwangangi said. (Edited by V. Graham)