“You are now free to walk around without fear” is a message Kenyatta National Hospital medic Anthony Langat will treasure for a long time. It was from the Bomet county health team, which visited him and his family a few days ago at their Kapsimotwo home in Sotik after their 14-day quarantine. Langat, 46, is a nursing officer at KNH and was one of those who last month had attended to a coronavirus positive patient at the facility. “It was on a Wednesday afternoon when we received calls as intensive care unit team that there was an emergency case. We acted immediately, intubated the patient and put him on machines before leaving for our homes,” he recalled last Wednesday. “The following day when I returned to check on the patient I was informed that he had died. I was dumbstruck.” The patient died of Covid-19, the contagious disease caused by coronavirus. He and his colleagues were told to take leave.  He was, however, not scared as he had taken the necessary precautions while handling the Covid-19 victim. Langat and his family left for their Bomet home on Friday morning (hours before the curfew was declared) unaware of the shock that awaited them. Health workers from the county surveillance team stormed their home in the evening after word went round on social media that he had attended to a patient who succumbed to Covid-19. The villagers were hostile and did not want to have them in their midst. They wanted them out. Langat's villagemates nearly lynched him. Luckily, the health team had arrived and forced them into quarantine. In his first public appearance since he and his family were locked out, Langat could not hide his joy after being given a clean bill of health. “I am happy I have tested negative…we have been indoors for all that time but we can now go out and even my neighbours can visit me,” he said. He hastily urged Kenyans to stop stigmatising medics on the frontline  attending to patients in health facilities and isolation centres . “What they do is not an easy job. We should not be quick to judge them, let us not run away from them but instead embrace them.” The medic says the mandatory seclusion was agonising and depressing. Tests were taken by medical officers and to the family's relief they turned out negative. “We have been living in fear…We have just been staying indoors because everyone had branded us undesirable ... that we have the virus,” Langat said. The medic's leave has ended and he will be resuming duties this weekend. - mwaniki fm 