A wedding expected to accommodate a huge crowd as naturally happens in African setting ended up with only 10 people, no cake and no touching or kissing the bride. Godfrey Mutwiri, 29, and his fiancee Grace Nkatha, 25, had their festival plans disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic, but the lovebirds did not despair. They made lemonade from the situation to exchange vows. The wedding was officiated by Pastor Isaac Kimathi of Christ Co-workers (Chrisco) Church in Makutano, Meru, without any extravagance. “From here you go home, no food. We used to lift couple's hands, not anymore. I have preached in masks because Romans says obey those in authority,” Kimathi said. The two uttered their words during the exchange of covenant marriage rings onto their third fingers. The two, who had dated for five years, wore face masks and kept a distance for most of the occasion in adherence to the Ministry of Health guidelines. There was no cutting of cake, but Mutwiri and his wife shared and egg. There was no food served as reserved attendees only feasted on cupcake, boiled eggs, a banana and soda. They had a budget of Sh240, 000 but only used Sh40,000. Those who attended were Mutwiri and Nkatha’s parents, Pastor Kimathi and his wife and two bridesmaids from the couple's sides. They covered their faces with face masks for the whole ceremony. The couple had settled on April 18 to tie the knot, with Murithi and Zipporah as their best man and woman, but late confirmation to conduct such a wedding from the authority hampered the plans and they approached Eric Munene, who stepped in with his wife. “We were troubled. We were under pressure but I remembered my father told me life cannot be postponed," Mutwiri said. "I called Eric Munene, a good friend and my spiritual mentor for the last 10 years, and told him the wedding was allowed but with restrictions for adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. Munene and his wife Mercy Nzuki agreed to step in and they will henceforth be.” Nkatha said she was happy with the success of the ceremony as what matters is the union and not the ceremony. “We miss friends and relatives who wished to gather here and witness,” Nkatha said. Mutwiri said for their honeymoon, they were to celebrate in Mombasa, with expenses catered for by his sister, but instead, they will be at home, quarantined. Edited by T Jalio