A woman will spend her life in jail for killing her husband and hanging his body on a tree to give the impression he committed suicide. The Court of Appeal sitting in Kisumu upheld Roselyn Mwita’s murder conviction and life sentence on Friday. “The offence was committed in a gruesome, callous and heart-wrenching manner. It was a total repudiation of marital and familial care. It was committed by a mother in the presence of her daughter,” Justice Patrick Kiage said. Court documents say Roselyn murdered Joseph Muniko on the night of March 22 or 23, 2013, at Boherera village in Migori county. Nyakenda Mwita, her daughter who was a key witness in the case, gave the chronology of events of the night. Nyakenda told the court she arrived from the garden and found her parents quarrelling at home. Roselyn asked her to prepare dinner for her father without using cooking oil and then left. Nyakenda, however, looked for the oil, cooked and asked her father to eat before her mother could find out. Later in the night while asleep, Nyakenda heard her father shouting that his friend was killing him. She went to her father’s house and found her mother in the company of another person with a metal rod beating her father who was on the floor. The lights were off, save for the flashlight on a phone. “My mother got a rope and tied it around my father’s neck. They dragged him on the ground. They took the body outside and tied him on a mango tree,” Nyakenda testified. The next morning, Roselyn called her brother-in-law and informed him that her husband had left early morning with a rope to a nearby guava thicket. They all rushed there. “My father had been tied by the neck on the tree, he had injuries in his private parts, he had been beaten and his neck was broken,” she added. Roselyn was later arrested and charged at the High Court in Kisumu where she denied the murder charges. But she was convicted upon trial and sentenced to life imprisonment. She appealed. “We cannot fathom what permanent psychological trauma and damage that has been caused to the daughter as she witnessed the death of her loving father by the dastardly and unbundled violence of her mother,” the court said in upholding her conviction. (edited by o. owino)