Kenya is adequately prepared to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of technical human capacity. It is also the case of physical infrastructure, say laboratory networks. However, the country is not adequately capacitated in terms of the specific testing kits - a collection of components among them reagents and other consumables. We are limited in terms of these supplies and this explains the weakness in the attempts to roll out large scale targeted testing. The problem, though, is not unique to Kenya. It is prevalent all over the world and in many African states with an exception of few – say like South Africa. The UK and the US are facing a huge challenge. But look at a scenario where we don’t have provisions like swabs – wooden implements for taking samples from people. You cannot collect samples if you don’t have the swabs – known as nasopharyngeal swabs, even if you have the subjects there. If you don’t have the swabs you can’t continue testing. The supplies are running out because we have been depending on donations- the biggest donor has been the Jack Ma Foundation. The CDC had its own kit but took a long time how optimal it was and it never worked, hence the kits we’ve been using were those donated by Jack Ma Foundation through the African CDC and the same distributed to other countries. There are people doing private tests using Chinese kits that are sourced by private laboratories. But these are PCR kits. For us to be able to understand how far the disease has spread in the community, we cannot use the PCR diagnostic test. We need to do serological tests – instead of using the swabs; we take blood samples from people to determine if antibodies have been produced against the virus. It is then that we can make a decision based on prevalence estimates – say two per cent of the population. The end game to coronavirus, however, can only be a vaccine. We cannot say we are safe. What if we have a second wave? We don’t have any treatment yet. But as a country, therefore, my worry is that we with the kind of healthcare infrastructure we have in place, I would not say we can be comfortable if we have a larger outbreak. The other problem we have is protection of workers who are on the frontline in the fight against this dangerous disease. The epidemiologist spoke with the Star