About 300,000 people living in slums and arid areas in the North Rift will require food aid due to effects of the ongoing enforcement of measures to control coronavirus. National government and county officials have been instructed to begin identifying the most vulnerable individuals who may require support should the coronavirus crisis persist for long. Governors in the region are already mobilising support including donations from well-wishers to support the affected families who are unable to access food, water, sanitiser, soap and other needs. Government officials and well-wishers have already begun distributing food to some of the populated slum areas in Eldoret including Langas and Kamkunji. “The government has a very elaborate system right from the Nyumba Kumi officials and it cannot be difficult to get those in dire need of support,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. Human rights crusader Kipkorir Ngetich said the Covid-19 situation had paralysed many income-generating activities for families. “Our records indicate that in the entire region we have very many people who have been exposed to difficult situations but there are about 300,000 who are so vulnerable and they include elders,” Ngetich said. He said some of the families live in Kamukunji and Munyaka slums in Eldoret town while others were displaced by banditry in parts of Baringo. Eldoret Catholic Diocese bishop Dominic Kimengich said many families were starving due to measures on control of Covid-19 which have crippled businesses. Kimengich said the government and counties should put in place measures to quickly start supplying food and other needs to the most vulnerable families. He said Christians and all Kenyans should share out food and other resources or any kind of assistance they have to enable affected families to avoid starvation. “This is the time we should be each other’s brothers or sisters and share out what we have so that no one dies of hunger. Currently, the situation is worsening for many affected families,” the bishop said. Muslim Preachers and Imams have urged the government to waive costs of water, electricity and reduce costs of fuel to help relieve the economic burden on Kenyans during the ongoing war on coronavirus. Chairman of the preachers in North Rift Abubakar Bini said they recognised the gesture of a few landlords who had reduced rent for their tenants and wanted the government to emulate such actions. Bini said many Kenyans were hard-hit by the control measures on Covid-19. Governors Stephen Sang (Nandi) and Mandago said they were already mobilising resources of all types to help the most vulnerable groups. “We will stand with our people during this difficult Covid-19 crisis,” Sang said. Edited by Henry Makori