Meru Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu has denied the county has misused Sh36 million allocated in the fight against coronavirus in the county. Ntuchiu, who is also the Finance executive, termed the accusations as "mere politics" by individuals seeking political mileage. The health workers have been at loggerheads with the county after clinical officers' secretary general Moses Baiyenia was suspended for disagreeing with officials over Covcid-19 preparedness. The county government has been criticised for doing little to equip and train health workers on Covid-19. Some MCAs have also asked for an explanation on Baiyenia's suspension and threatened to impeach Health executive Misheck Mutuma if he is not reinstated. Ntuchiu, however, said the county spent Sh1.7 million to pay allowances to security officers within the county, procure sanitiser and fumigation chemicals. “We purchased 120,000 surgical face masks from Kemsa (Kenya Medical Supplies Authority) to be used by county nurses and clinical officers for two months. Governor Kiraitu Murungi's administration bought 730 water tanks for washing hands at Sh. 803,000," he said. Meru county has not recorded any Covid-19 case. Ntuchiu also said the county has spent Sh25.9 million of the Sh36 million in preparedness measures against coronavirus. “Meru county government has purchased 80,000 face masks at a cost of Sh2.4 million. The masks are being distributed to boda boda operators and market traders who are the most vulnerable to the disease,” he said. Kiraitu says the county has set up two Covid-19 isolation facilities, created sub-county fumigation teams, and a surveillance team to help in tracing and take samples from suspected patients for testing. “We have a County Emergency Response Committee and Command Centre, which implements presidential directives on a  daily basis. My government has procured PPEs, sanitiser, disinfectants, gun thermometers, spray pumps, masks, water tanks and other accessories to help us in this fight,” Kiraitu said. Edited by E.Kibii