The pastor begged to say his final prayers. The lynch mob ignored him. They beat him, stabbed him, gouged out his eyes and set Pastor Evans Orina ablaze in 2013 in Nakuru county. Last week, his family finally received justice. Four boda boda riders were convicted of murdering Orina because they believed he had stolen a motorbike. Through a video conference with the High Court in Nakuru, Kennedy Rechiala, Samuel Muchiri, Samuel Njeru and Joseph Thuo were found guilty of lynching the SDA pastor. They claimed they had been framed. The pastor was murdered on December 29, 2013, at C K Plaza near Pistis in Nakuru county. A witness identified as Gilbert testified he was running an errand when he encountered a crowd of boda boda riders searching for a motorbike theft suspect. Thuo was seen syphoning fuel from motorcycles into a bottle while Njeru took a piece of wood from a fence and hit the pastor on the head. Orina begged to say his final prayers but a mob of riders descended on him with knives. He was doused in petrol and set ablaze. “Rechiala and Muchiri took match sticks from a matchbox and, Thuo poured the syphoned petrol on him, lit a match and set the deceased ablaze,” Gilbert testified. Widow Jane Osugo testified that the day her husband was killed, they had spent most of the day at a wedding at Kaptembwa Parish, Nakuru. The couple returned home, had dinner and at 8pm the pastor left to look for their son, Jonathan, who had not returned home. He later called to find out if his son had returned. The son returned later, his father did not. The next day, the widow was informed her husband had been lynched on the previous night. She went to the mortuary and identified the body. The body had been burnt and the eyes gouged out. An autopsy revealed the cause of death was head injuries and burns. The court said the evidence had established all the elements of murder. “I find and hold that each of the four accused persons is guilty of the murder of Evans Orina Osugo,” Justice Joel Ngugi ruled. They have the right to appeal.