A logger has been shot dead by a Kenya Forest Service ranger in South Nandi forest. Daniel Chumba, 30, was shot in the stomach deep inside the indigenous tropical forest during a midday confrontation with the officer on Tuesday. He, alongside two others, was allegedly found burning charcoal. The suspects had set camp in the forest, ignoring the stay at home directive by the government, unaware the rangers had laid a trap in a cleared field in Kaptilol section. The three are said to have felled several Prunus Africana species for timber and charcoal when the ranger pounced on them. They attacked the officer and more rangers arrived just as they were almost overpowering their colleague. They defended their colleague, saying he acted in defence. South Nandi OCPD John Owuoth said it was by sheer luck that the ranger, who was armed with an AK-47 rifle, defended himself from the attack. "His gun was hanging on his stomach and he opened fire as soon as he realised his life was in great danger and fired one round of ammunition at the suspect, hitting his stomach," he said. The ranger suffered a slight panga cut in his face as he struggled to defend himself. One logger escaped while the other surrendered and was arrested by rangers who arrived to reinforce the overpowered officer. Chumba's body was taken to Nandi-Hills Hospital mortuary. Owuoth said he was the ring leader of a gang stealing cattle and grazing in the forest and had been involved in various crimes, including rape and robbery with violence. "He has been behind rape incidents directed at women fetching firewood in the forest and had literally been in charge of the section," he said. "He was under our watch list after he was suspected to have strangled his mother after he deceased threatened to spill the beans of his criminal acts." Nandi county police commander Samson ole Kine warned that security officers will not spare anyone found breaking the law. He said the fact that the government had asked the public to remain at home did not mean that state properties had been abandoned. "Forest, wildlife, buildings and business premises are under 24-hour watch by state organs and criminals should not dream of taking any advantage," he told the Star on the phone.