The government has maintained that bodies of Covid-19 patients will be buried in a manner that protects the living. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Monday said there are going to be numerous challenges with regards to the disposal of the bodies given common cultural practices. Speaking during the daily Covid-19 situation briefing, the CS said in the current situation, it will be difficult for cultural values to be considered. "There will be challenges going forward and cultural practices on how bodies are disposed of may not be practical in such extreme situations," Kagwe said. "Be mentally prepared and accept that Covid-19 bodies shall be disposed of in a manner that protects the living from infections and accordance with burial protocols put in place," he added. Kagwe’s sentiments followed a public outcry after a patient was buried in a "barbaric" manner in Siaya County. In a viral video that sparked public outcry, the late 59-year old KPA employee James Oyugi'body was seen being buried at 2 am in Kamalunga village. The burial was hurriedly done by hazmat suit-clad health officials on Sunday. According to the video, the family of the victim is heard from a distance wailing as Oyugi is hurriedly buried. The guidelines from the Ministry of Health issued on March 13 indicate that the victim’s family should be informed of the burial and allowed to mourn. But Kagwe said the matter has been brought to their attention and was being addressed. He said the matter will be resolved in line with public health and sensitivity to the dead are concerned. He said as a result, 45 people who had been in contact with the deceased have been put under quarantine. Kenya has so far recorded 9 deaths since the first case was reported on March 13. A total of 208 cases have been reported with over 8,000 tests being done. There are currently 159 active cases after 40 people having been reported to have recovered. Earlier on Monday, Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga distanced himself from the night burial of the victim. Speaking during an interview in one of the local television station on Monday, Rasanga said he regrets that the victim was given a barbaric send-off. “I am very sorry to the Republic of Kenya that this thing occurred the way it occurred. It was indeed very barbaric,” Rasanga said.