Unions representing healthcare workers are now pushing for a raft of interventions to cushion their members who are in the front line in the war against Covid-19 in the country. Tax exemption is topping the list of demands presented by healthcare workers union when they appeared before a Parliamentary committee on Thursday. They say the only way to motivate healthcare workers is to remove all tax obligations on their earnings during the pandemic period. The six groups appeared before the Senate Ad Hoc committee on Covid-19 pandemic chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja. In the package, the healthcare workers are also pushing for education cover for dependants and disability allowance. Kenya Medical Association (KMA), National Nurses Association of Kenya (NNAK) and Coalitions of Community Health Workers submitted their presentations while Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, Clinical Officers Union and Kenya National Union of Nurses appeared before the House team. The committee was meeting to receive views in regards to legislative policy, and other interventions that may be taken by the government to address the scourge. They urged the committee to consider providing Covid-19 training and capacity building for their members as well as well hiring additional 2,000 general health practitioners and specialists. This, they said, will boost the human resource requirement in various hospitals across the country. The medics also want social support to families affected by the pandemic and government to cover quarantine costs. The demands came on the day President Uhuru Kenyatta directed an establishment of a welfare package to reward health workers battling the spread of coronavirus in the country. Uhuru’s intervention is an incentive to motivate nurses, doctors and other health specialists engaged in the fight against Covid-19. The enhanced allowance for health workers during this pandemic has caused friction among the unions, the county governments and the  Salaries and Remuneration Commission, which was opposed to such increment. Edited by E.Kibii