The Boni minority community has appealed to the national government to reopen health centres and dispensaries closed after al Shabaab attacks many years ago. The facilities in the terror-prone areas were looted and torched by al Shabaab militants between 2014 and 2017, forcing medical staff to flee for safety. Today, many of the dispensaries still stand desolate with no one to run them. The Boni, one of Kenya’s last forest communities, occupy the terror-prone areas of Milimani, Basuba, Mangai, Mararani, Madina and Kiangwe in Lamu East. They are also found in Bargoni and Pandanguo in Lamu West. Last September, the county government opened a new dispensary at Kiangwe worth Sh7 million to serve the over 3,000 residents from across all the Boni villages. The new facility is, however, reportedly low on drugs and other medical supplies and staff as many health workers fear working there due to the previous history of al Shabaab attacks. Residents want all affected dispensaries reopened to serve them especially in the event of an outbreak of coronavirus in their areas. Speaking on Tuesday, Basuba ward MCA Deko Barissa said it was unfortunate that the area had no reliable health system at a time when the whole country was facing the Covid-19 pandemic. “These dispensaries have been closed for over seven years now and we have struggled as a community. But at this time of coronavirus, we need those dispensaries reopened like yesterday. We need enough medical personnel here to run them and all supplies,” Barissa said. Boni elders said in the unfortunate event of a Covid-19 outbreak in their areas, it would be impossible to ferry patients to King Fahad Hospital in Lamu island, over 200km away. Elder Abdalla Wakati said there was a need for the dispensaries to be reopened and isolation centres established there. Normally, patients have to be ferried by boat on the vast Indian Ocean during medical emergencies. The cheapest boat ride one can get is about Sh50, 000 which is way too expensive for the locals, the majority of whom are herders and hunters. “It’s very expensive to transport a patient from here to Lamu town. A lenient boat owner will make Sh50,000 because of the distance and the fuel used. That is why we are appealing for the revival of our dispensaries here. We are scared of what will happen if the coronavirus comes this way. We will die in numbers, for sure,” Wakati said. Women from the area have borne the brunt of lack of health facilities. Some pregnant mothers have lost their lives and those of their babies in the hands of unskilled traditional birth attendants. Edited by Henry Makori