The Kisumu government has temporarily relocated more than 900 traders to the five-acre parking space at Moi Stadium. This is part of its efforts to fight Covid-19. City manager Doris Ombara said the move is aimed at decongesting the Kosawo market, where traders had been moved after Kibuye market was closed. Kibuye, the largest open-air market in the lakeside city, was closed last month by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o. It had about 3,000 traders on normal days and about 10,000 on market day (Sunday). In phase two of the relocation, other traders will be moved to Posta Grounds next to the county ODM party office. Traders moved from Kosawo are those dealing in fresh produce such as tomatoes, vegetables, and fruits, as well as cereals. Those dealing in secondhand clothes, popularly known as mitumba, have not been given space following the directive by the national government banning sales of mitumba. “We acknowledge that these traders depend on mitumba business for their livelihoods. But for now, they should diversify into other businesses such as cereals,” Ombara said. She said the allocation has been carried out in line with the 1.5-metre social distance requirement. “We are trying to ensure our markets are not congested. We don’t our traders to be crowded while undertaking their daily duties.” Ombara spoke when she visited the new site. She was accompanied by town planner Stephen Sule. Water points have been installed to support through and frequent handwashing and promote hygiene. The city is working closely with Kisumu Water and Sanitation Company and Kenya Power Company to have constant water supply and power connection in the market. “The traders will use washrooms at the stadium for the time being,” the city boss said. On garbage management, Ombara said each trader will be given bags to be disposed of at designated areas. Tuktuk and boda boda riders have also been allocated space outside the market to ferry traders and their goods. Police officers and volunteers will be deployed in the market to enforce the directives meant to combat the coronavirus. The security team will ensure everybody at the market wears a mask. Handwashing and sanitising will also be enforced. (Edited by F'Orieny)