With all football federations and associations worldwide reportedly set to receive US$500,000 each in Fifa aid amid the current crisis, Football Kenya Federation have been urged to consider giving a lion’s share to the struggling clubs. This, according to stakeholders, will help clubs raise revenue to sustain themselves in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic that has brought football to a standstill. Yappets Mokua, who relinquished the chairman’s position at Kenyan Premier League side, Nzoia United in February, suggested that clubs need the money more than ever before. “My suggestion would be sharing the money with clubs on a ration of 80:20. That is 80 per cent to clubs and 20 per cent to remain with the federation for administrative purposes,” opined Mokua. He added: “The clubs should also share 80:20. That is 80 per cent to playing staff and 20 per cent for administration because, at the end of the day, clubs need balls, nets etc when football resumes while players have domestic expenses that need to be catered for right now.” At the same time, while there is no unanimity on the debate over what to do with the 2019-2020 Kenyan football season, particularly the top-flight league, different opinions have been laid on the table since the Kenyan Premier League formally suspended the KPL indefinitely as the country grappled with how to contain the spread of COVID-19. Mokua has insisted that the existing football rules in the country should guide the country on the way forward should the current situation affecting the game persist across the pyramid league structures. “My input is that the laws of Kenyan football are very clear on what happens if the season can’t conclude. Of course, the following should apply; If the league has been played for between 0-49.999 per cent (void the league); 50- 74.999 per cent (use the 50 per cent table), 75-99.999 per cent (use the 75 per cent table) and 100 per cent (use the 100 per cent table). “We can only live by the rules,” Mokua emphasised. With European Leagues in collaboration with their governments plotting a return to football with various restrictions, KPL is yet to give a program on their time-lines of the league resumption. 