A rogue county commissioner in one of the western counties is taking advantage of the directives to fight the coronavirus to extort money from well-wishers. The government directed that all donations go through the office of the county commissioners but this particular official, who was posted to the county last year, has become a tyrant. He recently demanded Sh200,000 from a well-wisher to distribute relief aid. First, he demanded Sh150,000, which the well-wisher paid.  Then he stopped distribution and demanded Sh50,000, which was paid. The well-wisher hopes Interior CS Fred Matiang’i will move with speed to save residents from the rogue administrator. *** That the prevailing curfew has upset the normal social order is not in doubt. The new normal has, however, made a philandering senior officer in Rift Valley get creative in arranging his liaisons at the office away from prying eyes. Corridors understands a senior officer in the Office of the Governor decided to quench his thirst by savouring the boss’s secretary to the astonishment of the entire county staff. The man has been threatening everyone with a lawsuit should the escapade leak. Those in the know, however, say this has been his modus operandi and he is spending generously after the Sh250 million Covid-19 fund was approved. *** A Jubilee governor has bitterly fallen out with one of his most trusted communications officers. The county boss has stopped the man, who used to boast to journalists that he was the closest among his peers to the governor, from setting foot in county offices. Over the weekend, the man forwarded to the governor a journalist's post of a screenshot of a newspaper containing the images of governors who have performed best and worst during this Covid-19 period. The county boss's name was missing. But the governor replied harshly, telling him that he has failed to do his PR work and that he should stay away. *** That police officers have been harassing citizens found in breach of Covid-19 curfew and virus prevention rules is not news. What may come as a surprise is the concern by some of their colleagues that some curfew enforcement operations could be illegal. An officer in the ranks has whispered to Corridors that a number of the policemen – who have a penchant for demanding hefty bribes from the violators – have been operating without express orders from their bosses. Affected persons want Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to clarify his orders on exactly what is and is not allowed and how police in the wrong are dealt with.