Activist Okiya Omtatah wants the appointment of Dr Peter Kamunyo Gathege as the chief executive officer of the National Hospital Insurance Fund quashed. Omtatah says in documents filed in court says the NHIF board handpicked and appointed Gathege as CEO without subjecting him to a fair, open, competitive, and inclusive recruitment open to public participation. Gathege’s appointment was announced on  April 9. According to Omtatah, the board abandoned a responsive recruitment process which commenced in July 2019 and resulted in names of the top three candidates being presented to CS for appointment. He says this was not necessary as the CS no longer has power to appoint the CEO after the amendments made to the NHIF Act. The activist says that without cancelling the initial recruitment, the board re-advertised the position on February 24 and changed some of the eligibility requirements by deleting the expression “any other relevant business field” and replacing it with the word “medicine”. The board then abandoned the second recruitment process and proceeded to handpick and appoint Gathege as the CEO. Omtatah wants the court to determine whether where persons met the eligibility threshold set in the July 2019 advertisement for the said position, the board has the power to decline to appoint as CEO the top candidate from those it interviewed for the position and settle on a total stranger to the position as it has done. “The NHIF board must appoint as the CEO the candidate who was ranked the highest in the first recruitment process. This must be done without any reference to any other person or agency other than the advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission.” The activist argues that the cancellation of the recruitment and the handpicking and appointment of Gathege without subjecting him to competitive recruitment was unlawful. The action also violated the rights of the successful candidate to fair administrative action and to a fair, competitive and merit-based recruitment, he states. - mwaniki fm 