Workers and sugarcane farmers want the management of debt-ridden Sony Sugar Company overhauled, citing failure to pay their arrears amounting to Sh1.4 billion. Speaking separately to the Star on the phone on Wednesday, the Kenya Federation of Sugarcane Farmers' secretary-general for Sony,Argwengs Adongo, and the Kenya Union of Sugarcane Plantation and Allied Workers secretary-general for Sony, John Ogutu, demanded an immediate overhaul. Adongo said more than 40,000 farmers are owed at least Sh700 million. The arrears have not been paid for 16 months. Ogutu said more than 2,000 permanent employees and casuals were also demanding more than Sh700 million that have not been paid for 13 months. They told Sony Sugar Company Board, led by chairman Owino Likowa and MD Stephen Ligawa, to step aside for failing to steer the factory to profitability. “We have reached a situation where sugarcane farmers are tempted to organise a demonstration despite orders against mass gatherings to tell the government how much affected we are,” Adongo said. Ogutu said workers were already resigning so they can demand their pension to take care of their families. About 100 have resigned, he said. “For over a year, workers have been reporting to work daily without any pay some have lost hope and resigned to at least get part of their pension,” Ogutu said. Because no maintenance is undertaken, the company has been forced to stockpile sugarcane from farms for eight days and crush them for two days instead of crushing continuously. The firm's attempts to get a Sh350 million maintenance fee from the government and banks have failed. “A bank had agreed to offer the loan, but under a condition that they have a caretaker procurement and finance officers to manage the amount. That condition was not met,” Adongo aid. Attempts to get a comment from both Ligawa and Likowa failed as they did not pick calls. During a meeting with farmers in February, the two blamed the woes bedevilling the firm on low production due to of lack of maintenance.  Edited by P.O