Kilifi county government has begun installing sanitising tents in all markets to help reduce coronavirus infections. Authorities have installed one at Kwa Jiwa market in Malindi. Members of the public must sanitise in the tent before entering and after leaving the market. This will be in addition to the more than 50 water tanks that were installed at trading centres for the public to wash their hands. The county has also ordered 210,000 face masks from its Export Processing Zones for distribution. Health executive Anisa Omar and her Trade and Tourism counterpart Nahida Athman oversaw the launch of the tent in Malindi, where they also educated the public on how to protect themselves from the virus. Omar said surveillance is very high and they are always making follow-ups of reports at the border points, where there are public health officials testIng temperatures of people in cargo vehicles entering the county. "We have public health officials everywhere, in Mazeras, Mariakani, Mtwapa... Any cargo vehicles coming in, their drivers have to be tested for temperature," she said. In Kilifi, she said, they are trying to control infections after the county reported six cases. The executive said the department has prepared two schools in every subcounty to act as quarantine areas for those suspected to be infected. Further, Omar said, they have identified six isolation centres in each subcounty, including Jibana, which shall serve Kaloleni and Rabai, Gede to serve Malindi, and another one in Msumarini to serve Kilifi South. Another is Mariakani Mabati Rolling Mills clinic, and they are still looking for one to serve Magarini subcounty. Next week, Omar said, they will instal seven sanitising tents at crowded places. She said water and soap are the best products to protect oneself from infection, but urged residents to use sanitiser when water is not available. She appealed to everyone to be responsible. Athman said the ordered masks will be used to help members of the public all over the county. She said they will instal the sanitising tents in four markets and hospitals in the coming week. "We urge you and everyone to use masks because now it is law and a must for all persons to wear masks in public, failing which you will have to pay a fine," she said. Titus Mwema, a trader in Kwajiwa market, hailed the county government for the work and commitment in the fight against the Covid-19 outbreak. Another trader, Nathaniel Chengo, said they always ask their clients to wash their hands before shopping, adding that a well-wisher donated face masks to all the traders. Edited by R.Wamochie