Kenyans should brace for tougher times ahead as the nationwide curfew and anti-coronavirus measures continue to slow down production and supply of agricultural food products, leading to an increase in prices. While inflation eased in March to 6.06 per cent compared to 6.37 per cent in February, according to the latest Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, Kenyans are likely to dig deeper into their pockets to survive coming months, mainly in major towns and urban centres. This is as a result of rising commodity and food prices which has been occasioned by strains in the supply chains amid rising demand, as households move to stock reserves. Traders have warned of a sharp price increase in the markets, despite the government warning against increase in costs of items. Farmers and traders now says effects of the virus has affected access to farm input, labour (as their workers remain home), ability to sale and challenges in timely access to markets. “If the Coronavirus cases keep on increasing, it is going to be tough because already the demand of goods is high but the supply is low. The curfew has also disrupted transport, therefore we will be forced to increase food prices,” Brian Mutuma, a trader in Nairobi said. Ephantus Mwangi , a fresh produce driver said it has proved difficult to re-adjust their movement which traditionally saw them deliver goods as early as 3.00am. They now have to move during the day, as a result of the dusk to dawn curfew, as majority of transporters still fear police harassment at night despite food delivery being part of essential services. “Also our customers won’t be in the market until after 5:00 a.m. furthermore no one wants to get hurt. The number of people we deliver to has also reduced since most of our customers traveled upcountry due to fear of contracting the disease,” Mwangi said. Commodity prices differ in different parts of the city. A spot check by the Star revealed a single tomato in Roysambu is fetching up to Sh10. traveled“It is becoming unbearable. Commodity prices are shooting,” a resident ,Ziporra Mwangani,said. Some areas have however reported over supply in recent times amid a low demand. “We prefer selling at a lower price rather than not selling at all. Tomatoes are perishable and they need to be sold. There are few people in the market, most of our customers fear, you simply can’t tell who has contracted the disease and who is healthy,” Mary Thinguri a tomatoes farmer in Kiambu told the Star. Latest KNBS data shows food and non-alcoholic drinks index increased by 0.55 per cent in March, but a drop in prices of petroleum products eased the cost of living. During the month under review, an increase was witnessed in prices of items such as mangoes, Irish potatoes, onions and cooking oils which increased by 5.39, 2.33, 2.06 and 0.83 per cent respectively. The food items retailed at an average price of Sh98.98, Sh69.81, Sh110.60 and  Sh202.40 a kilo, respectively. The Agriculture CS Peter Munya has since warned Kenyans against panic buying, saying it could trigger an increase in commodity prices. “Currently food supply is sufficient and I urge Kenyans to resist panic buying. We will be closely monitoring the cost of food and taking stern measures against traders who create artificial price inflation on food and agricultural inputs.” Munya said. The CS has appealed to farmers to take advantage of the ongoing rains and continue with farming activities as the government avails fertilizers at affordable prices through the Kenya National Trading Council and the National Cereals and Produce board. According to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), food supply chains will be disrupted as of April to May following reduction in labour, affecting labour intensive sectors of production.