Halima and Ayub Ali touched down at Bengaluru Airport on February 4, 2020, full of hope that their mother, Mrs Habiba Sabdow Abdi, 51, would be treated in no time and that they would get back to their normal lives. Everything was going according to plan even as Aster CMI Hospital in Bangalore received and helped them settle in with tests on their mother beginning almost immediately. Mrs Abdi had presented a six-month history of difficulty in swallowing both liquid and solid foods with significant weight loss and the pain had become unbearable. She had been evaluated in her home town with tests indicating a block in the oesophagus and was then referred to the hospital for further treatment. TREATMENT The clinical examination indicated that her vitals are stable with radiology tests revealing that there was increased fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) which is a pivotal imaging modality for cancer imaging, assisting diagnosis and staging of patients. A small amount of FDG is injected into the patient. Because cancer grows at a faster rate than healthy tissue, cancer cells absorb more of the FDG. The scanner detects the radiation given off by the FDG and produces colour-coded images of the body that show both normal and cancerous tissue. In Mrs Abdi ‘s case, FDG accumulation was visible making the circumferential oesophagal wall thicken to a length of 6.4 cm and maximal wall up to  11 mm SUV 6.25 in the distal oesophagus. Dr Navile Aditya Murali, the lead and senior medical oncologist at the hospital indicates in his report that this caused significant luminal narrowing, dilatation of proximal oesophagus segment and indentation on adjacent aorta (< 180 degrees). The doctor also says that the rest of the organs are metabolically and structurally unremarkable. To this point, Ayub and Halima, without a shadow of a doubt knew that their visit to Bharat would now be much longer than they at first had anticipated. The patient would then be discharged in a hemodynamically stable condition with medication, doctor’s advice and a very detailed, expensive diet plan. “We have been living in a hotel for the past two months with a sick patient because of the chemotherapy treatment and radiation sessions. “The total cost of our expenses is just abnormal,” Ayub tells the Star in a low defeated tone. STRANDED AND REJECTED On March 24, Indian PM Narendra Modi’s BJP government put in place a 21-day lockdown thereby limiting movement of the entire 1.3 billion population of India as a preventive measure towards the coronavirus pandemic. Unfortunately for the three Kenyans, the announcement was made and took effect while they were on their way to the airport in Delhi. The lockdown was placed because the number of confirmed positive coronavirus cases shot up to approximately five hundred by then. The order came after a fourteen-hour voluntary public curfew on March 22 after which the government followed it up with a series of regulations in the country’s Covid-19 virus affected regions. According to Halima, they were to travel back home on March 24. “We got Ethiopian Airlines tickets but upon arrival in Delhi, all flights were cancelled due to the lockdown," Ayub says. We tried to call the Kenya High Commission because we do not know anyone else in this country. "There is an Indian lady who works there as the telephone operator, she picked up and told us they cannot assist us,” he said. The three are now stuck in Delhi with no options they say. “I tried calling again today because our Visa expires on April 3 which is two days from now and we just don’t know what else to do," Ayub adds. "I actually have called them 10 times since we came but no response at all. Today it was an Indian guy who picked up my call. He says that the embassy is closed now and we have to sort ourselves out. They both do not speak any word in Swahili and it’s unfortunate because maybe things would be different if it was a fellow Kenyan who understands us.” Their hotel bill as of today now stands at Sh346,000. RESPONSE The Star sought comment from Kenya’s   High Commissioner to India, Hon Willy Bett. At the time of publishing this story, he was still diverting calls and has also blue-ticked all the WhatsApp messages sent to him. A high ranking staffer close to the ambassador, who requested his identity be concealed, says that the situation is very tricky and all foreigners have to comply with directives and restrictions put in place by the Indian government. It should also be noted that the High Commission has not issued any official communication to Kenyans living in India on any plans it has for them with regards to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic that is holding the entire world hostage. The Star will keep following but the question remains, what next for Ali, Halima and their ailing mother?