National Super League log leaders City Stars' captain Noah Abich has spoken about the challenges of working from home in the wake of the league suspension due to the coronavirus pandemic. The club gave head coach Bosnian Sanjin Alagic indefinite leave and subjected the 25 players to a work from the home program after the league was suspended. Abich told the club’s official website: “We are all trying to adapt to it. This morning, I was at my local gym for a workout with (Jockins) Atudo and I am following the program religiously. I want to believe the rest of the players are doing the same.” “But working from home is tough. It’s not what we are used to,” admitted the veteran dead ball specialist who captained the team to relegation survival last season. Assistant captain Calvin Masawa, who joined City Stars back in 2011 from Migori, and is the club’s longest-serving servant, said: “On my part, I follow the schedule to the letter. It requires a lot of discipline and those are the challenges that come with working alone from home.” Field captain Anthony Muki Kimani said: “Working from home is a bit tricky because of the interruptions. But it’s also fun because we have to tag along with some of our family members, who get to experience what we do on a daily basis.” With the head coach out in Bosnia on leave, team trainer Grace Wang’ondu has been put in charge to check on the players. The work from home program will run through the last week of March to the end of April 2020 assuming there will be no changes to the current state of affairs of the pandemic. “Considering no public grounds and facilities are open as a result of a directive from the Ministry of Health, we have no choice but to have players train from home just to stay fit,” said club CEO Patrick Korir. In relaying the program to the players, head Coach Alagic reminded players to observe social distancing as directed by the Ministry of Health as one of the ways to avoid the spread of the virus. “All training work will be done from home or in an open area away from other people. Do not train in public areas including gyms,” he warned.  The promotion favourites lead the log with 64 points—10 ahead of second-placed Bidco United.