Police in Kinangop are on the spot after allegedly attacking and seriously injuring a trader following a domestic feud. Peter Nderitu, 38, is nursing three broken ribs and serious head injuries allegedly inflicted by four security officers. The officers from Magumu police station are said to have refused to give the victim a P3 form after locking him in their cells for two days over what they referred to as domestic violence. Nderitu said his estranged wife, in support of the police officers, was behind the beatings that had adversely affected his movement and speech. The trader, who hails from Mutonyora village, admitted he had marital problems with the wife, "who sought the support of the officers in assaulting him as his children watched in horror". “The officers arrived in my home and without provocation started beating me before locking me in Magumu police station for two days, despite the pain I was in,” Nderitu said. The businessman said he had sought the help of Ipoa, adding that a doctor in Nyeri PGH, where he sought treatment, had recommended six-month bed rest after the assault. “My life is in danger as police officers have vowed to finish me, and this is all about the property I own,” he said. His elder brother George Ndumia said they had already sought the support of the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, who directed them to record a statement at the police station. “The officers have refused to record my brother’s statement and defied directives from Ipoa to issue us with a P3 form,” Ndumia said. He said the action of the four officers is tainting the image of the force and called on the Inspector General of Police to intervene. “The arresting police officers had booked him for domestic violence, but we don’t understand why they decided to beat and torture him,” he said. A friend, Ngugi Njoroge, who was with Nderitu at the time of the attack said the police officers wanted to cripple the trader. A senior police officer who declined to be named said the issue has been raised with them and investigations have started. Edited by R.Wamochie