The hospitality industry in Kenya is on its knees with thousands of workers sent packing as traditional tourist towns and their magical hotels turn almost ghostly. Several tourist resorts in Kilifi have closed and about 3,000 workers sent on compulsory unpaid leave as the coronavirus outbreak continues to spread. This is the situation in several other towns including Nanyuki, Nyeri, Bomet and Naivasha. Huge resorts in Kilifi that would ordinarily be full of with life now look deserted with only security guards and a few managerial staff on sight. Areas like Malindi and Watamu rely heavily on the Italian market which is among the worst-hit countries by the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 10,799 deaths. Kilifi county is also one of the hotspots in Kenya with six confirmed cases of the virus. A spot check in some of the hotels showed notices at the gates of many resorts showing they have closed indefinitely. At the Ocean Beach Resort and Spa, there was no activity except for construction and renovation. Kenya Hotelkeepers and Caterers Association chairperson Maureen Awuor, who is also Ocean Beach Resort's general manager said the virus has hurt their business and caused huge losses. Awuor, however, expressed optimism that the efforts made by the government will help reduce the spread of the pandemic and ensure normalcy returns. She suggested that the government should pay employees part of their NSSF contribution to cushion them from job loses. The White Rhino Hotel in Nyeri county has also closed.  The four-star hotel, one of the most prestigious resorts in the county, closed on March 27. “It is with great difficulty that we notify you of our closure till further notice,” a letter signed by the hotel's operations director Patrick Kairu read on the hotel's Facebook page. The letter addressed to the hotel partners further read, “Since this is a developing situation globally, we are not in a position to state when we will resume our operations. However, like everybody else, we hope that this pandemic ends soon.” The pre-Independence hotel, which is gazetted as one of the national heritage sites, dates back to 1910. It was a whites-only hotel before Independence. According to its website, the facility was started by three Europeans - Berkely Cole, Lord Cranworth and Sandy Herd - in what was then British East Africa. The hotel industry in Nanyuki town is equally hit. The hotels have sent almost all their staff on compulsory leave. Kirimara Springs Hotel general manager James Mutahi said 80 per cent of its workers have been laid off leaving its operation with a lean staff of six. Mutahi said they sent the staff home as the hotel on the Nanyuki-Nyeri Highway could not sustain them. “Various hotel sections including accommodation, catering, bar and conference have been greatly affected since there are no customers even for takeaway meals,” Mutahi told the Star on Tuesday. Chief accountant Justin Murithi said those sent on leave will not be paid noting that they have been transacting with government organisations and have not been paid. Other affected hotels in the region are Mt Kenya Safari Club, Batian Hotel, The Sportsmans Arms, Emess, Ibis and Falcon Heights. Some have totally closed and others have been left with bare staff. At Sweet Waters Tented Camp, the story is the same with no visitors accessing the Ol Pejeta Conservancy. This follows the cancellation of international flights. The hotel depends on foreign tourists. Outstanding debts Hoteliers in Bomet are also contemplating closing down their businesses for fear of a further spread of coronavirus in the country. A spot check at two major hotels, Brevan and Fairhills, revealed that business has slowed, almost completely stopped. This has also been attributed to the government’s directive to avoid gatherings as a way of containing the pandemic. A handful of guests could be seen checking in and out of the hotels. Benjamin Mitei, manager of Brevan hotel in Bomet town, told the Star that if the business does not improve in the next week, he will have to cut down the staff "to a manageable size". At the moment, the facility has 20 employees. “We are monitoring the situation and if does not improve in the few days to come I will send some home because there is no need to keep them yet there is no business." Mitei will close the hotel entirely if the situation persists until normalcy is restored. "We need money for operations like electricity and water,” he said. He called on the county government to consider settling its debts to enable the business to sustain itself. “If they can pay us and we fail to get customers that will assist us to continue running for some months,” he said. Business at Fairhills was ongoing but with minimal activity. Jonah Kirui, one of the managers, said they have had to minimise the food they prepare to avoid wastage. Edited by R.Wamochie