The High Court has declined to award the estate of the late Charles Rubia Sh40 billion as damages for torture during the agitation for multiparty politics. Justice Weldon Korir said the claim was not backed by the support of any local decision/decree and only awards that could be sustained by the economy should be made. He made reference to former politician Kenneth Matiba who was detained at the same time with Rubia but awarded Sh15 million for violation of his constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms. He cited other similar cases and said, “It is obvious that what is sought in this petition is mind-boggling and I do not think that even the world's best economies can meet or sustain such awards,” the judge said. During the hearing, the estate's counsel argued that those who fought for the second liberation of the country should be adequately compensated. He sought an award of Sh40 billion from the government on grounds that Rubia’s business, health and family were devastated when he was arrested and detained by the regime of President Daniel Moi. He pointed out that over Sh600 billion is lost to corruption annually.  But the judge in his decision said the proposed figure was beyond comprehension and the award of costs was purely at the discretion of the court. “After factoring inflation and considering that the deceased was detained twice unlike Matiba, I award the estate of the deceased a global sum of Sh17 million as general damages for his unlawful detention and violation of his constitutional rights,” he ruled. He said it was clear the deceased was exposed to inhuman treatment which caused him physiological and psychological distress. "Evidence on record was unchallenged and it follows therefore that the stress caused by the inhumane nature of the deceased’s detention was the catalyst for his thyroid disease," the judge said. He awarded Sh226,200 and Sh9,001,754 as costs of medical expenses and accommodation in London. Before he passed on last year, Rubia had argued that upon his release, he was forced to seek medical treatment both in Kenya and the United Kingdom which seriously strained his finances. Rubia died on December 23 last year when the petition was pending the hearing. His son Michael Rubia, the administrator of the estate, was allowed to substitute the deceased’s name on January 23. His case is premised on the facts and events revolving around his arrest and subsequent detention by the government of Kenya on two separate occasions on claims of planning to overthrow the government and for calling to an end to mismanagement of public affairs. The Attorney General did not contest the arrests but maintained that Rubia was lawfully detained and that he was informed of the reasons for his first arrest. But Korir said in the absence of oral or documentary evidence from the state to counter the deceased's assertion, he found that his first detention was indeed unlawful. As for the second detention which commenced on July 4, 1990, the judge said the state was liable for torture, inhuman and cruel treatment or punishment that Rubia was subjected to while in detention for nine months following his arrest in 1990. Edited by Henry Makori