The Ministry of Health has applauded efforts by county governments as they record an increased number of isolation centres. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Saturday noted that isolation centres have increased in counties to help curb the spread of coronavirus. As a result, the county governments have been encouraged to continue up scaling capacity at all county health facilities to fight the disease. Mwangangi also said the ministry has noted more laboratories across the country are engaging in the testing exercise against Covid-19. Last month, Deputy President William Ruto announced that the government has directed the Education Ministry to provide the country with 20 boarding schools for usage as isolation centres. “GoK has directed the Ministry of Education to work with all county governments to identify at least 20 boarding schools per county," he said. As a result, Cabinet Secretary for Health Mutahi Kagwe said that more boarding schools would be converted into quarantine centres and makeshift hospitals if the infections rise exponentially. “We need to be looking at the boarding schools that we can begin to identify as potential areas we can keep the sick if the situation demands it. There will be no need to blame the government at that time because it will be late,” he said. In addition, the Ministry of Health is targeting to engage the facilities that have been testing for Tuberculosis as it aims to increase testing centers for covid-19. “As we scale up the facilities and noting that this is a case by case issue that we are looking at, we do see that from mass testing we will be able to pick out the positive cases and by that we shall help to combat Corona virus disease,” Mwangangi said. The Health CAS also acknowledge the contribution of all health care workers, for their continued commitment and support in the mitigation efforts in different aspects of health service provision. “ You are our top priority in this fight , If anything you are the heartbeat of us in winning the fight against coronavirus in Kenya,” Mwangangi noted 