The decision on whether to tighten or loosen the coronavirus measures will be communicated next week. A team has been set up to assess and review the impact of the various measures, among them hand washing, social distancing, 60 per cent occupancy in PSVs and takeaway services by hotels. “We have come up with a matrix that will be evaluated this Sunday during the NERC meeting and, therefore, decisions will be made as to whether these containment measures need to be tightened or loosened,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said on Thursday. In addition, the committee will evaluate the issue of cost and billing of Covid-19 patients in health facilities and give direction. “We have a database currently looking at the different billing data both in public and private facilities and we are engaging different players to be able to define a mechanism that will be adequate in ensuring Kenyans who may not be able to meet these bills are taken care of,” she said. The number of positive cases as at Thursday was 320 after 17 additional cases were reported. The 17 were picked from 668 samples that had been tested within 24 hours. They included nine men and eight women aged between 22 and 60. Twelve were from Nairobi and five from Mombasa. Fifteen were picked by the surveillance teams while two were from mandatory quarantine centres. Six more patients were discharged from health facilities, bringing the total number of recoveries to 89. "However, we are also noticing a trend where we are getting newer admissions every single day. I am happy to announce that other than two who are in ICU, the rest are mild cases and will hopefully be discharged in the proper order of time,” Mwangangi said. The ministry has emphasised the need for consistency in discipline among the youth, adding that world over, it has emerged that the majority of the asymptomatic positives are children and young adults. Mwangangi said asymptomatic transmissions pose a challenge to the containment of Covid-19. “It is, therefore, imperative that all our frontline people—truck drivers, matatu drivers, journalists, bankers, security and health personnel—wash their hands with running water and soap, and wear face masks at all times,” she said The CAS advised Kenyans against over-reliance on sanitiser, adding that while it is effective, soap and running water are the best for fighting the virus. Sanitiser should only be used in exceptional circumstances, she said. Industries have also been urged to focus on producing quality sanitising products to avoid creating new problems while solving the Covid-19 problem. “We have observed that some public service vehicles are defying social distancing regulations, and are increasingly sliding back to the old ways of conducting business,” Mwangangi said. “Action shall be taken against any matatu found carrying more than the recommended number of passengers.” The ministry said being quarantined is neither detention nor punishment, but rather a measure meant to serve the greater good. Mwangangi urged Kenyans to stop stigmatising those sent to quarantine facilities and those who have recovered from the disease. “The fact that we have many who have recovered is an indication that we are capable of effectively managing and defeating this disease,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie