When we used to talk about fever and high temperature, it used to mean the political fever that had infected the country over 2022 succession politics. Today, fever means only one thing: coronavirus. The coronavirus pandemic has completely deflated 2022 succession politics that had reached a crescendo with the highly charged Building Bridges Initiative campaigns, now gone silent. With every politician thinking more about his or her personal safety and survival rather than 2022, every key player has been stopped dead in their tracks by the virus. A good political leader today one who supplies relief food and water and cooperates with rivals to help people instead of ranting against adversaries to elevate themselves. Politicians and analysts admit succession games plans have been thrown into limbo with their implementation remaining just on paper amid uncertainty on execution. The uncertainty about the pandemic has also favoured and disadvantaged some political players. President Uhuru Kenyatta is seen to be in a strong position to exploit the lull and possibly craft a succession masterstroke. “The coronavirus pandemic has not only shifted the goalposts but also favoured and disfavoured key layers in the succession matrix,” political analyst Javas Bigambo told the Star. Bigambo said everyone who had their eyes trained on 2022 succession have been disoriented as no one knows when it will pass. “Looking at how quiet the political scene is, now everybody is thinking about safety and survival and not about 2022. Nobody can sprint now,” Bigambo noted. While the BBI train appeared to have offered leading political lights a way to ramp up their 2022  momentum the virus has halted that train. “The country is united to fighting a common enemy-coronavirus. The impact of this global pandemic on our local ecosystem cannot be overemphasised. It is expected to cause serious disruptions in the political terrain,” former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire told the Star. Bosire, who is ODM national treasurer, warned that the politics would remain in a hiatus as long as the coronavirus pandemic rags and Kenya awaits its full impact. “The political consequences of  Covid-19 ars massive. The disease has put every political player on their back foot,” he said. With the government unveiling tough social distancing measures to contain the virus, political antagonists have withdrawn their bare-knuckle assaults. Political bigwigs have exited the national scene and retreated to self-quarantine over the Covid-19 scare. This quiet in the eye of the storm follows months of no-holds-barred tackles that had threatened President Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga's unity agenda. The forced 'political quarantine' has lowered temperatures among rivals even as President Kenyatta's administration directs energies to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.virus. Initially, the BBI train that was hurtling across the country under Raila's captainship had triggered an aggressive 2022 succession battle that has also widened cracks within the National Executive. Deputy President William Ruto was isolated in his own government with Raila taking up an informal yet strategic position within the executive. Raila's larger-than-life stature in the Jubilee government thrust him right into the heart of the presidential succession politics, to the chagrin of Deputy President William Ruto's camp. As the ODM leader launched an aggressive attack targeting Ruto and his allies, the DP rolled up his sleeves and went on an aggressive charm offensive with grassroots tours to counter the BBI Juggernaut. On Wednesday, Bigambo amplified his view that the DP's scheme to get public sympathy and turn the tables against Raila on the BBI process had been badly upended. With the Covid-19 fear everywhere, the DP can no longer proceed with his packed countrywide rallies to preach his gospel against Raila. Social distancing for personal survival versus political survival. “The momentum Ruto had sustained has hit a wall. He cannot move to marshal his grassroots support,” he said adding that the BBI project had reached its peak before the reggae was stopped in Nakuru. He added, “The Nakuru meeting could have been en very critical. The President could have faced some kind of humiliation in Nakuru, given how the Kalenjin nation was gearing up for the meeting.” The Nakuru rally had been seen as the ultimate test for the unity agenda spearheaded by the President and Raila, given that the meeting was to be held right in Ruto's backyard. Political analyst and United States University professor Macharia Munene told the Star that the Covid-19 pandemic has “significantly disrupted the country's succession politics.” “The pandemic will derail and disrupt a lot of political expectations, reggae has been stopped by the coronavirus,” he said. The political and diplomacy professor said the coronavirus crisis could have also created its own heroes that might spring up and squeeze themselves right into the succession politics. “Crises and opportunities create their won heroes, Mutahi Kagwe is the current hero. He is now the most prominent position other than the President,” the professor said. Reports that the government has already diverted up to Sh 8 billion-the balance in the Sh11 billion BBI fund kitty-to the fight against Coronavirus, signals an end to the BBI campaigns across the country. The reallocation of the money would be a major blow to the BBI proponents, with the constitutional change campaign having been seen as the main argument of the 2022 succession battle. “The crisis has made money less available than it was before. There is no money to do BBI things. How long this crisis stretches will determine the level of disruption,” Munene said. Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli admitted that the coronavirus has far-reaching political and economic implications. Atwoli, who had become a key figure in the BBI process, said the country's focus has now shifted to tackling coronavirus because it threatens the survival of Kenyans. “The current situation paints a grim picture. There is no reason to talk about politics and then end up being wiped out by the disease. It is important we first join hands to address this common enemy so that if we live tomorrow we would have an opportunity to talk politics,” he said. He said the pandemic has equalised all Kenyans and the fiery, vocal politicians have gone into hibernation. "Even those who have stashed a lot of money can not spend that money now because even hotels where they used to go to have fun have been closed down, he added. Political analyst Felix Odhiambo told the Star that the coronavirus is a double-edged sword that has taken the country by storm. “No political player would be spared by the virus. It is back to square one for all the key political players,” he said. Odhiambo said while the Covid-19 pandemic would herald a paradigm shift in the political scene, it would also affect both short-term and long-term “political schemes.” “Social distancing has really affected any possibility of conducting meetings to execute strategies. The disruption in terms of political strategies is far-reaching,” he noted. The uncertainty surrounding the disease could further throw the political arena into h the Doldrums. The deadline given by the President for the BBI team to submit its final report appears to be evaporating in the pandemic, as well as a referendum. This means that the clamour for a constitutional change this year may be derailed further given that most national resources have been redirected to fighting Covid-19. “When nobody knows when the disease would be defeated, we can't even talk about holding a referendum this year. The pandemic would crash our economy completely. Where will the funds come from when the economy would be bleeding?” asked Kimilili MP Didmas Barasa. The BBI proponents had been pushing for a referendum this year to overhaul the country's governance structure. Raila is pushing fora parliamentary system with a strong Executive prime minister — which Ruto opposes.