A Nairobi magistrate caused excitement among some police officers when he arrived in the company of his strikingly beautiful wife. The officers could not hide their awe when the judicial officer walked with his young wife to his chambers. “Wow! So this magistrate has such a beautiful partner? The problem is he seems he walks with her everywhere he goes,” a police officer was overheard saying. A court staffer commented that the wife was still young and wondered why the magistrate did not leave her outside the court premises to mingle with other staff before allowing her to the chambers. “She is still young. He should have left her with us here so that we can say hi,” he said. When a police officer arrests you and takes you to court, he is just doing his job. And they are good chaps. This is what an officer tried to explain to some suspects as they waited for their cases to come up. “Police officers are good people but when they arrest you guys, all of you hate the place they take you to. For instance, I know all of you hate being taken to court,” he told suspects outside the court premises. Police, however — as you expect — when lawyers help suspects go scot-free. “When we bring you people here, we don’t expect you to leave with no case to answer but some lawyers are like a hacksaw, they cut our cases into pieces and you are set free. It is wrong,” the officer added. Disgruntled, one of the suspects almost threw mucus to him. A man who is said to be on police radar for giving wrong information about a robbery incident is not having peace at home, and it is not about the fear of coronavirus. The man is said to have learnt the people he reported that they tried to rob him violently are not the ones that were arrested, and the real culprits are still free. Out of fear, he wants  to call the magistrate and ask for the termination of the case “I want to talk to the magistrate directly and tell him I don’t want that case to proceed, I cannot come to court because you all know I don’t want the police to see me,” he said.