Despite the tough economic times bedevilling the country due to the coronavirus pandemic, Western Stima players have been assured they will receive their March salaries as usual. Stima have in the past raised the alarm over the directive from their shirt sponsor to slash their budget but the club chairman Laban Jobita yesterday confirmed that the March salaries will be paid. He said the players will receive their dues despite being out of action following the government's directive to suspend all sporting activities in the country for a month from the time the first case of the virus was reported in the country. He was, however, uncertain of the allowances trickling in due to the break which has seen the players train from their homes with public gatherings suspended. "Unless the sponsor decides otherwise, the players will receive their March salaries in full even though they have been out of action. The terms in their contracts must be adhered to,  but I am not sure if the allowances will be paid since we were out of action. They know that dates the money reflects in their accounts and this time, the script will not be different," assured the administrator Jobita in the meantime, thanked Kenya Power for honouring their financial obligation to the team despite the tough economic times which has seen companies lay off employees and impose pay cuts. He sought to clarify earlier reports that the company was keen to terminate its local partnerships for lack of sufficient funds to sustain the various partnerships they had. In January this year, Jobita had indicated that the giant power company had hinted of cutting ties with the several entities under their sponsorship but he now claims they were directed to reduce their budget. "We thank Kenya Power for their support. The company had raised the red flag on our spending and we had to find a way of fitting within the budget they had for us. We would camp for three days on match days but we have reduced that in a bid to save something from the money we used to dish as camping allowances and camping fees. We have since had to forgo some activities but the club will run as usual once the league resumes, " he said.