The government should provide relief food and sufficient water to informal settlements dwellers to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi on Tuesday said ramping up supportive measures was key to curbing the spread of the virus in the slums. According to the speaker, adequate relief food and enhanced security will ensure people stay at home and recommended the introduction of relief food cards. “The food card will ensure no one is left out and that every family will get food. When the state comes to give a household food, they will be given the card which will be used as evidence to avoid insufficient distribution of food," Elachi said. The speaker said water distribution should be keenly monitored so that people can observe proper hygiene. The Ministry of Health has directed that people constantly wash and sanitise their hands to prevent the spread of coronavirus. As such, Elachi said numerous water points should be set up across the slums. “ The Ministry and the World Health Organisation has repeatedly emphasised that washing hands with soap and clean water is the simplest way of fighting Covid-19. But how can our people in the slums fight it if they lack water?” she asked. Last week, Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company announced that three of the city's most populated informal settlements of Kibera, Mathare and Mukuru kwa Njenga will receive water five times a week. The company said 10 water tanks were to be distributed to enable free washing of hands. “Let the tanks be distributed in the informal settlements for the availability of water. And because it is a scarce commodity, water bowsers should be on the ground to ensure constant water supply. If we don’t look out for the people in these areas, Covid-19 will spread like hot fire once it gets there,” Elachi said. The city water company said at least 20 boreholes will be drilled across the county to ensure that water is redistributed despite the rationing programme. Targeted areas for drilling include Utawala, Matopeni, Mihang’o, Ruai, Kayole, Gatina, Kibera, Mathare, Kangemi, Riruta/Satellite and Mukuru. Elachi said police officers should be deployed in the informal settlements to ensure businesses taking place were lawful. "There must also be a 24-hour provision of electricity." The former senator appealed to the national government to ensure measures to cushion the poor were in place in the fight against coronavirus. “We have the optimum opportunity now to act before we start having daily deaths as we have seen in some of the superpowers. The government should factor in all measures to keep our people safe," she said. Edited by peter obuya