Ali Sora Bonaya collapsed and died at his North Horr home in Marsabit of injuries he sustained during an altercation with a police officer in 2017. He died two days after the incident. Friends and relatives say Bonaya was attacked by the officer soon after he left his house. “We were in the house and he was the first to walk out. We followed and found the police officer beating him,” Ahmed Rakwa told reporters. The officer did not say why he was beating Bonaya. “When he went to record the statement, the police told him to go back later. They did so two times.  He collapsed and died on the second day,” Rakwa said. His cousin, Sabduo Boyana, said the postmortem report showed that Ali had a ruptured spleen, bruised left anterior thigh and depressed skull on the right temporal region. “IPOA has forwarded the investigation file to the ODPP as dictated by law. Upon an independent review of IPOA findings, the ODPP gave the greenlight to charge the officers,” Independent Policing Oversight Authority chairperson Ann  Makori said. “The officers to be charged are Constable Bernard Gachau (with murder) and Sergeant James Mulwa (with neglect of duty) contrary to Section 128 of the Penal Code.” Bonaya is in the long list of people killed by the law enforcers. “In all the cases, ODPP said there is sufficient evidence to sustain trial in a court of law,” Makori said in her report. Death of Mary Chepkorir Kiprotich Five years ago, Mary Chepkorir Kiprotich, was killed by six General Service Unit officers during an operation to weed out illicit brews. IPOA investigations found a police inspector, a corporal and four constables culpable of Chepkorir's death at her Laikipia home. The Majiwa GSU camp officers had accompanied the local chief in an operation against the sale of illegal alcohol. “Following investigations by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority and upon an independent review of the case files by the Director of Public Prosecutions, the officers will be charged with the murder of Ms Mary Chepkorir Kiprotich,” Makori said. The officers are Harrison Mwa (inspector), John Kimweli (corporal) and constables Linus Kipngetich, Joseph Mureithi, David Kipkemoi and Magdalene Nachapai. “IPOA supports officers in maintaining law and order but will not hesitate to take action, in accordance with its mandate, on the few bad elements that break the same laws they are supposed to enforce,” Makori said. - mwaniki fm