@Yobramos4 Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal has criticised politicians absent from initiatives to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Shahbal said this is the time to show leadership but most Kenyan politicians have gone silent. “Most of our politicians are professional noisemakers who talk a lot but when the nation really needs them, they disappear to God knows where!” Shahbal told the Star on phone. Speaking after meeting ODM leader Raila Odinga at his (Raila’s) Karen home Friday morning, Shahbal said it is time to evaluate the leaders that Kenya has. He said most politicians are so obsessed with 2022 succession politics that they forget the immediate needs of the people. Shahbal dismissed those saying he is working his way into the Mombasa people with an eye on the governorship. Instead, he said, the 2022 general elections are more than two and a half years away, thus it is stupid for anyone to start campaigns now. Shahbal said his relationship with Raila and Governor Hassan Joho, which has blossomed over the last few weeks, is born out of humanity and desire for proper leadership. “Not one of these politicians has called me to help in this pandemic. Joho has done so. How can I not help?” he asked. This is not the time to play politics but to ensure Mombasa residents and Kenyans do not suffer much, he said. At Raila’s home, Shahbal ‘complained’ to him about food distribution saying he has to remember his Mombasa children after donating tonnes of food to Kibra residents last week. “I am glad he agreed with me and graciously arranged to send me some food to distribute on his behalf. “I will discuss this with Governor Joho and community leaders on the best way forward and make sure that as many people benefit as possible,” Shahbal said on the phone. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana on Thursday announced he has solicited 1,000 bales of maize flour from Mombasa Cement to distribute to Kaloleni and Kilifi residents. Katana, who also got some Sh500,000 worth of food from Mabati Rolling Mills in his constituency, said more corporates and well-wishers should join the fight against coronavirus. “It is a good gesture from these two companies and I would urge other companies and well-wishers based in Kaloleni to follow suit,” Katana  said on the phone. Katana said the food donated by Mombasa Cement will be taken to the county government for distribution. “I am still looking for more sponsors and well-wishers. Most of my people in Kalolelni are from rural areas many of whose livelihoods have been affected by this pandemic. They need food and other items,” said Katana. The Gulf African Bank, which is chaired by Shahbal, also stepped up to support Joho's call for food donations. The bank has donated over eight tonnes of food. It has also donated food in Lamu, Malindi, Kilifi, Nakuru and Nairobi. Shahbal said this time, he will not be distributing his personal food donation because of the holy month of Ramadhan, which is expected to start on April 23 or 24. “My personal donation will be coming out next week. This year we will not be distributing food for Ramadhan. This is a time for all people, not only Muslims,” he said. He warned those who might be tempted to divert relief food to their own homes or use it for personal gain. “This is not time to brand food with politicians' names. That is stupid. It is no time to take food meant for relief either,” he said. (edited by o. owino)