A former chairman of a state corporation in the energy sector has been linked to the importation of substandard oil that was recently rejected before it got into the country. The man is said to be a supplier of lubricants to another parastatal, also in the energy sector. He habitually threatens junior tender clerks to win contracts. His firm is now on KRA's radar for tax evasion in a lucrative tender. A mole whispered to Corridors that the no-nonsense KRA boss James Mburu has already been alerted about his illicit activities. The man is said to have been affiliated with one faction of Jubilee but it now seems he will walk a lonely path. News that the Nairobi Metropolitan Services would be free to access Sh1 billion for Covid-19 interventions starting Thursday excited a number of city MCAs. NMS director-general Mohammed Badi was allocated the money by the county assembly through the Supplementary Budget. The money, allocated under the Disaster and Emergency Fund, will be used to buy sanitiser, masks and other items. A city official revealed that a number of MCAs have been frequenting Badi’s office after being told that he would access the funds even without Governor Mike Sonko’s assent. The leaders are keen to be seen as being at the forefront in fighting Covid-19 to appease voters as 2022 draws closer. Have residents and ward leaders of a county in Western lost that much faith in their governor that they now raise their concerns with neighbouring authorities? A local told Corridors that MCAs and residents are increasingly seeking the assistance of the governor of a neighbouring county on various issues. Employees have also been reaching out to this governor whenever their salaries delay or they are faced with other work challenges. The loss of faith in their county chief follows reports that the governor may not seek reelection and is already scouting for another job. Some officials of parties that folded to form Jubilee seem to be looking for exit strategies owing to the unending wrangles in the ruling party. Though some legislators have vowed to stay put, a number look like they are already fed up. The recent move by Jubilee to replace three members of its National Management Committee sparked a furore among MPs and has resulted in some legislators befriending other parties. An official of a party that recently received its registration certificate told Corridors that they have been receiving numerous calls by MPs who want to join them. He said the MPs are keen to know if they could be given top positions in the new outfit.