Health workers at the Garissa Level-5 Hospital on Friday went on strike over delayed March pay. The move disrupted services and caught many patients unawares. Patients arriving at the facility were turned away as some of those who had been admitted were transferred by their families. The strike came at a time when the country is depending on its health workers to fight Covid-19. They vowed, however, not to return to work until they get their dues. They waved placards with messages 'no pay no health services, 'no pay no dialysis' and 'Garissa county is joking with Covid-19'. The hospital has also been serving residents of neighbouring counties of Wajir, Tana River and Kitui, but county administration on Thursday ordered the closure of their borders to help the fight against the virus. The striking staff accused the county authorities of inaction despite receiving their notice early and having enough time to resolve their issues. All cadres joined participated - doctors, nurses, pharmacists, nutritionists, lab technologists, dentists, clinical officers and support staff. Efforts to reach county secretary Abdi Sheikh were unsuccessful. He did not return calls despite several attempts. But addressing the press on their behalf, the acting chair of the Garissa Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union (KMPDU), Dr Hassan Abdi Mohamed, said their salaries have continuously been delayed for the past three years. “Salaries have been gradually delaying for the last three years. You can imagine it's now April 23 and healthcare workers have not been paid their March salary. We won’t resume until salaries are paid,” he said. "Salaries among benefits of staff at the hospital are handled casually. We've raised our concerns with the relevant authorities but nobody seems to take us seriously. This is our last resort to have our grievances addressed." He said their leave allowances have not been paid for the last three years. Other grievances included promotions for staff who have served in the same grade for more than five years and non-remittance of NHIF, NSSF and union subscription fees. The union official took issue with the county administration for being ill-prepared to deal with Covid-19. "The facility lacks basic essentials, among them cloves. It will be very difficult for our health workers to handle Covid-19 with only 15 beds, lack of enough PPE and no ventilators,” he said. He said they will have a salary parade on the sixth day of every month if the county will not pay their salary on time. Hassan said that the union members in the six subcounties of Balambala, Hulugho, Fafi, Ijara, Dadaab and Lagdera were fully behind the industrial action. Staff members from other departments have also been silently complaining about delayed payment of their salaries.  According to one staffer who spoke on condition of anonymity, their February salary was paid on March 18 and that has been the trend for the past few months.