President Uhuru Kenyatta has declared the cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa Counties for 21 days. The Nairobi directive starts today (Monday) at 7 pm while that of the other counties will begin from Wednesday. Uhuru said a majority of people who have contracted the disease are Nairobi residents, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. The President said 82 per cent of Covid-19 have been in Nairobi and 14 per cent have been in the other Coastal counties. Uhuru said there shall be a secession of all movement by road, rail or area in and out of Nairobi Metropolitan area as well as the counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. "`This virus doesn’t care about the size of your wallet...in defeating it ..we should face the enemy standing side by side. Our unity is demonstrated by each Kenyan going the extra mile," he said. "Make no mistake, we are at war and we must be together if we shall win this war." "There is a choice that we are asked to make. Do we carry out as normal or carry it as an emergency and fundamentally change the way we act," he said. "We are being called upon by our children to show the greatness in us by how we respond to this virus." Uhuru said the wearing of masks and washing will save lives adding that Kenyans must stick to measures to curb the spread. "We must avoid all areas and comply with government directives and we must be careful," he said. The President said after receiving advice for medical doctors it was proper for everyone to wear masks. "Kenyans should wear a mask while in public places. There will be thousands of tailors who will make these masks," he said. He said these tailors will be provided with the proper communication of what is required. Earlier, Uhuru announced that the number of coronavirus cases rose to 158 after testing 4277 people, Out of this, 16 turned positive. Community spread is the cause of between 27 per cent to 36 per cent of Covid-19 cases, according to the Ministry of Health director-general Dr Patrick Amoth. "Out of the 110 cases in the country, about 30 or 40 are cases of local transmission with no history of travel or direct contact with a Covid-19 patient," he said last week. More to follow...