The Kenya High Commission in New Delhi has announced that it is working on plans of evacuating Kenyans seeking to return home but at their own cost. "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on logistics to arrange for a chartered flight for the evacuation of Kenyans who want to return home at their own cost," Ambassador Willy Bett said in a statement released on Monday. The statement said that the identified airline needs to urgently know the number of passengers in order to determine the cost and type of aircraft to operate. All Kenyans in India who are interested in returning home on envisaged evacuation flight are urgently requested to submit their names to the Kenya High Commission in New Delhi through the WhatsApp Telephone Number: +917428642477 or email: info@kenyahicom-delhi.com by close of business on April 21, 2020. Bett also made it clear that there are specific conditions that must be fulfilled before anyone can travel back home. Among them include; one must be a Kenyan with a valid Kenyan passport, must be able to pay for their own fare and must be Covid-19 free with a certificate to that effect. Those wishing to travel bak home must also be ready to undergo 14 days mandatory quarantine period imposed by the Government upon arrival in Nairobi. The departure will be from New Delhi. Priority will be given to patients and caregivers and the date of the travel will be determined after the above information has been received. The government on Saturday through its embassy in Beijing had also asked Kenyans who are willing to return home from China to submit their details. Those who will meet the set terms will be repatriated at their own cost through a chartered flight. The terms set by the embassy are similar to those in India and includes one must be a Kenyan citizen, must hold a passport and must pay for their own ticket. The person must be free of Covid-19 with a certificate to that effect and must be ready to go for compulsory quarantine for 14 to 28 days upon their arrival.