The raging floods in Nyando, Kisumu county have destroyed rice worth Sh800 million at Ahero and West Kano irrigation schemes. Western Kenya Schemes senior manager Joel Tanui submerged after River Nyando burst its banks and flooded plantations. He said the floods have also damaged the National Irrigation Board infrastructure at the two schemes. “We have parts of land submerged and newly planted seedlings swept away into Lake Victoria by raging waters,” Tanui said. More than 7, 500 farmers in the schemes have lost their yields. Tanui said the disaster was a huge setback to farmers. An estimated 4,000 acres have been destroyed. The official said this year's flooding is the worst in decades. Apart from crop destruction, most farmers have also been displaced from their homes. Several houses are marooned. Some have collapsed. The flooding, Tanui said, was a threat to food security in the county with other crops including vegetables, maize and beans also destroyed. He said infrastructure damaged included roads, culverts, canals and bridges which require a lot of money to rehabilitate. Last year, farmers lost more than 20,000 bags of rice in the 681-acre scheme to hailstorms. The rice was valued at Sh57 million. Farmer Mary Achieng said they have incurred huge losses and asked for support. “We have lost our crops, livestock, and houses to floods. It is a terrible tragedy,” she said. Tanui called for a swift building of dykes along the banks of River Nyando to prevent perennial flooding. The manager also noted that the construction of the Sh40 billion Koru-Soin dam will provide a permanent solution to the menace. The construction of the multi-billion dam has stalled since 2016. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo also appealed for a bailout to farmers to enable them prepare their land. He backed the projects saying the government should speed the construction of the dam and build dykes to prevent future flooding. Koyoo, however, said he has been championing for proper compensation for families who will be displaced by the dam construction. He wants those affected to be given alternative places to build their homes. The project is on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties. It is expected to supply as much as 70 million litres of water. Edited by P.O