Samples from four Busia residents who completed the 14-day Covid-19 quarantine were handed over to the Kenya Medical Research Institute for further analysis. The four are among 19 residents under quarantine after returning to the country from Europe and the Middle East. Others being monitored by medical personnel are family members said to have attended a burial in Siaya two weeks ago. Medical services director Dr Janerose Ambuchi told the Star on Tuesday that the four people won’t be free to interact with members of the public until a report from Kemri confirms they are negative. “Their 14 days under quarantine are over but we have to carry out more analysis so that we are sure they are healthy.” Busia has not reported any positive case of the virus that had infected 59 people in the country by Tuesday, according to the Health Ministry. Busia is listed among high risk counties owing to its proximity to Uganda which on Monday declared lockdown for 14 days after confirming cases of Covid-19. Among those under quarantine in Busia is former ACK Katakwa Diocese Arch-Bishop Zacchaeus Epusi who returned to the country from London on March 21. He is said to have attended a church service at the Amagoro ACK church on March 22 before he was quarantined on March 23. Ambuchi called on residents to observe health safety measures outlined by the Health Ministry to combat further spread of the respiratory disease that by Wednesday had claimed over 43,000 lives globally. The One-Stop Border Posts in Busia and Malaba are currently closed to pedestrians, motorcycles and private car users following an order by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ugandan Yoweri Museveni. Ambuchi spoke one day after the county received free sanitisers from the national government to boost the fight to remain Covid-19-free. The package included 41 20-litre jerricans of sanitiser and 108 cartons containing 24 bottles of hand sanitiser. Matayos deputy county commissioner Joseph Onyango said the sanitiser will be distributed to people in the county. He said recipients include police and prisons departments, hospitals, the One-Stop Border Posts, the Judiciary, national government and county offices and the assembly. Onyango said the subcommittee of the County Emergency Response team met to discuss modalities for distribution and quantities required. “I urge those who will receive the supplies to exercise utmost accountability and ensure they are used for the intended purpose and not for sale,” he said. The director coordinating Covid-19 activities in the county Dr David Mukabi said the sanitiser will be distributed to all health facilities including dispensaries across the county. Edited by R.Wamochie