The sibling rivalry between the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions is giving room to the outrageous budgets on the coronavirus, COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli has said. The Ministry of Health has given a breakdown of how it spent Sh1 billion received from the World Bank in the fight against Covid-19. A document tabled before the Health Committee of the National Assembly chaired by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege indicates the ministry used Sh42 million to lease  15 ambulances. The ministry used Sh14.4 million to maintain and fuel 30 vehicles used by its officers across the country, translating to Sh40,000 per vehicle every week. The ministry spent Sh2 million out of the Sh6 million approved for airtime for some of its 500 staff for a period of three months. Health PS Susan Mochache told the House team another Sh4 million was used to buy tea and snacks for various teams out of the Sh10.1 million budget. "My worry with this quarrelling is that it gives a big room for these kinds of expenditures. President Uhuru Kenyatta should open his eyes wide open...if people are donating towards this cause, the money must be put into good use," Atwoli said. Speaking to KTN on Thursday, Atwoli said that Members of Parliament should have come up with a law that any suspect found stealing the funds is jailed immediately. "I have never supported any leader involved in corruption since 2014. The war between DCI and DPP is not healthy for this country," he said. The DCI headed by George Kinoti has accused DPP Noordin Haji's office of interference and inordinate delays in their criminal probes. In an internal communication to his team, Director of Investigations at the Bureau John Kariuki said they will not send any progress report to Haji’s office from now on. Instead, they will only send complete investigation files. This communication means that the DCI has effectively locked out the DPP from their investigations in what signals the end of the early camaraderie between Haji and Kinoti. NO CELEBRATIONS Atwoli added that there will be no celebrations tomorrow for Labour day. This he said is to ensure that social distancing and staying at home rules are adhered to adding that employers should not dismiss workers during this time. "Put solidarity to make sure that nobody loses employment. Employers have been supportive since coronavirus pandemic. We want to ensure that we secure our employments," he said. "If you say that these workers in informal employment will be dismissed then there will be a problem when the economy gets back to its feet." Labour Day is an annual holiday to celebrate the achievements of workers. Labour Day has its origins in the labour union movement, specifically the eight-hour day movement, which advocated eight hours for work, eight hours for recreation, and eight hours for rest. For most countries, Labour Day is synonymous with or linked to the International Workers' Day, which occurs on 1 May. For other countries, Labour Day is celebrated on a different date, often one with special significance for the labour movement in that country.