The country has marked one month since it reported its first novel coronavirus case. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Monday announced that the positive cases had shot up to 208, following an addition of 11 positive samples He also reported one death and 40 recoveries bringing the number of active cases to 197. On Friday, March 13, 2020, Kagwe shocked Kenyans by reporting the first novel coronavirus case in the country. The news threw the country into a mode of panic with Kenyans seeing what had caused deaths of thousand in other countries right at their doorstep. Kagwe said that the patient has landed in the country on March 5 from the US via London. He added that the 27-year-old woman fell ill and went to the hospital, where she tested positive for coronavirus. At that point, Kenya became the first country in the East Africa Community to report a case of Covid-19. The CS said the government had identified and isolated a number of people suspected to have come into contact with the first case. And from then on, the lifestyles of Kenyans have changed drastically with many normal lives disrupted as Kenya battles the spread of the virus. On the first day, the government suspended all visits to prisons and directed that all public transport should provide hand sanitisers, which was a new thing to them. Kenyans were also asked to prioritise personal hygiene by washing their hands more regularly and to avoid touching their faces to tame the further spread of the virus. On March 15, President Uhuru Kenyatta reported that there were two more cases of the virus in the country. As the number of patients continued to increase, the government stepped up measures aimed at preventing further spread. The president directed that all schools and universities should be closed with immediate effect. The unprecedented term one closure halted classroom learning as well as school events such as drama, music festivals, athletics, basketball and hockey handball games. Parents were asked to ensure that their children are safe at homes from the virus. On March 18, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had urged African counties to be on high alert since more cases were expected to hit the continent. "The best advice for Africa is to prepare for the worst and prepare today," Tedros said. On March 25, the president imposed a dusk-dawn curfew which was effected on Friday, March 27 for 21 days. The president said the curfew would prevent night movements, hence reducing more positive cases. Uhuru also directed the National Treasury to offer 100 per cent tax relief for persons earning a gross income of Sh24,000. "There will be a reduction of the income tax rate from its maximum of 30 to 25 per cent," he said. Uhuru also announced a reduction of corporation tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. "There will also be a reduction of the turnover tax rate from three per cent to one per cent," he said. He also suspended the listing on CRB of any persons in micro small or medium enterprises whose loan accounts were due or in arrears which were effected on April 1. Also, the country reported its first recovery case from the virus on March 25. While reporting the case, Uhuru said the recovery showed there was hope to overcome the pandemic. "Today we have registered our first patient who has fully recovered from this virus," he said. The number of cases kept increasing as days passed on and by March 26, cases confirmed had reached to 31. The government also reported the first death related to the virus on March 26. The patient was a 66-year-old Kenyan man who had recently returned from Eswatini via South Africa. The government identified Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale and Kwale as red spot counties following the confirmed cases. On 31 March, Kenya's coronavirus cases rose by 9, bringing the total to 59 confirmed cases with one death. The cases hit 110 on April 2, as the number of deaths reached 3. The number of confirmed cases continued to soar and by April 7, there were 172 cases with six deaths. Kagwe urged Kenyans to brace for bad news even as they hope for the best. The CS said that the government had put in measures to mitigate the virus, adding that its impact might not be felt immediately. “Fellow Kenyans, let us brace ourselves for bad news, let us prepare for the worst. We must brace ourselves and be ready mentally to face a situation we have never faced before," he said. He added that "We can no longer run away from the disease. It is an invisible enemy that it is here with us and if we allowed ourselves to play chasing games with it, it will be difficult for us as a nation to catch up with it.” On April 10, the total number of the confirmed cases reached 189 and 10 patients who had tested positive for the virus tested negative, bringing the recovery cases to 22. The government stepped up measures to prevent its citizens from the virus, including local manufacturing of face masks. All churches, mosques and public rallies in the country were suspended to ensure that there is no mass gathering. The virus also stopped Building Bridges Initiative rallies in the country. Public vehicles were directed to reduce the number of passengers in order to prevent further spread. On April 6, the president issued movement restrictions in Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties for 21 days. He also declared a cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties for 21 days. According to the head of state, the majority of people who have contracted the disease are Nairobi residents, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties. The President said 82 per cent of Covid-19 have been in Nairobi and 14 per cent have been in the other Coastal counties. "The movement within the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and the Counties of Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa shall continue subject to the nationwide curfew," Uhuru said.