A mooted plan to form a unity government between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga is the surest way to rebuild the economy after the coronavirus pandemic. Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo on Tuesday said a coalition government would provide the most favourable condition for the recovery of the economy. “It has been proven in the past that Kenya can only regain economic fortunes in a coalition situation,” Odhiambo told the Star in a phone interview. He said Uhuru and Raila were able to come up with a well-structured coalition government backed up by a team of economic and other experts that will guarantee faster economic recovery. The lawmaker cited the grand coalition government formed between Raila and former President Mwai Kibaki after the 2007-08 post-election violence that took a heavy toll on the country’s economy. Odhiambo said the country and the economy recovered only months later because of the unity government that brought on board all factions and incorporated experts that advised the two leaders. “When Raila and Kibaki came together in 2008, they saved this country.  The ravage that was caused by ethnic clashes and unrest, and the way it battered the economy, it was only the coalition government that saved the nation,” he said. The country, he said, is currently in a similar situation owing to the coronavirus pandemic that is hurting the economy. “The way the coronavirus pandemic has battered the economy, and the way it has messed the country – creating massive unemployment, it is only a well-structured coalition government and experts that can revive the economy.” Allies of the two leaders have been pushing them to form a unity government with Jubilee Party vice-chairman David Murathe and Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Uhuru’s close allies, openly saying there were plans for the two leaders form a coalition government after the current crisis caused by Covid-19. But allies of Deputy President William Ruto have dismissed the claims as wishful thinking. Odhiambo said those opposing the coalition government plan do not believe in transparency.  Edited by P.O