Kaloleni MP Paul Katana has warned boda boda riders against sneaking people into Mombasa and back to Kaloleni. Katana said the act not only contravenes the law but also puts the lives of the riders and the public at risk of contracting the coronavirus. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Katana called on the government to send riders and the pillion passengers into forced quarantine if found moving out of or into restricted counties. "There are boda boda riders who sneak people into Kwale and Mombasa counties from Kaloleni and Rabai in Kilifi. What these riders fail to understand is that they are putting the lives of people in Kaloleni at risk. People are using panya routes to dodge security officers and travel to areas where movement has been restricted,” he said. Katana said due to the nature of their work, boda boda riders can easily spread the virus. "Mombasa has recorded a significant number of Covid-19 cases. The area is on red alert, so ferrying people to the county and back is suicidal. The rider and his passenger cannot maintain social distancing. We have riders who even carry more than one passenger. If such riders get the virus then our grandparents in the rural areas will surely get it because this is the type of transport they use." He said he has lodged complaints with the subcounty police commanders in Kaloleni and Rabai and the deputy county commissioners. The lawmaker urged the riders to heed government directives to curb the spread of the virus. “If one is arrested, he should be taken into forced quarantine at his own expense. This virus has no legs, it relies on ignorant people to move. Let's not risk our lives on the excuse that we want to put food on the table,” he added. On Monday, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi said most riders do not wear face masks despite being issued with the protective item. "Last week, I loaded my vehicle with face masks and drove to Mtwapa distributing the masks to every boda boda I saw on the way. I decided to come back to Kilifi after getting to Mtwapa. I did not see any boda boda wearing a mask, yet I had given them in less than one hour,” the county chief said.