Community leaders in Nyandarua have urged the government to ensure there is enough clean water and storage containers to support the fight against Covid–19. They said the village committees are doing their best to create awareness and sensitise the people on the need to strictly follow the government directives but added that the war can only be sustained if the basic necessities, including soap and water, are made available. "In my village, water is a big problem. As I receive this tank, I know it will be useless in a village without water. My request is when you give me a tank and ensure there is enough water supply too," said Mzee Michael Epua from Bahati village in Mukindu, Ol Kalou. Epua spoke on Tuesday at the county commissioner’s office, where he joined other leaders from colonial villages and slums. Twenty villages in Ol Kalou, Ol Joro Orok and Ndaragwa received 20 tanks — one each. The 6,000-litre tanks were donated to the county by the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation to boost the war on Covid–19. Josphat Muna from Rurii village pleaded with the government to supply jerrycans to the elderly who may not be in a position to get water from areas where the tanks will be stationed. For his part, county commissioner Boaz Cherutich appealed for more tanks for informal settlements in Kipipiri and Kinangop. There are 36 colonial villages in Nyandarua, hence 16 did not benefit. Cherutich said Athi Water Services has assigned a contractor to build concrete bases for the tanks and urged the beneficiaries to make good use of them. Carol Gatwiri from the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation expressed the ministry’s commitment to continue collaborating with Nyandarua. She said they will consider donating more tanks as requested. The county Health Services executive, Dr Njenga Mungai, thanked the ministry for supplementing Nyandarua's efforts to supply water to residents. He said the county has supplied 200 tanks and will be distributing 167 others to towns and villages. Mungai added that the county administration has purchased protective gear worth more than Sh3.1 million for medics. The equipment was part of a Sh14 million consignment of medical and pharmaceutical supplies delivered to the county by the Kenya Medical Suppliers Authority on Wednesday morning. It included surgical masks, gowns and gloves and pharmaceutical products. Mungai said more protective equipment will be delivered soon to bridge the gap in supply. He appealed to medics to serve wholeheartedly. (Edited by F'Orieny)