As the return of Kenyan Premier League action remains uncertain owing to the coronavirus pandemic, players whose contracts were to end this season, fear for the worst—losing jobs. The 2019-2020 season was supposed to end next month before hell broke loose early last month when the government announced the suspension of all sporting activities after the first case was reported in the country. Subsequently, the Football Kenya Federation had to cancel all local competitions as a precaution measure to the pandemic which has grounded all sporting activities globally. Last weekend, KPL's Chief Executive Officer, Jack Oguda insisted that the league will remain suspended until the coronavirus dust settles. Players, who are in the tail end of their contracts, fear that should status quo remain, they will be forced to look beyond football to survive for the time the league remains suspended. Among the players are KCB skipper and Harambee Stars centre half Michael Kibwage whose two-year-long contract with the bankers is set to expire in June. The youthful defender revealed that the club had shown intentions of retaining him at the start of the season but negotiations were halted to allow him to concentrate on leading the club to attain their targets. He fears that the break may stretch for months hence rendering him club-less by June — move which will turn off his financial taps. "My contract with KCB is nearing its sunset days and I am worried that I may be out of employment in the near future. It's tough for the club to reignite negotiations at the moment as the focus is on safety. They were keen to renew my terms at the start of the season but we agreed to rekindle talks in May," he said The former AFC Leopards player said pressure was mounting from his end as he had not received offers from other clubs—both locally and beyond borders " No club has expressed the desire to secure my services so far. This has increased my fears considering that I will be running out of contract soon. Despite KCB paying us our March salaries on time, I am worried of the situation but at the same time, I hope the dust will settle soon and the club will retain me or I will get an offer elsewhere," said the Mukumu Boys' High School alumnus Similarly, Bandari's wing wizard Darius Msagha is another player who is fretting over his four-year-long contract with the club which also expires in June. The former Mwatate All Stars man said he had approached Bandari honchos to share his piece of mind without instant success. "I approached the club CEO in a bid to have my terms extended. He told me the board will review my case once the pandemic is over. What if it stretches past June? I am worried as I will be out employment. I hope they will look into the matter before the contract ends," he said. The left-footed player will, however, pick hope from a Nairobi-based club who according to him are eyeing his signature. " Before the break, I had received offers from a certain club in Nairobi. They had been trailing me for some time and should they table a better package, I may put pen on paper," he said. Gor Mahia winger and Tanzania national Dickson Ambundo is also in the final months of his one-year contract with the club. " My terms are set to expire in July but I believe by then, the league will have resumed. If we will be on a break then, I'll be in trouble but I hope for the best," said the player from Tanzania The former Alliance FC winger is, however, being trailed by a handful of clubs who ply their trade in the Tanzanian league following his impressive performance with Gor. " I have received offers from a number of big clubs here in Tanzania. If my contract with Gor ends while we on the break, then I will be left with no choice other than to sign here," he added. Another player who is set to be out of contract at the end of next month is AFC Leopards striker Elvis Rupia who was poached from Wazito. Rupia is understood to have penned a short term contract with Ingwe which ends next month. The former Nzoia Sugar hitman together with all Leopards players, whose contracts are almost ending will, however, have something to smile about as the club confirmed that they will continue to receive their salaries even when their terms elapse while the league is still on break. "Our players have sacrificed a lot for the club and it is our turn to be there for them. Those with their contracts running out at the end of the season will be retained in our payroll until the league resumes and get playing time elsewhere or we negotiate for renewals. They have served the club well when we did not have money or coronavirus and I don't see the reason why we should effect pay cuts or even release the free agents while there is no league running currently worldwide," said the club chairman Dan Shikanda 