ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to come up with a national framework for economic recovery. Mudavadi said Uhuru should bring experts on board to advise how the country could minimise the impact of the pandemic on the economy and restore growth. He said the Kenyan economy would be battered immensely should the country go into total lockdown. “We are in a periodical shutdown. Let us heed the government directives. A total 24-hour lockdown will severely hurt Kenyans,” he pointed out. Mudavadi said Kenyans would struggle to put a simple meal on the table in case of total lockdown. Uhuru has since announced that the government has identified needy households in Nairobi to receive weekly Covid-19 support stipend. He also announced that the national government is supporting counties with Sh5 billion to cushion the most vulnerable people. The President said he is in talks with various large economies to suspend the country’s debts and has urged MPs to pass the reduction in taxes that he proposed when the crisis started. Key among these proposals is PAYE reduction to 25 per cent and the cutting of corporate tax to 25 per cent. Speaking during an interview with a local FM station, Hot 96, Mudavadi urged leaders across the political divide to put aside their differences and support the President in fighting the pandemic. “This is not the time to score on politics. It is time to mediate and be in the frontline in fighting this pandemic,” Mudavadi appealed. He said it would take time for the country’s hospitality industry to recover after the pandemic. “The high debts need to be looked at again. Our experts at Treasury need to look at the numbers and prepare to reschedule debts,” the ANC leader added. Mudavadi urged the government to focus primarily on healthcare and ignore the sideshows being propagated by political leaders who want to drag the country on matters that are of less concern at the moment. He dismissed calls for a referendum, saying the agenda for the country should not deviate from what other countries are doing globally to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. “This is a wake-up call for Africa. Let us appreciate our health workers. We need to reflect on our misplaced priorities and invest more in healthcare,” he added. Mudavadi said any other agenda apart from fighting the disease and restoring the economy would indicate that the country is not serious about the pandemic. “If we talk about the referendum and the BBI, we are missing the point. Internationally there is a pandemic. We should focus on healthcare,” he said. The ANC leader advised that the country, going forward, should conduct mass testing of the disease. “The Ministry of Health needs to increase their daily testing to curb this coronavirus pandemic,” he added. He said Kenyans who are found out drinking and partying at this time are just being “stupid”. “It is reckless to see our leaders going against the regulations of the Ministry of Health to combat the pandemic. The whole of Africa has only 20,000 ICU beds. It is better to fight coronavirus by following the laws rather than wait for a crisis and try to control it,” Mudavadi advised. Edited by A.N