Security agents are failing to enforce the Ministry of Health guidelines to contain the spread of coronavirus, Mandera Governor Ali Roba has said. Roba said buses to Mandera still pick passengers outside Nairobi, Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale despite a presidential directive banning travel from the regions. He said a bus from Nairobi was recently intercepted in Mandera with 61 passengers against the maximum 25 passengers recommended to maintain social distancing. “When we quarantined the passengers, due to poor enforcement support more than 30 were released from quarantine by security officers. So we are dealing with indiscipline cases among the public and our officers,” the governor said. He urged security teams to enforce the rules firmly and with a zeal for success in combating the virus. Roba said that a lack of capacity, preparedness and poor enforcement by the security partners will lead to extreme exposure to the coronavirus. The governor spoke to journalists in Mandera town on Wednesday when he said tracing of contacts requires collective efforts.  Voluntary actions by possible contacts and their families will save them and many other lives, he said. The county chief urged the public to take the outbreak seriously and understand that coronavirus is here. “If we do not heed the advice of experts, we are likely to suffer a catastrophic impact,” Roba said. During a media briefing on Tuesday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said the tests on the 30 people in quarantine in Mandera returned with four new positive cases. Mandera now has six patients suffering from Covid-19. The governor said the county has set aside 78 beds for quarantine but that there was an acute shortage of sample collection kits. “We have to prepare for the worst. We have 78 beds in total ready for use as of today. At Mandera Accident and Emergency Centre, we have 43 beds ready which comprises seven ICU beds, two HDU beds and 34 general beds,” Roba said. The Elwak Accident and Emergency Centre has 35 beds ready for Covid-19 response.  Four are ICU beds, two are HDU beds and 29 general beds. “This is the initial set up as we prepare to have response capacities ready in all the subcounty hospitals.” Roba asked for more supplies from the Ministry of Health to help contain the spread of the virus. He said the county had started food distribution to the vulnerable persons in society but asked the government to help with more foodstuffs. (edited by o. owino)