The Murang’a county government has advertised 13 positions of specialised health workers for the intensive care unit under construction. The county is looking for one radiologist, 10 ICU nurses and two pharmacists and has urged qualified persons to apply. According to the advert, women, minorities and people living with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The county government is in the process of establishing the ICU unit that will have 35 beds at Murang’a Level 5 Hospital. Amid criticism, Governor Mwangi wa Iria has insisted that the facility he started building over a week ago will be completed in 21 days. The governor has said his administration is also sourcing for ICU machines as the building is constructed and that the unit will be operational in a month’s time. By the end this week, he said, the building will be roofed and windows and doors installed. Meanwhile, a warning has been sounded to residents who do not wear masks in public places that they will be arrested and fined. On Friday, 39 people were arrested and fined Sh500, county chief officer for health James Gitau said. “Some people have also been walking around with masks that do not cover their mouth and nose. They should know that they will also be arrested,” he said. The county government has issued more than 100,000 free face masks made by the local polytechnics. The county government affirmed the masks met the required standards to protect residents from the coronavirus. Another 200,000 will be produced by the end of this month. Gitau asked residents to observe social distancing, saying those who fail will be arrested. Last week, 54 people were sent to mandatory quarantine after they were found travelling in a lorry and a pick-up truck. They were travelling from Kahuro subcounty to a farm in Maragua ridge when they were intercepted at Mbombo along the Murang’a-Kenol road. “We are asking Murang’a people to ensure they adhere to the guidelines issued by the government to protect themselves or suffer the consequences,” Gitau told the Star. Edited by Henry Makori