A group of Homa Bay women leaders want women to participate actively in the ongoing debate on constitutional amendments to enhance economic prosperity. Former Karachuonyo MP Phoebe Asiyo and Nereah Amondi (nominated MCA), Patricia Ouma (former nominated MCA) and Ruth Ojuka (ODM women league leader) on Friday said women should not sick back and watch as men take the lead role. They said all members of society must rise and where possible propose changes with would spur socioeconomic growth. Asiyo argued that the expected draft constitution will not enable economic prosperity in this country should it exclude the interests of women. The leaders spoke on the sidelines of a women leadership forum organised by Amondi with the support of the Canada Fund for Local Initiatives at Mango Trees Co-operative offices in Mawego, Karachuonyo constituency. "Let women know that they cannot achieve their desired economic prosperity if they don’t pursue it. It’s until they come out that their interest would be catered for in the Constitution," Asiyo said. She told women that the only way to incorporate their proposals is reading and understanding the BBI report. “I urge women to read the BBI report, understand it and give recommendations for amendment on where there are loopholes, which will hinder our economic, political and social wellbeing in the expected constitution,” the former MP added. Amondi, who won the Ms President reality show, said the time had come for women to be granted an opportunity to be on the decision-making table. "There would be no proper economic development in any society if women are left out of the decision-making table.  The best way of achieving this is proper participation in the amendment of the BBI report,” she said. Amondi has started an initiative to educate women on how their interests can be captured in the ongoing constitutional reforms. Ouma and Ojuka appealed to women to present themselves for elective seats. “Women should be given an enabling atmosphere through the Constitution to enable them to ascend to elective posts,” Ouma said. Ojuka said they are working on ways through which parties will hand women tickets. “Let women not fear participating in ODM nominations because it will be transparent,” she said. The two-day forum brought together women from the eight constituencies in Homa Bay.