Justice delayed is justice denied, but for Kenyans seeking to resolve land cases in court, there is no option. Land cases are highly emotive across the world and have turned blood against each other. Last year, a 33-year-old man was charged with killing his aunt and her son over some land in Siaya. According to court documents, last year on October 8, Emmanuel Otieno Pamba attacked the two who had invited him over to share a portion of land from his father despite opposition from his uncle. He was raised by his grandmother after his father neglected him allegedly because he was a violent drug addict. After the incident, the villagers torched his home where he stayed with his two wives and four children. He denied the charges but was denied bond after witnesses expressed fears he would harm them 'as he threatened them and warned them to desist from assisting the family of the deceased in her quest to reclaim the disputed land'. In another case, a man in Embu stabbed his sister-in-law to death following a land dispute and then hanged himself. Witnesses narrated how Charles Njeru, 37, picked a quarrel with the woman claiming to be the owner of family land where she resided with her children, telling her to vacate. The widow, Roselyne Kagendo, 50, insisted that she had inherited the land from her husband and vowed not to leave. Njeru attacked Kagendo stabbing her several times with a kitchen knife in the chest before he took off and hanged himself. Despite the emotional flares caused by the topic, Kenyans seeking legal solutions to their land disputes will have to wait for at least a year for the resolution process to begin. Land and Environment courts are fully booked until March 2021, Chief Justice David Maraga announced last week while calling for urgent measures to fund the Judiciary’s bid to employ more judges and magistrates. Speaking when he delivered his State of the Judiciary and Administration of Justice Report (2018-19), the CJ said 17,833 cases are pending amid an acute staffing gap. “The sad bit of it is that the judges in Nairobi are not able to give a date for hearing of any case this year. I am told they have pushed them until next year between March and April,” he said. Maraga has expressed his frustrations from the Executive, which he blamed for underfunding and "failing to treat him with the dignity and respect he deserves". “We have a huge backlog of cases which continue to pile up because of lack of funds to even move judges around,” he said, “Some judges are not able to get fuel for their cars and we are having to ask them to get money from their pockets so that we can refund them.” But in the never-ending war, President Uhuru Kenyatta affirmed that the Judiciary will have to make use of what they are given. Uhuru said in response to the CJ said the Judiciary had starved the country of any sources of funds by regularly declining to allow measures the state was placing to increase the funds. "I appreciate what the CJ is saying, yes you need more money, but your courts are the same ones that give injunctions when we propose certain tax measures, so, where will the money come from?" Uhuru asked. According to data by the National Governance, Justice, Law and Order sector, things do not look good for the people, and with the budget cuts, it can only get worse. Despite the Judiciary announcing progress in managing this backlog, Maraga said the budget cuts are a stumbling block in the journey. In 2017, some 315,902 cases were completed despite the Judiciary having targeted 360,000. Out of the 24 new magistrates' courts planned, only 12 were initiated and only four were completed by 2017. Fifty three were refurbished out of the planned 60. Currently, there are 39 counties with functional High Courts, falling short of four from the planned number by 2020. The dream to have a High Court in every county by 2022 may also remain in the pipe longer than planned. The Judiciary since 2017 has targeted clearing 10,000 more cases than the previous year. According to the report, inadequate funding due to budget cuts will continue to inhibit access to justice. Edited by R.Wamochie