 Former Kisii High School students will hold a funds drive on Friday to build classrooms to decongest overcrowded classes at the institution to improve learning. The old boys have so far raised Sh6 million to build a 12 classroom block to be named the Alumni Centre. The interim chairman of the alumni association Daniel Nyarunda on Tuesday said the Friday funds drive will be attended by prominent former students including governors. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, Chief Justice David Maraga, governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), James Ongwae (Kisii), Cornel Rasanga and John Nyagarama (Nyamira) are among the former students of the pioneer school. Transport CAS Chirs Obure, former minister Simeon Nyachae, former vice chancellors Douglas Odhiambo (Moi University), Ratemo Michieka (JKUAT), and Shellamiah Keya (Moi University) are also in the group of old boys. Nyarunda said their aim is to support the school's over-stretched learning facilities for quality of education. “The alumni complex is at the initial stage and comprises 12 modern classrooms that will house hundreds of boys who are currently studying in strained conditions. Our main goal is to improve the school’s performance by complementing the government’s efforts in ensuring that our boys get a good education,” Nyarunda said. He urged all former students to come ut and support the initiative. “Kisii High School has always been an icon of academic success and in conformity with our motto of striving for excellence, the alumni association is not just looking at the physical facilities but also very keen on developing leaders in our boys through our robust mentorship programmes,” Nyarunda said. He is the finance manager at Butali Sugar Company in Kakamega. Principal Maurice Ogutu hailed the old boys for opting to give back to the school that molded them. “Our school has 2,170 students and the numbers keep growing every year. This is a huge population by any standard and some of our facilities were put up over five decades ago. The 12 modern classrooms the old students have given us will significantly decongest the existing one and pave way for effective teaching and learning,” Ogutu said. “On behalf of the board of management, I call upon all former students of Kisii School to find time and visit the school to mentor the boys and even support the vulnerable ones with scholarships. This is the surest way of transforming our society,” the principal said. He said it is the alumni associations that link their former institutions to new partnership opportunities besides acting as a key motivating factor to the current students. “We are very excited about this project by the old students and look forward to a successful Founders’ Day on Friday January 24 when dozens of old students will come to the school to raise more funds for the new classrooms.” Kisii High School was founded in 1934 and remains one of the notable names in the country's academic circles. edited by p. obuya