Poor facilities, ageing infrastructure, high costs and mismanagement of universities are among the issues plaguing higher education and those who aspire to it. Speaking during a panel discussion on the quality of higher education at Daystar University, Universities Academic Staff Union chair Muga K'olale said public universities cannot execute their mandate as expected unless they are transformed. He added public universities are victims of corruption, mismanagement, ethnicity and maladministration which hinder the quality of education. "Public Universities are not supposed to be commercial concerns, instead they are supposed to do research, teach and render community services," he said. The chair added universities will not offer quality education unless the financing system of public universities is reviewed. "The government must play its role... higher education is on its knees because of underfunding," he said. K'olale said there is a concern because funding is being channelled to Technical and Vocational Education and Training centres.  "This is happening because we have allowed the political to overshadow the philosophical and professional," he said. UASU secretary-general Constantine Wasonga said lecturers are demotivated because they are working under unfavourable conditions.  Wasonga added the growth of universities is not matched by facilities and the number of lecturers. He also added the country cannot manage to have PhD-only lecturers because there are not enough.  Further, he said the government should not take government-sponsored students to private universities. "The founders of Daystar University knew where they were going to get students... lecture halls in public universities are empty because students are taken to private universities," he said. He added this was commercialising education and the poor will not be able to afford it.  Daystar University Vice Chancellor Prof Laban Ayiro called for values in the political system so that students can use education to get out of poverty. He said the country needs a plan to address the issue of quality education so that universities can produce people ready for the job market. "Some universities are lacking in infrastructure that some high schools seem to be better positioned to offer in terms of infrastructure. The national government must invest in higher education because we are preparing the human resources of this country," he said. Prof Mwenda Ntarangwi said despite Kenya having 74 universities that dealt with the issue of access, the universities are not matched by resources to enable them to grow and offer quality education.  ≈