 Schoolgirls in Meru were offering sex to get money for sanitary pads, a mentorship forum heard on Friday. The Girls Excel Initiative mentorship programme was launched at Kithangari Girls Secondary School in South Imenti with patron Jeniffer Riria saying they had bought sanitary towels to about 1,200 girls. “I am from this village. We have local women philanthropists who want girls to be independent to grow the economy. I was saddened to learn that some girls exchanged sex for money to buy sanitary pads so that they could remain in school,” Riria said. She said many girls had suffered ridicule for failure to buy pads forcing them to offer themselves for sex in exchange for sanitary towels. "This puts them at risk of contracting HIV/Aids and getting early pregnancies," she said. She encouraged the girls to work hard and study technical subjects including maths and technology. The mentors said girls in Meru have been chided for fear and refusing to take up sciences, information and technology, engineering and Maths (STEM) career courses. Riria, the Echo Network Africa CEO, said the market was ready for the female gender and urged the girls to take technical subjects for advantage. “Despite girls facing menstrual periods, bad attitude and early pregnancies, they can excel. They need a transformation that they can make it in maths, engineering and science fields,” Riria said. She said the mentorship and motivation to study maths started in July with two straight As scored in last year's KCSE exam. "I challenge young girls to look for solutions in maths, innovations and chemistry to trigger their thinking capacity. I was attacked and vigorously fought when starting the KWFT Bank,” Riria said. Kithangari principal Lucy Gitau said the Hesabu programme has boosted performance in Maths and Science subjects. Purity Ngina, a Biomathematics PhD holder said girls must aim at shuttering the glass ceiling because jobs were available. “Girls shouldn't take a back seat. It doesn’t matter where you are posted to work. Take the challenge and perform. The market is very ready for both gender,” Ngina said. Nita Gichure, an actuarial scientist and the head of Liberty Life, Bancainssurance and Affinity, said there are many untapped opportunities in Stem careers. She said the World Bank had released a report in 2018 indicating the success of the country lies in technology and science hence the need for students to study those subjects.  edited by peter obuya