Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has lately been talking tough. He has told county employees to deliver or be sacked. The former two-term Amagoro MP could be hinting at his intention to form a team to manage his administration to ensure he leaves a legacy when he hands over the governorship in 2022. Ojaamong is serving his last term as governor and has on diverse occasions indicated his wish is to step out of office, leaving a county where the majority of residents are content he left a better Busia. The county chief fired the first warnings on December 30 and 31 last year. He said people should expect changes in his administration. “I have started outlining my thoughts on where our public services need to be. I will be overseeing some changes at various levels to achieve the aspirations that will bear fruit over time. I'm doing due diligence reviews in our key service areas,” he said. “I have been listening to what the clergy, staff, stakeholders, the people and unions are telling us, and of course I have been talking to politicians too. This journey and the change required to get there will be tough, it also means that things will change for some, changes to where you work, who you work with and critically how we all work together.” He said he expects the changes to bring sanity to service delivery following frequent complaints that some county employees were not dispensing their responsibilities according to public expectations. “The delivery of services to the people of Busia county is paramount for them to improve and realise their dreams,” he said. Ojaamong shot another warning shot on Saturday when he presided over an event in which he flagged off the Elimu Scholarship Program at Nambale Magnet School. He told county workers, including members of his cabinet, to adhere to their duties and serve the public or face the sack. “All county staff should stick to their lanes starting Monday by ensuring citizens get better services. I employed qualified staff to man various departments. Those who fail to live up to their billing will be sent packing,” the county chief said. “It won’t be business as usual. All county staff should improve on service delivery or they should vacate their respective offices starting from CECs. I will be checking your stations unannounced.” He said he was tired of receiving complaints from residents over laxity by some staff. Busia has 10 chief executive committee members. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi is the Health chief executive but on an acting capacity. The 10 county departments have 16 chief officers In his New Year address on December 31, Ojaamong said his government in 2020 and beyond will focus on uplifting key sectors with a focus on health and water. He said money had been disbursed from the exchequer for service delivery and there was no point for Busia residents to continue protesting over poor services. “The New Year will see the completion of projects in the health sector including the accident, emergency and newborn units and renovation of Busia County Referral Hospital. Many other projects funded by the Kenya Devolution Support Program in health, agriculture, water and roads will also be completed in the course of the year.” 