Along Iyeni River in Kasioni village, Machakos county, people gather every day to harvest white stones. The process, while backbreaking, is necessary if they hope to secure a meal for the day. It is an activity many of the weather-scarred men and women would wish to abandon but harsh economic times will not allow them. Residents have made the bed of the seasonal river a source of income, despite not getting much. They report to the site at 8am each day armed with a club hammer and wheelbarrow. Patrick Kyalo says the business is at its peak during the dry spell, when water levels subside or dry out altogether “When the river is swollen, it is dangerous to venture into it since one can be swept away," he says The crushed stones are sold to construction companies or individuals for exterior home decoration. Farmers have also recently been frequenting the place to buy the crushed gravel for use as chicken pellets mixed with the conventional feeds. The residents say the job requires patience and hard work. For instance, one is never sure of making a sale as clients are few and far between. And when a client does come along the takeaway is never enough as they work in groups. With a wheelbarrow-load going for Sh100, Kyalo says, the profit to be shared out is Sh70 as loaders are paid Sh30 per wheelbarrow. "This leaves us with no option but to source for other income-generating activities to supplement the little we get," he says. “I usually do spray painting in town as my main business because I find it hard to provide for myself and my family." Winfred Mutuku says the work is gruelling with little to show for it. She is, however, grateful as it has enabled her to provide for her family and pay children's school fees. Mutuku urges the government to help those working in the sector to secure sustainable employment. “It is usually a struggle for us having to feed and educate our children from an undertaking that doesn’t assure you of any income at the end of the day," she says. On a good day, she says, one can fetch Sh300, which is barely enough to make ends meet. Edited by R.Wamochie