Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has said that President Uhuru Kenyatta will go home in 2022 when his second and final term comes to an end. Kuria said that the President is a 'gentleman' and will vacate office in two years time. "Our President is a gentleman and he is going home.. take it from the authority of his area MP and let the debate end there," Kuria said. Kuria spoke on Tuesday during the burial of Martha Kirigo, the mother of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and the late Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua. The Gatundu South legislature asked the mourners to ignore former Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe who recently claimed that Uhuru would remain in power after 2022 but in a different capacity. Kuria said the President can speak for himself and that he cannot use 'drunkards' to pass on his message to the public. He referred to Murathe as a 'drunkard' who they used to take alcohol together until this year when he stopped the habit of drinking. "Mimi nimewacha pombe mwaka huu lakini hiyo miaka mingine tulikua tunakunywa na Murathe.  (I have stopped drinking...In the past we used to drink with Murathe). Murathe is just a drunkard, I can assure you," Kuria said. Deputy President William Ruto who was present echoed Kuria's remarks saying the President respects the Constitution and would peacefully retire after his two terms in office. “It is brokers and political merchants who are peddling that rumour across the country,” he noted. “We are progressives. President Kenyatta has a rich legacy that cannot be stained by the push for constitutional changes.” Ruto said. He went on: “And for the avoidance of doubt, as a party, our party leader Uhuru Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party membership and the entire fraternity of Jubilee has no scheme or plan to change the Constitution so that we can take Kenya to the dark days where leadership stuck in a corner.” As the Jubilee deputy party leader, Ruto insisted that the President was not interested in extending his term in office by changing the Constitution to perpetuate personal interests. “We, therefore, ask those political cons to keep off Jubilee affairs. They should instead direct their energies to sort out their party problems.”