Kenya Sevens will embark  on a four-day residential training camp in Nakuru ahead of the Hamilton and Sydney Sevens tournaments at the end of the month. Shujaa, who resumed training  last week following the New year festivities, have opted to train in the Rift Valley due to similar climatic conditions expected down under in the next three weeks. The team will train at the Nakuru Athletic Club. Speaking yesterday, team manager Eric Ogweno said a change of training environment was a welcome idea for everyone. “ We want to get to a different environment than what we are used to and it will be a good training period for the team. The team will train from Monday to Thursday next week before departing to Australasia on Saturday. Ogweno said competitions for place in the 12-man squad  is intense and very competitive. "We have a full squad to choose from and the training has been going on well . Every player has put their best foot forward and  we hope to identify  the travelling party for the next two legs," added Ogweno. Ogweno said the International Rugby Players Association have petitioned World Rugby to go back to the old format of the World Seven Series after a hue and cry from coaches and fans over the new format. Ogweno said it is unfortunate only one team from the pool stage will qualify for the final in Hamilton and Sydney unlike the previous format where we had top two team sailing to quarters. "It's very unfortunate and tough to travel for 20 hours and only play three matches over two days. I know discussions are going on between the World Rugby and the international Rugby Players Association and we hope a solution will be found," added Ogweno. Sources have hinted that World Rugby are contemplating reverting to the old  format during the Vancouver and Las Vegas in March. Shujaa face South Africa, England and Japan at the Hamilton Sevens Squad: Andrew Amonde (KCB, captain), Jacob Ojee (KCB, vice captain),  Jeffrey Oluoch (Homeboyz,Vice Captain), Alvin Otieno(Homeboyz), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Vincent Onyala (KCB),  Johnstone Olindi (KCB), William Ambaka (Quins), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Daniel Taabu (Mwamba), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Herman Humwa(Quins), Mike Okello(Mwamba), Tony Omondi( Mwamba), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Daniel Sikuta (Kabras) and  Geoffrey Okwach (KCB)\