Now that the Kerio Valley is peaceful, 14 governors in the Rift Valley want the government to flush out bandits still operating in the Suguta and Baringo valleys. They want major security operations in the valleys where bandits still operate. The county chiefs said the return of peace to Kerio Valley was a major achievement in dealing with bandits but some attackers were still operating elsewhere. “We now need to shift focus to Suguta and Baringo valleys and flush out criminals so the entire region is peaceful," Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said. He spoke at a forum in Eldoret chaired by Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb). He was joined by Governors Stephen Sang of Nandi and Alex Tolgos Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet. Nanok said some bandits have made Suguta Valley their hideout after stealing livestock and killing police and other innocent people “We have lost many lives especially security officers because of those bandits operating in Suguta Valley. It's time we also deal with them once and for all so we can enjoy peace as in the Kerio Valley," Nanok said. Governors from the North Rift region resolved to intensify peace initiatives in the Kerio Valley to maintain harmony. They praised security agencies and communities in Kerio Valley for working hard to achieve peace where hundreds of lives have been lost to bandit attacks over the years. Mandago said counties have begun reviving stalled projects because of improved security. “As a region, we are all affected whenever we have insecurity in Kerio Valley. We're happy our people there are enjoying peace and security after many years of suffering," Mandago said. Turkana and West Pokot leaders plan to meet on Friday to review security measures along the two counties' borders. Nanok says security has improved in the past year and they want to enhance communal harmony. He said counties and other stakeholders will revive projects that had stalled due to bandit attacks along the common border. Mandago said many agriculture projects had stalled in Kerio Valley after farmers fled bandit attacks but now they have returned. “We are now witnessing robust agricultural activities and other development as a result of intensified security patrols,” Mandago said. “We shall meet national government officials, the people and elected leaders to discuss on how to sustain and improve security and ensure food security," Mandago said. (Edited by V. Graham)