I decided to pay Harry Kane a visit this week and I must say, it is very sad to see this talented footballer hobbling around on crutches. His manager Jose Mourinho said he knows little about Harry’s injury but I understand more now. Harry is likely to be out of the game for several months because his hamstring, apparently, has been almost ‘torn from the bone. Tottenham can do little about this because it is Harry’s decision how the injury is dealt with and he decided to have an operation but there was a delay while he considered all options. Tottenham badly need a back-up striker. The club does not have mega millions to spend, as proven by their signing this week of Gedson Fernandes from Portugese club Benfica. Thanks to Jose Mourinho and Fernandes sharing the same sports agent, Spurs were able to get him on loan at a bargain price. However, the 21-year-old is largely unproven at Premier League level. Rumours circulated that it was necessary to bring in Fernandes so that Christian Eriksen’s transfer to Inter Milan could take place much more quickly. In fact, Spurs tell me that Fernandes is more of a replacement for the injured Moussa Sissoko as both players operate from box to box and are quick and good passers. Fernandes always harboured an ambition to play in the Premier League and particularly in London because his parents moved here for a better life several years ago. Mourinho has said that he will play Fernandes as soon as possible and might even risk him against Watford.  United working on Rashford’s back injury I called Manchester United late on Wednesday evening to assess the injury picked up by Marcus Rashford in the FA Cup win over Wolves. I was told that his chances of playing in the away fixture to Liverpool on Sunday are 50/50. The physios are working on his back, which was jarred when he went down heavily from a tackle and landed awkwardly on his hip. Before every match Marcus has massage for a troublesome back problem which dates back to his growing pains when he was a teenager.  Ancelotti talks Everton tactics Carlo Ancelotti now knows the players he has at Everton and where he needs to make improvements. After his third win in five games, beating Brighton 1-0, he admitted that he has a lot of work to do to get the Toffees in contention at the top of the table. Discussing tactics, he admitted that playing out from the back at the moment is too dangerous because his current players are not equipped to handle teams who press forward, gain the ball and leave Everton exposed. It is his intention to eventually play a more possession-based style. There were strong stories circulating that the players are unhappy with Ancelotti using Jordan Pickford’s long ball delivery from goal kicks, getting the ball into the final section of the opponents half and giving Calvert-Lewin the chance of a header. The manager was quick to dispel the rumours and denied that no argument or criticism had taken place during a match or on the training field. He said: “I think you have to use the characteristics of your players. Upfront, we have a fantastic header of the ball in Calvert-Lewin, who is quick and strong. We also have Richarlison, who is a fantastic striker. The fact is that a quick counter attack is important to give our strikers the opportunity to show their best qualities. We would like to eventually play from the back.”  Klopp loves Spurs’ dressing room I was amused when Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said at our meeting after the game against Tottenham: “The stadium is something else. Thank you for whoever built it because the away dressing room is the best in the league. Other clubs, when they renovate or build stadiums, usually make the away dressing rooms much smaller than the home team so we do not feel quite so comfortable but Tottenham’s is exceptional.”  Sports Science is the name of the game The words on everyone’s lips this week are ‘sports scientists’ and to prove the point, we have to look at two teams. Sheffield United’s rise up through the Championship into the top tier has been remarkable. Manager Chris Wilder has done a superb job to make his team hard to beat and always a threat. With little money to spend, Sheffield sit sixth in the table so I went up to the north of England to find out what their secret is. Sports science plays a big part in their amazing lack of injuries this season. At present the team has no muscular injuries and that includes David McGoldrick. When he played for my team Ipswich, he spent long periods injured and his talent was much missed. The Blades are, I found out, the most heavily trained team in the league…they quite literally train to the limit and when you stand watching the players you can hear them breathing heavily during fitness programmes which left me exhausted! However, they are watched every minute by the club’s sports scientists. Sheffield players are the fittest and fastest in the league and their staying power is superb and proven by the fact that they have been scored against only once during the last ten minutes of any match this season. They have had only three muscle problems out of a total of 26 injuries with Burnley following on 29 and Wolves in third place on 33. Sports scientists monitor everything the players do physically and at Sheffield they have got their formula absolutely spot on…charts are produced, analysis and lectures are all important during training. Basically, they are physios with fitness coaching training. The story at Newcastle is completely different. Manager Steve Bruce told us this week: “We’ve got more sports scientists than I know what to do with. We are all about recovery and that what’s the game is, sports science.” And yet Newcastle have suffered nine muscle injuries in the last three games. In their recent FA Cup match, the team was without any recognised outfield players and against Wolves, Paul Dummett and Dwight Gayle went off during the first half hour and six minutes before half time, Joelinton went off with a groin strain. He had to play on for 40 minutes afterwards due to lack of substitutes because of their injury list. In Newcastle’s last two games, Miguel Almiron and Yoshinori Muto were injured in the first half and four others went off with muscular injuries. Sports science is not new but making it work is very much work in progress. Players’ fitness levels are vital to success at the top level and many of the leading clubs are putting money into research to try and get it right.  Hudson-Odoi and Reece James link up I visited Chelsea this week. I was interested to hear Frank Lampard say he has finally found who to play on his right side of the field. Callum Hudson-Odoi has regained his confidence after recovering from a ruptured Achilles tendon. He is interacting with Reece James very effectively because both came up through the academy ranks at Chelsea and know each other’s strengths. Against Burnley, they played very slickly, passing the ball between each other which enabled James to cross for Tammy Abraham to score. Lampard said: “Hopefully it’s just the start of the partnership as far as first-team goes. When Callum is being aggressive and Reece is behind him it is a big thing.”  Club transfer news sent to me this week… Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson says he has two main aims during the January transfer window. Signing Kyle Walker-Peters on loan from Spurs is his main target but he faces competition from Southampton. He also wants to retain the services of striker Michy Batshuayi, who is on loan from Chelsea, but the Blues tell me they want to cash in on the Belgian and value him at £45million, which is too expensive for Palace. Burnley manager Sean Dyche is upset at his lack of funds and has told his board that he has to replace injured striker Ashley Barnes. Chelsea are finally saying goodbye to Olivier Giroud, who has agreed terms with Inter Milan. The Blues have suffered a setback in their quest to sign Moussa Dembele as Lyon’s president has said he will not leave this January. Leicester manager Brendan Rogers is anxious to find back-up for his centre-back position where only 36 year-old Wes Morgan is available to stand in for main defenders Jonny Evans and Caglar Soyuncu. West Ham have been disappointed after being turned down by ex-Man Utd midfield/forward Marouane Fellaini, who has decided to continue enjoying Chinese food by staying at his present club, Shandong Luneng. Everton manager Ancelotti has ambitions to sign Real Madrid’s James Rodriguez and Juventus midfielder Adrien Rabiot. Both have played under Ancelotti at other clubs so he knows them well. However, the Toffees posted huge year on year financial losses and only interest free loans have saved their embarrassment and an FA fine. Liverpool were surrounded by rumours that they are interested in Barcelona’s Ouseman Dembele but I can tell you for sure that this was never going to happen. And in any case, Barca won’t sell him to any club in the near future because Luis Suarez has been ruled out with a bad knee injury and Dembele is needed by the Catalan giants.