The court has directed that Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria be released on a Sh50,000 cash bail. Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot  said Kuria set should be set free until the hearing of his application on Monday at 11am. Kuria was arrested on Friday morning for allegedly assaulting a woman at the Royal Media Services premises. The MP was taken to Kilimani police station where he was to spend the weekend awaiting to be arraigned in Court on Monday. Joyce Wanja said she was assaulted on December 8 last year at the RMS premises during a show she and the MP were invited to to discuss BBI. Speaking to Wanjiku TV, Wanja said the MP attacked her when she confronted him over his remarks during a fundraiser for orphans in Kiambu. "I told him he was talking about matters which were irrelevant to the event at hand and more so, inappropriate for children and faithful," she said. Wanja accused Kuria of abusing women in Kiambu during the event by allegedly commenting about their underwear. She said she hit back at the MP and her comments irked Kuria, making him rise up from his seat and slapped her on her left arm. She said she fell to the ground and had to be helped get up by people around. Wanja said she recorded a statement on December 10 last year, as did four witnesses. Kuria while at the cells said he is ready to pay the price for others to get freedom. The MP said it was unfair for police to arrest him over a matter he claims to be a complainant over. Kuria, through Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, said his adamant stand on the BBI is what has put him in trouble, but he will not be intimidated. He said because he has chosen to be part of the William Ruto camp, some elements within the government have resorted to frustrating him. Kuria said he does not understand why police chose to arrest him, yet last year he made a formal complaint at the Kilimani station over the assault claims. The MP was arrested on Friday morning for allegedly assaulting a woman during a TV show at the Royal Media Services premises. He was on his way to attend a burial in Nakuru and later launch programmes to educate Mt Kenya residents on the BBI.