Wajir County headed by Governor Mohamed Abdi has unleashed its development track record in a robust response to county Senator Abdulahi Ali whom it accused of orchestrating propaganda campaign. In a statement to newsrooms, the county also announced that it has settled over Sh2 billion in eligible pending bills to suppliers and contractors and would now aggressively roll out more development projects. “The unsubstantiated and far-fetched remarks made by the Senator created unnecessary tension and hatred within the peace-loving residents of Wajir and was least expected of a leader from his caliber,” County Director of Press and Communications Ahmed Hussein said. He went on: “We appeal to the county leaders and residents to desist from propaganda and hearsay that will remain an impediment to our progress.” Senator Ali had launched a scathing attack on the county, accusing it of graft and having no tangible flagship projects. “The economy of the County is on its knees and the pocket of the common mwananchi has dried up. Suppliers are not paid and are closing down the business due to huge liabilities with pending bills hitting a record high,” the Senator alleged. But Hussein said the County’s development track record is clear for all and emphasized that accountability and prudent use of public resources is central to Governor Abdi’s administration. “We were rated among the best in diagnostic precision and the regional laboratory three-star rating requires no telling,” the county proudly announced. “The performance of our renal unit, sub-county theatres and over 120 health facilities spread all over the county are the realities that naysayers need to contend with.” The Press and Communication Director said the governor has increased roads under bitumen standards by 7km and graveled close to 150km in the last two years. To sort out perennial water shortage, the county says, it has constructed seven mega and middle-sized pans in two years It has drilled and equipped 52 boreholes and constructed 77 underground water tanks. Hussein said ward-based projects have reached all corners of the county. “We have put up 105 ECDE classrooms, constructed and equipped GBV centres at Wajir County Referral Hospital, disbursed Sh82 million bursary and scholarship to needy students, constructed six classrooms and a dormitory at Wajir ECDE College,” the County said, counting several other development projects. In the statement, Hussein said even delays in county staff salary are now a thing of the past despite delays of funds release from Treasury. Senator Ali had also claimed that the County could not account for Sh150 million allocated for an emergency fund as residents were ravaged by drought and killed by flash floods. However, the county says no fatalities, either human or livestock was witnessed in recent times because of the fund. “The emergency fund, just like any other public fund has been subjected to audit and over sighting by the relevant authorities and no queries were raised,” the County said.