The National Police Service has transferred 61 senior officers. The changes were announced in a circular dispatched by Deputy Inspector General Edward Mbugua on January 14. More than 100 subcounties were affected by the changes. Those affected are 33 Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), two Senior Superintendent of Police Warrant (SSP/W), two Superintendent of Police Warrant (SP/W), 15 Superintendent of Police (SP), seven Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) and two Assistant Superintendent of Police Warrant (ASP/W). The subcounty police commanders were either promoted or moved to other subcounties. “The Deputy Inspector General of the Kenya Police Service has approved the deployment of the following officers with immediate effect,” Mbugua said in a circular seen by the Star. The communication was addressed to all regional police commanders in Western, Rift Valley, Nyanza, Coast, Nairobi, Eastern, and Northeastern. The deputy IG also addressed the circular to the Director Internal Affairs Unit, Director Directorate of Community Policing and Commandant Kenya Railways and Ports Police Units. In the latest changes, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai appointed the former head of the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit (ATPU) Gideon Munga as his principal assistant. Munga worked with the IG at ATPU before his promotion in 2019. Julius Kanampiu, former principal assistant in IG’s office was moved to Kenya Police Service headquarters. Other affected officers include Joseph Kisombe formerly Narok North subcounty police commander, who has been promoted to Machakos as area deputy county commander, Mwea West subcounty police commander Stephen Weda was moved to Bomet as deputy county police commander, and their Mumias West counterpart Peter Katam is now the Kakamega deputy county police commander. Michael Dianga was moved from the National Police Service Headquarters Internal Affairs Unit to Mandera Central subcounty as the subcounty police commander while Kennedy Samani was moved from the police headquarters Complaints Directorate to Habaswein subcounty in Garissa county as police commander.  