 The Njuri Ncheke has called for an urgent meeting of elders from Meru and Tharaka Nithi to end the border dispute between the two counties. Speaking at the Nchiru shrine on Saturday, the elders asked Meru county commissioner Allan Machari and his Tharaka Nithi counterpart Beverly Opwora to convene the meeting. Njuri Ncheke chairman Linus Kathera said the border wrangles have created tension as some pupils cannot attend Gacibine Primary School in Tigania East after Tharaka residents protested against ongoing construction of a chief's camp. Kathera accused the administrators of turning a deaf ear to the plea of residents even after the border wrangles escalated. “We are a people of one mother. Why do we have frequent wrangles over the border which the elders are familiar with. We ask the two county commissioners to invite Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders so that we sit, deliberate and resolve once and for all the issue of the border,” Kathera said. He asked politicians to stop fueling the conflict through inciteful remarks. “They know little. They are elected for five years and another politician emerges. Why should politicians incite residents to reject a chief’s camp? Without involving elders, the government will endlessly and wastefully use resources without a meaningful resolution," he said. He added, “Why did county commissioners remain silent without implementing the Ogongo commission that had highlighted the borders? People should coexist in peace and allow development to take place. Whether you are in Meru or Tharaka Nithi doesn’t matter as long as you have your land, be satisfied. No one should separate Ameru from Thuci to Ntonyiri.” Speaking at the chief camp last week, Tigania East CDF manager Lawrence Mutwiri said the Sh850,000 office construction project must proceed because the site lies in Tigania East, Meru. He said the area was kilometres away from the contested border. Tigania Central deputy county commissioner Obedi Mose, however, told the Star he had stopped the construction until leaders and residents air their views during a meeting on January 31. Resident have termed the move illogical. Patrick Kiriinya said they pay taxes to the Tharaka Nithi county government. He accused Tharaka residents of hindering the development of the area. "We used to pay cess to the Meru county government but this stopped after the Meru revenue staff were stoned. Our patience should not be misinterpreted as cowardice," Kiriinya said. There have been skirmishes for decades in which several people have died and others seriously injured in border disputes. In 2007, Agriculture CS Peter Munya’s car was torched near Thangatha Primary School. In September 2018,  two cars were burnt down at Kathangachwe over a land dispute. In April last year, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his Tharaka Nithi counterpart Muthomi Njuki agreed to facilitate the fast-tracking of the issuance of title deeds in the area.  edited by peter obuya