One of my New Year’s goals is to try and be more active on Twitter. Honestly, Twitter really intimidates me. I don’t know why though. So I have started simple. I get on it at least once a day, follow a couple of people, retweet a few things, like others and generally just read tweets. I have noticed though that there is a lot of hatred for women on Kenyan Twitter. A woman just has to say something men disagree with and the men jump on her like wild jackals saying the vilest of things. Some of these people are even elected leaders! I keep wondering who your mothers are? Are they not women? Who hurt you this badly? Can we just disagree on something without my pubic hair and menstrual period being involved? Is your vocabulary that limited? You hate women so much I wonder who you are ducking, farm animals? It is most disturbing. No wonder abuse against women is on the rise. When people were more honest (I am tired of saying when we were younger), anyone who mentioned the name of God was someone to be treated with respect. Especially if he was talking about the God of Christians. It did not matter what foolish things he said, we condoned his intellectual disability because God apparently used anything, even donkeys and stones. Somewhere along the way, because everything evolves, certain men started using christianity as a net to fish women. I am sure you know them. Always dressed like drunk peacocks. Flashy everything. Then they churn out a host of overrated clichès. ‘A diamond is a rock that was under pressure!’ Do not get me started on their motivational speeches that make no sense at all if you can think. Honestly, though, I would have no problem at all with how they choose to dress or what they spew in the name of the gospel. When they start using God to get women in their beds (and sometimes men and small boys) or to fleece women, then I need to say something. Even if it is just duck you. People are many things but they are rarely stupid. I once went to one of these loud churches and the pastor stood asking for a ridiculous amount of money. Women flocked to ‘give’ to God. I thought to myself, what stupid women. Turns out they were not stupid, they were supporting their lover. I am sure the wolves in sheep’s clothing brigade are about to start throwing irrelevant Bible verses. The grace of God is sufficient is one such verse. Be that as it may, you are a member of society, and society expects your cooperation, God’s grace notwithstanding. Is this why many pastors get away with crimes? You cannot knowingly manipulate women and when someone figures it out, you suddenly remember God’s grace. You are a lazy conman is what you are. A hypocrite. A nymphomaniac. How I wish more people would shame you lot. Many people have been scared off by the famous phrase, “touch not my anointed”. If this is the quality of the anointed, imagine everything else? Including the one anointing. How many times has a pastor been found in bed with one of his “sheep”? Or the praise and worship leader found to be with child (and it was not an immaculate conception). There was even a pastor whose wedding was stopped by women who claimed he had promised to marry them. I tell you many of these so-called pastors are just playboys and those buildings are playboy mansions. It is ludicrous. Let us hold people accountable. How are they selling what they cannot even live by? As I said, people are seldom stupid. Hopeful, yes. You really want to use hope as a strategy that some bugger will tell you anything, and you will try it because he decided he is a man of God. Well, surprise, you are also a man/woman of God. Are people lazy? Oh, yes. We do not want to read and research for ourselves. So some cartoon in bright coloured clothing, a wireless microphone and bling will twist and turn whatever scripture he finds to accommodate his selfish goals. And the congregation will clap like seals and curse at whoever raises an eyebrow at their cartoon’s theatrics. Can we stop these wolves? Call them out. You are either a pastor or a conman. Pick a struggle. Viva! fellyoyuga@gmail.com