The government is alarmed that despite pouring in massive resources to alleviate poverty in ASAL regions, there's little to show for it. In fact, poverty is deepening. That's what PS  for Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL) Micah Powon said on Friday, adding the Treasury and donors see little value for money. He said despite the huge cash flow to ASALs, non-arid zones seem to be performing relatively better. Where is the benefit of resilience projects if every year drought and floods devastate these communities? he asked. "If we find the missing link between the huge resources committed to ASALs and the lack of commensurate impact, then we shall resolve this paradox in the 29 ASAL counties," the PS said. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics for 2019 said since 2013 Turkana county has received Sh62 billion from the Treasury. That's the second biggest allocation after Nairobi, which received Sh82 billion. In Turkana, he said, the poverty index was around 51.3 per cent 2010 but has risen to 79.4 per cent. Over the same period, poverty in Nairobi county fell from 24.2 per cent to 16.7 per cent. Powon was addressing a meeting of ASAL stakeholders, UN agencies and donors who met in Nakuru to approve the ASAL Partners Coordination Framework. It is being spearheaded by the government to reduce waste of resources, duplication and strengthen coordination among the national government, counties and donors. The Framework will be launched in March. He said the Framework umbrella will include the ASAL Stakeholders' Forum (ASF), the Pastoralists Parliamentary Group (PPG), ASAL Donors Forum, Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC) and Council of Governors Technical Committee on ASALS. The PS said the Framework will create a paradigm shift to build resilience and harness existing resources to benefit people. "My conscience is deeply pricked when we spend millions of shillings on chartered flights to the arid counties, in the name of solving their problems. Many times we fly back to Nairobi leaving destitute families in the grip of hunger and want. Certainly, there is something we are not doing right." While emphasising the importance of teamwork and accountability, Powon cited a saying by French philosopher Voltaire: "No snowflake in an avalanche ever feels responsible." He added in the African context, "No single ant ever claims credit for imposing the anthill." The meeting was attended by the coordinator of ASAL programs in the Devolution ministry Maria Cherono, World Food Programme coordinator James Kamunge, University of Nairobi consultant Prof Gituro Wainaina and Food and Agriculture Organization Programme officer Michael Gitonga. Cherono urged ASAL partners to "deliver as one" and to stick to the "20:80 rule", which denotes the use of fewer resources to get more inputs. Gitonga said FAO and the European Union are supporting the digitisation of Land records in eight ASAL counties to secure communal land for pastoralists. He said that to reduce conflict with host communities, FAO is supporting 33,000 refugees and the local community at Kalobeyi Refugee Camp in Turkana county, by constructing water dams for irrigation schemes. (Edited by V. Graham)