Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has said the decision to send off midfielder Nemanja Matic in Wednesday’s 1-0 League Cup victory over Manchester City at the Etihad Stadium was an “absolute joke” Matic, who scored the winner in the first half, was shown a yellow card for a foul on Riyad Mahrez before being given another 14 minutes from time for a foul on Ilkay Gundogan. “It’s hard to score with 11 here, never mind 10. Never a sending off. For me, an absolute joke,” Solskjaer told British media. “It’s ironic really that he gets a yellow with his first foul, almost gets a yellow with his second foul, which isn’t even a foul. The last one is a yellow, but a red overall? Nowhere near. Despite winning the second leg United crashed out after a 3-2 aggregate defeat. Solskjaer said his team did everything they could to overturn the 3-1 first-leg deficit. “They have given us absolutely everything these boys, I’m so incredibly proud,” he added. He was less impressed by the behaviour of some fans during the game and called for it to be stamped out. “Football is a game we should all enjoy, spectators and the ones playing,” he said. “We want rivalry but keep it at the same level. Let’s make sure we eradicate this now.” Elsewhere, Real Madrid thrashed a depleted Real Zaragoza side 4-0 on Wednesday to reach the Copa del Rey quarter-finals. The second division team made eight changes as they rested players for their clash with leaders Cadiz on Sunday and the 13-times European Cup winners took full advantage. Real moved ahead in the sixth minute when defender Raphael Varane finished from close range after a clever corner routine. Lucas Vazquez doubled Madrid’s advantage with a drive into the top corner after being set up by Toni Kroos. Japanese playmaker Shinji Kagawa caused problems for the illustrious visitors at La Romareda, with Alphonse Areola making a fine save to deny him. Vinicius Jr. struck after 72 minutes with Karim Benzema wrapping up the win from close range for Zinedine Zidane’s rampant side. Third-tier Cultural Leonesa nearly took another scalp after eliminating Atletico Madrid in the previous round, with Valencia needing a 4-2 penalty shootout victory to beat them following a 0-0 draw.