Human rights activists in Bungoma have petitioned the Judicial Service Commission to investigate a Kimilili-based magistrate over alleged conflict of interest. Citizens For Good Governance said in a letter to JSC president David Maraga that Israel Ruhu has violated Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Public Officer’s Ethics Act 2003. CFGG executive director Albert Simiyu Wamalwa said that Ruhu, as a state officer, should not perform duties that conflict with those of a magistrate. He claimed the state officer acted as an advocate of Swiss nationals and institutions contrary to the law. Astrid Kuhune, Alexandria Frick, Agnes Ellis and Miriam Pemhort are donors of a local school through Community Breakthrough Support Mission, a registered NGO. Ruhu denied the activists' claim insisting that he has only been giving legal advice. He told the Star in Bungoma town: “I haven’t appeared in court for anyone. I have only been giving legal professional advice for free. I am willing and ready to face JSC if called upon.’’ The foreigners accuse the school management of misappropriating funds meant for the needy. "We were forced to stop this noble cause that we started ten years ago late last year because the management failed to account for monies given,’’ Pemhort said. The donors demanded copies of the title deeds, saying their organisation has aright to them. CBSM runs several initiatives for the orphaned and vulnerable children in Kimilili. They include charitable children's homes, primary and secondary schools, and special school for children with disabilities. Last Tuesday, Ruhu and two of the donors visited the school and demanded to take over its management without notifying board members, the regional administration and the security officers. The community resisted. The magistrate purported to defend the foreigners but the public would hear none of it. School director Wilberforce Wasike said they no longer have anything to do with the foreigners whom he dismissed as well-wishers and not sponsors. "We were shocked when they asked us to hand over the school's documents. They stopped cooperation with us in September," Wasike said. He said that the foreigners had been sending monthly salaries and money for lunch, but they stopped doing son in September last year. "If they have anything, let them go to court. We refused to give them documents because they started their own CBO. We viewed them as competitors," he said Wasike said they had been forwarding audit reports to the foreigners and told them to go to court if they were not happy.