Harambee Stars midfielder Whyvonne Isuza will look to inspire his new club, Wazito to turn around their dismal run in the Kenya Premier League when he makes his debut this weekend. Since switching from former Kenyan champions AFC Leopards three weeks ago, Isuza has not been used in Wazito's matches, thanks to a transfer row between the two clubs. Leopards accused Wazito of player tapping but later softened their stance and allowed the player to ink a two-year long deal with the money bags. The former Mathare United player is keen to announce his arrival at Wazito with an impressive performance when they face Posta Rangers this weekend. Isuza, who was part of the Stars squad that clinched the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge, said  he is focused on assisting the team to ease their relegation fears rather individual glory. The midfielder penchant for goals reiterated his readiness to don the Wazito shirt this weekend to quench his thirst for playing time after sitting out for almost a month. "I am glad I was cleared to play for Wazito last week and I am looking forward to make my debut this weekend. I have been patient enough and hopefully, I will return to competitive play against Rangers. I am eyeing to assist the club to better their results rather than individual glory, " he said. Isuza, who was heavily linked with a move to the Zambian League, revealed that he chose Wazito ahead of the other suitors with an intention of reuniting with coach Stewart Hall. The two worked together when Hall tutored Leopards. " It was easier for me to make the decision. I worked with Hall at Leopards and he understands my style.  I was keen to reunite with him. The club also shared their vision with me during the negotiations which coincided with my personal targets," he said. In the meantime, Isuza is hopeful that the club will toast a silverware within the two years he will be attached to them. " I want to win a trophy in the two years I will be with them. It is the dream of each player to get a winners medal in his active years. The club has a plan to fight for trophies so are my teammates," he added.