Jubilee is dead. The clearest indication is that fact that while opposition parties such as ODM and Wiper Democratic Movement are meeting more often to strategies ahead of 2022, the ruling Jubilee has stagnated. The party has not had Parliamentary Group meetings in years now so is the National Executive Council -both chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. If all was well in Jubilee, why has the President declined to all calls by the MPs and other leaders to call for party meetings? It is unfortunate that such a big party that had a promising future is right on its deathbed. Jubilee party had achieved in bring together more communities but because those who should be providing leadership are too much into the handshake politics, jubilee party is where it is now. The handshake has brought about the divisions in Jubilee because, the opposition died and as a result, no one is conducting oversight on the government on why it is not delivering on its promises as a party that formed government. There are suppose to be elections in March but as of now, there are no signs of it taking place. No planning, no communication to the delegates and it is only a month away. These are the characteristics of a party disintegrating. Jubilee made a lot of promises to Kenyans more so to the youth but no efforts is being made to fulfill those promises. The Big4 Agenda has taken backstage in the wake of the handshake politics and the youth who are always the victims of election-related violence have been left out. When you look at the President Uhuru’s appointments, little chance is given to the youth and when it is done, it is only youth from a particular community who are considered. While the President empowers the youth through appointments, merit on academic qualifications, regional balance and influence on whom the youth are associated or can influence must be considered. Pick on people who have shown interest and capacity to lead not just picking on the basis of whom they know. In conclusion therefore, Deputy President William Ruto should form another party. This is because he cannot run on a party that he has no control over. If you do not have a stake in a party, you do not expect to make any major decision. The former Bomet Senate aspirant on Jubilee Party spoke to the Star .