Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to keep 2022 succession politics from the ongoing BBI meetings. Ruto who skipped the BBI meeting in Mombasa on Saturday was speaking in Cherangany, Trans Nzoia county during an interdenominational church meeting. The DP said leaders should prioritise the recommendations contained in the BBI report. "Let’s be sincere and focus on the BBI recommendations if we are to achieve our intentions of uniting the country. When the time for politics comes, it is Kenyans who will decide on their leaders,” Ruto said. Ruto said Kenyans should be given an opportunity to share their views in the ongoing BBI meetings instead of allowing the same leaders to speak in every meeting. “The ongoing meetings will lose meaning if leaders who talked during the Kisii and Kakamega rallies are the same ones to talking in all other meetings. Let’s give others the opportunity to address these meetings,” said said. He said leaders should be sincere and honest on the BBI issues if its intention of uniting the country has to be realised. The DP also asked Jubilee leaders to jealously guard their party against individuals who he said wants to wreck it to achieve their selfish interests ahead of 2022. “Jubilee leaders should know that ultimately the buck stops with our party if we fail to implement the promises we made to Kenyans. Let’s pay special attention to our development projects,” he said. He added that the ongoing debate on the BBI report should not stop the implementation of the Jubilee’s development projects. He also asked BBI taskforce under Garissa senator Yusuf Haji to make their programs public in order to make it open to all Kenyans. Leaders who accompanied the DP urged leaders from the opposition side to stop using BBI as an avenue to push their political agenda ahead of 2022. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said opposition leaders were working round the clock to stop the DP from ascending to the presidency in 2022. “We want to know if the BBI is about the unity of Kenyans or a vehicle to drive ODM leader Raila Odinga’s 2022 presidential bid,” Sudi said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Robert Pukose (Endebess), Trans Nzoia Woman Rep Janet Nangabo and other leaders present lauded the President for ordering civil servants to stop engaging in politics.