Contractors have handed over 228 housing units to the government for allocation to beneficiaries in the affordable housing scheme. Housing PS Charles Hinga on Thursday said allocation will be done once all the 1370 units in the first phase are complete. "The purchase allocation policy that will guide this process is complete and will be published on all media platforms," Hinga said. He was speaking at Park Road, the site of the project. The PS was his Public Works PS counterpart Gordon Kihalangwa and Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna. Hinga said the prices of houses will range from between Sh1 million and Sh5 million for a one, two or three bedroomed house. "In the past, you would never get a house for Sh1 million anywhere. You would get for over Sh10 million. The policies we have put in place are already delivering the housing," he said. Hinga said there are over 500,000 houses that are in different stages of development. He said contractors have been cleared to start building 98,00o units this quarter. A one-bedroom house that is 30 square meterS goes for Sh1 million, two bedroomed house of 40 square meters goes for Sh2 million and a three bedroomed house measuring 60 square meters goes for Sh5 million. Hinga announced the scrapping of VAT on building materials among new incentives for affordable housing. The government will also reduce custom tariffs for bulk affordable housing materials and remove stamp duty for first-time house owners. "If they do not comply, they will not get the tax benefit as it will be treated as normal houses," Hinga said. The housing project is expected to reduce the housing shortage, which has been growing at a rate of about 200,000 units a year. UN-Habitat estimates that the housing deficit in Kenya is currently two million. Hinga said the figures are correct given Kenya has only 25,000 mortgages against a population of 47 million. "It shows that there is a systemic problem," he said. The 1370 units are being built within Park road on a 7.9-acre land. Hinga said there were more projects in the pipeline. "These include Starehe and Shauri Moyo projects which will be breaking ground in the first quarter of this calendar year. They will bring about 8,000 housing units." He said the other projects were in Kibera Soweto Zone B, a social housing project for Kibera residents. It will also break ground in the first quarter of 2020 and will produce 4,400 housing units. Hinga said the National Housing Cooperation Stoni View in Athi River is currently selling its 456 completed units. When complete, the project will have 8,000 housing units. Hinga said there are various civil servants housing scheme projects at various stages of development. In Kisumu, there are 250, Machakos (152), Embu (164) and Kiambu (193) with a cumulative 759 units available for civil servants. The PS said all the projects, except for the ones in Kiambu, are complete. "We also have another 4,000 units set for ground-breaking under the civil servant housing scheme across various counties. The targeted counties include Uasin Gishu, Mombasa, Kisii, Garissa, Murang’a, Nyeri, Meru, Kakamega and Nakuru." The Mavoko Sustainable Housing Programme that caters for 450 housing units in near completion, the PS said. Habitat Height in Lukenya will also deliver another 8,888 housing units. “We have another 11 strategic partners who together will provide us with over 155,000 housing units across the Nairobi Metropolitan area and Mombasa. These projects will break ground during the course of this year, at the latest the third quarter of 2020," Hinga said. He said the government has two anchor projects in Athi River of which 100,000 units will be developed on 1,000 hectares by the UN Office for Project Services. He said the government has also availed another 2,000 hectares for the development of 140,000 housing units by potential developers under the Megacity approach. Through the approach, the state hopes to build 20,000 housing units in the Railways Master Plan. Additionally, the Eastlands Urban Renewal Master plan will develop over 168,000 housing units over a period of 20 years. Already, the government has signed MoUs with 28 counties who have committed to building 2,000 housing units per county. Kisumu and Homa Bay counties have committed to build 2,000 housing units each. BomaYangu The government has already launched the BomaYangu portal, a platform that allows citizens to start their journey towards homeownership. Those seeking to enroll must complete their profile by submitting their personal details and the type of house they are applying for. Upon registration, the details are verified with the relevant government stakeholders for authenticity. Applicants are then allocated a unique identification number which they will use to make their monthly contribution to the Housing Fund. The allocation of houses will be done using the ballot system. By yesterday, 281,126 people had registered under the BomaYangu portal.