The Seventh Day Adventist Church in Migori county has banned politics in church functions and funerals after chaos rocked a funeral in Nyatike sub-county on Friday. Pastor Bering Ngore of Ranen Conference, which covers Migori County, called on politicians who took part in the funeral of Mwalimu Yogo Onditi in North Kadem Ward to apologise to the church and family. “As a church we will never allow politics in funeral we take part in and won’t allow politicians to take part in our functions to avert further chaos, those involved should seek for forgiveness from the church and family members,” Ngore told the Star over the phone on Sunday. He said while the church recognise and respect leaders, it was unfortunate for them to turn a funeral where mourners came to pay their last respects, into a political showdown. “It is sad that because of the chaos mourners fled before the family eulogised the deceased and the church preached as pastors were forced to move away with the coffin,” Ngore said. On Friday, political tension between Nyatike MP Tom Odege and politicians allied to Migori Governor Okoth Obado spilled over at the funeral as youths and politicians engaged in fist fights. Tension has been building between Odege and Obado, and their supporters, after the two politicians fell out after the 2017 General Elections. Groups of youths took strategic places to constantly jeer down politicians who spoke, with trouble escalating when Odege took the microphone. “Who are these boys who have come to cause chaos here?” Odege posed. The legislator became angry when politician Saka Ratteng, who vied with him in the last polls, accused him of sending the boys to cause chaos in the funeral. “Saka, can you keep quiet or I will slap you till you pee… if you are a man enough move closer I will show you,” Odege said. In the ensuing melee, mourners and church members were forced to suspend the programme and flee with the coffin, leaving politicians to square it off. Governor Obado said the chaos was very unfortunate, insisting he will not be on the ballot in 2022. He said the chaos was barbaric and will not amount to any political mileage in 2022. “Voters have absolute powers in an electoral process and I beseech the good people of Nyatike to reject violent individuals at the polls. Suh characters deserve no votes and shouldn’t be elected at all,” said Obado. He said if any politician wants to cause chaos in a funeral “then they should kill their relatives or organise their own political rallies.” Mwalimu Ayogo was the principal at Moi Nyatike Secondary School and was eulogise  as a pioneer who promoted education in Nyatike.