Former Bandari head coach Bernard Mwalala is banking on his scorecard at the club to secure another coaching job after he was fired at the Mombasa-based side. Mwalala was relieved off his duties yesterday after a series of unwanted results but the youthful coach is counting on his success at the coast to land lucrative offers in the country and beyond. After dismissing Mwalala, the club turned back to former Harambee Stars coach Twahir Muhiddin to take over the reigns albeit on interim basis. Muhiddin has been serving the club as the technical director "Bandari FC Board of Trustees has asked the Head coach Mwalala to step aside due to the poor performance of the club recently. The board has instead appointed the current technical director,  Muhiddin as the caretaker coach with immediate effect,"read a statement from the club During his two-year stint with the dockers, Mwalala won the Shield Cup which saw the club return to the continental tournament after four years in the cold. They also finished as league runner up twice and won silver in the Super Cup. "I thank the management for considering me for the coaching job. I did everything possible to revive the club and I am exiting with my head high following the achievements for the years i have been around. I won the Shield title and came close in the race for the Kenya Premier League crown. We punched above our weights in CAF matches and I think this kind of achievement will get me another coaching job soon," he noted. Despite transforming the club into a force to reckon with in the Kenyan football, he regretted that his plan to win the league this season did not work out. Bandari had warmed up for the season in South Africa and made top drawer signings but fortunes have not been on their side as they find themselves perched eleventh after 18 rounds " We were primed as candidates to win the league this season but we did not start well. Going by the tribulations of a good number of teams which ply their trade in the league, we were better placed to run away with it. I did everything possible to impart this to the players but it did not work out."