ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula have come udner fire for their opposition to the Building Bridges Initiative. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito said the duo's rejection of BBI on the basis that it is intended to create positions for some individuals is hypocritical because they are also looking for positions in 2022. The legislator who spoke in his constituency on Monday when addressing residents implored them to support the BBI. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula also want leadership in this country and should stop misleading Luhyas, he said. “The Building Bridges Initiative is the only way through which we shall attain peace especially during and after the polls in this country and ensures that every government formed is inclusive of all Kenyan communities," the MP said. "If my brothers Musalia and Wetang’ula don’t want leadership positions they should stop moving across this country campaigning and stay at home.” He added: “Musalia, you are eying the presidency of this country and you should stop complaining and being a cry baby  and join other people to put the right structures in place in preparation for the same.” He said as a mature leader Musalia must learn to work with other like-minded people to fight for leadership. The lawmaker also appealed to Western residents to attend the January 18 BBI meeting that has been criticized by a section of leaders as an ODM party affair. Kizitio said the meeting was meant for public participation and is an opportunity for Western people to give their views on BBI. He said Luhyas have been united but it’s the leaders who always divide them for their own selfish interests. “We all voted for former President Arap Moi as a block. We also voted for the Narc government and we have always voted for ODM together as a united community but our leaders are always shifting positions for their own interests," he said. "In 2022 any leader who is not walking with BBI will go home. We shall not accept to be divided at all.”