Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok has warned contractors engaged in county projects to deliver quality works or risk being blacklisted. Barchok said he has clearly stipulated the manner in which county projects are to be implemented during his reign and expects nothing less. He said he has also asked executive members from relevant departments to be keen to ensure those doing shoddy work have their companies listed and barred from further deals with the county. Noting his administration will fully follow it up to ensure the directive is complied to, the county chief said he will put in place a system that includes enhancing project committees across the county to ensure quality in all projects undertaken is achieved. "We are going to be keen on this, anyone who does a work haphazardly will suffer the consequences...we want our people to get value for their money," he stated. Barchok was speaking on Saturday during a funeral service at Chepwostuiyet in Chepalungu subcounty. He added, "My government will always be accountable and I will ensure that everyone is accountable for their actions." Barchok further asked residents to practice social audit on projects in their areas and report contractors that fail to adhere to the set standards. His remarks come in the wake of reports that recently awarded tenders for the construction of roads across the county were given unfairly. The claims have since been dismissed by Roads and Infrastructure executive Joseph Terer who asked those dissatisfied to lodge a complaint with the relevant agencies. About 66 road tenders were awarded two weeks ago with 42 being financed by the county and the remaining 24 by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority. The governor asked county employees to uphold the highest standards of integrity saying he was ready to work with relevant authorities such as the EACC to ensure every penny that might have been lost is recovered. Barchok was accompanied by Chepalungu MP Gideon Koskei, former MP Paul Bii, MCAs Leonard Kirui (Siongiroi) and Wesley Bett (Kongasis). Edited by R.Wamochie