The holiday is slowly fading away after an eight-week vacation and schools will open next Monday for the 2020 calendar. As usual, primary schools will admit new learners advancing from pre-primary level while secondary schools will welcome those transiting from primary level. The requirement for new admission could throw the parents into a heavy spending spree as they prepare their children to join form one. These learners will need new school uniforms, books, and stationery among others. A check by the Star yesterday on one key uniform distributor in Nairobi revealed that a parent will need to part with at least Sh5,000 for a pair of school uniform. The cost is higher for those whose children will join boarding schools. The requirements include mattresses, blankets, bedsheets, covers and other basic essentials. Unlike textbooks that the government buys and supplies to schools directly at a subsidised rate, other learning materials can be acquired in the free market. School fees Further, parents of those headed to national, extra-county and county schools will incur extra expenses for school fees in January. Government data shows that 406,686 learners will proceed to these three categories of schools, accounting for just 37 per cent of those proceeding to Form 1. The bulk of the admissions, 669,145, will go to day schools. With the school fees set at Sh22,244, similar to the capitation for every learner in secondary school, this means they will pursue their secondary studies for free. The government has capped national school fees at Sh53,544 and that of county and extra-county schools at Sh40,555. Education CS George Magoha has warned principals against turning away learners who lack fees. “Do not turn away any child from school for lack of school fees, does that money belong to you?” he said. The government funds primary schools depending on the number of students. Each student is allocated Sh1,420. In secondary schools, each student is allocated Sh22,244 to cater for the essentials. Disbursement of capitation to schools is done in three tranches in line with the number of terms in the school calendar. The ratio for distribution is 50:30:20. Speaking during the release of the KCSE exam results, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the government has set aside Sh54 billion for the 2020 capitation. “We are working with our colleagues from the Treasury to ensure that the capitation funds are released within the first two weeks of January to ensure schools are up and running upon opening,” Kipsang said. However, school heads who spoke to the Star yesterday registered anxiety as the number of students is expected to surge alongside constrained resources to cater for the population. A major concern lies in the defaulting or inconsistency in school fee payment. A problem that may have began 20 years ago. Indimuli Kahi, the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman, said many schools, including his, have had to become flexible to allow payment in instalments. “This trend of not being able to pay school fees on time has been on now for close to two decades and the debt runs up to Sh6 billion. This puts a strain on our liquidity position as so much has been spent to renovate the premises and improve some infrastructure,” Kahi said. However, Kahi says he is hopeful the government will disburse funds on time before the Monday opening.