Residents of Naivasha have called on Nakuru county to construct a home for the elderly, especially as those neglected have been on the rise. More than 300 elderly people who are former freedom fighters received food and other goods from well-wishers in Mai Mahiu Township. They issued their call for help. The group under Wazee Hufikiriana lives in shanties despite having fought for independence. they said they have been neglected ever since. Their patron John Murigu said the area has among the highest numbers elderly people who have been abandoned by their children. Murigu said the community has been obliged to contribute monthly to feed them, as they are friends of freedom fighters. Murigu, who is the former chairman of the old Nakuru County Council, said the government should consider putting up a home for the elderly “These are our grandparents in their 90’s and what we can do best to them is bring them together and feed them in an orderly manner,” he said. He said the donations were a partnership between Friends of Mai Mahiu and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. He called it part of their humanitarian work of going around the town visiting and helping the less fortunate. “We have so many elderly people here and some do not receive the monthly stipends that the government is providing and thus the need for one home here,” he said. Monicah Mwangi from the governor’s office said the social services department had set aside funds for monthly food rations for the elderly. “We are working towards establishing a lasting solution to this problem once and for all, including helping them get a hospitable place to live,” she said. The elderly people expressed their delight at receiving the food, adding many have no one to turn to after being neglected by their children. Gathoni Wambui said she had not seen her children for some time and those who come are casuals who could not take care of their own families and them. “We thank our patron for bringing us together because were it not for him we don’t know where we would be,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)