Reigning Chicago Marathon champion Lawrence Cherono will use the Boston race in April to try and win the confidence of Athletics Kenya as he seeks to represent the country at the Tokyo Olympic Games later this year. The two-time Amsterdam Marathon winner won last year’s Boston Marathon, the first of his World Marathon Majors (WMM), beating Ethiopia’s Lesisa Desisa and Kenneth Kipkemoi to the second and third respectively. “My preparations are well on course but I am aware it won’t be easy. The good thing is that I have enough time to prepare for Boston and even the Olympic Games if granted a chance. Boston will no doubt serve as a good build-up for me ahead of the Summer Games,” said Cherono. He admitted that winning on American soil is no mean feat. “It all depends on your commitment in training, coupled with confidence. Boston attracts top of the range runners and one needs to develop a thick skin to shake off the opposition. The terrain in Boston is also unforgiving and only the toughest athletes survive that course,” he noted. Cherono said he has what it takes to compete and win at the Olympics but it is up to AK to decide who makes the team to Tokyo. He, however, admitted that the athletics governing body is spoilt for choice if Kenyan’s performances in the marathon is anything to go by. “If I am picked for the games, I will do my best to fly Kenya’s flag high on foreign soil,” said Cherono, adding that he is yet to represent the country in any major event despite his exposure. “I know selection will depend on how one has fared, especially this year. That is why I am keen on preparing well and defending my crown in Boston. I am sure a win the US race will give me an edge. As opposed to last year, I am now ripe to run for Kenya. I believe this is my year, considering my recent record on the international scene,” he added. With Boston going down in April, Cherono said there will be enough time to recover in time for the Olympic Games, set for between July 24 and August 9. “Majority of marathoners who will be running in Tokyo will compete in other major marathons across the world and that is why they need to know their fate now,” he added.