Nairobi's ‘jinxed’ Finance docket is in the spotlight once again as Allan Igambi takes over as the new acting executive. The post was held by Lands boss Pauline Kahiga in an acting capacity but some leaders at City have called into question the legality of the changes. Again, it was unclear whether Kahiga still held the position in an acting capacity as she was also in charge of the Lands department. Kahiga took over the docket in September after Governor Mike Sonko suspended Charles Kerich. She was gazetted a month later. However, just a day before Sonko was arrested and charged with graft, he made executive changes and appointed Trade executive Allan Esabwa Igambi as acting Finance boss. Kahiga, however, declined to leave. Hence, on Monday, a group of MCAs stormed the executive's office to ensure a change at the helm. They did not find Kahiga in office but went ahead to ensure Igambi took over. The media was barred from accessing the office, which is located on the same floor as that of the governor. The MCAs, led by Imara Daima's Kennedy Obuya, said Kahiga was illegally in office after she was degazetted last month. “She has not been appointed to work in the Finance docket and has another office. How can she hold two dockets, yet we have Igambi who was gazetted? We can't have a county where all systems are stuck. We can't pay county government workers because she has refused. MCAs do not have insurance, yet we pay premiums,” Obuya said. “We can't sit back as MCAs and yet our job is to oversight. We were just here to oversee that the gazetted CEC for Finance is right in place. The docket is a sensitive one and we can't afford to joke around with it." Kahiga later recorded a statement with KICC police station over the drama witnessed in the office. In a Gazette notice dated December 13, 2019, acting county secretary Leboo Morintat, on behalf of Governor Mike Sonko, degazetted Pauline Kahiga as the county executive for Finance. “It is notified for the information of the general public that pursuant to Article 179 (2) (b) of the Constitution and Section 44 of the County Government Act, the governor of Nairobi city has appointed Allan Esabwa Igambi as the acting county executive committee member for Finance and Economic Planning and degazetted the appointment of Pauline Nyambura Kahiga as county executive for Finance and Economic Planning effective from December 5, 2019,” the notice read. The director of communications in Governor's office, Elkana Jacob, on Monday reiterated that Igambi should legally be in office as the changes were made before Sonko was barred from accessing his office by court. At the centre of the controversy is Sh1.4 billion, which was released by the National Treasury this month for the county to settle its pending bills. But Minority Whip Peter Imwatok argued that the drama came about following a tiff between Sonko and Kahiga. He said Kahiga refused to pay lawyers and suppliers whose details were not captured. The National Treasury had preferred that women, the youth, small-scale traders and people with disability who did business with the county be prioritised. “Kahiga’s firm stand not to pay lawyers without the needed documents is what has made her fall out with the governor and caused more problems. The governor had called the CEC, instructing her to have certain people, including lawyers, paid. When she refused to pay Sonko’s people, then the governor instructed Leboo to gazette Igambi as the acting Finance CEC," Imwatok claimed. The Makongeni ward rep further said the gazettement of the ‘new’ CEC was unlawful because Leboo Morintat is acting capacity as county secretary. “An acting county secretary cannot gazette a Finance CEC. It is only the governor who can do this. Igambi was gazetted when Sonko was already barred from office. This is not within the law,” Imwatok argued. Previously, the Finance seat was held by Danvas Makori who was fired and replaced by Newton Munene. Others who headed the docket and fell by the wayside are Vesca Kangongo, Ekaya Alumasi and Winfred Gathangu.