A mouthwatering tie awaits on Sunday when Kenyan Premier League leaders Tusker take on Ulinzi Stars seeking to hold onto their lead. The brewers are the only team to have broken Gor Mahia's stranglehold of the Kenyan championship for the last seven campaigns when they lifted the KPL crown in 2016. Robert Matano has challenged his side to maintain the standardS they have set for themselves thus far. "It is still too early in the season to look at the standings but the players have done well to be where we are," said coach Matano. "As it normally is, being number one is easier than remaining there. That is what we have to work on one game at a time," he added. Champions Gor Mahia are lurking ominously in third place and take on Bandari 24 hours before the brewers play. K'Ogalo were rattled last time out when they lost 2-1 to Kakamega Homeboyz and will be eager to quickly return to winning ways against the faltering dockers. Gor and Bandari,  who represented Kenya in the continental tournaments after winning the league and cup respectively, renew their bludgeoning rivalry at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru on Saturday afternoon. Homeboyz, who are second, a point behind the brewers face a stern test on Saturday when they take on fast-improving Kariobangi Sharks. The Bukhungu-based side asserted their title credentials with victory over holders Gor and will need to do so again against a rejuvenated and youthful Sharks side. Sharks confirmed they have acquired Peter Lwassa and are looking to rediscover their form of the second season in the topflight league. AFC Leopards, buoyed by reports that a new bus and possibly sponsorship is looming, will be hoping to build on their victory last time out when they take on lowly Kisumu All-Stars. Ingwe have shown vast improvement under interim head coach Anthony Kimani, winning three of their last five matches. They look well within challenging for the title but will need wins against struggling sides like All Stars to keep themselves in the hunt. Another riveting duel will be that of KCB and Western Stima in Machakos. The two teams are neck and neck in the standings and remain outsiders for the title.