Today marks the 26th anniversary since the country's first vice-president Jaramogi Oginga Odinga passed away. ODM party leader Raila Odinga has described his late father as a patriotic man who worked selflessly for his country. Jaramogi died on January 20, 1994, as a result of a heart attack. Jaramogi played a key role when the country was struggling for independence. He is well remembered for the phrase "Not Yet Uhuru" which is the title of his autobiography written in the 1980s during his time under house arrest. Here are some of his famous quotes; “It inevitably produced duplication of functions, erratic and uncoordinated planning. There was an additional danger that money would be spent not on essential administration and services, but on politics. On prestige spending,” - Jaramogi in his book 'Not Yet Uhuru' “I have never seen so many people gather in my lifetime. This is the first time most of you are attending a political meeting out of your choice. We must restore democracy for our people by freely electing a FORD government in the next General Elections. The Moi government cannot guarantee freedom for our people." This is a Government that uses some security officers to terrorise our people and not to protect them. This is a Government that tells lies and lives by the lie. Without truth there can be no justice; and without justice no freedom and without freedom, no development.” - Kamukunji Grounds, 1991. “It was in 1952 that Kenyatta came to Kisumu again. Achieng’ Oneko introduced me to him and for several hours before the Kisumu public meeting, we had close talks at the Maseno Store,. Kenyatta told me 'We must get to know one another. The Kikuyu must get to know the Luo thoroughly' ” writes Jaramogi in his book. "Mzee Kenyatta is a living legend. Unlike most of us, born of flesh and blood, he has always led a life of dedication and rededication to the service of mankind in general and his country in particular." - he said when he unveiled the Kenyatta statue. "The press must be a champion of political, social and economic development of the people. It must thus seek to report on the effect of the people to bring about this development. The press must indeed go farther than this and champion social, political and economic systems best suited for the development of Africa. in a nutshell, the press must be involved in the championing the correct direction of development in Africa." (5 Apr 1977) he said while addressing a press luncheon about the role of the press in Africa. "This coming party elections should not be based on tribal grouping, regional or administrative boundaries. Our effort to keep Kenya united would be meaningless if we are to base our decision on ethnic consideration." (10 Oct 1978) he said after meeting Daniel Moi ahead of the October Kanu elections where he was vying for chairman. "Those who think of me like that are very wrong they are short-minded..I want to be pro east..the weight has been so heavy on the Western side because Kenya has been under British and the American influence here is so strong... so it might appear that I am pulling the weight to balance it.." he said during an interview. "A private army? Well I wish I had it but in the present moment, I am very sorry that I haven't got it!" Oginga was the first Vice President in Kenya, a position which he got after the country gained independence in 1963. He, however, resigned as VP in 1966 after disagreeing with the founding President Jomo Kenyatta. Oginga wanted the country to have close ties with the People's Republic of China, the Soviet Union, and other countries while Jomo Kenyatta was after the Western countries. In 1991 he co-founded and became the interim chairman of FORD. The formation of FORD triggered a chain of events that were to change Kenya's political landscape, culminating in ending KANU's 40 years in power – eight years after Odinga's death.