ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday met Mt Kenya leaders ahead of the Central Kenya BBI rally scheduled for next month. Raila met Senators Irungu Kangata (Muranga), Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua), Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Ephraim Maina (Nyeri) and James Orengo (Siaya) at the Radisson Blue Hotel in Nairobi. The ODM leader says they discussed problems the region faces and general issues on development. During the talks, Raila extended an olive branch to Tanga Tanga MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto saying they are free to attend the rallies. "They have realised that BBI is not about 2022 politics but an initiative meant to unite the country," Raila said. He, however, said that it will be unfortunate if Ruto's allies change of tune is meant to sabotage the initiative. The BBI brigade will be in Meru County for the Central chapter rally on February 15. Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila on Wednesday cautiously welcomed Ruto’s troops to the BBI rallies. They said the Tangatanga faction are free to attend any of the meetings, including the Saturday rally in Mombasa, but warned against disrespect and any attempt to disrupt the meetings. The police have said there should be no cause for alarm as security officers will be deployed accordingly to protect those who will be in attendance. “There will be no problem at all. There will be enough security for those attending,” Coast Regional Police Commander Rashid Yakub told the Star on Wednesday. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, a key Raila ally at the Coast and who will host the Tononoka rally on Wednesday struck a conciliatory tone. "In Mombasa, everybody is welcome. We are happy they have decided to come to Mombasa,” he said. The governor said there are no preconditions for attending the rally and that all Kenyans are welcome. "We are having a national conversation where everybody has an opinion... Anyone is welcome to contribute as long as it is meaningful.” Joho spoke in his office after a meeting with Mombasa MPs, including Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Asha Hussein. Deputy Governor William Kingi was also present. The governor announced that they will meet as delegates from the Coast region on Friday to come up with a decision and a common stand before presenting the resolutions on Saturday.