 Former EACC boss Mumo Matemo has rescued a Machakos boy who threatened to commit suicide after failure to join Form 1 due to lack of fees. Tyson Muliolo, 13, on Monday joined Mitaboni Boys High School after Matemu paid his fees. He scored 385 marks in last year's KCPE exam at Excellent Stars Academy in Mlolongo, Machakos. Matemu offered to clear the boy’s first term fee after he read an article about his plight in the newspaper on January 17. The former EACC chairman paid Sh28,000 through a cheque to the school after he met the boy and his mother at his private office in Nairobi on Saturday. “After Mutemu read the article, he instructed one of his secretaries who called the director of a private primary school where the boy sat his KCPE last year seeking his details. The director forwarded to the secretary the child’s mother’s phone number,” 4As CBO patron Daniel Mwanzia said. Mwanzia said that he scanned the boy’s fee structure and a results slip and sent the documents to Matemu. “When I sent him the documents, he called back after one hour on the same day requesting that we visit him in his office. I took both the boy and his mother to Mutemu,” Mwanzia said. Mwanzia said that the CBO mobilized its members who contributed money for the boy’s other needs including school uniforms, bedding, personal effects, shoes, metal box, among others. The boy’s mother Juliet Muhati, 32, thanked the well-wishers for coming to her son's rescue. The single mother said although her son had been admitted to Form 1, she was not sure of his school fees for other terms and years. “I am happy that my son has joined Form One, I call on more well-wishers to support his education since I am jobless and can’t raise his school fees,” Muhati said. The mother of two spoke to the Star at her rented single-roomed shanty house in Mlolongo on Sunday night. She said her attempts to reach out to area MP, Woman Representative, and MCA for educational assistance bore no fruits. “Some of the MPs handlers at his constituency office in Mlolongo told me to present them with my son’s admission number for them to issue me with a CDF bursary form. I walked out helplessly since I didn’t have it given that he had not been admitted for lack of fees.” The school charges Sh40,535 for fees a year according to the fee structure seen by the Star.  edited by p.o