 One of Deputy President William Ruto's most dependable ally from Kisii region has slackened as he weighs his options. With the ground fast-shifting to the handshake formation, the MP has found the ground tough. In the last few months, while he has snubbed Ruto's public functions across the country, the MP has been holding consultative meetings with his constituents. A small bird who has been attending the meetings confided that the MP could be plotting to abandon Ruto to save his political career that faces imminent collapse. Did a senior opposition politician from Western host a delegation of politicians at a hotel along Thika Road on Wednesday night? Corridors understands that the influential politician assembled his allies and close associates ahead of Saturday's planned rallies in Western. It is not clear why the politicians were summoned to Nairobi and not any of the towns in Western. However, an insider confided to us that the meeting explored scenarios presented by the cancellation of their planned Mumias rally by the police. The politician assured the delegation that the meeting would go on as planned despite the police ban and that he would be reaching out to the powers that be to lift the restriction. The politician also dished out money to mobilise residents for the Nabongo rally. A Kieleweke-leaning MP in Nairobi could soon find himself in trouble. The MP has been accused by his constituents of neglecting a section of his electoral area said to be plagued by poor roads network. There are claims that the politician, who lives in one end of the constituency, has neither been visiting nor launching any projects in the other part where her predecessor comes from. Residents who have never seen the MP since the 2017 elections intend to start collecting signatures to recall him. Many argue that they have been seeing the MP on TV when he is attending political rallies. The MP's predecessor has been traversing the constituency as he crafts a winning strategy to trounce the incumbent in the next polls. A primary school teacher at a school located along Mwiki Kasarani road has turned the institution into a cash cow. The senior teacher has been demanding Sh8,000 from each new pupil reporting for the first time to the school. Sadly, many parents have complained that there is no official receipt issued for the money they pay in cash amid claims of a fraud scheme. Before new pupils are allowed into the school the senior teacher insists on the upfront payment of the money against the government's policy on free primary education in public schools. The teacher alongside compromised members of the parent's association have been fleecing parents for a bout two years now. Unhappy parents are now threatening to hold protests in the coming days if the local education office does not rein in on the rogue senior teacher.