Kenya Sevens head coach Paul Feeney has expressed delight at the availability of talisman Collins Injerafor the Hamilton and Sydney Sevens later this month. Injera is among three changes executed for the upcoming seasons alongside Quins forward Herman Humwa and Kenya under 20 winger Geoffrey Okwach. Injera, who turns out for Mwamba in the Kenya Cup league, missed the opening legs in Dubai and Cape Town due to a shoulder injury he sustained during the Safari Sevens at the RFUEA grounds in last October. Feeney, who is also the technical director welcomed the country's top try-scorer in the shorter version of the game, saying: "I am excited of getting Collins back in the mix. He’s obviously a very influential player. He trained well before the first two series tournaments but, unfortunately, he couldn’t go." "It’s great to have him back with the boys and I am looking forward to seeing him improve his try-scoring  record.” Feeney also rated Okwach highly owing to what he has seen of him in training and the exploits for the under 20 side last season as well as his club, KCB. “We are glad to get Okwach in the team, a great young talent who is going to get his opportunity in the next couple of legs. We saw what he can do during Safari Sevens and I am looking forward to him stepping up and showing the world what he can do.  Herman is also in the team for these two tournaments,” added Feeney. KCB's Jacob Ojee and Oscar Dennis of Nondies, who were part of the squad for the series openers are out of this tour through injury while Daniel Sikuta is rested. The team had a three-day training camp in Nakuru where they trained at the Nakuru Athletic Club and ASK showground to fine-tune preparations for the two tournaments in Australia and New Zealand. Assistant coach Kevin Wambua said the training period has been thorough and expects solid performances from the squad. “There are two facets of play we have worked on in the last fortnight; our defensive alignment and set piece and ensuring our attack is efficient,” said Wambua. Shujaa are in a tough Pool 'B' in Hamilton where they face South Africa, England and Japan. World Rugby have said winners of the four pools will head to the semifinals in both Hamilton and Sydney meaning there will be no quarterfinals sparking a backlash from the participating teams. Shujaa depart for New Zealand on Saturday and are expected back on February 4. Andrew Amonde (KCB, captain), Jeffrey Oluoch (Homeboyz), Alvin Otieno (Homeboyz), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Daniel Taabu( Mwamba), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Nelson Oyoo ( Nakuru), Herman Humwa(Kenya Harlequin), Willy Ambaka(Kenya Harlequin), Johnstone Olindi (KCB), Vincent Onyala  (KCB), Geoffrey Okwach (KCB, debut) 