Parents at a secondary school in Migori held a New Year demonstration at the institution demanding the transfer of the principal. Kwoyo Kodalo Mixed Secondary School had a mean score of 3.0 in 2019 KCSE, according to principal. Carrying twigs and placards, parents vowed that when schools re-open on January 6, they will block all access roads and prevent the principal, Colince Oduka, from accessing the institution. They demanded that Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha sends in a new principal. “We had 49 candidates at Kwoyo Kodalo in last year national examinations, the two top students scored a C- (minus), 27 scored a D- (minus) with most scoring the lowest grade E plain,” Alfonce Otedo, a parent, said. According to Otedo, the school got a mean score of 1.8. and that for nine years “no student from the school joined university.” “We demand change as the management at the school is poor, the principal only comes to send students home for fee and once money is in the account he disappears without consulting parents or the board,” Vivian Anyango, a parent, said. “The principal is killing our society by reducing the number of students who can join university, not that university is important,” Anyango said. They also accused the principal of not instilling discipline in students, saying there is a high rate of teen pregnancy and drug abuse. But speaking over the phone, Oduka said he was not aware of the demonstration and said claims raised by parents were false and the poor results in the school were caused by their own actions. He said the school had a mean of 3.0 which was better than the 2.8 they got last year wondering where parents got the results which are yet to be displayed. He accused the parents of bringing weak students to the school, “some who even score 100 marks out of 500 in KCPE,” delay and refuse to pay fees “insisting they are waiting for bursaries,” while taken away brighter students after form one to other schools. “How do you raise a performance of a day school that has not been doing well, with such attitude? Even when we try our best which university will they join?” He posed. He said for nine years he has been at the school, several students have joined university. He said even when he leaves problems will persist because they are brought by parents who don’t pay fees. "We can't pay for teachers if they don’t pay, since TSC has only given us four teachers,” he said. He said chronic cases of parents refusing to pay fee has seen the school starting agriculture projects to supplement meals.