Kenya Railways has gone full throttle on the rehabilitation of the 240-kilometer Nairobi-Nayuki Meter Gauge Railway, the latest of rail infrastructure to be given focus by the government. Managing Director Phillip Mainga yesterday said most work will be along the 178 kilometer stretch between Thika and Nanyuki. “The line between Nairobi and Thika is in fairly good condition.Work to restore the moribund line started last week along the corridor,” Mainga said in a statement. The government is rehabilitating the railway line at a cost of Sh3 billion. Kenya Railways has released Sh1 billion for the project with the rest expected to come from the national kitty. The corporation has sourced labour from the National Youth Service and augmented the same with services from local communities, it confirmed yesterday. Meanwhile, Mainga has raised concerns over encroachment on the land that the line runs, cutting across Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri and Laikipia counties. The corporation had given a five month notice to the public to vacate the rail reserves, a period which has already expired. “A lot of encroachment on railway reserves has taken place over the many years of disuse.The corporation wishes to urge all occupants of the reserves to vacate immediately to allow rehabilitation work without hindrance,” Mainga said. “The same applies to all other branch lines countrywide that have been encroached upon,” he added. Members of the public are required to keep off from the reserves and establish a 30-meter buffer zone on either sides of the railway track. A lot of vandalism of railway furniture has taken place over the years the line has been out of use. Quarry activities in Murang'a county have been listed as among the biggest challenge on the project. Yesterday, Mainga called for “unconditional support “ from the county governments and politicians to enable the government fast track the reconstruction of the line, which will “play a crucial role in the revival of the agricultural and livestock sector within the region.” The project has received the backing of Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and his Laikipia counterpart Ndiritu  Muriithi among other leaders in the region with the project aimed at benefiting eight counties. They include Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Laikipia, Nyandarua and Isiolo. It is expected to be linked to the Lamu Port-Southern Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport corridor in the near future, opening  up trade in northern Kenya and neghbouring countries.