Police watchdog agency Ipoa on Monday launched investigations into the circumstances leading to death of a woman  in a cell at Ruaraka police station. Ipoa spokesperson Dennis Oketch said the authority dispatched a team of a rapid responders to the scene to investigate the death that has turned out to be mysterious. Barbara Gatwiri is alleged to have committed suicide on the morning of December 28 in a police cell after she was arrested for stealing her husband's laptop and car logbook. Her husband is a police officer attached to Muthaiga police station. It is said she was arrested on December 26. Gatwiri's sister Magdaline Murungi who viewed the body at City Mortuary said a police officer reached out to her alerting her to check on their sister at the station so that they can be around when she would be taken to hospital. Alleging foul play, the relatives complain that they were not informed of the arrest yet Gatwiri's husband knew their homes and telephone contacts. Sources at the station told the Star the station's leadership is maintaining that the woman took her life at around 2am using the lining of her petticoat. Murungi told the Star that an officer at the station initially told her that her last-born sister used a sweater to kill herself but later changed the explanation to use of a petticoat liner. Murungi said Gatwiri was arrested by her husband and that once taken to the crime office at the station, there was a sustained commotion. Gatwiri's body bore black spots at her left cheek suggesting that she could have been hit with a blunt object. Her nose also had what appeared to be minor scratch with a blood stain. Her left thigh had blood and a shallow stab wound. "I'm not satisfied at all. I wondered why they did not inform us when she was arrested. They have killed my sister," Murungi said. She said her sister had lived with her officer husband for approximately one-and-half years but that they often quarreled. So violent was the relationship, she said, that the husband beat her in November last year while pregnant and that she lost the child soon after birth the same month, Murungi said. Starehe subcounty police boss Alice Kimeli confirmed the death, saying that the matter had been taken up by officers from DCI. “I am aware of the case and the DCI, Starehe division, is already investigating the matter,” Kimeli told the Star at her office in Pangani police station on Monday. Ruaraka police station grabbed the public's attention in 2018 when its former OCS Nihashon Mutua was convicted for killing an inmate in one of the cells in 2013. Investigations revealed that Mutua mercilessly pounced on the inmate, hitting him with a metal bar with sharp ridges leading to his death. Thereafter the senior officer attempted a series of coordinated cover-ups. He was handed the death sentence.