The family of the late Cabinet Minister Njenga Karume has been given a reprieve after a judge stopped the auction of Jacaranda Hotel. They were given 90 days within which to pay Sh122 million debt owed to a bank. The public auction was scheduled for yesterday after the bank sought to recover its money. The parties, however, signed consent before High Court Judge Winfrida Okwany. It was recorded on Tuesday as a court order. “The plaintiff (Jacaranda Hotel) shall have 90 days to seek and process funds from NISK Capital or any other financier to settle and or take over the loan outstanding with the 1st defendant bank, together with all the accrued interest and arrears,” read the order signed by the parties. The consent order also allows the family 60 days within which to settle the bank’s valuers fees of Sh1 million and lawyer fees of Sh3.5 million. But in the event the family defaults on the terms of the order, the bank will be at liberty to sell the hotel through a public auction, the court said. This was the second time in less than six months the lender was raising a hammer on the prime four-star hotel located in Westlands, Nairobi though the defaulted loan is far below the estimated valuation of the hotel, which is located in one of the most prime of the capital city. The latest land rate report by Hass Consult puts an acre in Westlands at about Sh200 million. This means the land that accommodates the hotel alone costs upwards of Sh600 million. On January 7, the Karume family was ordered to deposit at least Sh4.5 million in a week towards the settlement of the debt even as the court gave parties time to pursue an amicable way of solving the problem. The family had told the court that it has made an effort to pay the loan and gave examples of deposits it made. In court documents, the hotel wrote to the bank on December 16 last year informing it of its plans to clear the arrears, including the sale of nonstrategic assets. Three days later, it wrote another letter explaining the amount of money it had been remitting for payment of the loan. For example, it said that from November 17, 2017, up to August 9, 2018, it remitted Sh21 million towards the repayment. The amount was remitted to the Kenya Revenue Authority in line with the taxman’s notice of instructions. On September 17 and 18 last year, it remitted an additional Sh19.4 million. Of this, Sh17 million was remitted by the bank to KRA. It also made another payment of Sh9.9 million sometime between August 8, 2018, and September 30 last year, but the amount was credited to Jacaranda Hotel’s current account. And on November 14, 2018, some Sh30 million was remitted towards payment of loan arrears. This could not be allocated to the loan account because of a KRA agency notice, the family says. In early 2018, the hotel was also in the limelight after KRA sent auctioneers to recover tax arrears worth Sh197 million. The standoff was, however, settled in court after the authority agreed to a repayment plan of Sh50 million monthly instalments and a payoff of Sh7.9 million to auctioneers who had already secured the hotel’s property to recover the tax.