ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Wednesday called on the government to withdraw the three per cent tax on small- and mid-sized traders. He called it onerous and unnecessary. Speaking during an interview with the Star on Wednesday, he warned that the new tax will make life even more difficult for the majority of Kenyans who are suffering because of the government's bad economic policies. “Kenyans are in a fix because KRA is trying very hard to raise money to meet government obligations and this is making it extremely difficult for the ordinary people,” he stated. Traders operating small- and mid-sized businesses from Wednesday started paying a three per cent tax on their sales to KRA following the re-introduction of the levy. The Finance Act 2019, which President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law on November 7, reintroduced the turnover tax for businesses whose annual sales are below Sh5 million. This is in an effort to significantly increase tax collections. Kenyans have raised concerns over the new tax, arguing that the business environment has been unfriendly lately and the operational costs too high. Mudavadi the government was in the unfortunate habit of borrowing money on a commercial basis, rather than concessionary, because it is more expensive and the repayment period is much shorter. A World Bank report released in October last year warned that Kenya is drifting towards debt distress, owing to the government’s huge appetite for high-interest loans. Mudavadi, who served as Finance minister during President Daniel Moi’s regime, said commercial loans charge interests rates of about eight per cent with repayment periods of  12 to 15 years. He said concessionary loans, on the other hand, are ones with a special interest rate which is lower than the normal one. These loans are often given to developing countries, old people, students and the unemployed. Mudavadi acknowledged, however, that taxation is a fundamental source of revenue for any government. He explained that when the government borrows, it has to repay the loan while meeting other operational expenditures like paying salaries of civil servants and providing security, among others. “When you overstretch yourself, it translates into higher taxes for ordinary people and if you have been taxing a number of people and the economy is not performing well, you will say that you want to broaden the tax base by going for the smaller people,” he said. “Just imagine, for every Sh1,000 sales in a kiosk, the owner has to part with Sh30. This amount is not the profit, meaning this is a turnover tax. Ordinarily, you should tax the profit,” he said. The Treasury in 2018 had dropped the turnover tax due to its poor performance as most traders declined to disclose revenues. Treasury then replaced the sales levy with a presumptive tax at the rate of 15 per cent of the single business permit fee issued by county governments when renewing their permits The tax allowed KRA to get more information on small traders, paving the way for the return of the turnover tax. KRA announced that the presumptive tax will remain an advance tax that will be deducted against the turnover tax. KRA has argued that the presumptive tax would be key in collecting data on small traders who largely operate informally for the purposes of enforcing the three per cent monthly turnover tax. On Wednesday, Mudavadi said the government should put on hold some projects as one way of dealing with the debt crisis. “The government should put some projects on hold and then channel that money to programmes that will boost production, which will in turn create jobs. It seems all the money is going to infrastructure projects. What about putting the money where jobs will be created?” he asked. (Edited by V. Graham)