Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday blasted ODM leader Raila Odinga and his allies for purporting to grant other leaders permission to attend BBI meetings. He criticised those sceptical of his involvement in the BBI process, saying they must not be allowed to be "prefects of the unity bid". He was touring Embakasi West in Nairobi. The pro-BBI team in a press conference by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed had on Wednesday issued conditions for Ruto team's attendance at the Mombasa meeting on Saturday. The DP said the BBI issues are not for political parties or a select group but must speak to the matters affecting Kenyans in their daily activities. “We are participating in BBI as a matter of right because we are Kenyans and not because we have been invited by anybody. We are not visitors to Kenya. We are not refugees and BBI is our process,” Ruto said. However, on Thursday in Mombasa, governors, most of whom are in ODM, said no one who is not a Coasteran will be allowed to speak. The master of ceremonies will be Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, a die-hard ally of Raila's. In Nairobi, Ruto reiterated they will not allow the report to be used as an avenue to share positions of power. “BBI is not someone’s personal property. No one should tell us those who have been invited or not. You are inviting as who? Is Kenya yours? Are we refugees?” Ruto called on BBI task force chairman Yusuf Haji to publish a statement giving a "timetable for meaningful conversations on the document". The DP hinted that his team may oppose any new report from the second phase of its deliberations. ODM has indicated it wants a powerful executive prime minister, not a weak one recommended in the final BBI report. “We are participating because of the report that was unveiled at the Bomas. It is sad that there are people who intend to use it for insults and to share positions,” Ruto said. He said the forums should be open to more than just elected leaders to allow 'mama mbogas', boda boda riders and touts to define how they want to be governed. “It is not for politicians and leaders but for all Kenyans. Let our colleagues stop being prefects who want to tell us who will be part of the engagements.” MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), George Theuri (host), James Gakuya (Embakasi Central) and several MCAs from Nairobi and Kiambu accompanied the Deputy President. Ruto launched an autism block at Buruburu One Primary School, a classroom at SupaLoaf Mowlem Primary School and a swimming pool at Umoja One Primary. Kuria said the Tangatanga team is only aware of the report released at the Bomas of Kenya in November last year. Ruto’s delegation said they would attend the BBI public forum scheduled for Mombasa on Saturday, further warning the pro-BBI team from chest-thumping. “We will ensure this thing is not used to perpetrate insults against those opposed to it. It can’t be that Kenya is for a few to celebrate while millions suffer,” Ruto said. Edited by R.Wamochie