Western Stima assistant coach Hesbon Nyabinge believes the winner of the 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League will be decided on the final day of the season if the competition among the top six teams is anything to go by. Hardly two rounds into the second leg, six teams have not shied from showing their intentions to win the title and Nyabinge reckons that the race will boil down to the wire unlike the past three years where Gor faced minimal challenge. Tusker sit at the top with 37 points—one ahead of second-placed and the race’s dark horses Kakamega Homeboyz. Defending champions Gor Mahia are ranked third with 35 points but have an opportunity to close in on Tusker and open a four-point gap at the top should they collect maximum points from their two matches in hand. Four-time champions Ulinzi Stars are third with 34 points while big spenders KCB are fifth with 32 points—two ahead of Stima who close the top six bracket. The two clubs have a match in hand. Nyabinge said the six teams stand a chance of toasting the crown should they remain consistent in the remaining matches of the season. “The race is tight this season and I foresee a scenario, where the winner will be decided on the last day of the league. "In the past seasons, the winner would be known with more than five fixtures to go but this season, clubs have stepped up and competition is rife. The top six teams are strong candidates to win the league as the gap between them is minimal. Teams are currently strengthening and it will be interesting to see how it will end,” he said. In the meantime, Nyabinge is an happy man after creative midfielder Abdallah Wankuru resumed training ahead of their next match against KCB. Wankuru missed their last two matches due to illness but the former Sony Sugar man returned to the team on Wednesday and will be available for selection according to the former Palos tactician. “He contracted Malaria on the eve of Christmas but he is back to the team. He trained with the rest on Wednesday and his return is a massive boost ahead of the KCB match,” he added.