Nyeri Town MP MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has clashed with Deputy William Ruto over the involvement of Cambridge Analytica in  President Uhuru Kenyatta's 2013 and 2017 campaigns. On Tuesday, DP Ruto dismissed claims that the company was involved in their campaigns. “Where were they (Cambridge Analytica) because I didn’t see them during our campaigns? If it were these bishops claiming they assisted us, I can’t dispute that because we went to church and they prayed for us. “They can actually claim credit for our win. But claiming that two or three white people seated in a boardroom assisted us, then there is a problem,” the DP said. He spoke during the funeral of Martha Kirigo Gachagua mother to Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and first Nyeri Governor the late Nderitu Gachagua. Ruto blamed the propaganda on idle people whom he claimed have been spreading it. But after the address, Wambugu took to the social media and wrote on his facebook that Jubilee engaged the services of the consultancy firm. “Apparently our Jubilee Party Deputy Party Leader William Ruto didn’t know there was a political consultancy company hired and working with Jubilee in 2013 and 2017. One wonders what else he didn’t know ... or doesn’t know now,” Wambugu wrote. He wondered whether the DP was in Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaign machinery if he is not aware that the services of such a company were sourced. “It also means that he also doesn’t actually know how Jubilee won the 2013 and 2017 elections. Which explains why his campaign is struggling three years to an election,” he added. The claims by Wambugu elicited heated reactions on social media. State House innovation, digital and diaspora communication secretary Dennis Itumbi said he was at the centre of the campaigns and that Cambridge Analytica did not play a role. Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku said the DP was right that no company was hired to steal elections for Uhuru, Ruto and Jubilee. “Only you and Raila seem to actually believe there was a company hired to steal elections. But sorry, it’s Kenyans who made UhuRuto and Jubilee the winners,” wrote Thuku. Raila had in the past threatened to sue the company which has on numerous occasions admitted to taking part in the Kenyan campaigns. Many accused Wambugu of being in ODM in 2013. 