The government plans to hire 4,000 interns to enhance access to health services when the UHC programme is rolled out nationally, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said. The national government will facilitate the placement while the recruitment will be conducted by the County Public Service boards. Those recruited will be required to offer services at Level 2 and 3 health facilities. Under the highly-negotiated Intergovernmental Participation Agreements that have so far been signed by at least 15 governors, counties are required to allocate a minimum of 30 per cent of the respective county budget to health and progressively increase it. Counties that have met and exceeded the minimum threshold are required to maintain it. The National Government has also committed to supplement county allocations for the supply of essential medicines and medical supplies. These include laboratory commodities to be made available to public health facilities countrywide through the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The county governments have further committed to maintain or increase their current expenditure on essential medicines and supplies. “We are doing this because our people need to access quality and affordable health coverage. That’s why we are committing. We are at a critical phase of UHC implementation that needs continuity,” Narok Governor Samuel Tunai said during the signing of the agreement in Nairobi. Under the agreement, the National Government will facilitate training and provision of community health volunteer kits; while the county governments will pay the CHVs stipends. The amount of the stipend to be paid to CHV will be decided by the county governments. “The approach to the implementation of the UHC pilot was centred on the strengthening of health systems through the Primary Health care approach; ensuring availability of essential commodities and basic equipment in health facilities and removal of user fees in level 4 and 5 public health facilities,” CS Kariuki said. A total of Sh3.9 billion was invested in the four pilot counties and implemented through an Intergovernmental Participation Agreement framework. They include Isiolo, Kisumu, Nyeri and Machakos. In order to progressively implement UHC, the National Government in this financial year 2019/20 will make an initial investment of Sh41.9 billion towards the prioritized areas. This investment is expected to significantly increase in subsequent financial years. “Health having been devolved is one of the most expensive functions we undertake at the county. It is our wish that UHC be more funded in future,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. The Ministry has also engaged with non-health sectors to improve the social determinants of health in this journey of UHC. They include water, sanitation, electricity and roads. “There is need for the media to educate the public on behavior change so as to prevent diseases and promote healthy behavior such as good nutrition, exercise, screening for early detection of illnesses,” Kariuki said. Both levels of government have reaffirmed their commitment to make further and progressive investments in ensuring financial protection and increased access to affordable health care.