 The DCI on Wednesday arrested two wardens at the Naivasha prison over the death of an inmate at the detention centre last year. Prison-Sergeant Dennis Masibo, 32, and police corporal Obadiah Lansika, 26 were arrested in connection with the murder of Simon Gitahi. Gitahi was serving a life sentence. The arrests came after the conclusion of a police inquest launched after the death of Gitahi on June 4, 2019. A postmortem report annexed to the inquest report showed the 36-year-old inmate died a painful death. There were marks of random injuries on his body due to aggressive torture. His lungs also collapsed as a result of severe injuries. The autopsy showed the inmate died as a result of circulatory failure in brain, lung and kidney due to embolism in those organs. “The cause for this was Thrombo-Emboli/Fat Emboli to the lungs due to soft tissue trauma by multiple blunt force,” the report says. The inquest report says the inmate was beaten up by the warders on claims he had refused to queue properly when the prisoners were being served food. The two officers then took it upon themselves to administer discipline to the inmate "as he was stubborn." The discipline persisted as Gitahi appeared to resist, making the beatings to be excessive, visiting pain and severe injuries on him, the report says. The warders then isolated the robbery with violence convict and took him to a different cell. When the officers came to check on him, the found him lifeless, the report says. Naivasha police boss Samuel Waweru confirmed the arrests, saying the inquest probe had proven that the two had a case to answer in relation to the death. “We have in custody two warders from Naivasha GK prison and they will be charged with murdering the inmate within their facility,” Waweru said. The inquest team included officials from the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and interviewed a group of warders and inmates who provided corroborating accounts that indicted the two warders. “After being assaulted, the inmate was taken to the segregation block without being given medical attention and he died at the prison and not on his way to the hospital as it was alleged by the officers,” the report says. When the death of the inmate was first reported, his family protested that the facility officials were exceedingly restrictive to them, unwilling to give them the information they needed. Once they established that their kin had died, police officers even refused to record a statement from them, claiming the prison was not under their jurisdiction, the relatives claimed. They would later find Gitahi's body in a local mortuary. In its recommendation, the inquest team want any prison officer, going forward,  implicated in acts of torture or ill-treatment against prisoners be suspended pending a full inquiry. They should not benefit from their criminality and impunity as the victims of their impunity wreath in pain or lifelessness, the report says. “The DPP should ensure prompt and comprehensive investigations are conducted into the alleged torture complaint by the warders and ensure that those responsible are prosecuted.”  edited by peter obuya