Prof Stephen Kiama, whose appointment as University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor was revoked last week, could head to court today to contest the action. Pof Magoha revoked the appointment of Kiama and dissolved the university council on Saturday. He said the appointment of a substantive VC will be done after the completion consultative meetings. Acting VC would remain Prof Isaac Mbeche while Kiama would continue dispensing his duties as the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Human Resource and Administration at the university. Magoha's action has split the university fraternity two-fold. One in support of the revocation while the second is against it. Sources indicate that Prof Kiama will today be proceeding to court to contest the revocation of his appointment. Student leaders abandoned Prof Kiama yesterday, throwing their weight behind Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha. University of Nairobi Students’ Association (UNSA) said they support the action taken by the CS. “Earlier, there had been claims that there was mischief in the process of Vice Chancellor appointment…we want to say that this time round that matter be investigated as called upon by the Education CS,” said Byron Ochieng, main campus Secretary General. However, another section of students vowed to lead demonstration over Magoha's revocation. Magoha's move also split the academic union with some member pulling support while others opposed the CS's move. University and Academic Staff Union UoN chapter Secretary General George Omondi said they will meet on Monday to decide the way forward. "We are yet to give our voice in the ongoing crisis at UoN. We have asked our members to hold their calm as we deliberate on the matter," Omondi said. The search for UoN vice chancellor began in June, 2019. In October, the PSC advertised the position inviting successful candidates to apply. The University Council - the top decision making organ- refused to automatically renew Prof Peter Mbithi's second term as VC and he opted not to pursue it. The successful candidate will take home more than half a million shillings every month. The VC will receive between Sh420,567 and 744,078 as basic salary - the same category as Cabinet Secretaries, DPP and IG among others. Since the exit of Prof Magoha as the VC six years ago, the institution has been on a downward trajectory, marred by bad leadership and increased debts. The university liabilities stand at Sh5.7 billion against current assets worth Sh4.3 billion. UoN was recently unable to remit staff payments including Sh282 million for Pay as You Earn (PAYE), Sh3 million for National Social Security Fund, Sh10 million National Hospital Insurance Fund, Sh204 million Chuna Sacco and Sh1.5 billion Higher Education Loans Board.