Some 56 families whose houses were swept away by floods in Voi, Taita Taveta, a month ago have been kicked out of Voi Primary School where they had been camping. They were asked to leave to pave the way for learning. A promise by the county government to have the IDPs relocated to new plots has yet to be honoured. The 185 IDPs are among more than 200 families that had been evacuated to the temporary camp after their houses were submerged following a downpour that flooded the area. Voi River burst its banks. Marietta Morigha, a victim, said, “The county government gave us foodstuffs and promised new plots to each of us. Our names were registered for plots but no feedback since then. We have been asked to leave the camp and find alternative places to live as we wait for the anticipated relocation.” She said the floods left them empty-handed as all their belongings were swept away. She said the county government gave each family only Sh20,000 to find alternative places to relocate. Red Cross county coordinator Jorum Oranga said a decision to close the 35-day-old IDP camp was reached following consultation with other stakeholders in the spirit of creating an environment conducive to learning. Oranga noted that the relocation process was overdue, urging the government to fast-track the acquisition of plots to resettle victims. “We expected to have all the 56 households resettled before the end of last year, but the government has been experiencing challenges in the whole process. All the IDPs shall be facilitated for at least a month before new land is acquired,” Oranga said. County legal director Edwin Chahilu, however, said the relocation had been delayed following a pending court suit in which the county sought orders to have the IDPs relocated. “There is a case in a Voi court awaiting a hearing on January 16, 2020, when we want the National Police Service compelled to offer security to those undertaking the resettlement process,” he said. In the case, the county government has sued county police commander Said Kiprotich and Voi OCS James Mwanzia for failure to accord the county staffers security. Chahilu revealed that the victims will be relocated to a 46-acre parcel at Kishamba B Ranch, pointing out that the land has elicited interests from other parties. “Despite the land having been owned by the defunct county council, the National Land Commission is of the view that it had been reserved for Kizumanzi Forest. Currently, we're consulting with the NLC to have a way forward. We're, however, wondering and investigating why this land is vested with so much interest and why the police refused to offer security,” he said. He blamed the police for failing to accord security to surveyors and county officers who had gone to identify the land. Last week, a scuffle ensued after angry Kishamba B residents blocked surveyors from accessing the land, claiming they were not consulted on the resettlement of the IDPs.