Several secondary schools in Bomet are grappling with a high number of students admitted to Form 1. The transition rate from primary to secondary schools in the county is 85 per cent. A check by the Star showed that some schools are overcrowded and facilities such as dormitories, classrooms, and toilets are overstretched. Some headteachers have put up temporary structures to accommodate the high numbers. Bomet county commissioner Geoffrey Omoding on Thursday asked principals in the schools affected to devise ways of managing congestion. He said the government has disbursed funds to cater for the high number of students. Omoding advised principals to put up semi-permanent structures to address the challenge. “The school heads have funds from the government to manage the situation, and we should not hear excuses from them…they should be alive to the fact that students are going to increase this year,” he said. He cautioned school heads against sending students home because of lack of fees. Among schools affected are Tenwek High and Kaplong Girls’, which are the only national schools in the county. Tenwek High principal Mutali Chesebe said there is an upsurge in the number of students admitted to Form 1 this year – rising from 307 to 370. The number is projected to rise to 400, Chesebe said. He said they have 11 dormitories but have added semi-permanent facilities, including a staffroom. “We had to put up temporary structures as a stopgap measure as we plan to put up permanent buildings,” he said. Chesebe urged the government to develop other schools in the county. The government has warned parents of dire consequences if they fail to take their children to school. Omoding had earlier instructed chiefs and members of Nyumba Kumi to be on the lookout for parents who fail to heed the government's directive. “We are not going to allow our children to be parents when they are supposed to be in school and this year I have instructed my security team to work with the chiefs and the members of Nyumba Kumi to ensure no child is left behind,” he said.    