Good evening, Tangatanga MPs have unveiled their own BBI rallies timetable. Addressing journalists at the Parliament Buildings on Friday, the legislators said the meetings will not clash with the ongoing BBI rallies. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and Kikuyu Town MP Kimani Ichung’wa said the programme does not imply that they will be holding parallel meetings. Public Service and Gender CS Margaret Kobia has protested against Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's reference to ODM leader Raila Odinga as a President Uhuru Kenyatta's wife. "This emerging trend of insults due to political differences must end to avoid destroying society," she said. Speaking to the Star on Friday, Kobia condemned insults in public meetings. No one likes to be kept waiting, least of all someone as busy as the Interior Cabinet secretary. Interior  CS Fred Matiag'i was not amused when security officers arrived late for a meeting at the Vihiga county commissioner's office in Mbale on Friday. He was expected at 9am but showed up at 7.45am, throwing everyone into confusion. Tour operators have advised their clients against travelling to certain parts of China unless it is extremely important. The Kenya Association of Travel Agents said the risk of contracting the coronavirus in places such as Wuhan city is extremely high. Wuhan, which is in the province of Hubei, is the epicentre of the current outbreak, which has so far killed 213 people in China, with 9,692 infected. The virus has been recorded in 18 countries. The National Government Administrative Officers will be be held personally liable for the absence of the children from school by March. This comes as the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i announced on Friday that the NGAOs have until February 15, 2020, to complete the 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school education this year. “We already have the compulsory free basic education policy in place. All the learners who have not reported to Form One must be found and taken to school without fail,” he said The environment regulator has asked organisers of the Koroga festival to provide proof that the Kenya Wildlife Service has cleared the event in Hell's Gate National Park in February. In the letter to Koroga, the National Environmental Management Authority said it should be furnished with the KWS certificate within seven days. Nema also asked for a detailed assessment of the potential impacts of the event to the park and proposed suitable mitigation measures. 