A House committee has indicted the EACC for the manner it probed the multibillion-shilling Kisumu Lake Basin Mall. A report by the Senate Standing Committee on Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations questioned the professionalism of the anti-graft agency after it emerged that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been investigating the facility for about five years. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa requested a statement on the delayed handover of the mall in Kisumu in July last year. The mall’s management had decried lost economic opportunity in the landmark asset whose potential to spur economic prospects of the region was not being realised as a result of unending investigations. The committee investigated the delayed handover and has ordered the EACC to immediately return all confiscated items that are unrelated to the investigations. It termed the investigations “loud and highly disruptive” and ordered the EACC to immediately stop any further investigation. Dragging the probe has only served to scare away potential tenants, hence hurting normal operations of the facility, they said. It also emerged that the commission took away all crucial documents in the course of its investigations, leaving the management with nothing they can use to transact business. The EACC first received graft allegations on July 28, 2015, and immediately began pursuing the case, which has dragged to date. They had been probing alleged procurement flaws, fictitious claims by the contractor and issues of bribery that rocked the Sh4.1 billion mall. The mall was to cost taxpayers Sh2.5 billion. This was, however, varied to Sh3.8 billion and finally to Sh4.1 billion when it was handed over in 2017. At one point, the commission, while appearing before the committee chaired by Laikipia Senator John Kinyua, said they had completed investigations, a position the committee found to be untrue. “The EACC is continuing with its investigations into the development of the mall, despite having declared to the committee that they had completed the investigations and handed over the files to the DPP,” the report reads. "Should it be that it is the DPP that has requested them to bring additional documents, then it is worth noting that this would be a sign of incompetence on the part of the EACC, after conducting loud and highly disruptive investigations for over half a decade. “Additionally, the EACC should issue a public written statement regarding completion of investigations to build investor confidence in the Lake Basin Mall.” Homes of a number of individuals had been raided and some suspects charged with graft. Those who were charged and their homes raided include former secretary-general of the defunct TNA party Onyango Oloo, who was forced to step aside as Kisumu assembly speaker. The EACC also raided the home of Bobasi MP Momanyi Obiri whose firm Quantech Consultancy was procured as the project’s quantity surveyor. The committee further directed the Treasury, through the Lake Basin Development Authority, to take over the Sh2.5 billion cooperative bank loan to save the taxpayer the Sh300 million in annual interest charged on the loan.