JamboPay CEO Danson Muchemi is yet to plead to charges of embezzling county funds amounting to Sh24.1 million. Prosecutor James Kihara yesterday told anti-corruption magistrate Lawrence Mugambi that they were negotiating with Muchemi, Robert Mureithi and Zablon Onyango who are listed as Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's co-accused in Sh357 million graft case. Kihara did not mention the details of the negotiations but said they will confirm to court on the next mention date if there was any progress. “I have instructions to postpone the plea due to the negotiations," he said. When Sonko was charged, the prosecution presented two charge sheets. In the first file, Sonko, Fredrick Odhiambo, Web Tribe Limited, Danson Muchemi, Robert Muriithi, Zablon Onyango, ROG Security Limited and Anthony Otieno Ombok were accused of embezzling Sh24.1 million City Hall money. But Only Sonko, Odhiambo and Otieno were present. They denied the charges. In the second file, Sonko alongside 16 others among them private liability companies allegedly embezzled Sh357 million from the Nairobi county. It is alleged that Sonko on December 17 last year at Equity Bank received Sh3 million from Toddy Civil Engineering Limited belonging to the Nairobi county government whilst knowing the property formed part of proceeds of crime. Sonko in January this year allegedly received another Sh3 million from Web Tribe which was part of proceeds of crime. Yesterday’s proceedings also saw lawyer Cecil Miller faulting the prosecution for failing to provide them with witness statements in the case. “The prosecution had indicated that they will be ready in two weeks time. The quicker we have this matter heard the better. The longer we keep this matter in court the more it will be prejudicial to my client,” he said. Miller represents Sonko in the case. Tom Ojienda representing other accused persons said they were not ready for pre-trial and urged the court to grant them another date. Magistrate Mugambi subsequently directed that the matter be mentioned before the trial magistrate Douglas Ogoti on how compliance should be done. The case will proceed on January 27.