Work has resumed on Thiba Dam in Kirinyaga after the release of Sh600 million by the national government. The work was halted last October over what the construction company, Strabag International, said was payment default by the government. Strabag said on Wednesday that although the released money was less than the Sh1 billion it expected, the job will proceed and recalled the 300 workers it had sent home. The Sh20 billion dam, which is within the Mwea Irrigation Scheme, was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on November 23, 2017. It is expected that rice production will double from 140,000 tons to 280,000 tons on completion in 2021. Mwea produces 80 per cent of the rice consumed in Kenya. "We have resumed construction work after the government availed some of the funds," James Karanja, one of the managers, said on Wednesday. At the same time, Sogea Company has also resumed the expansion of canals. It had halted the job over non-payment of Sh300 million by the national government. Deputy county commissioner Peter Nkunga said the company has been paid. Mwea member of Parliament Kabinga Wathayu urged his constituents to cooperate with the company. “Don’t complicate the land issues if you want the work to be completed in good time. This project is meant to assist the rice farmers in Mwea to double their production so that rice importation can be reduced for the economic benefit of the farmer,” he said. The water reservoir is expected to hold 15 million cubic metres of water with a spillway to regulate water flow during rainy seasons to prevent flooding. The Thiba dam was expected to be completed in 45 months. It is funded by the national government in collaboration with the Japanese government through the Japan International Cooperation Agency. President Kenyatta, who launched the dam soon after his installation for the second term, said the project would be a game-changer in rice production. He said the dam would buttress efforts to ensure the country is food secure, one of the key planks of his administration’s transformational agenda. “Food security is critical to the Jubilee agenda. It will be part and parcel of my second term,” the President said. The area under irrigation will increase from 25,000 to 35,000 acres. Mwea grows many other crops, including maize, tomatoes, water melons, green grams and onions.  