Parents have flocked the Central Business District to shop for books and other requirements as schools re-open from Monday next week. A spot check by the Star this week revealed city residents have been flocking the the streets to prepare their children for the first term of the year 2020. Some parents were accompanied by their children in school uniform outlets and bookshops to purchase the items. Savanis bookshop in downtown Nairobi was particularly packed with parents rushing to buy stationery. "Luckily, I had bought the books early in December and so today I'm here to get what I missed from last time. If possible I would advise parents to buy items before Christmas when the prices are still reasonable and most books are available," said Faridah Hassan, parent. "I decided to come with my son who will pick the necessary items he needs for the first term. But the staff in the bookshop are very helpful in terms of getting the required items as per the school list, which makes our work easier as parents," said Emmanuel Makoha, another parent. Second hand option Street vendors were not left behind as they sell second hand books almost half the price of bookshops. "Our target is those parents who cannot afford new books from the bookshops and our prices are cheaper. We also have some who bring textbooks of the previous class and exchange for new ones which is a great deal especially to those parents who have many children in school," said Eric Munene, a trader Hellen Njambi, a mother of three, said she always buys second-hand textbooks. "As parents we have a lot of expenses including school fees, not forgetting transport fee when the children go to school. The second hand items are not bad as people think," she said. Supermarkets also remained packed almost throughout the day. Joseph Mutua, who was shopping Tuskys branch along Tom Mboya street, told the Star he had decided to kill two birds with one stone and was doing his household shopping together with the back to school shopping. "Many of us are also resuming work on Monday so I opted to do everything at once so that next week I resume work with less issues on my plate. It is tiresome because we have to line up for sometime but its worth it," he said. The uniform shops and Bata outlets were also filled with children fitting into their new uniforms and shoes. Uniform Distributors along Moi Avenue was full as most parents with children joining form one were purchasing the attires. “My daughter is joining form so we are here to get everything as listed by school from uniform to game kits and beddings,” said Carole Kerubo, a parent. “Every year I have to come to Bata to get shoes for my children. They are upcountry but I know their sizes, which also makes my work easier to move around alone," said Lucas Mulei, a parent.