The government has warned of a looming food shortage in the eight counties affected by the desert locust invasion. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said livestock will be affected in Northern Kenya because pastures have been cleared by the swarms of locusts. Eugene said that there was hope for affected regions as wind patterns are changing, meaning that the pest could move in other directions. “According to experts, the wind will blow the locusts to neighbouring countries.  At the moment, there are enough resources to deal with this menace,” he said. Eugene termed last year as one of the hardest times for the country due to the number of disasters reported. “In 2019, we had a drought early in the year which was followed by flooding before the dreaded locusts invaded some counties,” he said. The CS said that the government had set aside Sh5.2 billion to assist those affected by the disasters and to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure. He noted that the floods had adversely affected the country’s infrastructure and more funding was needed to address the repairs. Eugene spoke in Naivasha after opening a one week workshop on the harmonisation of disaster policies. He noted that many counties had not set aside funds to deal with disasters, leading to a crisis whenever one occurred. He said that Cabinet had approved the disaster management policy which would bring in all players whenever there was a disaster. “There are already three disaster management bills before Parliament and Senate and we need to harmonise them,” he said. Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli said that they were working closely with the county governments to make the disaster management policy a success. “Climate change has turned out to be one major cause of disasters including flooding and it cannot be ignored,” he said. The National Disaster Operations Centre director Charles Owino expressed concerns over the time it had taken for the country to have a disaster management policy. “This process of formulating a disaster management policy started twenty years ago and its time that this was finally delivered,” he said. 