Some parts of Kenya are likely to experience more heavy rains during the month of January. The rainfall outlook for the month indicates that most parts of the country will have occasional rainfall during the first and second weeks with sunny intervals towards the end of the month. Stella Aura, the director of Kenya Meteorological department, said rainfall is likely to be higher than the long-term average amounts received during the same month in other years. “The beginning of January is likely to be wet with occasional rainfall which are likely to be more frequent in the afternoons and during the night,” she said in a statement on Thursday. The forecast further states that a few areas in western Kenya and parts of Central Kenya are still likely to experience episodes of heavy rainfall resulting in flooding in the first two weeks of the month. These areas include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. Aura said the October-November-December seasonal rainfall onset was early in most parts and the distribution both in time and space, was good throughout the country. “The generally good rainfall performance in the country was mainly as a result of the strong positive Indian Ocean Dipole. This is owing to the prevailing warm Sea Surface Temperatures in the western Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to the East African Coast and the cool Sea Surface Temperatures in the eastern Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to Australia,” Aura said. Nairobi, Embu, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi Counties will have occasional morning light rains and afternoon showers over several places in the first two weeks of the month. Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have sunny and dry conditions with high temperatures of 30°C to 40°C. Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties will have moderate rainfall at the beginning of the month but sunny and dry conditions will prevail as the month progresses. Mandera and Marsabit counties are however expected to experience mainly sunny conditions throughout the month. The Northeastern region Wajir has been hit by desert locusts which have crossed over from Somalia. The government is currently surveying the areas affected mainly in Mandera and parts of Wajir counties before aerial spraying the devastating pests to avoid further spread. Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Taita Taveta, Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties will have occasional rains during the first and second weeks of the month. Aura said the expected amount of rainfall is likely to be higher than the long-term average amounts received in January in these areas. The report highlighted some experienced impacts of December heavy rains stating that farmers in cereal growing regions were unable to harvest their crops due to continuous rains and flooded fields. There was land and mud slides in Murang’a, West Pokot, Taita Taveta, Makueni and Machakos counties which led to loss of lives. “Severe flooding occurred in Mombasa, Nairobi, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Kitui, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori and Tana River counties. This led to loss of humans and livestock in some areas and displacement of people in other areas, roads and bridges were washed away in some areas thus disrupting transport systems and there was severe hailstone in Busia county which destroyed crops,” the January weather outlook read.