Hundreds of youths demanding construction work have stopped recarpeting of Moi South lake road in Naivasha. the youths, manly from the nearby Karagita slums, forced hired workers to abandon rehabilitation of the busy road critical to the region's economy. The halt came a week after the contractor started works on the road that leads to tens of flower farms, Hells Gate National Park, hotels, Olkaria geothermal site, among others. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mathioya Mbogo issued a warning to the youths to keep away from roadworks. While condemning the youth's action to halt the work, he said the road was criical to the country's economy and the state would not tolerate delays. “For months residents have cried foul over the status of the road and when the contractor moves in some people try to stop the works,” he said. Mbogo said that the government was keen to make sure that the road was in good shape ahead of the Lovers Festival in mid-February in Hells's Gate and the World Rally Championship in April. “We are expecting hundreds of visitors during the period and we want to make sure that the road is in good shape by then,” he said. Senior government officers directed the youths to liaise with area chiefs on the about jobs and tenders. “For months flower farmers, hoteliers, visitors and workers of various companies have suffered due to the state of this road and we shall not condone more delays,” he said. One of the youths, Isaac Kibe, said the current workers did not hail from the area and had been "imported" by the contractor. Kibe said that in past meetings with area leaders, government representatives and the contractor, they had been promised job opportunities. “We had been told that we local youths shall be given the first priority but we have been ignored and, hence, the current impasse,” he said. A senior officer working on the road said that plans were underway to hire local youths, adding that the first lot was made up of drivers and machine operators. “We are first seeking diversions for motorists to use while we repair the main road and we shall definitely use the local labour,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)