A Senate team is considering visiting UK, US and some Middle East countries where the Managed Equipment Scheme has been successfully implemented. The details emerged as ad-hoc committee probing the acquisition of Sh63 billion equipment intensified its investigations into the programme. The committee chaired by Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo has been inquiring into the programme since last September following claims the deal was a major rip-off of the taxpayer. The Star has established that the panel is pondering visiting the counties for a comparatively analysis following complaints from various quarters about the programme. Medical experts and county governments have claimed that the government could have spent less amount had it directly purchased the medical gadgets instead of leasing them. There are also few technical personnel in the country to operate the sophisticated machines, they claimed. “We may want to look at other countries where this programme has been rolled out for the purpose of doing comparative analysis,” said Kitui senator Enoch Wambua, a committee member. “[We want to know] whether we, as a country, have the basis in terms of infrastructure, personnel and technical know-how to roll out the programme,” he added. In September last year, a Chinese firm that supplied theatre equipment for Sh4.5 billion, told the committee that the government would have spent Sh1.5 billion if it had made a direct purchase. Shenzhen Mindary Biomedical Company, however, said leasing was a better option for the government considering other variables – insurance, replacement of damaged equipment, repairs and maintenance. Kenya, the committee has established, is the first country in Africa to roll out the MES programme. Meantime, the panel has said it will summon Transport CS James Macharia to appear before it to explain the deal as it rushes to beat the deadline. Macharia was in charge of the Health docket at the time the Ministry signed the agreement with six equipment manufacturers and counties in 2015. In the deal signed at State House, a fixed sum of Sh95.7 million was supposed to be deducted annually for seven years at source from each of the 47 counties accounts to service the equipment. The initial contract sum was Sh38 billion. However, the deal was varied along the way and the mount increased to Sh63 billion. Health CS Sicily Kariuki will also appear before the committee – for a third time – to explain why the Ministry canceled the Sh4.9 billion Health Care Information Technology (HCIT) tender that had been awarded to a local company to support the programme. The ICT platform was meant to inter-link all the hospitals supplied with the gadgets. “We need to recall one or two people that we have spoken to deal with some supplementary issues that have arisen after we talked with them,” Wambua said. The committee is also set to visit selected hospitals across the country for a fact finding mission following revelations some of the machines are still sealed in boxes while others have never been operated since they were supplied for lack of technical personnel. So far, the committee has grilled top managers of the firms that supplied the equipment, Ministry of Health officials, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Kenya Medical Supplies Authority and Pharmacy and Poisons Board.