The name of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s deputy governor nominee, Anne Kananu, was on Wednesday tabled in the assembly and committed to the appointment committee. Earlier, a section of ODM MCAs led by its leadership walked out of the county assembly special sitting when Mwenda's name was tabled by Majority Leader Charles Thuo before the house for ventilation. Minority Leader David Mberia said ODM would not be part of an illegality. The Jubilee MCAs heckled them as they walked out. The High Court declined to bar Sonko from nominating a deputy governor pending his graft case and ordered he be served with suit papers. Sonko nominated Anne Kananu Mwenda as the deputy governor on January 6. The governor in a letter to assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said the decision was in line with Article 180(5) of the Constitution and the Supreme Court Advisory of March 2018. DPP Noordin Haji had said Sonko was in contravention of his bail terms by claiming to appoint a deputy. The embattled governor said the appointment was motivated by the complexity of the situation in Nairobi following his arraignment in court last month. He said though he was granted bail terms in a case he is accused of misusing public resources, the court required him as the county chief to stay out of office until the determination of the matter. "Given the foregoing, and in the interest of ensuring stability at Kenya’s Capital City and largest County by economy and population, I do hereby nominate Anne Kananu Mwenda to the position of Deputy Governor,” Sonko’s letter read. Kananu is the current chief officer for disaster and acting chief officer of water. She was among the original chief officers who were vetted and approved by  the assembly in April 2018. She has survived the constant reshuffles until November last year, when she was placed as the chief officer for water in an acting capacity. Her nomination comes two years after Polycap Igathe resigned, stating he could not continue to remain in office because he had failed to "earn the trust" of Sonko. Sonko nominated self-declared general Miguna Miguna as deputy governor in May 2018, but the nomination was shot down.