 Taita Taveta MCAs have stopped the deployment of county staff, including drivers and messengers, to clean hospitals saying the move was illegal. The county assembly said the directive requiring drivers, messengers and ship crew from the departments of Agriculture, Devolution and Administration and Livestock and Fisheries was arbitrary and ill-advised. The motion to halt the directive was moved by Wumingu/Kishushe MCA Newton Kifuso. “It is very shocking to see professionals being moved to offer cleaning services in health facilities. Whoever came up with that decision should be held accountable and all the affected staff taken back their initial positions,” Kifuso said. He is the chairman of the assembly’s Implementation Committee. He said the unprofessional management of the department arose after the alleged massive sacking of staff following an audit of the county's payroll. Kifuso said the audit and headcount of staff were done without any justifiable reasons and objectives. “The transfers have caused a lot of uproar and confusion amongst staff with many of those laid off complaining of unfair termination of contracts. All these issues must be addressed,” he said. Public Accounts and Investment Committee vice-chairperson Joan Akinyi sought a statement on the status of Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) where several teachers’ contracts were terminated last year. She said the termination affected learning activities in ECDE centers, to a larger extent causing the closure of some of the centers. “The county government recently engaged 90 ECDE teachers, a number that is lower than the ECDE centers which will affect learning. It is also alleged that some centers have been closed down due to these gaps,” Akinyi said. She asked Education executive Daniel Makoko to explain why newly contracted ECDE teachers were engaged on the same job group as market cleaners yet they are professionals. The assembly directed top education officials to appear before the committees of Justice and Legal Affairs, Labour, Health and Education to explain the employment confusion.  edited by p.o