Kenya Cup league leaders Kabras have bolstered their playing days by signing Zimbabwe prop Roy Mwale and Nakuru centre Walter Okoth during the just concluded transfer window. Head coach Hennley Du Plessis said Mwale can also play as hooker and will deputise for Max Adaka. "Mwale is versatile as he can play at loose head prop and hooker and that gives the technical bench options for the second half of the season," he noted Okoth will replace injured Kenyan international Nick Barasa who has had a troublesome knee injury. Okoth had a sensational 2019, where he was capped by the Kenya Simbas and played a pivotal role as Nakuru qualified for the season-ending Kenya Cup playoffs. He was also instrumental in Nakuru's resurgence in the national Sevens Series. Du Plessis termed Okoth as a superb player who has grown in leaps and bounds in the last one year. "He is one player who has shown great potential and will add value to the team,” added Du Plessis. The South African tactician termed the next two months as key in their quest to finish the group phase in top spot. The sugar millers lead the standings on 40 points and resumed training last week  following the Christmas and New Year festivities. “We resumed training last week with a couple of tests for the players and we hope to step up training in the next three days,” he added. Du Plessis' side face Nakuru at their backyard and the coach has described the hosts as a a bogey side for his charges. "We have always had close battles with them and this Saturday won't be different.  It will be a hard-fought match and we are well prepared for the task” he added Kabras will then welcome struggling Quins at home on January 18th before making the short trip to the lakeside town to face bottom of the table Kisumu RFC and then welcome Mwamba to the Kakamega Showground on February 1. Elsewhere, the Kenya Sevens and Lionesses squads have resumed training following the New Year break. Shujaa are preparing for the Hamilton and Sydney tournaments while the Lionesses are preparing for the World Sevens Series qualifiers slated for March in Hong Kong.      