The Public Accounts Committee of the Nairobi county assembly is probing alleged irregular transfer by City Hall of Sh1.2 billion land to Hass Petroleum Limited. According to the Auditor General’s 2017-18 report, the county government could have lost Sh1.2 billion in the purported land transfer and destroyed properties worth Sh22 million. The report says Nanyuki Road store and depot land measuring 3.03 hectares (eight acres) in Industrial Area had been reserved for road maintenance materials. But officials at City Hall hived off 1.227 hectares (three acres) and allocated Hass Petroleum Limited. The Auditor General’s report questioned the transfer of the public land to a private company. The auditor noted there were no records to show the decision to hand the petrol firm the land was above board. On Wednesday, City Hall director of survey Geoffrey Cheruiyot told the PAC that on February 3, 2010, the land was leased to Hass Ltd for a period of 50 years after a council meeting on January 26, 2010. It transpired that a valuation of the land was never carried out. What was done was ground rent valuation to determine the rate to be paid by the company for occupying the land. The county government’s director of valuation Isaac Nyoike confirmed that the valuation was done to determine ground rent only. “The survey to confirm the size of the land was done, but three years later in 2013 after the firm had occupied the land,” he said. Nyoike told the MCAs the transfer was necessary because Hass Petroleum had been contracted to supply bitumen and fuel for burning asphalt to the county at a discounted rate. The firm no longer supplies fuel to City Hall but had converted the land to commercial use. “Initially Sh650,000 was the amount the firm was required to pay [per year] for ground rent on industrial use but when the company changed the use of land to commercial use the amount increased to Sh 1.2 million,” he said. Acting urban planning chief officer Jairus Musumba was asked whether the lease agreement between City hall and Hass Limited allowed change of use. This was after the watchdog committee discovered there was ongoing construction of a wall that City Hall said was a fuel storage depot. “The development was approved in 2013 and was done by the planning department,” Musumba said. He however failed to disclose who signed the approval for the development plan. Hass Petroleum lawyer Feisal Ibrahim was ordered to leave the committee meeting because the MCAs said they had invited the managing director of the company. He was branded a “stranger” by minority leader David Mberia. “Are you ready to take an oath on behalf of your client because you were supposed to come in person with him? This is not a game and this a very serious committee that you are joking with,”said Peter Imwatok, minority chief whip. The lawyer said CEO Salat Mohammed had travelled to Uganda. PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo directed that Hass CEO appears before the committee on February 11 together with county officers. “This is not the first time that the Hass boss has failed to appear before this committee. If he ignores again we shall issue a summons,"  he ruled.