Kakamega Homeboyz are poised to lose two key players to Kenyan Premier League rivals after it was confirmed that Ulinzi Stars have signed defender Festus Okiring while another topflight competitor, KCB has acquired first choice goalkeeper Gabriel Andika . The Kakamega-based side will also miss the services of midfielders Festo Omukoto who has joined Western Stima and Andrew Waiswa who has gone back to be close to his family in Uganda. The quartet’s departure, however, will not deter the good run of the team, according to Homeboyz team manager Boniface Imbenzi. Imbenzi revealed that the club was organised and already had replacements equal to the task and that they remain stronger than ever and fully focused on fighting for the league title. He appreciated the services of the outgoing players and wished them well in their new teams. “I thank the outgoing players for the commitment and sacrifice they exhibited in the team and wish them well. They requested to be released and we couldn’t stand in their way but rather respect their wishes knowing very well that these things are normal in this business,” he said “This will also give other players the opportunity to rise and show what they can offer in Kenyan football,” Imbenzi added. He disclosed that the club had acquired the services of goalkeeper Alele Sheikh and defender Mohammed Kazungu both formerly students at St. Peter's Mumias boys, offensive midfielder Philemon Otieno from the relegated Sony FC, midfielder Kevin Omondi from Chemelil and striker Justus Anene who is unattached. “Our main objective is to lay good long term structures that will see the team become one of the top teams in the country,” he reiterated. Imbenzi remained optimistic that the team will continue using the Bukhungu Stadium that is under renovation in order to give fans the opportunity to watch their favourite team and support them towards their charge for what would be a historic first league title. Nicholas Muyoti’s charges are back in action this weekend when they face Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, two weeks after claiming a memorable win over holders Gor Mahia. 