Nakuru RFC  and Kenya Cup league leaders Kabras are engaged in a fiery war of words following the failed transfer of centre Walter Okoth. With the transfer window already closed, the sugar millers are blaming Nakuru of failing to release Okoth, whom they have now suspended. Nakuru are said to have asked for Sh1m transfer fee for the centre after Kabras expressed their interest in the youngster on December 9 last year. In a series of documents and emails seen by The Star, Kabras want Kenya Rugby Union Honorable Secretary Ian Mugambi, the Head of Disciplinary Committee, to declare Okoth's capacity as illegal and void ab initio and in breach of regulation 18 of the KRU Regulations and be expunged from all Union records. Nakuru failed to effect Okoth's transfer during the mid-season transfer window, forcing the player to deregister from the club, making him a free agent and thus able to join a club of his choice. Kabras are banking on regulation 13.6.7 which states: “A Player (other than a Contracted Player) may apply in writing to the Registrar to be de-registered from a club. The player must notify the club of his application and confirm to the Registrar that he has notified the club." "The player will cease to hold effective registration with the cub seven days from the Registrar’s receipt of the application or such shorter period as the Registrar may determine." According to the KRU charter, a dispute of this nature needs to be sorted out in five days and according to Kabras chairman, Philip Jalango time has elapsed. “It's now a month since we started seeking Okoth's release. The player has said he wants to join Kabras and Nakuru are just playing politics” added Jalango said Nakuru has had a history of protracted transfer negotiations citing the cases of Dalmas Chituyi, Geoffrey Ominde and Monate Akuei. Mugambi said a decision will be made before the end of the week."I'm studying the documents and we will make a decision in the coming days on the matter,” added Mugambi. Nakuru, on their part, insist they will not release the player, whom they have nurtured since when he joined the club about four years ago aged 17. 