President Uhuru Kenyatta has challenged political leaders from his Mt Kenya backyard to concentrate on development projects instead of focusing on unending politics. “Wananchi elected me to work for them and hence I will focus on what is my mandate. I will personally return to this place to come and inspect the progress of this road. Those who are politicking are doing so for their selfish interests,” Uhuru said. Uhuru spoke on Friday when he launched the construction of Shs 1.8 billion Naivasha to Njabini road in Nyandarua County. The upgrading of the 32-kilometre earth road to bitumen standard is expected to be completed by August 2022. He said he will continue to spearhead efforts to unite Kenyans vowing that no one will stop his efforts towards building lasting peace and harmony in the country. “We cannot afford to continue having a cycle of violence and destruction of property after every five years. I am determined to bring all Kenyans together for peace and development,” Uhuru said. The President insisted he will continue selling his vision of a prosperous country directly to citizens at the grassroots. This comes hours after former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri launched a scathing attack on Uhuru, accusing the head of state of insincerity in his push for national unity. In a brazen criticism of the President since his sacking on January 14, Kiunjuri said Uhuru was sacrificing some politicians in the process of courting new allies. The fiery politician was referring to Uhuru's handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga which has left Deputy President William Ruto and his allies isolated in government. Kiunjuri spoke in Kiambu on Wednesday where he promised to stick with Ruto. He said no leader can purport to speak about unity of a country while destroying others in what appeared to be a swipe aimed at the President's Building Bridges Initiative crusade. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has also openly attacked Uhuru claiming he was sacrificing the Kikuyu community to please Raila with a proposal for a parliamentary system. "Now I hear they are bringing the parliamentary system and you know too well that we do not have enough parliamentary seats. Anyone who can take back Kikuyus to a Parliamentary system may they be cursed," Kuria protested.