A primary school pupil committed suicide in Muteithia village in Maraigushu Naivasha after falling out with his parents. The body of the Standard 6 pupil at Koinange Primary School was found hanging from a tree within the family’s compound. He had refused to report to class for the school's first term. There were conflicting reports over the incident with some relatives saying that the minor was against a move to repeat a class. Others said that the boy had told his parents that he was no longer interested in going back to school. The Wednesday afternoon incident shocked the parents who were yet to come to terms with the loss of their second-born son. A neighbour, Kimani, said that the minor had in the past repeated class over his poor performance. It had adversely affected him. “The siblings say that the boy left them inside the house before they found his body dangling from a tree within their compound,” he said. Naivasha police boss Samuel Waweru said that the body had been collected and taken to the mortuary. “We have opened an inquest file as it’s the norm following the suicide incident and this will help us in our investigations,” he said. Meanwhile, a motorcycle operator was hit and killed by a speeding motorist along Moi South Lake Road in Naivasha. The accident came a week after another one was killed along the same road as cases involving the operators rise. In the latest incident, the motorist who escaped from the scene was manoeuvring a pothole along the dilapidated road when hit the operator. Matatu driver Paul Kimani said that the speeding car which was headed to Naivasha did not stop after the accident. He noted that the poor status of the road that leads to flower farms and Hell's  Gate National Park had caused problems to residents. “We have seen an increase in accidents along this road including the latest one and its time the status of this road was addressed,” he said. Waweru said that the body was lying at the Naivasha Subcounty Hospital mortuary.