Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday dismissed claims that his political marriage to President Uhuru Kenyatta is over. Ruto instead said as far as he knows, he is only married to one wife - Rachel - and not anyone else. "I have heard many stories, and I have read many headlines - the marriage has died... bromance, and love. My friend, Uhuru Kenyatta is married to Margaret; and I am married to Rachael," he said. Ruto was responding to a question about his relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta in Jubilee party during an interview on NTV. He added, "There is no marriage business here. We were elected by the people of Kenya to do a job. Uhuru Kenyatta as president, me as his assistant. What you should be asking me is, ‘are you delivering on the job you were given by Kenyans?". Ruto further dismissed claims that the government is frustrating him. "I have heard the narrative that I am fighting the President but many people who are running the narrative are people in NASA. They have never voted for Uhuru Kenyatta but are now inciting him against me," he said. Ruto said when Uhuru Kenyatta came to Parliament as a nominated MP for the first time, he played a key role in convincing Mark Too to resign so that Uhuru would get the chance. When Uhuru was further endorsed as President, many people gave him a 'warm look' but Ruto maintains he stood with him until he conceded. "When Uhuru was looking for someone to support him in 2013, everyone refused including Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Eugene Wamalwa, but I was willing to stand by him," he said. Ruto added, "I have supported Uhuru Kenyatta at every turn. There is no politician who has done what I have done for him. They insulted him, called him all manner of names and now want to lecture me on how to relate with him. Please give me a break". His sentiments come amid talk about the state of his relationship with Uhuru. The UhuRuto relationship that blossomed in 2013 started plummeting at the beginning of their second term in office in 2018. It would worsen with the Handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga in March of the same year. Two months to the second anniversary of the Handshake, the house of Jubilee is like the biblical Tower of Babel. UhuRuto's relationship is now characterised by hard-hitting remarks targeted at each other. The one-time unified Jubilee is in a shambles and the Cabinet deeply divided. To cut his political influence to size, President Kenyatta issued an Executive Order in January last year in a reorganisation that gave Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i more powers. By granting the CS supervisory roles across government, the President whittled his principal assistant's influence and in essence, ended his countrywide tours to launch and commission state projects. Ruto later devised a way of traversing the country, opting for church harambees, women empowerment projects, and commissioning CDF -funded projects. In another well-crafted plan, senior officials in the Office of the President started giving instructions to county commissioners and security officers to stop attending the DP's functions. Of late, the state operatives have designed a plan where MPs, CSs or even junior government officials are sent to various functions where the DP is “to represent the President - to read his speeches or make contributions”.