Veteran Tusker head coach Robert Matano has appealed to the government to hasten the renovation works at the Nyayo  Stadium and upgrade the stalled City Stadium. The two facilities located on the periphery of the Central Business District have been closed for years to pave way for renovation works but their expected dates of reopening remains a mystery. City Stadium was shut in 2016 to have the worn out artificial turf replaced but status quo has remained four years later. On the other hand,Nyayo was closed in 2017 for a face-lift ahead of the 2018 Chan Championships but the Confederation of African Football later withdrew the hosting rights after the facility failed to meet the renovation deadline. Matano now wants the government to fast-track the refurbishment of the two to benefit the sportsmen who have had to look for alternatives far and wide. Nairobi-based clubs, which ply their trade in the Kenyan Premier League, have been hosting their matches at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos and the Moi Stadium Kasarani albeit only the duo of Mathare United and Kariobangi Sharks play their home matches at the facility. “Sports is like any other industry as it offers full time employment. The government imposes taxes on sportsmen and it can only be fair if they complete the works at Nyayo and City Stadium as well as other venues. We are over using Machakos and Kasarani is not always available to all teams,”he noted. At the same time, Gor Mahia team manager Jolawi Obondo has called on the government save the top tier from the jaws of bankruptcy. Obondo challenged the administrators to bridge the financial gap left by the betting firm SportPesa who exited the Kenyan market citing unfavourable business environment. He narrated how it has been tough in mobilising players to attend training sessions and match days and pleaded with the government to save them from dishing walkovers. “From the time SportPesa left, the top flight was thrown in shambles. Clubs, players, referees and those who benefit from football are suffering. My job at Gor has been relatively tough as I have to beg players to attend training and matches. We have come close to dishing out walkovers recently and it’s a shame that we have to beg so as to honour matches,” he noted.