The BBI initiative led by Raila Odinga is not meant to unite Kenyans but is a well-choreographed scheme to undercut and sideline DP William Ruto ahead of 2022, his allies have claimed Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, his Kandara counterpart Alice Wahome and other leaders allied to Ruto said the DP is "continually being humiliated" in government as part of a wider scheme to block him from ascending to power in 2022. Wahome said President Uhuru Kenyatta must ensure his succession is managed properly. “It is time Uhuru came out and spoke about his succession to avoid all these conflicts we are witnessing,” she said. Sudi said the DP had gone through a lot of problems, yet he is second in command. “They have tried the corruption trap, they have tried to write all manner of things in newspapers, they have even chased him from government houses and also reduced his security team, but we know all those schemes,” he said. Wahome said Kenyans fought hard for the democratic space. “We will fight for DP Ruto at all costs,” Wahome said. They spoke during a fundraiser at St Mary’s Osurungai Catholic Church in Turbo constituency, where they were hosted by Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibet. Others present included Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici, Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, Trans Nzoia Woman Representative Janet Nangabo and her Uasin Gishu counterpart Gladys Shollei.Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali and MP Janet Sitienei were also present. Sudi also claimed that round two of the BBI initiative was started after those fighting DP Ruto realised that he had accepted the report against their wish and plan. “They thought he would also oppose the BBI rallies, but we have accepted. We know all the tricks they have and this time it will not be easy,” Sudi said. MP Barasa said the DP and his allies are aware of all schemes against them. “We are aware of every tribulation the DP is going through. We expect more, and we will fight on,” he said. Washali, who is also Mumias MP, said those branding DP Ruto as a bad person do not understand him.   