Good evening, A Jubilee legislator has opposed a move by leaders in the party to join the ongoing BBI popularisation rallies, saying they are ODM leader Raila Odinga’s 2022 campaign meetings. Saturday's BBI rally that was scheduled for Tononoka Grounds in Mombasa has been moved to Mama Ngina waterfront. The announcement was made by ODM leader Raila Odinga who is attending a forum on the BBI organised by Coast Governors. “We are moving to a bigger, spacious ground,” Mombasa Governor Hasan Joho told the Star earlier. Jubilee MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have convened a meeting next week to frame out a raft of issues they want incorporated in the final BBI report. The legislators drawn from across the country are expected in Naivasha for a two-day meeting starting Sunday to build consensus on their proposals to be submitted to the Building Bridges Initiative task force. As of  Thursday, 123 MPs from Mt Kenya, the Rift Valley, Western, South Nyanza, Northeastern, Eastern and the Coast region had registered to attend. Four MPs have said Deputy President William Ruto should not expect preferential treatment in today's (Saturday) BBI forum if he does not apologise for badmouthing previous meetings. They said Ruto and his allies should not give conditions on how the process should be undertaken. The demand for the apology came from Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) and Mark Nyamita at Parliament Buildings in Nairobi on Friday. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has been charged at a Milimani court with assault and causing bodily harm. He is said to have unlawfully assaulted Joyce Wanja Gacoe at Royal Media Services offices in Kilimani on December 8, 2019. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges and through Senior Counsel John Khaminwa, asked for affordable bail and bond terms. Sarah Wairimu, the widow of Dutchman Tob Cohen, claims that the DCI and ODPP have disregarded orders allowing her to collect her clothes and cosmetics from the matrimonial home. The High Court had last week allowed the widow to access her Farasi Lane home in Kitisuru to collect her clothes, make-up kit and handbags. Her access was, however, restricted to the bedroom she was using before her arrest in connection with Cohen's murder.