President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto yesterday kept off politics as they met for the first time in public in the New Year. They met at AIC Milimani during the installation of new AIC presiding Bishop Abraham Mulwa. Organisers had to interrupt the programme and allow President Kenyatta to make his speech after which he left immediately to attend to family commitments. He left Ruto and a host of politicians in the church. And when he was escorted out, outgoing Bishop Yego Silas Yego led the way and walked shoulder to shoulder with the President, while Ruto was several steps behind the two. There was also a conspicuous breach of protocol when Uhuru was invited to make his remarks. This reignited the much-talked-about notion that the relationship between the two leaders is at its lowest in years. The two are said to have drifted apart following the March 9, 2018 handshake between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Kenyatta. Uhuru didn't talk politics and instead called on the faithful and the clergy to pray for the peace and unity of the country, noting that the church and the state go hand in hand. "We seek your support to bring peace, unity among our people. I appreciate the role churches play in supporting the government in healthcare, education, counseling and many more areas. We shall continue working together in seeking peace and unity,” Uhuru said. The service was also attended by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony, Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, senators Gideon Moi (Baringo), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and a host of Cabinet secretaries and MPs. Ruto too avoided politics and urged Kenyans to work together for the sake of peace and unity of the country. “It is time for all Kenyans to unite and work together,” the DP said. Sakaja noted the country needs the voice of the church at this moment and assured Kenyans that the high political temperatures caused by the BBI campaigns will soon cool off. “We have more that unites than divides us as a country,” he said. Mulwa was taking over the church’s leadership from outgoing bishop Yego, who has been at the helm of AIC for the last 18 years.