The Director of Public Prosecutions was on Wednesday prohibited from charging former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama with incitement to violence over an issue that happened in 2015. Muthama was in 2015 accused of making inflammatory utterances during a Coalition for Reforms and Democracy rally at Uhuru Park. The politician had questioned the government’s willingness to deal with graft especially at the National Youth Service. It was alleged that the words he uttered were disrespectful to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Anne Waiguru, who was the Devolution Cabinet Secretary. He was arrested and prosecuted but he argued in court through lawyer John Khaminwa that the incitement to violence was contrary to section 96 of the Penal Code and offended the right to a fair trial. Justices Jessie Lesiit, Luka Kimaru and John Mativo on Wednesday declared the section unconstitutional as it shifts the legal and evidential burden of proof to the accused. The judges said the section is not only in conflict with article 50 of the Constitution but it offends the common law in that “it is always for the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused and that the proof must be beyond a reasonable doubt”. The DPP had argued that the impugned provision is constitutional and that it only imposes evidential burden on the accused. The judges ruled that the burden of proof in criminal cases never leaves the prosecution's backyard and that section 96 (a) of the Penal Code is in conflict with article 50 of the constitution. “It imposes the burden of proof on the prosecution. The prosecution must prove the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt,” they said. The court recommended that the Attorney General should, within a year, prepare a Bill to improve the deficiency in section 96 of the Penal Code so that the importance and intent of the impugned provisions are maintained. The judges said that the late Interior CS Joseph Nkaiserry had no powers to direct the NCIC to investigate Muthama for the remarks he uttered on November 24, 2015. “The CS cannot under any circumstances direct the DPP on what criminal proceedings to commence or continue with,” the court ruled.