Police officers are yet to arrest suspects who killed a 60-year-old woman and injured her two children on Friday in Nyariginu village, Laikipia East subcounty. In what appeared to be a ritual murder, the suspects, said to be about seven, slaughtered a lamb and placed its carcass on the door to the main house before the killings. Lucy Wanjiru and her two children Ruth Njoki, 22 and Ian Mathege, 25 were attacked in their home at 3am. On Sunday, chief Wang’ombe Wanjau told the Star on the phone that security agents had crucial information that might lead to the arrest of the suspects. “Tension remained high in the home on Saturday night and security officers were called by family members but found nothing,” the administrator said. Margaret Wamuyu, a neighbour and the chairman of Nyumba Kumi Initiative said they found the body of the elderly woman in a bathroom with blood all over the floor. They suspected the mother of three bled to death because neighbours took long to arrive. A 38-year-old member of the who is living with disability was the only one who was spared. “The woman heard commotion outside her house and thought it was her livestock being stolen. Upon opening the main door, the assailants forced their way in and attacked the three people. They left without stealing anything,” Wamuyu said. The woman's two children managed to flee despite suffering severe injuries on the head, hands and other body parts, and alerted their neighbours who responded. The three were taken to Nanyuki Teaching and Referral hospital by a Laikipia county ambulance where the woman was pronounced dead upon arrival. Magethe is still recuperating at the medical facility while his sister was discharged the same day and is recovering at home. Sources say that the woman and her family settled in the area a few years ago after their residence was set ablaze by unknown people at Muthaiga Estate in the outskirts of Nanyuki town. Area MCA Daniel Mugweru said that the incident has left residents shocked. He called on the police to conduct thorough investigations and bring to book those behind the attack. Mugweru said that former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri donated land in the area for construction of a police post and urged the government to hasten the project.