Most men who show up for the ongoing male birth control study at the Kenyatta National Hospital are turned away because they are hypertensive. Others are disqualified because their partners are breastfeeding. A trial committee intends to enlist more than 420 couples globally for the study, 60 of them from Kenya. “Currently we have 15 men who have gone through the initial phase of the study. The requirements involve both examination and laboratory tests. Only four are already applying the gel,” Dr John Kinuthia said. Kinuthia is the head of Research and Programmes at KNH. He is the Kenya site principal investigator for the tw0-year study, which on completion in 2022 might shift the family planning burden to the man. It is a collaboration between Washington University and KNH. The male partner is subjected to clinical laboratory work involving investigation on his sperm count, health and suitability. The study runs for 4-8 weeks for each individual. The second phase involves sperm suppression. In this phase, the man applies the 5ml gel on his right upper arm and shoulder daily for 20 weeks. This is expected to reduce the sperm level to the point in which the man is incapable of impregnating a woman. The gel being tested is composed of the hormone nestorone, a progestin hormone commonly used for female contraception and testosterone. The combination gel, technically referred to as the NES/T, is a novel, reversible contraceptive for men designed to be absorbed through the skin on the upper arms and shoulders. Kinuthia said the gel has been formulated such that it won't have any side effects such as reducing libido or having adverse effects on the skin. “If someone is participating in research and this is something which they are helping, you don’t want them to come and develop side effects as a result of a product you are using. The product has been made in such a way that the possibility of the side effects is very low.  We are monitoring as the process goes on.” The third phase is the efficacy stage where the woman is required to stop using any contraception and rely solely on the man's contraception. The man does not apply the gel at this stage. In the second year, the man is put in a monitoring arrangement that restores his sperm level to before he took the first gel smear. “The adherence has been good in terms of follow-up. The couples have come for all the visits that they are supposed to and we monitor their semen levels and it is actually showing a response,” Kinuthia said. Other sites are in Los Angeles, Seattle and Kansas City in the US. Chile, England, Italy, Scotland and Sweden will start the trials next month. In terms of eligibility, male partners should be between 18 and 50. They should not be having any medical condition and must be in a monogamous relationship. The age for the maximum age for the female partner is 34. “There are a lot of men who would be interested in having these alternatives if only they are readily available. For women, it is a menu – you choose what works best for you. "It should be the same for men. Why should men be restricted to vasectomy and condoms?” Kinuthia asked. Unlike vasectomy which is permanent, the gel is reversible and should a couple be in need of a child, the man stops using it. Kinuthia said the method will come in handy for couples where the woman is unable to use any of the available family planning methods due to the side effects.