Ahead of the 2020 Kenya Hockey union Premier League season that commences in late February, United States International University-A Spartans have been challenged to be ruthless if they are to break Blazers' dominance. Spartans have set their sight on upgrading their second-place finish last season despite being the bookmakers' favourites. The students had their season on track, going toe to toe with Blazers, but humiliating 4-0 defeat to the defending champions in November and September's 2-1 loss to Amira Sailors saw them go off rail and never recovered. The attacking department was their major undoing and striker Vivian Esimi's injury in July — which ruled out for the rest of the season —  spelt more doom since they could only manage 20 goals in the rest of the campaign. The second-year student in Information Systems and Technology had fitted seamlessly into the team but her early promise — where she scored four of the team's seven goals — was brought to an abrupt end. Even as the team looks to strengthen upfront, coach Willis Okeyo wants his side to forget about dethroning Balzers and instead ensure they grind out results match after match. He also revealed that they will bring in at least four signings while Esimi's return will be a major boost. He said: "We were so near yet so far and it was down to our toothless attack. I want  merciless attacking players who can get goals and win points for the team. Last season, any clinical team could have won the title but come 2020, I think we can break this monotony of one team exercising control over the league." "We need to win our matches and not concentrate on Blazers. They had a superior goal difference and that was what separated them from the rest of the teams. We beat opponents 1-0 and they won against the same opposition 4-0 or 5-0. We will not undermine any team but we will look to start strongly too in order to build momentum," he added. Okeyo added that the acquisition of one defender will add more steel to the department that kept 10 clean sheets, the most in the women's division last term.