When nominated MP Maina Kamanda was driving home his point during the BBI rally in Kisii on Friday, he said leaders from Mt Kenya region moving around with DP William Ruto and promising him the region’s support are just after his money, alluding to the region's history of not returning political favours. A source who was among the leaders sitting on the dais whispered to Corridors that as Kamanda hammered home his point, some leaders got uncomfortable. Should they continue taking the politician’s support seriously? Some leaders were overheard asking if they will equally be spurned by the same group Kamanda was referring to when the hour of reckoning eventually comes. *** Running for President in Kenya is not a walk in the park. It requires huge financial muscle and the ability to build a countrywide network of friends. This reality seems to have dawned on Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who has tactically made a 360 about-turn on his ambition to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. Some months ago, Kuria wouldn't want to hear anything to do with DP William Ruto. Within a flash of time, he went on a shopping spree for a political party he would use to run in 2022. But recently, he moved back to Ruto's camp, vowing to support his presidential quest. Interesting times indeed. *** A governor from the Coast region is a man under siege. Reason? It's reported that the county boss is on a looting spree, swindling the county and banking the money through a budding politician from Western Kenya. Whereas the county is plagued by high poverty and unemployment, the governor and his friend, who doubles up as his political advisor, rarely go to the coastal county. Instead, they chew life in high-end Nairobi hotels and clubs. They have rented out a top hotel where they stay and strike deals and have acquired immense wealth in the past two years. Concerned residents want the EACC and the asset recovery agency to move in and rein in the two. *** A former MP from the Mt Kenya region is a happy woman. Those in the know say she has managed to sweet talk a Cabinet secretary in one of the leading ministries to appoint her boyfriend as the managing director of a parastatal. Word has it that the boyfriend has landed the big job and has promised to treat the woman like a queen. It is said the woman is planning to abandon her current husband and get married to the new MD. The MD, on the other hand, is said to be thoroughly smitten and is considering abandoning his wife for the former lawmaker.