The Kenya Railways Corporation has set aside Sh1 billion to rehabilitate the 240-kilometre Nanyuki-Nairobi Railway Line, Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said on Tuesday. Former Kenya Railways Managing Director Atanas Maina had estimated that the rehabilitation would cost Sh25 billion. Mt Kenya counties will not be required chip in Sh100 million each as earlier agreed.  The counties involved are Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Laikipia, Nyandarua and Isiolo. In 2017 the Central Kenya Economic Bloc governors had agreed to contribute  Sh100 million each. Muriithi said the metre-gauge line might be extended to Isiolo, Meru and Tharaka Nithi in future. The rehabilitation will be three-phased — Nanyuki-Marwa, Marwa-Sagana and Sagana-Thika. The governor was optimistic that the standoff at Chaka and Karatina markets between traders and the county government will be sorted out amicably. When completed, trains will move livestock, petroleum products and other products between Nairobi and Nanyuki. There will also be passenger services. The county bosses had met in Laikipia where they deliberated on how the metre-gauge railway could become operational by May 2018. Maina, who attended the 2017 meeting, said the contribution by the counties was a show of commitment towards the project and major funding would come from the national government. Then Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru, while briefing the media after a three-hour meeting at Maiyan Hotel, said the railway project would open inter-county trade and eventually move to Isiolo to link up with Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (LAPSSET) corridor. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu said Nairobi and Kiambu counties stood to benefit massively from rail transport which stopped operating nine years ago after it was revived by Transport minister John Michuki in 2004. “Foods from Nyeri, Laikipia, Kirinyaga and Murang’a will easily find ready markets in the capital city. Our aim of making the rail line operational is to boost trade by linking northern Kenya with the capital city thereby creating employment,” Waititu had said. The governors present were Muriithi, Gakuru and Waititu. Nairobi was represented by Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe while apologies were received from Isiolo, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Nyandarua. Edited by R.Wamochie