Wishes of Kiambu residents on Governor Ferdinand Waititu will now be heard at Senate plenary without fear of compromise, Okoa Kiambu group has said. The Kiambu lobby group led a campaign to have Governor Waititu impeached. Last year in November, they collected 211,000 signatures from Kiambu residents who were allegedly dissatisfied with the leadership of the county boss whom they accused of corruption and abuse of office. The group later took a petition to the county assembly. Waititu has been charged with graft and is currently barred from office. The county assembly passed an impeachment motion sponsored by Ndenderu MCA Solomon Kinuthia and Kahawa Wendani's Cyrus Omondi which later landed in the Senate. The Senate, however, held a special sitting on Tuesday when they had options of having a committee of 11 senators investigate the allegations tabled against Waititu or have the Senate plenary grill the governor. The Senate plenary will conduct the process after a rift between Jubilee members played out with some alleging that the committee will be biased. They were referring to an alleged prior meeting with Waititu. The lobby group camped outside the Senate, as the session went on, with placards expressing confidence in the Senate, corruption-free devolution and 'Waititu must go'. Kiambu resident Mary Wanjiru said there would have been no justice for residents if it was left to a few senators to decide the county chief's fate "since the committee had proved there was internal Jubilee political divide". Nominated Senator Isaack Mwaura wrote on Facebook, "I am happy to have led a revolt on the floor of the house of the Senate that had a pre-determined list to favour Waititu so that his impeachment could fail from the word go." "Six of the members had been briefed and met Waititu yesterday in order to save him at the expense of the welfare of the people of Kiambu. They continue to suffer due to the current leadership crisis lacking medicine in hospitals, poor road networks, delayed approvals, lack of clean water," the post read. Further adding, "Why did he delay in recalling the house from recess as stipulated in law? Now Waititu will have to face the whole plenary. You can bribe a small group of senators but not the whole house. Let justice prevail for the people of Kiambu." Hoswel Kinuthia from Kiambaa said Kiambu residents were not on a selfish expedition or working on behalf of any politician whims but only seeking their rights. "We cannot allow this to continue at our expense,” he said. Makas Kamau said good governance in the county government should be upheld adding that Kiambu people feel that they have missed a lot in development with Governor Waititu at the helm. "We sent Waititu to the office to work for us but now we are regretting since he has failed us and if it means that he is removed from office for our own benefit they let it be so. We are looking to the Senate to save devolution and Kiambu," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie