Police will detain 43 terrorism suspects seized at Alison and Atlas College in Eastleigh for two days pending investigations. Investigating officers had asked Nairobi magistrate Zainab Abdul to allow them to hold the suspects for five days. “I will allow the police to hold the respondents for two days since I have to give the investigating officers ample time to complete investigations,” Abdul said. Earlier, the suspects had asked that the filed application be dismissed as it did not have anything to associate them with terrorism. The suspects were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly operating and enrolling Somali refugees for English and Kiswahili languages. The 43 include two managers, a secretary, two teachers and 38 students of Atlas and Alison community colleges based at 1st Avenue. Among those arraigned were Atlas College managers and directors Nasra Noor Ibrahim, Ali Yusuf Ali, Asha Ali Sarat and Edward Mulumba. They are said to be running an institution providing training before admission. According to the detectives, the colleges have been operating without licences from the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority (TVETA). They have been enrolling Somali refugees for language classes after which terror agents recruit students from the colleges, according to the prosecution. The recruitment is alleged to be mainly for information gathering once the students master English and Swahili languages. Investigating officer Richard Ngatia told the court that some of the suspects have been communicating with members of the Somalia-based al Shabaab terrorists. The police believe the 43 have associates in and out of the country who yet to be apprehended. The state applied for the suspects to remain in custody so that they do not interfere with witnesses. In court papers seen by the Star, 15 of the suspects are in the country illegally and without documents to ascertain their nationality. Eight of them have valid passports with expired visas. Thirteen have documents which need to be ascertained. So far, the mobile phones found on them have been subjected to forensic analysis at the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit ICT laboratory. The investigators are yet to obtain the call data records to confirm any terrorism links. Edited by R.Wamochie