The recent profligacy in front of goal may yet force Sofapaka to delve back into the transfer market for a proven goalscorer, coach John Baraza has revealed 24 hours before the window closes tonight. Baraza has seen his side drop five points in the space of four days after their surprise draw against rock bottom Chemelil and a defeat on Wednesday away to 3-time back-to-back champions and current Kenyan Premier League leaders, Gor Mahia. “We  have played well in our last two matches but our finishing has been disappointing and frustrating,” said the tactician. “It is something we are determined to work on before our next match. But with the transfer window still open, I think we still have the opportunity of bringing in a proven goalscorer to address the goal-scoring problems we are enduring at the moment,”added Baraza, a finisher of no mean repute during his playing days with Batoto Ba Mungu . Baraza remains the club's all-time leading scorer in the KPL. The club yesterday revealed that they have recruited Brian Kayanja from Ugandan club Bright Stars on a two-year deal. The loss to Gor was only the second time Baraza has tasted defeat at the helm of Sofapaka. In  his second stint in full charge of the club, he had  only lost to KCB previously.  The former striker expressed confidence that his team can galvanise themselves when the second leg kicks off and still achieve their objectives for the season. “We have very huge targets as a team. We want to always compete and win trophies. I still believe we have the players capable of doing that. As a coach, my job is to ensure the players play to their full potential if we are to meet our objectives,” re-asserted Baraza. With a shortage of reliable goal scorers and with the transfer window heading towards its closure, Baraza may be forced to get the best out of experienced striker Kepha Aswani and get Brian Nyakan, who are firing on all cylinders again after a poor run of form in front of goal. Sofapaka next take on Mathare United tomorrow, hoping to halt the two-match winless run.