 City Hall's head of security and enforcement Tito Kilonzi has been recalled by the National Police Service for redeployment. At the same time, security guards attacked to Nairobi county executives and chief officers have also been recalled "due to acute shortage" Kilonzi who bade farewell to workers at City Hall on Tuesday said another officer will be posted to take over his role. He said he was grateful to have served at City Hall. "I wish to thank the Governor for appointing me to serve in his government. During my service, I brushed shoulders with some of you in a wrong way but it was nthing personal," Kilonzi said. Kilonzi admitted his work was very challenging and often did not see eye to eye with many of his colleagues. "I had nothing personal, but the job had to be done. It's extremely hard to please everyone. That is exactly what I did. Those who may have offended me, I unequivocally tender my forgiveness to them all," he said. The county's head of security and enforcement reports to the governor and is the secretary to the County Government Enforcement and Security Advisory Committee. His roles include planning, coordinating and administration of county enforcement and formulation and implementation of enforcement and security strategies. The head of security is also the chief officer on matters affecting the civilian security function including welfare and discipline of county enforcement staff. He also participates in procurement of tools and services for the enforcement and security unit and gives sustainable solutions to the security challenges. The two departments of City Inspectorate and Investigations and Information Analysis are directly under the head of security. The two sectors' key mandate is to enforce and ensure compliance with county laws. They also provide security services to county VIPs, properties and installations and promote good governance and best practices in enhancing service delivery. On Sunday, Kilonzi informed executives and chief officers that their security guards would be withdrawn. He said the aides would be withdrawn for redeployment, citing acute shortage in the service. County VIPs are guarded by City Hall askaris who are armed. They also guard the county attorney and county secretary. "Good morning waziris (executives) and county chief officers. Kindly but regrettably, effective from tomorrow January 27 [Monday], no waziri (executive) or chief officer will have security aides. We have withdrawn them for redeployment due to acute shortage," Kilonzi told the officials via WhatsApp. However, the executives and chief officers can be given security when they are on official duty and in places where the environment is hostile. "While on official duty in any of the insecurity volatile subcounties, you are advised to get in touch, upfront with respective subcounty commanders to provide you with the necessary security coverage. Please understand and bear with us," the communication reads. On Saturday, the county inspectorate armed guards were taken for refresher courses at the Kirigiti Shooting Range in Kiambu which is owned by the National Gun Owners Association.  edited by peter obuya