Kenya and the UK have signed an MoU towards research and training in cancer treatment. Kenya’s High Commissioner to the UK Manoah Esipisu signed the MoU with Christie NHS Foundation Trust CEO Roger Spenser, which he said will improve oncology services in Kenya. “The MoU will see Kenya achieve access to education and training opportunities as well as the establishment of the Centre of Excellence in oncology research and education," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Tuesday. In addition, the centre will offer advice on procurement and capacity building as well as guidance on the development of clinical protocols and guidelines. The Christie NHS Foundation Trust is the largest single-site cancer centre in Europe treating more than 44,000 patients a year and the first UK centre to be accredited as a comprehensive cancer centre. According to the government, around 30,000 people die from cancer every year in Kenya. This also comes at a time when the government is planning to roll out the UHC programme to other counties after a pilot project in Nyeri, Kisumu and Isiolo. President Uhuru Kenyatta last year promised that the government will increase the number of chemotherapy and radiology centres across the country to make the services more accessible. He spoke during the funeral of former Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso. Esipisu and Manchester University’s Vice President Prof. Graham Lord also signed an MoU in which the two countries will co-operate in healthcare, human resource development, exchange, research-based on equality and mutual benefit according to the national legislation of their respective countries. In the partnership, the two states will cooperate in joint research on technology projects, co-developing education programmes to enhance the delivery of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. The cooperation is also expected to initiate exchange programmes for medical staff and students undertaking undergraduate and postgraduate studies, post-doctoral and clinical training fellows, health workers and academic staff. “Promotion of universal healthcare and coverage through the exchange of information, experiences and expertise in health-related issues will be beneficial in the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, including mental health and cancer,” the statement said. The five-year partnership enters into force next month, with a possibility of renewal for the same period subject to review. 