Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday dismissed claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta is seeking an extension of his term in office. Ruto said Uhuru respects the Constitution and he is not interested in extending stay in power. The DP maintained that no constitutional review would be pursued for personal gain. He accused political brokers of peddling the rumours that Uhuru would extend his stay at the house on the hill. “It is brokers and political merchants who are peddling that rumour across the country,” he said. Ruto was speaking in Nyeri county during the burial of Martha Kirigo, the mother to Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and the late Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua "The Constitution was for all Kenyans, and as such, any changes made in it would be informed by their needs," he said. Ruto was accompanied by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, and more than 80 MPs. “We are progressives. The president has a rich legacy which cannot be stained by the push for constitutional changes,” Ruto said. “We, therefore, ask those political cons to keep off Jubilee affairs. They should instead direct their energies on sorting out their party problems.”He added. According to Ruto, the government would continue pursuing its development agenda and uniting Kenyans. His sentiments were echoed by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who said Uhuru is a gentleman and in 2022, he would retire. "Ignore those 'drunkards' claiming that the President wants to extend his tenure. Unless he talks to himself, do not take any word from them,” Kuria said. Kuria further said that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) should not be treated as an ODM affair. “This is an issue that would affect everyone. The public should therefore be involved in it for it to have a desirable impact," he said. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa questioned the secrecy surrounding the operations of BBI. “Where are the promised BBI report copies for Kenyans to read? Why seek to popularise what no Kenyan has opposed? Those funds should be channeled in Big Four agenda,” she said. MP  Gachagua in his remarks said Mt Kenya region should be allowed to make its political plans to cater for post-President Kenyatta in 2022. “People who have never even voted for President Uhuru Kenyatta should stop lecturing us on how we should respect him," he said.