The signing of two strikers gives Bidco FC an upper hand in the race for promotion to the Kenyan Premier League, coach Anthony Viera has said. The Thika-based club raided Vihiga Bullets for the services of Edwin Walumoli and Jackson Oketch. The duo came off the bench in their last match against Mt. Kenya United as the second-placed outfit ran riot in a 5-2 demolition of the former Premier League side. Bidco have 39 points from 19 matches, seven points adrift of leaders Nairobi City Stars. They have 11 points from their last five matches and have not lost since mid-November, when they fell to Coast Stima at Mbaraki Sports, Mombasa. Viera said the duo were standout performers at their former club and the opportunity to work with him was hard to turn down. The pair, he added, brings experience and a clinical edge to their attack. Oketch has nine goals and Viera hopes his partnership with Walumoli and the rest of the offensive players will enhance their chances of promotion. He said: "We are now better placed to achieve our target after injecting goals and maturity to the team. The team needs to work hard and remain focussed to stand a chance of promotion. Nothing is won yet." "The players were willing to join us. Unfortunately, we are going back to Bullets to get their goalkeeper. It's our prayer that the shot-stopper will be granted his wish." Bidco faces a tricky fixture against fifth-placed Migori Youth on Sunday, where a win will help them consolidate second spot in the 19-team league. In the meantime, Murang'a Seal coach John Njogu is happy to keep all his players despite earlier fears of a mass exodus. Instead, the debutants have added a third-choice goalkeeper, Emmanuel Lukaku and also replaced injured full-back Mwangi David with Mitubu Josphat. "I am thrilled that we have not lost players as we expected —  due to the tough financial times in Kenyan football. Our game-by-game approach continues as we aim to scale high up the table," said Njogu. Seal are eighth on the table with 29 points, seven adrift of the third-place promotion playoff slot.