TV presenter Chero has demanded an apology from singer Rawbeena for alleging she funded Chero's lifestyle, but the singer has stood her ground. The letter titled, 'Defamatory and reckless statements' reads, "In their entirety, either in their natural and ordinary meaning or by imputations and innuendos, your statements meant and were understood to mean that our client is promiscuous, opportunist, ungrateful, a bad friend, a thief, unreliable and incapable of keeping true friendship. "The defamatory text was calculated to injure, disparage and lower the esteem with which the general public regards and holds our client, considering our client is a famous TV show host." The letter demanded an unreserved and unconditional retraction in writing of the entire contents of the publication. "Take notice that in the event we do not get a positive reaction from you, our instructions are to institute a defamation suit against your client for damages without any further reference and at your client's peril as to costs and other consequences." Word Is reached out to Rawbeena on Friday, and she was defiant. "I am not going to apologise. I will wait for the seven days, if she wants to sue me, we will go to court. I am ready," she said. "I wanted to set the record straight and if I continue putting the record straight, it means it will bring her a lot of shame. But again, I am mature and I can't stoop that low. If they want us to go that way, we will. "Why should I apologise while I was the one who lost cars, money and time? That is not possible. After the seven days, she should go on." The 'Kiboko' hitmaker had told Word Is in a previous interview, "People who knew me know I was close to her. It reached a point there was so much madharau and I despised them and decided to move on with my life, especially when I realised I was losing a lot of stuff and a lot of property. "I work so hard so when someone takes me for granted, I do not like it. I don't do promiscuity; I have kids who look up to me."