Rainfall is expected to continue pounding many places across the country. The latest forecast by the Meteorological Department shows there will be enhanced rains in Southeastern, Central and parts of Nairobi. Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia will experience sunny intervals today and tomorrow morning. In the afternoon and at night, the counties will experience showers and thunderstorms. Temperatures will be in ranges of 11-25 degrees Celsius. The forecast which was issued on Tuesday covers the period until Sunday. Counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have sunny intervals from today until Sunday. Temperatures will be between 25 degrees Celsius and 36 degrees Celsius. The counties of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka will have light rains today morning. This will pave way for a cloudy morning on Friday. On Sunday morning, light rains are expected before breaking into sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms are expected at night with temperatures ranging from 16 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius. The counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will receive rain over a few places today in the morning. The five counties will experience sunny intervals in the afternoon. Temperatures will be in ranges of 23 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius. Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta are set to receive rains today morning. The rains will then break into sunny intervals Friday and Saturday with temperatures ranging from 18 degrees Celsius and 29 degrees Celsius. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale are set to receive showers over a few places today in the morning. Temperatures will be in ranges of 25 degrees Celsius and 33 degrees Celsius. Most parts of the country will have occasional rainfall during the first and second weeks of the month and remain generally sunny and dry towards the end of the month. "The rainfall forecast for January 2020 is mainly based on the evolution of Sea Surface Temperature (SST) gradients and the Sea Surface Temperature patterns over the global oceans as well as upper air circulation patterns. The SST patterns in the Indian Ocean were highly put into consideration," the forecast shows.