The Vihiga assembly says it will impeach nonperforming county executives, chief officers and ward administrators. MCAs say this is the year of change. They have called for efficiency to spur development and improve services. This comes after Governor Wilber Ottichillo threatened to sack nonperforming staff in his Jamhuru Day speech at Mbale Municipal Ground. Ottichillo said he hired professionals with hopes they would help him develop the county to be a better place. “Next government, I won’t waste time with these professors and PhD holders. They have wasted me. I will work with those who understand the needs of the public and the county at large so we can move and achieve our development goals as the people of Vihiga,” he said. An officer who did not want to be named told the Star Ottichillo is planning to reshuffle his cabinet as a way of restoring public confidence in his leadership. He also seeks to clear the mess in the health sector and the public service. The two offices have been in the limelight in the recent past and have given the county chief sleepless nights. For MCAs, every unit must play its role to ensure efficient services. They spoke at the county headquarters at the weekend when Ottichillo hosted beneficiaries of the governor’s scholarship programme. The MCAs present included Majority chief whip Victor Ijaika, Calistus Ayodi (Muhudu), Victor Ijaika (Lugaga-Muluma), Stephen Mugalizi (Chavakali), Violet Bagada (nominated) and Sally Inonda (nominated). “Governor, we are serious and those who will not give us the expected results we are going to send them home. Not by choice, but we don’t want to be blamed on something that can be rectified to better service delivery for our people,” Ayodi said. Bagada said the house leadership is currently pressurising chairpersons of committees over the poor services and development record in most of the departments. She said the county lags behind because of poor services and slow pace of development.  "I won’t carry anybody’s pressure in this county, therefore, there is a need for those who are assigned duties to wake up and play their roles as expected,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Mugalizi. For his part, Ijaika said the assembly is on standby to ensure the executive performs and gives the best to the community.