Four Mt Kenya lawmakers have warned their counterparts allied to Deputy President William Ruto to respect President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive against engaging in early 2022 political campaigns. Kieni MP Kanini Kega, his Nyeri Town counterpart Ngunjiri Wambugu, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata and Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege on Saturday said they will no longer sit back and watch the MPs disrespect the President. They spoke at Chaka market in Kieni constituency in Nyeri county. They were with Nyeri nominated MCA Julia Wanjiku. The lawmakers said a group of "rogue MPs" allied to the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee had completely refused to obey Uhuru and that they were going around campaigning against the President's wish thus undermining and disrespecting him. Kega said some have even been insulting the Head of State. “We are no longer going to entertain that behaviour here in Nyeri. You have seen they have even been coming to insult us here. We shall not allow that,” Kega said. “I want to say it in no uncertain terms that the respect for the President is not negotiable. He will have to be respected.” The MP asked politicians who find themselves on the wrong side of the law to stop blaming it on politics but instead carry their own crosses. Those insulting, assaulting others or engaged in looting public coffers will be dealt with as per the law, he said. Kega said those claiming that Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was arrested for political reasons to stop politicising the work of the police and let the law take its course. Wambugu called on leaders to stop behaving like there are two governments saying there is only one led by President Kenyatta. He said there were people behaving like there were two governments, one led by the President and the other by his deputy. Wambugu said Uhuru would soon move to the grassroots to meet the people and articulate the achievements of his government because leaders who should be doing that work have refused to do so and were instead campaigning for Ruto. Wambugu said they have decided to be disseminating information on the achievements of the President. “We are supporting the President 100 per cent and we want people to understand that the President will be given support and respect until he finishes his term,” Wambugu said. He said Uhuru was fully aware of what was happening on the ground and that those who think he does not would be shocked. Wambugu said it was sad politicians from the President's Central backyard were not supporting him. He asked leaders having issues with the President should book an appointment with him to express their minds instead of addressing him through the media. Kang’ata lauded the President’s move to fight corruption and called on Kenyans to support him saying he is the Head of State. Chege said the Tangatanga team should stop blaming all failures on the President, saying some issued ought to have been addressed by the MPs themselves. The Murang'a County MP said they will soon be organising a meeting to discuss the Building Bridges Initiative.