The attacks by some leaders allied to the Kieleweke wing of the Jubilee Party on Deputy President William Ruto are baseless and cannot go unchallenged. The majority of those allied to Kieleweke are individuals who were rejected by voters during the 2017 General Election and are now directing their anger at the Deputy President on the flimsy excuse that he was behind their misfortunes. It is unbelievable that leaders who failed to capture their seats in the Rift Valley, Coast, Central, Eastern, Northeastern, Nyanza and Western regions point an accusing finger at Ruto as if he was the returning officer in all these areas. On the other hand, those elected in various seats and are now fighting the leadership of the Deputy President is due to the fact that the ground is becoming hostile for them because of their failure to deliver ahead of 2022. This is why they have resolved to develop a narrative that there is a wedge between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy in the believe that they will get sympathy from voters come 2022. Kenyans know that the Deputy President is a performer who given an opportunity to lead will transform the lives of many if what he did in Agriculture and Higher Education dockets is anything to go by. As the President’s principal assistant, the Deputy President has helped his boss improve the country’s infrastructure, connect millions of Kenyans to electricity and improve the vocational education, among other development projects. Ruto has proved to be a performer who has what it takes to be the country’s next president and is well placed to steer the country to the next level. Ruto has come to embody a fiery form of politics that is uniquely original, something that few other Kenyans are accustomed to. Those who have interacted with him say he is down to earth, broad-minded and has a sponge-like memory. Ruto while in Agriculture did everything possible to improve the living standards among farmers across the country through subsidised fertilizer and increased prices for their farm produce. For instance, he put in place measures in sub-sectors as sugar, cotton, and rice to extend to capacity to meet local consumption and export markets as one probable way to resuscitate the ailing economy. Leaders should stop engaging in smear campaigns aimed at tarnishing Ruto's image  yet they were rejected by voters or perhaps because the ground is becoming hostile for them ahead of 2022 elections.  Joel Onyango- Kericho