Deputy President William Ruto has criticised the consultative forum on BBI. Ruto on Friday said it is ironical that politicians have started conducting campaigns for the initiative, yet Kenyans have not received copies to get details of what it entails. Ruto spoke in Vihiga county. He said the initial agreement when the BBI was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta was to produce enough copies for every Kenyan to get one. This, he said, would allow everyone to look at the details and make informed decisions on the way forward. The DP, however, said it is unfortunate that the deal did not go through but rather "selfish" politicians have hijacked the process. "Sisi tulikubaliana mambo ya BBI tutafute copies za kutosha ili wanchi wajisomee na wajitolee uamiuzi. Ni lini ilibadilika sasa tunaambiwa ni viongozi wa vyama wanataka kusoma na kuamulia wananchi?," Ruto paused. This translates to,"Didn't we agree that Kenyans would get copies of BBI so that they can read and make their own decision? When did things change. Now, we're being told it's politicians who want to read the document and decide for Kenyans." Ruto said the current political mobilisation that is being witnessed across the country is in bad faith seeking to squander the taxpayers money. "Nani amepinga BBI? Sasa kama kila Mkenya amekubali mambo ya BBI, sasa hii campaign yote inafanywa ni ya nini, ama ni kutafuta njia ya kufuja pesa za serikali," he said. This translates to, "Who has opposed BBI? If every Kenyan has accepted it, what is all the fuss with this campaign? Or is it a way to find a means to misappropriate funds?" Ruto said if there are those opposed to the BBI, they should stop hiding behind the political mobilisation and come out and speak their mind. "They should come out and say what they don't like about the BBI. We all have a right to express our ideas and as we move forward, we should not misuse money meant for development by channeling it to campaign for this BBI," Ruto said. Ruto's sentiments come as ODM leader led a group of other politicians in the first BBI consultative forum in Kisii. Raila, who doubles as the AU special envoy for infrastructure, said the Building Bridges Initiative is the only solution to take Kenyans to the 'promised land'. Raila added that the country will be united by the BBI that was borne out of the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9, 2018. He said there will be be more consultative forums across the country to educate locals about what the BBI report contains. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i lauded Raila and Uhuru for the unity in the country. Matiang'i urged Nyanza leaders to remain united. "This is the first time we are sitting as the people from Nyanza region to engage in one direction," Matiang'i said. He further said that the "wisdom of BBI is in Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta". The CS called upon the MCAs to organise consultative forums in the wards to engage locals on BBI. "Every MCA should hold a congregation in villages to discuss the BBI report at the grassroots," Matiang'i said.