A new approach is needed to reduce the burden of undernutrition and obesity, the latest report by the World Health Organisation says. The report published by Lancet shows the issue is increasingly due to rapid changes in food systems across countries. It says the speed of change in food systems have exposed people to malnutrition at different points of their lives. It shows that one-third of poor countries face undernutrition and obesity. Globally, 2.3 billion children and adults are overweight, while more than 150 million children are stunted. Children under the age of five are the worst hit. In a past event, Health CS Sicily Kariuki said, “Children under the age of five who suffer from stunting, wasting and micronutrient deficiency are the most visible victims of malnutrition." In 2018, the number of under-fives affected by wasting in Kenya was 300,000. Those affected by stunting were 1.8 million. The WHO report warns that increased availability of ultra-processed foods that are linked to increased weight gain, fewer fresh food markets and the control of food chain supermarkets and eating of unhealthy foods is increasing the risk of noncommunicable diseases such as type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, stroke and cardiovascular diseases. It recommends optimal breastfeeding in the first two years; fruits and vegetables, grains and seeds; cutting back on meat; and avoiding food with high levels of sugar, saturated fat, trans fat and salt. “We are facing a new nutrition reality. We can no longer characterise countries and low income as undernourished or high income and only concerned with obesity,” said Francesco Branca, the WHO director of nutrition for health and development. “All forms of malnutrition have a common denominator, food systems that fail to provide all people with healthy safe, affordable and sustainable diets. You have about one in three families who have a stunted child and an overweight mother. It is a paradox." Other factors include a decrease in physical activity, which is linked to major technological shifts in transport, at home, and at work. "This report reiterates that malnutrition has many faces, and diet-related NCDs like cancers, diabetes, heart diseases and obesity are now two sides of the same coin, and dysfunctional food systems are a common denominator,” NCD Alliance CEO Katie Dain said. The report recommends systemic changes to end malnutrition in all its forms. It calls on governments, the UN, civil society, academicians, the media, donors, the private sector and economic platforms to address the double burden of malnutrition. This would require bringing in new actors such as grassroots organisations, farmers and their unions, faith-based leaders, advocates for planetary health, innovators and investors who are financing fair and green companies, city mayors and consumer associations. Kenya has made significant progress in reducing the prevalence of stunting, underweight and wasting from 35 per cent, 16 per cent and seven per cent in 2009 to 26 per cent, 11 per cent and four per cent in 2014 respectively. Interventions such as maternal nutrition and education, vitamin and mineral supplementation to mothers and children, private sector involvement and mandatory fortification of wheat and maize flour with multiple micro-nutrients have led to improved nutrition. 