A Kitui county senior officer has been ordered by a court to hand over a special IFMIS password to ensure financial operations do not grind to halt. Kitui chief magistrate Stephen Mbungi barred procurement head Jushua Munyaka from accessing his office but said he had three days to hand over the password. Munyaka was ordered to stay away from the office until an anti-corruption case against him is finalised. Mbungi said Munyaka can only access his office in the company of an EACC officer investigating the flouting of procurement procedure case he is charged with. Munyaka and former Trade and Investments chief officer Francis Kea had denied diverse charges of flouting procurement procedure in early 2018 when they entered a deal with Thika Motors Limited to buy five trucks. The counts include engaging in a project without a procurement plan, failure to comply with procurement laws and abuse of office. But their lawyer Moses Kimuli pleaded with the court not to bar Munyaka from either accessing his office or being held in custody as it would adversely affect Kitui's finance operations. Kimuli said Munyaka had a specific personal password for IFMIS  not held by any other person and keeping him off his office would mean payments and other procurement operations will collapse. He was opposing an application by prosecution counsel Bonny Okemwa who said the two accused should be denied bond or given stringent bond terms. Kea was released on a Sh3 million bond with a surety or a cash bail of Sh1 million. Munyaka was freed on a Sh1 million bond with a surety of the same amount or a cash bail of Sh500,000. The lawyer also contested a claim by Okemwa that the duo was difficult because they evaded arrest and stayed away from their offices once they learned that EACC was looking for them. Okemwa told the court that the two officers went underground from January 10 to January 20 when they presented themselves at the EACC headquarters in Nairobi. There will be a pre-trial mention on February 12.