Kenya will host the U-20 Barthés Trophy for the next three years, according to Rugby Africa. This year's tournament will take place from April 19-26 at a  venue to be announced later by Kenya Rugby Union. KRU chairman, Oduor Gangla said: "The Kenya rugby fraternity  and the entire Kenyan people are thrilled after being awarded the rights to host the Barthes U-20 Trophy for the next three years. It is indeed a great honour to all of us." He addded: "Special mention to our Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage under the astute leadership of Amb. (Dr.) Amina Mohamed who have supported our bid. We will work closely with Rugby Africa, the government, commercial sponsors, media and other stakeholders to ensure successful delivery of the events." Rugby Africa competition commission president, Guédel N’Diaye said he is looking forward to launching an exciting 2020 season. "The U-20 Barthés Trophy marks the first tournament in the Rugby Africa calendar this year. We believe  we need this kind of commitment as shown by KRU  to strengthen our sport for a sustainable and strong future," said N'Diaye, who is also the President of  Senegal Rugby Federation. He said with solid commitment, we can equally build a successful broadcast and commercial program around the event. "The young players are our major assets in terms of growing participation and fan base. The U-20 Barthés Trophy tournament is in line with our long-term strategy for Africa to become the breeding ground of the next generation of world-class athletes," said N’Diaye. He said through this competition, they can measure the real progress accomplished by the federation in terms of the development of rugby amongst the youth. "Around 80 percent of the selected players evolved from their local championships,” he noted. Team Kenya, better known as Chipu and who are the defending champions, will face Madagascar, Tunisia and Zambia in Pool 'A' . Last year's losing finalists Namibia headline Pool 'B' and will take on Senegal Zimbabwe and Cote d' Ivoire. Kenya will open their campaign against Zambia.