The Wiper leadership has laughed off Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua's bid to revitalise his  Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) ahead of the 2022 general elections. Its executive director, Jared Siso, dismissively said of Mutua: “He is a toddler politically compared with my party leader (Kalonzo Musyoka)." Siso advised the governor against maligning other leaders in his bid to position himself as the Kamba kingpin. "He is misguided to the extent that you don’t need to accuse a respected leader in your backyard to gain popularity,” he said. According to an MCC notice on Monday, elections of polling station volunteers, convention, and polling station executive committee will be held between January 20 and February 15. Ward executive committee polls are slated for February 28 while sub-branch polls will be held on March 15 in all the 290 constituencies. Branch elections are slated for April 15 in the 47 counties with the activities climaxing with a national delegates conference to elect NEC members on May 29. Mutua has invited applications from those interested in flying the party’s flag for presidential, governor, woman representative, MP, and MCA seats in the forthcoming poll. He has also called for party elections to fill 22 posts at the ward, constituency, county, and national levels in the revitalisation plan. Up for grabs are the positions of chairperson, secretary, treasurer, organising secretary, women leader, youth leader and their deputies. The party is also recruiting representatives of faith-based organisations, the business community,  professional associations, farmers, fishermen, and pastoralists. MCC also has slots for representatives of the diaspora, trade unions, people living with disabilities, elders, informal sector as well as minority groups. At the national level, the party seeks to fill the position of the party leader – currently held by Mutua; two deputy party leaders and four deputy chairpersons. “We are strengthening the party through democratic elections so as to have officials, members, volunteers across the country as we begin identifying credible would-be candidates,” the governor said. He is banking on the party’s performance in the 2017 vote as the pedestal to base the rebranding, citing the 1.4 million the party collectively garnered in the last election. “This time around, MCC intends to prepare early so as to form the next national government, majority of the county governments and win a majority of seats in the legislative bodies,” the governor said in a press release yesterday. Mutua, together with Governors Charity Ngilu and Kivutha Kibwana of Kitui and Makueni respectively, are working to wean Ukambani off Kalonzo leadership. The Wiper leader has invited them to join hands with him to increase the region's bargaining stakes at national level.