 University lecturers will meet on Friday to decide whether to call for a strike or allow the government more time to implement a pay deal signed last year. The meeting was called after the University and Academic Staff Union on Monday failed to issue the strike notice that would be the warning for the intended industrial action. The failure was prompted by the government's promise to have the strike plans dropped, saying the CBA implementation would be factored in in the March supplementary budget. The Collective Bargaining Agreement covers a five year period from 2017. This means its implementation is already three years behind schedule. Uasu secretary-general Constantine Wasonga said the failure to issue a statement on Monday was meant to give time for negotiations. “The National Executive Council will decide whether or not it will proceed with the intended strike or call it off and wait for the government commitment to factor in the cost of the CBA in the March supplementary budget," Wasonga said on Thursday. The union is also not happy with the government's move to lower the implementation cost of the CBA from Sh13.8 billion to Sh8.8 billion. "We have asked the government to implement the CBA as it was agreed," Wasonga said. The union in December registered the CBA in the Labour court as required by law before it is implemented. Uasu on Monday met government officials in a state bid to avert the strike. But the union wanted a firmer commitment from the government to rescind the strike notice. The government is yet to give its commitment in writing, as demanded by the union. The pay deal was signed on October 28 and implementation was to commence on November 30, 2017. In the deal, academic staff were to get a 5.4 per cent increment on their basic salaries and an extra Sh1.8 billion to cover their pension. But the government has remained tight-lipped on the implementation of the deal, prompting lecturers to moot a strike. The CBA was negotiated by three university workers' unions including Uasu, Kenya University Staff Union and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Education Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers.  edited by p. obuya