The court has directed alcohol manufacturer East African Breweries Limited to  mop up from the market bottles branded EABL, pending the determination of a case filed by six distributors of Keroche Breweries. Judge Lady Justice Grace Nzioka of Commercial Court on Friday said the mop up  should strictly be on bottles that have been branded EABL. She ruled the parties should then wait for a ruling on whether the universal Euro beer bottle (of honey-yellow colour) is supposed to be branded by any beer manufacturer.  The ruling will be on January 24. The distributors affiliated to Keroche Breweries have accused EABL of working to drive them out of business. The six distributors say EABL has been mopping up the brown beer bottles with the aim of driving Keroche out of the market. They accuse  EABL of embossing beer bottles that have the universal shape with its unique EABL initials to prevent rivals using them. Keroche’s Summit beer bottles are similar to those of EABL’s White Cap and Balozi brands, making it easier for both brewers to interchange the bottles. The case was filed by Alexander Mugo, Jacob Wamiti, Phasty Wanjitu Wachira, Samuel Kamau, Catherine Wanjiru and Herman Mwaura, who say they are entrepreneurs engaged in the distribution of alcoholic products supplied to them by Keroche. Through lawyer Irungu Kang'ata, the distributors said EABL is abusing its dominance prowess in the beer business by using government agents to harass them in “a bid to wipe competitors out of the beer market claiming they were using its bottles.” He said police as late as December 30, 2019, on the instigation of EABL, arrested and prosecuted agents of the distributors alleging they were using bottles embossed with the mark EABL. Kang’ata urged Justice Nzioka to stop that harassment since the business that was being hurt is that of the distributors who are caught up in the cross fire by trade wars between EABL and KBL. He said the giant beer manufacturer in East and Central Africa is mopping up all the amber bottles from the market to return them to the sole glass manufacturer, the Central Glass Industries, once owned by EABL, to emboss them with the mark EABL. “Once it succeeds in the placing the EABL mark then it will smoothly lock out all its competitors from the market,” Kang’ata told the court. He said the parties in the present case are different from those in the one filed in 2017 before Justice Ochieng by KBL. He told the judge under Article 165 of the Constitution gives the Court unlimited powers to determine all issues in dispute. The judge heard EABL in Uganda has not dared lock out other competitors using the amber bottle,“its only in Kenya.” The lawyer said in Uganda all beer manufacturers are using the brown bottle. Kang’ata told Justice Nzioka the distributors have invested millions in capital to set up, acquiring of business licences and distribution business Kang’ata said the move by EABL of embossing all beer bottles with the universal shape with its unique initials is a negation of principles of a free and competitive market economy. He added that the act of exclusively embossing the beer bottles is predatory, noting that it locks out other sellers of beer from the Kenyan market, who uses the same shape of bottle. He said its agents have been harassed and arrested for using the contentious bottle. EABL distributes its brands including Tusker, Balozi, White Cap and Guinness, using the said bottle. But through lawyer Kamau Karori, EABL has asked the judge to strike off the case saying that a similar matter, raising the same issues was pending before another judge. Karori further argued that the distributors had no authority to file the case because they have not identified any direct link between them and EABL or KBL, to warrant the issuance of the orders sought. The embossment, he said, is done at the point of manufacture by the glass maker, with a lifespan of five years, which are returnable and reusable. Karori urged Justice Nzioka to refer the case to Competition Authority of Kenya  for determination saying it’s the one clothed with legal mandate to resolve disputes  between business competitors. “CA has been mandated to resolve business disputes pitting competitors. This court has no jurisdiction to entertain the case by Keroche,”  Karori. He said if the distributors are dissatisfied with the decision of the CAK then it can appeal at the Tribunal mandated to determine such disputes. “If the claimants are dissatisfied with the Tribunals decision then it’s when it can move to the High Court as the final arbiter,” Karori.    