The National Land Commission has promised to expeditiously tackle historical land injustices in Taita Taveta. Commissioner Kazungu Kambi said they are closely working with other agencies to ensure more squatters are issued with title deeds. “Historical land injustices are among the issues affecting the people of the Coast region. The commission is in the process of working on these issues by issuing more title deeds to squatters, especially in Taita Taveta county,” he said. The former Cabinet secretary spoke when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Granton Samboja at his Mwatate office. He reiterated the commission’s commitment to dealing with unscrupulous officials who delay land adjudication in most of the disputed areas. Kambi said the NLC and the county government have partnered to end landlessness. “For the problem of landlessness to be effectively addressed, a multiagency approach must be put in place. We shall not condone any officer who is hellbent on derailing the process of ending land disputes,” he said. They will also deal with all pending issues raised by the county, including the administration of community land and forests. Also discussed during the meeting was the issue of emergencies and the role of the commission in the resettlement of displaced persons. More than 50 families whose houses were swept away by floods a month ago are still camping at Voi Primary. Governor Samboja said his administration will work hand in hand with the NLC to promote proper land use and administration. Last month, Lands and Physical Planning CAS Gideon Mung'aro said the processing of title deeds in most parts of the county was in the final stages. He said those for the highly contested Ndara A and Taveta AFC Village were already out and awaiting issuance by the President. “A number of title deeds will soon be issued. This is one of our commitments to ensure we end landlessness in this region. We've discussed the progress of some of the land allocation and settlement projects,” he said. Other settlements such as Kishushe A, Mwachabo and Godoma are in various stages and their title deeds are to be issued early this year, he added. “Kishushe A project is 90 per cent complete. So far, 300 objections have been filed by residents and the ministry is working on them. Mwachabo Phase II is also 80 per cent complete and their ownership documents will be out soon,” Mung’aro said.