Double world under-20 champion Beatrice Chebet leads a star-studded field to the Athletics Kenya (AK) Nairobi region cross country championships at Posta grounds tomorrow. Chebet, a world U-20 5,000m and U-20 cross country champions will be running in the senior ranks as the battle for the final slots to the national championships ends this weekend. The national championships/trials will be held at the Uhuru Gardens, Nairobi on February 8, where AK will select a team to the rescheduled Africa cross country championships in Lome, Togo on April 8. The continental event was earlier set for March 1 but was delayed due to the Togolese national elections set for February 22. Londiani-based Chebet is bubbling with confidence heading to the Nairobi race following a good outing two weeks ago at the Juan Muguerza International Cross Country meeting in Spain, where she finished second behind compatriot Hellen Obiri, world cross and 5,000m champion. However, it will not be a walk in the park as Chebet will have to contend with AK Central cross country winner and world under-18 steeplechase champion Mercy Chepkorir. Anne Naasisho, Sharon Chepkemei, Diana Chepkorir, Teresa Cherotich, Isca Chelangat and Magdaline Cherono are expected in the junior women’s race, where Nairobi seeks to extend their long-standing accolade of churning out age-category runners. Naasisho, the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports games 3000m champion and a Form Two student at Savame Secondary in Rift Valley, will look to grab a slot to the national championships with one eye on Lome. AK Nairobi region chairman Barnaba Korir, who is also the AK Youth development chairman, said they are expecting a huge turn-out now that the race is the last in the regional cross country series. Speaking after an inspection tour of the race venue at Uhuru Gardens, Korir said: “Technical officials are almost done with the preparations, which include course marking.” “We hope to select a strong team, especially in the junior ranks, which has been our strength all along. Being the last regional race, we expect a huge turn-out as athletes, who for one reason or another failed to run in the other regional meets try their luck for a slot in the nationals,” added Korir. 