The Nyeri county government plans to increase its bursary funds from Sh100 million to Sh200 million, Governor Mutahi Kahiga has said. Kahiga said this will enable more students from needy backgrounds to benefit from the programme. The governor said the number of applicants for the bursary has increased and the executive will seek the assembly's approval for more cash. “I promise you that we must increase the bursary fund from Sh100 million to, if possible, Sh150 million or Sh200 million,” he said. Some 18,000 students benefited from the bursary this year, up from 14,000 last year. Kahiga said in 2017, only Sh40 million was allocated for the bursary but the amount was increased to Sh100 million in 2018 and 2019. The county chief spoke on Friday during the launch of the second cohort of the Governor’s Bursary Scholarship Scheme outside his offices. The programme was started last year, with the administration offering full sponsorships to 60 bright and needy students across the county. Previously, bursary beneficiaries received Sh5,000 for day scholars and Sh6,000 for boarders but the money was not sufficient. The cash was little and the government was not sure that the students would complete their secondary schools' course. This led to the start of the current programme two years ago where two needy children, a boy and girl are awarded, in every one of the 30 wards which translates to 60 students. This programme will be absorbing 60 students annually and facilitate their secondary education through the provision of a full four-year bursary. “We selected 60 students who had been admitted to secondary schools within and outside Nyeri,” Kahiga said. The governor, however, called on their parents to also ensure they play a part in providing the children with other basic needs. Members of the community, through public participation, selected the neediest and deserving boy and girl in every ward who had scored 350 marks and above in the KCPE exams. The governor issued cheques worth Sh3.6 million to pay fees for the whole year for each of the beneficiaries. Kahiga urged the learners to work hard, saying those who will be failing in their performance or engaging in acts of indiscipline will be removed from the programme. Other than the governor’s scholarship programme, the government also issued the regular bursary cheques worth Sh6,000 for every student in boarding school and Sh3,000 to day scholars.