Sheinda Gatwiri — whose mysterious death is under a police inquest — agonised through the night as a piece of cloth tightened around her neck in a Ruaraka police cell, a postmortem has shown. Police say Gatwiri, 28, was booked at Ruaraka police cells on December 26 "for burglary and stealing" but was found dead by the sentry two days later. The report office personnel had visited the cells on the morning of December 28 for a routine check when her body was found. The January 7 autopsy by government pathologist Peter Ndegwa found that Gatwiri had bruised neck ligature tissues and that "a cotton piece of cloth was tied around her neck with a sharp knot." The results obtained by the Star concluded that woman died from "neck compression due to hanging". The family claimed Gatwiri was arrested for stealing her husband's laptop and car logbook.  Her husband is a constable attached to Muthaiga police station. Tn inquest into Gatwiri's death was opened towards the end of December last year. Police watchdog agency Ipoa had on Monday launched investigations into the circumstances leading to the death. Sources within the Ipoa's investigating team told the Star they are almost at the tail end of the probe and hanging is the most probable cause of the death. "We are concluding but all indications are showing this woman took her life through hanging," the source said. The source, who also witnessed the postmortem, said the woman's body had a piece of cloth tightly around her neck without any physical signs of struggle or defensive injury to suggest she was attacked. "We were there with Dr. Ndegwa and we concluded that there were no signs of struggle. In the cases we have concluded that someone was forcefully hanged or attacked, we would see signs of struggle and resistance. In this case, there was none," the source said. The report appears to contradict claims of foul play that had been made by Gatwiri's family led by her elder sister Magdalene Murungi. Murungi said Gatwiri was arrested by the man with whom they had lived for over one and half years at Ruaraka police line. Once taken to the crime office at the station,  there was a sustained commotion. But the Ipoa source said the examination did not show any signs that the woman could have been a subject of any physical force. The postmortem could have shown if she was beaten up or if they engaged in any form of struggle, he said. Murungi earlier told the Star that her younger sister's body bore black spots at her left cheek suggesting that she could have been hit with a blunt object. Her nose, Murungi said, also had what appeared to be minor scratch with a bloodstain. But the postmortem report makes no mention of it. Murungi had said she learnt of Gatwiri's ordeal over Christmas when the station boss through an officer reached out to her to check on her sister. The officer said that Gatwiri was sick and that they required her to present when she was taken to hospital. "At the station, they told me that she's now left us," she said. Sources at the station had told the Star the leadership's official explanation was that the woman took her life at around 2am on December 28 using the lining of her petticoat. But despite the results, the family are still questioning the official explanation. "I'm not satisfied at all. I wondered why they did not inform us when she was arrested. They have killed my sister," Murungi said. She said her sister had lived with her officer husband and they had often quarrelled. So violent was the relationship, she said, that the husband beat her in November last year while pregnant. She lost the baby soon after birth later in the month, Murungi said. The Ruaraka police station grabbed the public's attention in 2018 when its former OCS Nihashon Mutua was convicted for killing an inmate in one of the cells in 2013. Investigations revealed that Mutua pounced on the inmate, hitting him with a metal bar with sharp ridges leading to his death. Thereafter the senior officer attempted a series of coordinated cover-ups. Mutua was handed the death sentence. (O.O)