National men's basketball team Morans will be hoping their continental exploits last year will give them a chance of being named Team of The Year at the Safaricom Soya Awards set for January 24 in Mombasa. Apart from the Morans, Kenyan Premier League (KPL) champions Gor Mahia are also in contention for the top team award alongside KPL rivals Bandari. Other teams that have also been nominated include national rugby champions KCB and the beach tennis team. En-route to the final which they lost 61-82 to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Morans had beaten some of the top sides in the group stages of the inaugural FIBA AfroCan tournament. Among some of the outstanding results they registered include beating Nigeria 81-69 in the group stages, Ivory Coast 85-83 in the round of 16 before beating another top side, Tunisia 85-83 in the quarter-finals. Before going to Mali for the tournament, Morans had made history by beating Egypt in the Zone 5 tournament where they finished top to secure the ticket to play at the AfroCan tournament. On their part Gor, successfully defended the KPL title with three matches to go, to claim a record-extending 18th topflight crown. They also became the first Kenyan team to reach the CAF Confederation Cup quarter-final stage after finishing second in Group D with nine points, joint with Zamalek, who had a better goal difference. Apart from the league title, Gor Mahia also won the KPL Super Cup after beating Shield winners Bandari 1-0 in the 2019/20 KPL pre-season opener. Bandari, who reclaimed the FKF Shield after beating Kariobangi Sharks in the final before reaching the playoff round in the CAF Confederation Cup for the first time ever will be hoping to beat Gor Mahia and Morans to the team title. KCB RFC, who were close to winning the team of the year last year will be hoping it will be second time lucky. Apart from successfully defending the Kenya Cup crown for the third year in a row, where they lost only once, the Curtis Olago-coached side also won the Floodlit tournament for the third year in a row. They also won the National Sevens Series Circuit. The beach tennis team won bronze at the African Beach Games and was also the first team to qualify for African Beach Games in addition to being the first male beach tennis side in Kenya.