Sixty elders from Bomochoge Chache in Kisii Governor James Ongwae and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi to quit squabbling and work for the people. Services are being threatened by their feud, more than 60 elders said. There are claims and counter-claims about corruption and its roots. The elders say the acrimony that has dragged on for three weeks has already undermined services countywide. Maangi's bodyguards and official cars recently were withdrawn in unclear circumstances a week ago. “Our opinion as elders is that the two leaders should sit down and talk. As in a marriage,  small quarrels happen which don’t necessarily occasion a divorce,” group secretary Magaro Onenga. The elder said the Ongwae and Maangi still have three years in office and their feuding will hurt it mwnanchi. “People want development, not the exchanges we have begun to see. As elders, we are ready to mediate to ensure harmony and peaceful co-existence. The elders said they support the Building Bridges Initiative spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga. The elders spoke days after another section of elders broke ranks and asked Maangi to resign as Deputy Governor to resign following the acrimony between him and his boss. Speaking to journalists at a hotel on Friday in Ogembo, the backyard of the deputy county boss, the elders accused Maangi of playing cheap politics. “He is our son but on this, we sharply differ.  We want him to call it quits if he cannot work with his boss to deliver services,” said former council chief Elijah Mbweke. Mbweke said Maangi has been working with Ongwae, so there is no way he can absolve himself from the ongoings at the administration. Mwangi has been making accusations about corruption in the county; his security was recently withdrawn. Governor Ongwae says he is fighting corruption. "He has been the deputy for the last seven years, how did it take him all this long to know [about problems?] Mbweke asked. The elders said Maangi was" crying wolf. Let the two leaders dialogue and work together," he said. Separately Gusii Elders Council Chairman James Matundura has said he is ready to mediate between the warring leaders. “As elders, we vouch for the unity of the Omogusii and it is good the community leadership doesn’t lose sight of the need to galvanize it to achieve common development objectives,”Matundura told the Star yesterday. (Edited by V. Graham)