Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has finally been set free. Kuria was released from the Kilimani police cells on Saturday around 7pm after he deposited Sh20,000 to secure his freedom. Kuria is expected to report at the Milimani Court on Monday at 8am for hearing of a case where he is accused of physically assaulting a woman. The vocal legislator was forced to spend Friday night behind bars despite the court directing that he be released on a Sh50,000 cash bail. Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot said Kuria set should be set free until the hearing of his application on Monday at 11 am. Kuria was arrested on Friday morning for allegedly assaulting a woman at the Royal Media Services premises. On Friday night, several leaders led by Kandara MP Alice Wahome were teargassed by police officers at the Kilimani Police Station after they had gone to demand Kuria's release. Wahome blamed Internal Security Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i for being behind the attack on the leaders and trying to intimidate them. "What a shame! What intimidation, madness and nonsense is Matiang'i doing?" she posed. Wahome said they are aware that the police intended to harm Kuria. "Moses is a free man because he was released by the court. This is impunity and working against the rule of the law," she said. "Kenyans must now understand that even the BBI will be driven down their throats because there are people who are bent on extending their authority and presidency in this country." Kuria while at the cells said he is ready to pay the price for others to get freedom. The MP said it was unfair for police to arrest him over a matter he claims to be a complainant over. Kuria, through Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, said his adamant stand on the BBI is what has put him in trouble, but he will not be intimidated. He said because he has chosen to be part of the William Ruto camp, some elements within the government have resorted to frustrating him. Kuria said he does not understand why police chose to arrest him, yet last year he made a formal complaint at the Kilimani station over the assault claims.