KNA by Brian Ondeng’ The Siaya administration has suspended a planned demolition of temporary roadside structures used by traders in Bondo town. The demolitions which were set to begin last week had caused panic among hundreds of affected traders. The traders urged North Sakwa ward MCA Lorna Adida to the intervene in the matter. The activity was finally suspended by a week after Adida and county government officials led by Bondo subcounty administrator Richard Odhiambo met the traders. Owners of temporary roadside structures and those erected on top of drainage systems had been given a three-month notice by the county government which expired on January 23. Last Friday, some of the affected traders alleged that county government officers visited and asked them to vacate the sites within eight hours. Addressing the media after meeting with the traders, Adida allayed fears of a possible demolition and evictions. She said the eight-hour ultimatum should be treated as a rumour and that the traders should go on with their usual businesses. Adida said that the only groups of traders who needed to move urgently are those who have constructed their shops on top of drainage systems. This group, she said, were making it impossible to maintain hygiene in the market and in the town. The ward representative said that she has already negotiated with the county government to release funds for purposes of improving drainage in Bondo. Work will commence in the next week, hence all those businesses blocking the drainages need to be moved, she said. Adida observed that there is a lot of congestion in Bondo market, hindering access to the market by both traders and potential customers. The MCA said that the county government is currently making efforts to improve access and decongest the markets. The subcounty administrator confirmed that although they had given a notice to the traders which had expired, they had not given an eight-hour ultimatum. Odhiambo, however, maintained that his office has given the traders who have stalls on top of the drainage system to move or be evicted. The traders welcomed the move, saying that they are ready to cooperate with the county government to improve the standards at the Bondo market. They urged their counterparts who have stalls in the drainage systems to comply with the directive. 