Is Education CS George Magoha really aware of some brokers who are planning to petition the President to compel him to allow principals to be in charge of procuring school textbooks? Well, the brokers, who are said to be working for some businessmen, are unhappy with Magoha after the no-nonsense CS rejected their pleas to allow school heads procure the books. The CS, according to insiders, told them off that he will not reverse the textbook procurement policy that was put in place by CS Fred Matiangi. Doing so, he said, would benefit unscrupulous principals, intermediaries and business people at the expense of the learners. *** A former MP from Mt Kenya is embroiled in a tender war with a firm affiliated to a senior official within the presidency. The ex-lawmaker's firm allegedly won a multi-million contract floated by a state agency within the energy sector but the award was hastily cancelled without a convincing explanation. There are claims that the senior official within close proximity to state power was keen on having a proxy firm awarded the tender despite scoring low in the financial evaluation stage. An activist could soon move to court to challenge the cancellation of the award. The looming court battle might expose the behind the scenes manoeuvres that roil biding for tenders with the state official already having panicked. This state official is said to be fond of unduly influencing tenders whenever his proxies lose out. *** An MP from the former Eastern region has fled from his home after his constituents raided it, baying for his blood. The residents are accusing the legislator of being behind land grabbing in the region. Some residents told corridors that the MP was using proxies to sell plots belonging to resident associations. The proxies are said to be behind the multiple allocation and sale of plots to unsuspecting land buyers in the area. The residents want relevant agencies to probe the matter. *** A vocal legislator from the Coastal region seems to be under siege. The veteran lawmaker, who has publicly declared interest in a governor seat, has lost two of his closest political strategists to a competitor. As if that is not enough, politicians in the county he is intending to lead, have organised a mega meeting in the coming days to pick a person to take on him in 2022. They have vowed to block, by all means, the MP from ascending to the county’s top seat. The man has been left a lone ranger and has been seen traversing the vast constituency alone.