The National Treasury could be headed for a clash with the Senate over the financing of Sh63 billion leased medical gadgets. The ministry has allocated the Managed Equipment Service programme Sh7 billion in the next financial year, essentially setting the stage for a tussle with the Senate which has opposed it. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani proposed the allocations in the draft 2020 Budget Policy Statement published on Friday. Should Parliament approve Yatani’s proposals, each of the 47 counties will cough up Sh148.93 million for the equipment in 2020-21. The money is deducted at source. Senators have opposed the continued allocation of money for the programme saying the deal, in which at least 94 county hospitals received assorted equipment, has been shrouded in mystery. The lawmakers are currently investigating the deal after the counties and medical experts lamented that it was a rip-off of taxpayers. An ad hoc committee appointed last year in September to probe the programme is set to resume proceedings next month after Christmas break. "It is unwise because the matter is shrouded in mystery. There are a lot of questionable processes and it is under very active investigation by the Senate,” Senator Moses Wetangula, who is the committee’s vice chairman, told the Star on Monday. He faulted the Treasury and questioned why it keeps allocating the programme different figures every financial year yet the counties were required to pay a fixed sum over the period. “This is what lends credit to fears of allegations of impropriety and wrongdoing. And it would have been wise for the treasury to wait for the outcome of the investigation because some people may be called upon to refund the money,” he said. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei claimed MES is a scam that should not be allocated a penny in the budget. “The medical equipment supply is a scandal, we cannot allow it to go on. Counties have lost money. I even expected the DCI and DPP to have prosecuted people already,” he said. Funding of the programme was among the critical issues at the centre of the three-month standoff between the Senate and the National Assembly over the Division of Revenue Bill last year. While senators wanted the Sh6.5 billion that had been allocated to the programme struck off until a comprehensive probe is done to establish the proper costing of the equipment, their counterparts pushed for its inclusion. Eventually, the Senate accepted the figure after intense pressure from the government and governors, but with a condition that the issue is investigated before the next financial year. A mediation committee of the two Houses that reached the compromise to end the stalemate recommended that the Houses form a joint committee to investigate the matter. “The ad hoc committee should table the report before the end of the third session of Parliament,” a report by the mediation committee read. “Before the next Division of Revenue Bill, 2020 there shall be a proper disclosure on the costing of equipment under the MES programme.” Edited by R.Wamochie