Beneficiaries of the Sh3 billion government scholarships for secondary education will be unveiled today. The 9,000 candidates from poor families who sat last year’s KCPE exams will benefit from free secondary education under the Elimu Fund Scholarship. The scholarship is a partnership between the World Bank and the Kenyan government. It will cater for tuition and boarding fees, books, uniform and transport to and from school as well as pocket money for the four years of secondary school. The money is derived from the World Bank under the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project (SEQIP) and will benefit candidates from 110 targeted subcounties and 15 urban centres with slums. The towns are Thika, Garissa, Nairobi, Machakos, Eldoret, Kitui, Nakuru, Kericho, Mombasa, Kilifi, Kisumu, Naivasha, Nyeri, Kakamega, and Embu Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said the scholarships target the poorest of learners who otherwise would miss a secondary education for lack of school fees. The beneficiaries are required to have attained at least 280 marks in KCPE last year. Those who sat their examination in private schools are not eligible for the scholarship. “The Ministry of Education has set aside Sh3 billion, which we intend to use to sponsor up to 80,000 needy secondary school students, 9,000 being Form Ones. We urge parents with needy children to do their part as applications were already made open,” Magoha said. The CS spoke during the release of KCPE examination results in December last year. Applicants were required to declare their family’s source of income, their possessions and wealth. The applicants were also required to state the number of family members and what each was doing and if they had any form of disability. The health status of the applicant’s family was also factored, with applicants from families battling chronic diseases asked to provide evidence. Families affected by calamities of various natures such as civil conflict or natural disasters were also required to declare the information. Primary school head teachers were  required to give a brief on the applicant, giving details on how they performed and any special interests or talents they possessed. A recommendation was required from a religious leader and the local chief.