Grooming a lawn may seem like a simple task, but it should not be done at the expense of compromising the safety and health of a mower user. Safety is key when operating a lawnmower because carelessness can cause an accident. The following tips will help to handle lawnmowers correctly and safely.  Users of lawn mowers should first read the manufacturer’s manual and follow the safety instructions indicated before using the machine. Before mowing, the lawn should be inspected for objects such as toys, stones, holes, or bumps that could make the mower stop instantly which may result in injury to the operator, or a bystander. Uneven ground should be treated with caution in case the mower overturns especially if it is a ride-on mower. It is best to mow a lawn in daylight and when the weather is sunny. When the grass is wet traction is reduced and can cause sliding. Recommended kit consists of sturdy closed-toe shoes with slip-proof soles, close-fitting clothes, safety goggles, or glasses and hearing protection to counter the loud sound produced by the mower while cutting grass. Hands and feet must be kept away from the spinning blades. Children tend to be attracted by mowers. To avoid accidents it is important to keep them away when operating. Do not allow them to be passengers on ride-on mowers as they can fall off and get hurt. It is recommended to mow up and down slopes and not across. All movement on slopes should be kept in a slow and gradual manner. If mowing on a slope, or hill care should be taken to ensure that the mower does not tip so that it slides and comes into contact with your feet, hands, or anyone else around. Avoid starting, or stopping on a slope. If tyres lose traction, disengage the blades immediately and proceed slowly straight down the slope. Never try to stabilise the mower by putting your foot on the ground this can cause accidents leaving bad wounds. Do not pull the mower backwards, or mow in reverse unless absolutely necessary. If you notice that your mower is damaged while mowing stop operating the equipment until it has been repaired. Always turn off the mower and wait for the blades to come to a complete stop before removing the grass catcher, unclogging the discharge chute, or crossing gravel paths, roads, or other areas. Take care with grass catchers, or other attachments which can change the stability of the mower especially on very steep slopes, or rough terrain. Have the machine inspected thoroughly and serviced regularly. After using clean the mower check it is in good working order and store it undercover. A lawnmower should have the blades sharpened and the machine served regularly. Car and General Stocks various types of lawnmowers which include ride-on mowers, walk behind lawn mowers and brush cutters for both domestic and commercial use.  Loise Wangui is the sales manager at Car and General Trading Limited