Kieni MP Kanini Kega has said he was shocked at Deputy President William Ruto’s harsh reaction after he delivered Sh500,000 at the funeral of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua’s mother. The lawmaker seemed to have rubbed the DP the wrong way after he told mourners at Martha Gachagua’s home that President Uhuru Kenyatta had sent him with the cash. In his speech, the DP brushed off the explanations by Kega saying he is the only person who can represent the President. “You all know that there is only one person in Kenya who was sworn in to deputise the President. And I will do that very diligently. Everybody should do their job. Let us respect each other,” Ruto said. But Kega told the Star yesterday that the attack levelled against him was unwarranted as he was just an innocent messenger. Kega said he had passed by State House Mombasa where he informed the President he would travel to Gachagua’s home for the funeral. “I was shocked. The President talks to many people. I am an elected leader and his (Uhuru’s) friend. In fact, I should be congratulated that I delivered the money,” he said. In what may affirm their dalliance, Uhuru yesterday sent Kega to deliver the Presidents’ condolences to the family of Laikipia politician Maitho Murigu. The lawmaker wondered why he was vilified yet he delivered the money – which included Sh100,000 from his pocket to the bereaved family. “He (Ruto) was not the one who was bereaved. I gave the money to the bereaved family. “I delivered what I was given to the last coin. There are those who are sent and don’t deliver the messages. I am an honest man who delivered a message in broad daylight,” Kega told the Star on the phone. Ruto and his allies took a swipe at the Kega with questions on how the President could send the Kieni MP to a function where the DP is present. Kandara MP Alice Wahome chastised Kega for breaking the protocol by purporting to represent Uhuru. But the Kieni lawmaker said he was disturbed by the responses citing that he is not an extremist in the face of the split in the Jubilee party. “I am not in Tangatanga or Kieleweke. At the funeral, my demeanour was good. I was not abrasive or aggressive. I don’t know where the harsh reaction emanated from. My critics should be asking why I was sent,” the second-term MP said. The incident laid bare the fissures that have continued to widen in the Jubilee Party ahead of the 2022 General Elections. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu brought a new twist to the Mathira events intimating that President is sending other emissaries because he has lost trust in Ruto. He cited an incident where Uhuru sent Murang’a Woman MP Sabina Chege with cash contributions in a function at Maragua. “The president is not sending his deputy with contributions to functions (anymore) but the DP always says he has been sent with cash – which incidentally has been smaller compared with the DP’s own contribution. “This begs the question; has the DP been lying when he goes to harambees in Mt Kenya? Could he be giving part of his own money – the small amounts, to try and show Mt Kenya people that he cares for them more than Uhuru?” Ngunjiri said on Facebook.