Kenya borrows from different sources. Forty-nine per cent of its loans is from domestic sources while the rest is external. We have commercial loans, which include Eurobonds, loans from different banks that account for a large portion of external debt. The government also borrows money locally. China is just one of the sources of commercial and non-commercial loans. The big question is the mix of debts, which is worrying. We were used to long concessional loans, which would be paid for 50 or more years. They are cheaper. We then went for more short term loans, which are expensive and attracts more interests in favour of the institution giving them out. Payment has become a challenge. More short term and expensive. The challenge has been the repayment plan. For instance, debt servicing has grown at an average of 30 per cent while ordinary revenue collection is at 13 per cent over the last five years. The growth of the debt is growing faster than the collection of revenue. This should worry us. At some time it will catch up with us as a country if the right measures are not put in place. From this year, we will be paying Sh700 billion to service debts. Remember we expect to collect Sh1.6 trillion revenue per year. It's not a substantial amount to service debt. Debt is mandatory. It has to be paid first. If the amount of debt is growing fast and the money collected shrinking, we can say that we will have challenges ahead. The options we have are to cut services so that we have funds to pay the debts. Or, borrow more to sustain service levels. The government has to do away with unnecessary expenditures. The government can also renegotiate some types of loans. Some of the loans can be converted into long concession loans. The appetite for commercial loans should end so that all other loans factor competent payment plans. The government must also focus on economic activities that bring returns so that people pay taxes. The government should also ensure we have enough money circulating in the economy. This is a good mechanism for improving the economy so that everybody participates. They should optimize how they collect taxes. All this is achievable if they have a strong political will and stop doublespeak.   