Once upon a time, an Ass, having put on Lion’s skin, roamed about in the forest and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met. At last, coming upon a Fox, he tried to frighten him, but no sooner had the Fox heard the sound of his voice than he exclaimed, “I might possibly have been frightened myself, if I had not heard your bray.” The moral of the story is that appearances may deceive, but silly words will disclose a fool. Last Saturday, the BBI team, lead by ODM leader Raila Odinga had a successful rally in Mombasa. This was a follow up to the successful meetings in Kakamega and Kisii where the whole of Western Kenya and Nyanza declared their support for the initiative. It is now without a doubt that the BBI wave is unstoppable and all Kenyans of goodwill agree on the collective desire to see a more united and prosperous nation. Kenyans, in their large numbers, have shown that they are ready for change through the BBI process. Unfortunately, there are some that are keen to depict the BBI in bad light, with others keen to take it over so as to propagate their own selfish interests. We have seen this happen at every turn that the country takes in embracing the BBI. It is now clear Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta will personally lead the popularisation of BBI across the nation to ensure Kenyans support it fully. They may have started the process but the initiative has now been taken over by Kenyans keen on transforming this nation. One wonders why some are not ready to join in this journey of transformation, while it is clear that this is what the country needs. For a country that has so many times suffered from its mistakes of the past, any process that deals with this should be embraced by all. Just before the Saturday meeting, we had MPs from the Tangatanga side who had missed the previous forums announcing that they would join in. There is nothing as good as a country that comes together to reason and chart its way forward. My understanding of these forums is that they are supposed to enrich the report that was released last year. They are meant to allow leaders to also explain the report to those who may have not read the report. It is, therefore, wrong for some leaders to use the forum to politicise the process instead of allowing residents to own the process. It is only through the enriching of the report that we can get a better one for implementation. We are looking at these forums as an opportunity to put together a document that is acceptable to all Kenyans. A document that captures the aspirations of all Kenyans in order to push the country forward. It was thus wrong for some politicians to use their funds to transport Nairobi residents to Mombasa as a way of politicising the process. Let us keep in mind always that this is not a popularity contest — that will come in 2022 as we go into the election. This past weekend was for Mombasa residents to hear more about the document and the train stops in Kitui this coming weekend. It is, therefore, up to all of us to be reasonable and not put the BBI process on the line for the sake of selfish political interests. Some quarters seem keen to sink the BBI process and they must not be allowed to succeed. I can never get tired of reminding all Kenyans that the BBI process is about the future of Kenya. It is about getting our act together once and for all without us having to revisit the issues we are settling. Kenyans must stop those who are trying to make the BBI process a political contest and a campaign platform for the 2022 elections. We must remain focused on making this country better.