Former AFC Leopards Rodolfo Zapata has expressed interests in returning to the den following the exit of Rwandese coach Andre Mbungo this week. Mbungo officially left the cash strapped club on Monday after going for months without pay, leaving the management to turn to his youthful assistant Anthony Kimani and Tom Juma. Mbungo had resigned on December 13 but held onto his touchline duties apparently to push the club to clear his dues. However, his efforts yielded no fruits and the disgruntled coach quit on Monday. Now, Zapata who joined Leopards in May 2018 where he saved the outfit from the jaws of relegation before exiting four months later to Botswana amid sabotage claims from the players, is open to a reunion. During his short stint with Ingwe, the stylish tactician had a bias for youthful players and still has a dream of picking from where he left should the management decide to re-hire him. "I am passionate about the club and their fans who are always behind the players regardless of the results. I am open to a possible return to accomplish the good work I had started," said Zapata. "Should the top honchos contact me then I will return to the club. The fans have been asking me through social media pages to come back but that decision will only be arrived at if the bosses give a nod to it,". The league winning coach in Botswana with Township Rollers said that Leopards stand a chance of breaking their more than two-decade Kenyan Premier League trophy drought should they consider him. The Argentine, who has been on a compassionate leave back at home since July after his father passed on, cited quality signings and proper pre-season preparations as the best ingredients to break the jinx. "When I joined Leopards, they were languishing in the red line but before I left they were already off the hook and muscling for the trophy. The secret to a successful season is bringing the players who want to work hard and instilling a philosophy before the season begins," he said. Zapata revealed he has had offers from Tanzania, Rwanda, India and the United States of America. "I have been contacted by a top club in Tanzania and some Rwandese clubs are also eyeing my services. There are also interested clubs in India and USA but I feel Kenya offers a better challenge."