KCB assistant coach Godfrey Oduor believes the arrival of Harambee Stars trialist Brian Wepo from Nzoia Sugar will provide options at the right back. KCB wrapped their January transfers yesterday by raiding the sugar millers for the services of the highly-rated defender who had trained with them for a couple of days. Oduor, who worked with Wepo at Nzoia last year, said his arrival gives them options as the club solely relies on the services of former Thika United right back Baraka Badi. Oduor confirmed that Wepo was their last signing in the window set to close midnight. Apart from Wepo, the bankers who are eyeing their first Kenyan Premier League title, signed four players  including Gabriel Andika from Kakamega Homeboyz. The goalkeeper made his debut last weekend in their 3-1 win over Western Stima. Other new faces at the club are Thomas Harun who was signed from Sony Sugar, Anthony Abwao from National Super League side Migori Youth and Victor Omune from Nairobi Stima. The club also released more than eight players, notable veteran forward Ezekiel Odera who returned to his boyhood club Nairobi City Stars. Oduor said they were satisfied with the quality of the new arrivals. “We are glad Wepo opted to join us. I have worked with him before at Nzoia and I understand his abilities. We only had one right back  and we felt it was good to bring in an alternative in case of injuries, suspensions, fatigue and to bring in  competition. He is our last signing in the window and we are looking forward to  his debut,”said the former Kibera Black Stars tactician The national U-17 assistant coach in the meantime has termed the remaining league matches tough and challenged the playing unit to keep the fire burning in a bid to realise their dream.KCB lie fourth on the log with 35 points—six shy of league leaders Gor Mahia. “The league has meandered to the toughest phase. Teams can not afford to give away points cheaply but we are ready to face them.  Our players know we have a target to meet and they should brace themselves up for a gritty race in the remaining matches,”          