About 60 per cent of the youth trained under the Kenya Youth Employment and Opportunities Project got jobs, Gender CS Margaret Kobia has said. She spoke on Friday as she handed over the department to CS Joe Mucheru, following President Uhuru Kenyatta's Cabinet reshuffle on Tuesday. She praised the decision to hand the Youth Affairs docket to the Information Communication and Technology ministry. "Unemployment is by far the most pressing challenge for us where the youth are concerned," she said. "At the same time, we are confronted by a rapidly changing world where technological advancements disrupting traditional economic sectors and creating new ones." The Gender CS added that the youth should, as a matter of practical necessity, acquire technology skills that will enable them to be competent and productive in a digital economy. Kobia handed Mucheru reports that detailed key priorities, challenges and opportunities since she took office in 2018. The reports were on the Kenya Youth Development Policy (2019), restructuring of the National Youth Service, Support to Big Four initiative, skills development and youth employability. The rest were on youth empowerment centres, enterprise development and access to finance for youth and pending bills. Kobia said in support of the Big Four agenda, 47,250 youths were engaged in food production and 48,250 in tree planting. On skills development, the Kenya Youth Employment and Opportunities project has trained 20,661 youth and placed them in internships within the private sector, 60 per cent of whom have secured jobs. "Some 8,490 youth received grants to start small enterprises, 499 received business development services and over Sh215 million disbursed as grants," she said. The CS added that under the NYS programme, 31, 500 servicemen and women were enrolled in TVET institutions. Additionally, 21 youth empowerment centres are in the process of being refurbished to provide ICT services, library, training and arts facilities as well as counselling. The ICT minister said his ministry will work to ensure they provide solutions for the youth in line with their ambitions. "The median age of youth in our country is 19 and they form a significant part of our population. My Ministry will ensure that the youths are part and parcel of our national development," Mucheru said. Further, he will streamline the creative industry to ensure that creative youth are able to earn from their talents, he said. Edited by R.Wamochie