The US assassination of General Soleimani marks a major escalation in the standoff between the US and Iran, which has moved from one crisis to another since President Donald Trump withdrew from the 2015 nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions. Trump’s withdrawal from the deal was illegal, unwise and in violation of US commitments to a deal that was signed by five other nations and endorsed by the United Nations. Trump did not stop his malicious moves against Iran there and by slapping the toughest sanctions on Iran and exerting ‘maximum pressure’ committed economic terrorism on the Iranian nation. The sanctions even prevent medicine and food reaching the elderly, women and children. These policies were followed to bring about ‘a regime change’ in Iran as announced by former national security adviser John Bolton. Having failed to bring Iran to its knees and losing hope of creating a rift between the Iranian nation and the government to achieve its policy of ‘regime change,’ Trump this time, by committing an act that is a stark example of state-sponsored terrorism, a breach of international law and violation of Iraqi sovereignty, trieds to make up for his past failures. By assassinating the Iranian general who was the symbol of the fight against terrorism in Iraq and Syria, who practically put an end to the terrorist Daesh group – a US brainchild according to Trump himself – the US President has proven that his administration is the top sponsor of state terrorism. The assassination has been condemned by many Americans and world leaders.The leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei, warned on Friday, “Harsh revenge is awaiting” the “criminals” who martyred IRGC Quds Force Commander Lt Gen Qassem Soleimani in the Iraqi capital Baghdad. If Trump thinks he can overshadow his impeachment or be reelected by such reckless adventures, he is mistaken. It will be useful to remind him that many US presidents have been dreaming of ‘regime change’ and many terrorist ringleaders have been dreaming of overthrowing the Iranian government. Many of those presidents are now history, and many of those ringleaders are dead, but the Islamic Republic is gaining more strength despite sanctions and maximum pressures. Trump’s former national security adviser John Bolton had pledged that the Islamic Republic of Iran would not celebrate its 40th year of victory. Today, Bolton is gone, but Iran is strong enough to stand to defend itself on all fronts. Iran’s response will be definitely calculated and proportionate. Before it is too late, the Trump administration had better give up anti-Iran policies, which are formulated based on disinformation provided them by naïve regimes, groups and individuals who don’t have the basic knowledge of how the Iranian system works. Iranians are forgiving people. It is time Trump and his team realised that it is not possible to bring Iranians to their knees, nor is it possible for them to achieve their impossible goal of ‘regime change.’ Just change your policies, unclench your fist, apologise and make up for past mistakes. That is the road to de-escalation and peace.