The battle for qualification to this year's Magical Kenya Open hots up as the 2019/20 Safari Tour heads to Sigona Golf Club between January 25 and 29. With a total of 10 players set to qualify to the prestigious Magical Kenya Open through the Safari Tour, Sigona — the ninth edition of the event — offers the professionals an opportunity to score valuable tour points with two legs left. Johnnie Walker sponsored Dismas Indiza currently leads the standings with 330.6 points with Thika Golf Club’s Simon Ngige, Greg Snow, Erick Ooko, David Wakhu, Riz Charania, Kopan Timbe and Jastas Madoya rounding up the eight slots reserved for local pros. Nigeria’s Andrew Odoh Oche and Uganda’s Philip Kasozi currently occupy the two slots reserved for regional players in 13th and 14th place respectively. Last year’s Safari tour winner Snow heads to Sigona as the odds on favourite to lift the title after back-to-back wins at Thika Greens and Muthaiga. He is, however, expected to face stiff competition from current series leader Indiza, who will be looking to get back to winning ways after faltering at Thika and Muthaiga. Great Rift Valley’s Jastas Madoya, who blew hot and cold at Muthaiga will be another player to watch out for, alongside Ngige and Wakhu. Royal Nairobi Golf Club’s Ooko will also be out for a good performance, after failing to make the cut during the Muthaiga edition. At the same time, the Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL), through their Johnnie Walker brand, has announced a sponsorship for the Hole-In-One prize at the Sigona and Karen legs of the Safari Tour as well as the PRO-AM prizes for both events. KBL’s Head of Marketing International Spirits and Reserve, Grace Nshemeire- Gwaku, said: “Johnnie Walker is pleased to announce sponsorship of the hole-in-one prize during the Sigona and Karen legs of the 2019/20 Safari Tour.” “At KBL, we are always committed to contributing to the growth of sports in Kenya. Johnnie Walker has a rich history in supporting golf not only locally but internationally and we are excited to be involved in the Safari Tour Golf series.” Action at the Sigona will tee off with the Pro-Am event on January 25, where a projected field of 200 players are set to participate before the professionals take centre stage from January 26 to 29. From Sigona, Safari tour action will move to the Uganda Golf Club for the Kitante Open between February 12 and 15 before ushering in the last leg at the Karen Country Club between February 22 and 25.