More than 100 Kiambu residents affected by the expansion of James Gichuru-Rironi road are missing from the compensation list. People Affected by Project chairman Kimani Njuki on Sunday said the names of 112 residents of Kamandura and Rironi have been omitted from the list filed with the Kenya National Highways Authority for compensation. He said they came to know about the omission after those affected complained that they were not being involved in communications about the payout. "We were shocked since we did not understand how these names were missing, and they had been filed. Rironi and Kamandura are in Limuru constituency," Njuki said on Sunday in his Kinoo office, Kikuyu. The chairman said they have forwarded the names to Kenha to be included in the list. Njuki said the government had promised to compensate them since the project kicked off in 2017. Some people have to abandon their homes, business premises and structures because of the road construction. Njuki said some residents had taken loans to build rentals, and are now unable to repay banks. "We have been following up on the compensation and until today, we have never been compensated," he said. He said he is convincing over 1,500 residents not to go to court and stop the project until they are paid. Trader Beth Mumbi said she moved out of a building in Uthiru after it was earmarked for demolition. "I operated a boutique, and I moved to Kanjeru village. I lost customers and I have never recovered since I don't get customers like I used to," she said. The road cuts across Westlands, Kabete, Kikuyu and Limuru constituencies. Residents of the four constituencies, Njuki said, have written to Kenha, the Ministry of Roads, the roads board, Parliament and the Senate seeking assistance to see them compensated. The road, which lies along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway, is expected to take four years to complete. Some Sh16.4 billion will be spent to build the six-lane highway. It is funded by the World Bank. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi said he was following up on the compensation. Wamatangi, who is also the Roads committee chairman in the Senate, said the road will be done according to the required standards and plans.  