 Governor Nyaga Wambora's associates have been sidelined in the new Embu county assembly leadership realignment. The governor's detractors have taken over as chairpersons of influential committees in an apparent rebellion arising from bad blood between him, Speaker Josiah Thiriku and Majority leader Michael Njeru. Wambora’s associates – Margaret Lorna Kariuki (nominated), Terry Mbuchi (nominated), Agnes Gakungugu (nominated), Sicily Warue (nominated), Judy Mbuya (nominated), Martin Kimani (nominated), Robert Ireri (Kagaari South), Murithi Kiura (Mbeti South) and Paul Muchangi (Gaturi North) – missed out in the new leadership. The realignment has dealt a blow to the governor's grip of not only the county assembly but Embu politics in general. The rebellion followed a recent attempt by the governor to have the Jubilee party headquarters reprimand Njeru and to kick out nominated MCA Rose Kinyua from the welfare committee. Representatives Edna Muisyo, Sicily Njiru and Edith Nyaga were also to be reprimanded. However, the attempt was thwarted after Njeru and the other MCAs moved to the political parties’ tribunal. The matter is pending. This is what led the speaker and the majority leader to hit back and reorganise the sectoral and standing committees of the assembly to ensure that only their supporters and those opposed to graft and other malpractices at the county executive are elected to chair the committees. Mavuria MCA Ngari Mbaka is the new chairman of the powerful Infrastructure Committee. He is deputised by the Majority leader. He dethroned former deputy Majority leader Murithi Kiura of Mbeti South. Nthawa ward rep Nathan Mwari is the chair of Youth Empowerment and Sports Committee. Salesio Kimaru (Kyeni South) and Patrick Rugendo (Kagaari North) have taken over the chairmanship of the Committee on Public Participation and the newly formed Ward Equalisation Committee respectively. Muisyo is the new chair of the Justice and Legal Affairs committee, while Fredrick Gatumu (Gaturi South) is the new chair of the Committee on Delegated Legislation. Barely a week ago, Mbuya (Majority chief whip) and deputy Majority leader Kiura were replaced with Harrison Mwaluko (Mwea) and Salesio Kimaru (Kyeni South) respectively. The duo was said to have played a vital role in unsuccessful attempts to overthrow Njeru and instal Kagaari South MCA Robert Ireri as the Majority leader. Njeru, who also chairs the Committee on Selection said the realignment was occasioned by the governor’s reorganisation of the Executive, which saw the Water and Irrigation docket merged with the Lands and Urban Development. Thiriku announced in a communication to the assembly that MCA Njiru was the new representative to the County Assemblies Forum (CAF) Governing Council, replacing Gakungugu. (Edith) Nyaga is the new chairperson of the assembly’s Jubilee Women's Caucus.   