The move by men's hockey Premier League champions Butali Warriors to elevate veteran midfielder Zack Aura to the technical bench has been welcomed by the playing unit. Aura guided the Warriors to two consecutive titles in 2018 and 2019. Coach Godfrey Wakachunga has lauded the decision by the management to settle on the former Kenya international, who retired in 2015 He said his exploits with the club and national team will add value to the team as the sugar men return to pre-season preparation this week in readiness for the new season. "It's true that Aura will have a coaching role in the side  and could even be the head coach, why not? "The former national team captain is an experienced player and has also played in Italy. He coached Strathmore Ladies at some point and therefore i guess he knows what is expected of him," said coach Wakachunga. Diminutive midfielder Francis Kariuki, who foresees a more productive 2020 season under Aura. "He will be a source of inspiration to us young players. He demands discipline and has been one of the best players in the country...so we can't wait to get started," he noted. Attacker Frank Wanangwe, who is best remembered in the 2018 season for  scoring the title-winning brace against former champions Police, said Aura will help fill the void left by coach Denis Owoka who resigned and is now the Tunza Sports coaching director. "It was always the desire of Zack to coach this team and he will definitely take the team a notch higher. He is a winner and an able replacement of Owoka as well," added Wanangwe. Aura led Kenya to a third-place finish in the 2015 African Cup of Nations in South Africa and played for the national team for almost a decade. Meanwhile, Butali will look to sign at least two defenders ahead of the transfer window closure this weekend. Wakachunga said the team is more focused on returning the title and not maintaining unbeaten run. "Defensive reinforcement is necessary because we are short in that department. With the squad we have, this season could even be better. Winning the league is a real possibility, though difficult. We will force defensive-minded teams to make errors, create short corners and convert them," he noted.