A court has ordered a grown man to collect his belongings and leave his girlfriend’s house. Makadara Court issued the restrictive orders against the man after he allegedly assaulted his girlfriend when she refused to disclose her phone unlock pin to him. Chief magistrate Heston Nyagah on Friday ordered Ferdinand Atandi to pick his belongings and vacate the lover’s house in Tassia Estate, Nairobi. "I hereby order the accused person to pick his belongings and vacate the house, he should also cut any form of communication with the complainant until this matter is determined," he ruled. This follows an application by Jackline Wanjugu, who sought court protection from her allegedly abusive boyfriend. Atandi was charged on Thursday with assaulting Wanjugu, a Standard Gauge Railway station attendant, and causing her bodily injuries. The court heard that Atandi took Wanjugu's phone  immediately she arrived from work and forced her to disclose her pin number. This was before Atandi started beating her while armed with a knife and  threatening to kill her. After a while, Wanjugu disclosed that she started nose bleeding and sought help through Facebook while Atandi went to the washroom. But Atandi denied the charges before chief magistrate Heston Nyaga. He claimed that Wanjugu was his 'wife' and the incident was a domestic issue. Wanjugu's father, Daniel Gathuma, who was present in court, did not take it lightly that her daughter was assaulted. Gathuma said he had no idea that his daughter was married to Atandi. He said on January 13, he received a phone call at 5am from a woman who informed him that his daughter’s life was in danger. Gathuma said he was informed that Atandi allegedly wanted to kill Wanjugu. "I drove from Utawala to Tassia in 15 minutes to rescue my daughter from the “abusive boyfriend”, he said. He claimed that Atandi exited through the kitchen window after he knocked on the door. Gathuma said he was unaware that the Sh18000 rent he sends his daughter is not being used for the intended purpose. Wanjugu told the court that she was friends with Atandi adding that they have been cohabiting and sharing the cost of rent. But the magistrate asked Wanjugu's father whether Atandi had paid dowry for his daughter. “I have not received any dowry payment from Atandi. They have been cohabiting and Atandi has only few belongings like clothes in the house,” he said. The two have lived together for 10 months. Atandi was released on a Sh10, 000 cash bail as the hearing of the matter is set for May 6.