Controversial musician Muigai wa Njoroge has denied claims he has been funded by Deputy President in his latest hit 'Tukunia', meaning sacks. Speaking to Word Is yesterday, he said no politician can manage to pay him enough so he can support him. “I have been in the industry for over a decade, and singing songs with messages concerning politics in this country is part of my call,” he said. In the song, ‘Tukunia’ now trending number one on YouTube, Muigai took a hit at President Uhuru Kenyatta over the development of the former Central province. He called out the President, claiming his followers' hunger cannot allow them to listen to him. "Dad, a hungry person has no ears to hear when you rant, the hunger that is in your home is unbearable. I'd rather tell you the truth, and because I have no idea what the sacks tell you, but things on the ground are different," Muigai sang in the chorus. Muigai then tells the President that dumping his deputy, William Ruto, was like aborting a seven-month pregnancy, which is risky and might result in the death of the mother. “It is my opinion and it is clear that the President has forgotten the struggles they have had with William Ruto and everyone can see the division,” he said, adding that it would be easier to dump ODM leader Raila Odinga, comparing the handshake as a three-month pregnancy that was about to kill the mother. The musician also informed the President that the cracks in the region might make him not have a home to go back to after retirement, advising him to take immediate action before things get out of hand. He says politicians have reached out to him and many are congratulating him for telling the truth. “Those criticising me are the ones I am calling sacks because they have not been able to send the message to the President because they are not working and my opinion is I want them fired from their posts," Muigai said. He sings in part, "Dad, take care of yourself as the people surrounding you will never tell you the truth and are full of hypocrisy. They are just interested in massaging you with their lies and hypocrisy and ditching you once you give them what they want." This is not the first time Muigai has ruffled the political feathers with a scathing song. His other political songs include 'Kimendero' (Oppressors), in which he referred to the corrupt as dinosaurs.