Kenya’s intelligence gathering and handling have been on trial in the wake of persisted terror attacks. Al Shabaab militants attacked a KDF-US base in Manda, Lamu, on Sunday in the first-ever attack on the US Forces in Kenya. Analysts described the attack as a rare feat for the terror group, adding it must have taken long to plan. Reports indicate Abu Hamza Al-Kinyi led the group. He was among the five militants killed by Kenya Special Forces. He was a close associate of Shirwa, who was killed in Baure alongside Thomas Evans after they attempted to enter a military camp at Baure in Lamu in 2015. Al-Kinyi, a Kenyan who joined the terrorist group in 2013, survived a precision airstrike in Jiliib, Somalia, in 2014. Another Kenyan was among the militants killed, while the rest were Somali nationals, according to sources. In the past, Kenyans who have been on the police watch list have returned home and committed deadly attacks. For instance, January 2019 Dusit D2 terror attack suicide bomber Mahir Khalid Riziki had been on anti-terror police unit’s radar since 2014. A day before Sunday’s attack, a resident reported seeing a group of wounded al Shabaab militants in Kilelengwani area near the border of Lamu and Tana River. About 10 men all had gunshot wounds on different parts of their bodies and their clothes were dirty and bloodied, the resident said. The men were reported to have been speaking fluent Kiswahili and asked if residents could get them medical attention without raising alarm. The man said, however, he wasn't in a position to help them. They released him on condition he wouldn't reveal their presence to security agencies. “I was chopping wood when I stumbled upon a group of about 10 men who were all injured. Some were bleeding profusely. They asked me to help them and I told them I couldn’t. They told me to go but said they would come and kill me if I sold them out to security. I reported the incident anyway,” he said. A series of attacks in Kenya’s North at the tail of 2019 claimed lives of dozens of police officers, with al Shabaab attack catching special forces unawares. The attacks persisted despite intelligence information that militants had been sighted. Police Spokesman Charles Owino said informers and residents were collaborating with militants to conduct successful attacks. “Sometimes it is a miscalculation when someone tells you he has information and you jump on the vehicle [in response to it] without thinking through it,” he said during an interview with the Star. In one of the attacks on a passenger bus on December 6 that killed 11 passengers in Wajir, among them eight police officers, it was established that the attackers had been housed by a local headteacher for days before the attack. He led them in the assault. Al Shabaab’s intelligence arm Amniyat, which has deep roots and extensive links, has been credited with keeping the group alive, despite international efforts against it. The Amniyat, regarded as highly secretive, is said to use services of local informers to enable the group to carry out attacks effectively. On Sunday, security officers arrested a Somali-Canadian man as he photographed the Kenya Air Force Moi Air Base in Eastleigh, Nairobi. Another three suspects who are being interrogated by the ATPU were arrested while trying to gain access to the highly secured British Army Training Unit Kenya in Laikipia.