 ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi wants the re-introduction of the position of Prime Minister and two deputies as was recommended in the Bomas Draft of 2005. The PM should be the leader of the largest political party or coalition in the National Assembly and be appointed by the President from among MPs with the approval of Parliament. The PM should have two deputies and be the head of Cabinet of a maximum of 20 ministers or a minimum of 15 with an equal number of deputy ministers. “Let's adopt the Bomas Draft version with minor alterations but without major adulteration,” Mudavadi said. The former deputy PM says government appointments should have a proportional representation of the population. “The percentage communities representative of the total population should be used in public appointments,” he said. Mudavadi said constitutional amendments should introduce proportional representation. “People should vote for parties not individuals. Seats should be allocated proportionately to votes cast for parties in a particular area. This will ensure every vote counts and no vote is lost and end feelings of marginalisation,” he said. He said counties should get 40 per cent of the current budgeted national revenue. “County shareable revenue should be drawn directly from the Consolidated Fund and not detour to Treasury for disbursement later.” The BBI report proposes that counties be allocated 35 per cent of the current budgeted national revenue. Mudavadi also proposes that bills at the Senate be taken to the counties for rigorous consultation through public participation and for endorsement by county assemblies. “This way, a bill will not be the whim of an individual but a position of a county. The luxury of senators representing themselves yet they are protectors of counties should be over. It's time for them to truly represent views, opinions and needs of the counties they represent,” Mudavadi said. The Bomas Draft further proposed that ministers should be appointed by the President upon nomination by the Prime Minister from members of the National Assembly, and subject to the approval of the Senate. The hybrid parliamentary system based on the Bomas Draft was to allow individuals from smaller communities to rise to the highest offices and also encourage an inclusive system of power-sharing. The Prime Minister would head Cabinet and chair its meetings. The Bomas document allowed the President to retain powers to hire and fire the Cabinet, judges, as well as ambassadors. Mudavadi further proposed that policing be a shared function between the national and county governments. “Security intelligence must be shared with county governments whose county security committee is chaired by the governor.”  edited by p.obuya