Contraband and smuggling is fueling al Shabaab and culprits will be handled like terrorists, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said. While speaking during a high-level security meeting at the Government Guest House in Garissa on Monday, Matiang’i said the vice is hurting businesses in the country while fueling the death of Kenyans. He encouraged residents to report suspicious activities and individuals to the police. “Terrorists and their sympathisers have no place in Kenya. Once again, we will make no distinction between the two categories. Those who harbor terrorists will be treated with the same veracity we treat terrorists,” the CS said. Matiang'i announced that a multi-agency team will launch a security operation and sustain surveillance along the borders to stop and deter the flow of illicit goods, services, and immigrants into the country. Matiang’i also warned of severe disciplinary, punitive and legal action against any government official who, through neglect, culpable inefficiency or poor performance, will drop the ball. “Where we have challenges in our security framework in the war against contraband, we will address them jointly. Meanwhile, any officer, either in the national or county government, found tolerating or abetting cross-border smuggling of counterfeits will be held personally accountable.” he said. "The government has already begun the progressive deployment of equipment and concurrent facilitation of training and education for the Border Patrol Unit of the Administration Police Service to increase collection of information and intelligence on criminal networks and complex smuggling rings." he said. The CS has tasked the National Government Administrative Officers to step up engagement with the local leaders and leverage on cooperation and information-sharing with civilians to effectively counter radicalisation and terrorist propaganda. “The President expects us to be working from the ground, and not issuing orders from Nairobi. We’re going to conduct regular visitors. Don’t be scared to report terrorist operatives, radicalisers and recruiters. The government will protect you,” he added. In a meeting with top security officers from all the regions last week, at State House, Mombasa, Uhuru said terrorism remains the gravest national security challenge. Uhuru said blocking funding channels used by terrorists is key to winning the war on terror. “Smuggling of contraband goods from neighbouring countries directly funds al Shabaab,” he said. The President said all loopholes used by smugglers must be sealed to put a stop to the financial streams of the sponsors of terrorism. Matiang’i said that the government has spent Sh15 billion on development projects in Garissa. He reiterated that these numerous projects the government has commissioned in the region demonstrate that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration is one of inclusivity and zero tolerance towards discrimination. “All Kenyans are equal no matter which part of the country one is from and will be served with the same level of dignity.” he said.