Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Boss Shollei has come out to deny any improper conduct in the photos circulating on social media showing her with another man just days after she divorced with her husband Sam Shollei. She addressed a five-minute press conference in Eldoret on Friday evening where she also rejected questions from the media and said she would never respond to accusations against her. Shollei said she had recently been threatened with destruction of her character and image by a person known to her. She said the circulation of the photos showing her with a Caucasian man was proof of the threats she had received earlier. “I will never respond to them or do the same to them because I was never raised to be an evil person,” Shollei said. She appeared emotional as she addressed the media and made the request not to take any questions. “Those photos out there reveal no improper conduct on my part. And in terms of using them to destroy me I believe that no human being can destroy me unless my God wills it or if they are God which they are not,” said an emotional Shollei. She said no amount of smear campaign would deter her from serving the people of Uasin Gishu and the country. “I thank God that I attended the ‘walking on fire training’ which require me to stay focused and never look at the fire which can consume me and therefore I shall not be consumed,” she said. Shollei said while the photos were circulating she had continued with her work in Uasin Gishu and even appeared on TV stations talking about the issues which affect her people. The woman rep said she would never again address the matter and would remain focused on her work. “I shall remain true to the work am supposed to do and that is why I would never again make any other comments on this matter again,” she said. Shollei said her current challenges were not the first and would not be last but she would remain focused to take care of her children and work for her electorate. The legislator said moving forward she would continue to serve her God whole protecting and raising her children. Shollei said she does not want the issues not to distract her work and that is why she would keep of the matter. "I know that a lot of people I represent may have faced the same or will face it in future and that is why I will remain undeterred," she said.