It was too dangerous to go to school in Kapedo — until the state started putting up perimeter walls. The government is spending Sh24.4 million on walls to protect Kapedo schools from attacks by cattle rustlers, bandits and clan fighters. Structures have been burnt, teachers and pupils shot, some have been killed, mny teachers have fled. The region is lawless and largely inaccessible without armed escorts. The National government through the Constituency Development Fund aims to provide an environment that is safe for learners and conducive to education. Kapedo is a renowned battleground in Turkana East between the Turkanas and Pokots. It's characterised by a scramble for resources and cattle rustling. In 2014 twenty-one police officers were killed at Kapedo in Turkana East by suspected Pokot bandits. Kapedo residents said the region is largely inaccessible as security has deteriorated and there's little development and poor or no roads. It can only be accessed through the Lokori and Chemolingot route with an escort of armoured personnel carriers. MP Ali Lokiru constructed one wall to improve learning. "Kapedo has been in the spotlight for of insecurity due to the heavy cattle rustling and attacks from Lokori to Kapedo and from Kapedo to Marigat in Baringo county. Building perimeter walls around Kapedo schools will at least reduce attacks on learners and provide a conducive environment for studies, " he said. He said the Kapedo schools requiring walls are Lomelo Primary School, Kapedo Girls Primary School and Kapedo Secondary School. Hardly a day passes without an attack, he said. The Legislator said the perimeter wall of Lomelo Primary School costs Sh7.4 million, Kapedo Girls Primary School Sh8.5 million and Kapedo Secondary School Sh8.5 million. Kapedo Mixed secondary school has sustained many attacks including the burning of a teacher’s house within the school compound and a threat to burn the school bus. Noah Ekwam, deputy principal of Kapedo Mixed Secondary said the construction of perimeter school will help the students to post positive exam results. "The wall is very helpful and will prevent us from open attacks. Many attacks experienced has led to deaths of students, teachers, residents and security officers, " he said. He said construction of the perimeter wall it has boosted student enrollment of students in schools. He said due to frequent attacks in Kapedo some of the teachers fled. Joseph Korikou, the headteacher Lomelo Primary School said, teachers and students are now able to stay in schools throughout the day and enrolment has improved. "Before the construction of the perimeter wall, this place was at risk because students and teachers could not move but now it's at least safe and students can move and study freely, " he said. Kapedo resident Sarah Jacob said since the 21 police were killed, the place is still very dangerous because of bandits. She has urged the government to deploy adequate security officers and conduct patrols. "The government called those still in possession of illegal firearms to surrender them in an amnesty but in places like Silale and Marigat people still have Ak-47 rifles and 3G rifles claiming the lives of innocent people and enabling the theft of livestock." (Edited by V. Graham)  