Mukalala village is located close to Athi River, which provides water to many areas in Machakos, but suffers perennial shortages. Schools, for instance, are forced to buy water or get it from far away. A firm has announced, however, that it will build a school in the village with a state-of-the-art water well system. Paxful, a bitcoin marketplace, will undertake the project in partnership with Zam Zam Water, a humanitarian organisation providing clean, sustainable water and access to quality education in villages across the globe. Paxful has set out to build 100 schools across Africa to improve access to quality education. It announced the building of its Mukalala school in the village this week. The #BuiltWithBitcoin school will be the third to be put up after two in Rwanda. It will be for children between the ages of three and six. Paxful will initially provide $30,000 (Sh3 million). Other companies trading in cryptocurrency will donate bitcoins which correlate to a specific part of the school’s completion, including three classrooms, a kitchen, solar power system and restrooms. “As cryptocurrency advances the financial freedoms of Africans and provides new and innovative ways for millions in the country to conduct business, we at Paxful wanted to take on a larger role to help them break free of the shackles of an unjust financial system,” said Artur Schaback, COO of Paxful. Schaback said with the 100-school initiative called #BuiltWithBitcoin, they plan to take control of their financial independence while meeting the needs of communities. The #BuiltWithBitcoin initiative began in 2017 with partner Zam Zam Water. Two schools have been built in Rwanda, one completed in 2017 and the other in 2018. The initiative now supports more than 400 students and expects to provide education to nearly 15,000 young people throughout Africa while providing jobs to nearly 300 teachers. “We recognise that availability of a good learning environment is an important player in Kenya’s education system. For this reason, we strive to create positive social change by empowering men, women and children through education and opportunity,” said Yusuf Nessary, founder of Zam Zam Water. Ray Youssef, CEO of Paxful, said the benefits of cryptocurrency are often overshadowed by negativity and speculation. He said Paxful's mission is to change this image and showcase all the good that can be done if they work together beginning with the youth in communities and building on the initiative in the near future. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya