Think out of the box to utilise resources at your disposal, President Uhuru Kenyatta has told the Judiciary. Uhuru was responding to Chief Justice David Maraga who had voiced concern over Judiciary's budget cuts. The President who spoke on Thursday at the Supreme Court during the official release of the State of the Judiciary and Administrative of Justice Report said the Maraga-led arm of government should work with the resources available. "We will continue to support the Judiciary with the resources required but we must accept that we want to fly first class but it will take time. Pesa ni ile tu, hakuna ingine.. ni kodi ya MKenya na hiyo tutagawanya wote," (the money is still the same. There is no other one. It's the Kenyan taxpayers' money that we will all share), he said. "We need to think outside the box to utilize the resources we have in all arms of government and we must accept that. In one circular, we have said we do not have to buy newspapers for individuals..Jameni nunua yako hata mimi nanunua yangu. (Buy your own newspaper, I even buy for myself),” Uhuru said. Uhuru said if need be, they only need to look for areas that need budget cuts. "We don't need to buy you three newspapers every day. Why do we have to go to hotels? Why do you need Mombasa to stay in Serena hotel? Why can’t we use School of Government instead of hotels," the President said. "It has rooms, good food and at a good price. Even the rooms are free. This story of travelling with a delegation and yet you can go alone. I am not in any fight with anybody." Earlier, Chief Justice David Maraga vented out his frustrations to Uhuru over the Judiciary's budget cuts. Maraga said all they need is facilitation and they would do their best. "Last year, we had abrupt budget cuts. I made calls and the calls were not responded to. We live in this country and we understand. Even if there will be budget cuts, at least consult with us. Our major problem is finances. We have huge case backlogs,” he added. The CJ spoke on Thursday at the Supreme court during the official release of the State of the Judiciary and Administrative of Justice Report. Last year, Maraga vowed not to attend some state functions unless the government starts treating him and the Judiciary with respect.