Good morning, Deputy President William Ruto's BBI game plan is rattling allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga as the Ruto rebels' Naivasha meeting threw a spanner in the works. Forces allied to Uhuru and Raila have now warned the DP's troops against attending the regional Building Bridges Initiative campaigns, a week after what appeared to be a you-all-are-welcome ceasefire in Mombasa. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. Kenya has Africa's sixth-highest risk of receiving a case of the new coronavirus imported from China. The risk is based on the volume of air traffic between Kenya and China, which has reported more than 80 deaths and 2,700 cases of the deadly virus.   Embattled Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu on Tuesday put up a spirited fight in the Senate to reverse his impeachment. Waititu dismissed as propaganda, the gross misconduct, abuse of office, conflict of interest and violation of the Constitution grounds that the MCAs cited to remove him from office in December last year. Transit goods to Uganda and Rwanda now take an average of four to five days after Kenya Revenue Authority introduced real-time cargo tracking. This, according to KRA has cut transit time by more than 75 percent in return boosting trade at the Mombasa port.  City Hall's head of security and enforcement Tito Kilonzi has been recalled by the National Police Service for redeployment. At the same time, security guards attacked to Nairobi county executives and chief officers have also been recalled "due to acute shortage" A high-powered delegation of sports stakeholders leave tonight for Zurich, Switzerland for crucial talks with world football governing body, Fifa over the impending Football Kenya Federation elections. FKF president Nick Mwendwa revealed that he, alongside Sports CS Amina Mohammed, Sports Disputes Tribunal chairman John Ohaga and Sports Registrar Rose Wasike will be meeting with top Fifa officials from tomorrow to update them on the fresh football elections that were ordered by the SDT.