Kenya Seven skipper Andrew Amonde has warned there can be no margin of error in the Hamilton and Sydney Sevens in the next fortnight. Shujaa have been drawn in a tough pool for the Hamilton leg in New Zealand, where they face England, South Africa and Japan in a tricky Pool B. The winner of the pool qualifies for the semi-final, meaning there will be no quarterfinals in both the Hamilton and Sydney events as the women's tournament will be played concurrently. Amonde said with the new rules, the team must win two of three matches in order to guarantee a place in the final four. "It will be a tough task but the boys are ready for the challenge. The new rules are not good but we have to  focus on the task at hand so that we can qualify for the semis,” noted Amonde. Kenya and South Africa have met twice this season with Shujaa losing narrowly 17-5 and 17-12 in Dubai and Cape Town respectively. Shujaa also went down 12-5 to England in Dubai. Shujaa arrived in Hamilton on Sunday after a 20-hour flight from Nairobi and have had two training sessions as they gear up for action which kicks off on Saturday. Amonde said he was delighted to have talisman Collins Injera back for the two legs.  “He has been an integral part of this team. He brings experience and creates tries out of nothing. It's good to have him back in the squad,” noted Amonde. Veteran forward Oscar Ouma and playmaker Sammy Oliech trained with the team before departure and may be included in  the Las Vegas and Vancouver Sevens squads in March. Paul Feeney's charges last year lost in the Challenge Trophy final to England 36-7 to bag sevens points. Kenya presently lie 11th on the log  with 15 points from the opening two events Elsewhere, the Safari Sevens tournament will be played on October 23-25 at the RFUEA ground. A statement from Kenya rugby union said they have sent out invites of the tournament to the World Seven Series core sides including USA , South Africa and Fiji. Last year, the event was sponsored to the tune of Sh20 million by Tusker and raised Sh35 million in terms of ticket sales for three-day rugby extravaganza.