Kibos Sugar Company in Kisumu has been directed to relocate Kibos Special Schools to a conducive location or risk being shut down over alleged massive pollution. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha threatened to shut down the factory should the owners fail to relocate the schools. The factory is located next to the Kibos Primary School for the Blind and Kibos Special Secondary School, which share a compound. Magoha said learners in the schools are exposed to pollution from the factory. “We cannot allow children with special needs to continue suffering due to environmental hazards they are exposed to by the factory- a stone throw away from the school,” he said. He was speaking at Chemelil Academy in Muhoroni Subcounty on Saturday during the annual education retreat for CDF sponsored students in national secondary schools and universities. He also launched bursary for students joining form one in national schools. The learners, Magoha said, feel neglected if they continue to suffer while leaders do nothing about their plight. He said his ministry, Kisumu county government, and area MP should swiftly solve the matter permanently. The CS asked Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo to work with the Kisumu county government and his ministry to find a suitable location within the city to relocate the schools. He noted that the earlier plan by the factory to relocate the schools far away from Kisumu town was rejected, noting that the relocation must be within the city. Magoha said the factory should relocate the schools at their cost. He said if the matter is not resolved in time, then he will be forced to order for the closure of the factory to allow learning to continue in a conducive environment. Koyoo has been on the forefront to find a lasting solution to the pollution that affects learning, after the school management wrote to his office and complained of pollution. Parliamentary committees on education and labour have visited both the school and the factory after petitions went sent on the plight of learners as a result of air and water pollution. Locals have been complaining that the factory pollutes the air, and this has adverse effect on pupils living with albinism in western Kenya. Last year, the National Assembly’s Committee on Labour and Social Welfare chaired by Bura MP Ali Wario visited the schools. They were told how the bagasse carbon and dust, smell from effluent and industrial processes and noise from the factory were affecting learning. “We have seen the danger facing our children at a national school. We came to investigate the extent of environmental damage caused by the firm,” Wario said.