Kenya has been drawn in the North-East Africa region for the African Cup Of Nations  qualifiers under the new qualification system. The African Hockey Federation's latest model has led to the creation of three regional groups. Besides the North-East Africa region, North-West Africa and Central South Africa regions are the other two The African body changed the  format last year after the African Olympic qualifiers in Stellenbosch, South Africa. Previously, it was a single African tourney with no regional blocks. Kenya will host their region pre-qualifiers in April this year in Nairobi, where the men will battle it out with Burundi, Libya, Seychelles, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda in the 7-team category. The women's team also face similar opposition with Egypt the only addition. North-West Africa comprises Algeria, Bukina Faso, Ghana, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Morocco, Nigeria and Sierre leone. Botswana, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe form Central-South regional block. South Africa and Egypt have already qualified by virtue of being the top two ranked teams continentally in the men's category.  Similarly Ghana and South Africa have booked their tickets in the women's category. The winner and first runner up in each region will join the top two in the main tournament in August next year. The hosting nation will be communicated later. Kenya men's team started their  preparation in December last year with friendly matches against Ghana's Exchequers and will intensify their training in the next two months. Kenya Hockey Union (KHU)  match and fixture deputy secretary, Moses Majiwa, said Kenya will have no problem qualifying for the tournament. "We definitely will stand out in the pre-qualifiers but we will face a stern test from South Africa in the main tournament because they have many experienced  players playing abroad." Kenya occupies position 48 in the FIH world rankings in the men's division and have only managed a second-place finish in four of its seven Afcon appearances. The country boasts of only one gold medal won in 1987 African Games.