Nairobi has been picked as the first stage for the 2020 World Athletics Continental Tour. The Tour lands in Nairobi on May 2, the only African city to host a leg of the event. The Tour will be divided into three levels — Gold, Silver and Bronze — whose status will be determined by the quality of competition and prize money on offer. World Athletics is investing in the Gold level meetings, which will each offer Sh20m in prize money, to increase the number of high quality competitive opportunities available to showcase the sport’s best athletes. Area associations will be responsible for managing the Silver (Sh7.5m prize money) and Bronze level competitions (Sh2.5m). There will be ten Silver and up to 50 Bronze meetings. Those disciplines that are not included in this year’s Wanda Diamond League final – 200m, 3000m steeplechase, triple jump, discus — will be core events in the Continental Tour Gold meetings, as will the hammer throw. Each will have guaranteed prize money of Sh2m at each meeting. Performances in those events will attract the same level of world ranking points as the core Diamond League disciplines, and the overall tour winners will receive wildcard entry to the World Athletics Championships Oregon 2021. Host broadcasters have been appointed for each meeting and Infront, the tour’s international TV rights holder, will sell the rights into markets around the world. Continental Tour Gold: Nairobi, Kenya (Africa) May 2, Tokyo, Japan (Asia) May 10, Nanjin, China (Asia) May 13, Ostrava, Czech Republic (Europe) May 22, Hengelo NED (Europe) June 1, Turku FIN (Europe) June 9, Kingston JAM (North America) June 13, Szekesfehervar HUN (Europe) June 7, Silesia POL (Europe) September 6, Zagreb CRO (Europe) September 15.  Continental Tour Silver: Queensland Track Classic, Brisbane, Australia (Oceania) March 20, Grenada International Invitational, St. George, Grenada (North America) April 4, Jamaica International Invitational, Kingston, Jamaica (North America) May 2, Grande Premio Brasil Caixa de Atletismo, Sao Paolo, Brazil (South America) May 17, Janusz Kusocinski Memorial, Chorzów, Poland (Europe) May 24, Samorin, Samorin, Slovakia (Europe) June 11, Meeting of Madrid, Madrid, Spain (Europe) June 19, Spitzen Leichtathletik Luzern, Luzern, Switzerland (Europe) July 1, 56th Palio Citta della Quercia, Rovereto, Italy (Europe) September 8, ISTAF Berlin, Berlin, Germany (Europe) September 13.