Good morning, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu had his day in the Senate as he defended himself in a bid to reverse his impeachment. In a final desperate appeal, he said, "It is very unfair for someone who has worked hard. It’s is ungodly for me, who has worked hard, to be removed just like that, unceremoniously maybe because I am not in the right position in your politics." Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. Former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has launched a scathing attack on President Uhuru Kenyatta, accusing the head of state of insincerity in his push for national unity. In a brazen criticism of the President since his sacking on January 14, Kiunjuri said Uhuru was sacrificing some politicians in the process of courting new allies. High Court judge John Onyiego has said he declined to swear in James Nyoro as the governor of Kiambu county because the county failed to gazette the swearing-in  and it didn't comply with the time element required before the ceremony. In a statement on Thursday, Onyiego said the County Committee on the Assumption of the Office of Governor failed to publish the time, date and place of the swearing-in in both the Kenya and County Gazette. The Bomas of Kenya is a place where Kenyans and tourists can learn about the country’s culture, especially traditional housing, and dances. It is a cultural centre in Nairobi. In 2013 and 2017, it was the base for the IEBC during the election process.  Governors in cotton-growing counties in the lake region have resolved to support the collapsed textile industry. The county chiefs at the fifth Lake Region Economic Block (LREB) summit held in Siaya on January 14 and 15 unanimously agreed to support cotton growing, which more than a decade ago played an essential role in supporting the textile industry. The bloc has 14 counties.   Homeownership remains low along majority of Kenyans despite house prices dropping as the real estate market continues to correct. The House Price Index by property firm HassConsult shows house prices in satellite towns declined by 50 basis points last year, the first-ever drop since the survey commenced in 2008.