The national government will take over dilapidated, understaffed and underresourced Gilgil Mental Hospital. It has more than 50 patients, many abandoned by their relatives due to the stigma associated with mental illness. Some have been there for 10 years. Through the Ministry of Health, the Gilgil facility will become a satellite of Mathari Mental Hospital in Nairobi. Several months ago Health CS Sicily Kariuki toured the facility and promised national government support. Nakuru Health CEC Dr Kariuki Gichuki said under the new programme, the ministry will hire Gilgil staff and supply equipment. Current staff will be transferred elsewhere in the county. Gichuki said it was very expensive to treat mental disorders due to the high cost of drugs. “Plans are at an advanced stage for the national government to take over the department of psychiatry in Gilgil Hospital with a view to rehabilitating and expanding it,” he said. The major problem is the high number of patients abandoned by their relatives, Gichuki said. “Some patients have stayed in that facility for over 10 years after they were abandoned by kin due to the stigma associated with mental disorders,” he said. Gichuki said construction of the Sh40 million outpatient wing at Gilgil Hospital was in its final stages and completion was expected by the end of the year. Patients at Gilgil have suffered a lot due to conditions at the facility, health worker Alex Kimani said. “There has been confusion between the national and county government about who is supposed to run the facility but the situation will definitely improve with the state taking over," he said. While touring the facility last year, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said the county was spending Sh20 million every year on medication. He said most patients were suffering from the effects of long-term drug and alcohol abuse, notably young people. Many families have abandoned their relatives because they are embarrassed to have them around, he said. “There is currently no funding for mental facilities in the country and this has strained county resources as we have been forced to dig deeper to support this facility," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie