Self-styled chairman of the Kenya Night Runners Association has pleaded with well-wishers to help him join college after scoring C - (minus) in last year's KCSE exam. This was the second time Jack Songo sat the exam. Speaking to the Star in his home in Pala village, Ndhiwa, Homa Bay, he said he sat his KCPE exam in Pala Boya Primary School in 1999. He proceeded to Agoro Sare Secondary School where he took his first KCSE test in 2003, scoring C+ (plus). At some point, however, he lost his KCPE and KCSE certificates. Hence, his previous attempts to further his education were unsuccessful as he could not prove his results in the absence of the documents. He said the loss of the certificates and the death of his father condemned him to a miserable life, though he did not lose hope. And keen to pursue a course that would help him improve the life of his family and unaware that he could apply for exam results certification from the Kenya National Examinations Council, he decided to resit the KCSE exam. He registered at a private school last year and this time scored C minus, a result he says is no mean feat given that he had been out of school for many years. Away from his mysterious night races — an infernal nuisance to those craving peaceful nights — he hopes to get help soon so he can race against time and give his family the best support they need. Songo said he has sought admission to several tertiary learning institutions, including the Technical University of Mombasa, but has yet to get any reply. “I wonder if coming out openly that I'm a night runner is working against me. I've waited for any calling letter from colleges and vocational training centres to no avail,” he said. The self-declared night runner has interests in graphic design, calligraphy and arts. He has been doing painting work for schools in the area to eke a living and care for his family. “Currently, I'm working with Action Aid, an NGO, to brand classrooms, toilets and tanks in several institutions,” Songo said. He said the money he gets is not enough. He has to cater to his family and that makes it all the more difficult to meet his college fee needs. He, therefore, requested help to get certification for his previous results — the first hurdle in his quest for further education. “I am calling on well-wishers to help me join a college and get a degree to help me support my family,” he said. Songo also waded into the Building Bridges Initiative debate and faulted the organisers of the recent BBI forum in Kisii county for locking him and other night runners out of the function, despite "the need to include cultural changes" in the supreme law. “We laud President Uhuru Kenyatta for turning Boxing Day into Utamaduni Day, but when we are locked out of a function, we wonder which culture the BBI will uphold,” he said. (Edited by F'Orieny)