Gor Mahia will be seeking to redeem themselves from a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Kakamega Homeboyz when they host Chemelil Sugar today at the Moi Stadium Kisumu. Gor,  who have three matches in hand, have the opportunity to scale to third on the log as well as move two points within the reach of league leaders Tusker. Ahead of the match, the defending champions are counting on training as a unit at a residential camp in Homa Bay to put the sugar millers to the sword. After registering their second defeat of the season against Homeboyz, the financially limping Gor who are fourth with 34 points, resorted to camp in Homa Bay to prepare for the fixture. The Homeboyz defeat was largely attributed to players skipping training in protest for lack of pay but assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo is anticipating a relatively easy match, thanks to the residential training which he said helped correct the mistakes they made last weekend. “After the Homeboyz game, we proceeded for a residential camp in Homa Bay where we  trained as a unit on Monday and yesterday. We managed to correct a few mistakes we made last weekend and the boys are raring to go. It's a perfect match to redeem ourselves and get back on track in the title race. We are glad we do not have injuries in the camp,” he added. Similarly, Chemelil who have gathered maximum points once this season, will be gunning to recover from a 3-0 loss to KCB last weekend. The Awasi-based club sit at the rock bottom of the table with four points and are a walkover away from being expelled from the league. Despite the financial struggles and poor run, coach Charles Odera is hopeful of upsetting Gor and as he seeks to gather steam in their race to beat the drop. “The boys have responded well in training and we are looking forward to the match. We had quorum hitches in our last two matches but most of our players who were stranded upcountry have resumed training. We are aware Gor are strong and will be seeking to bounce back to their winning ways but we are equally ready to stop them,” he added.