"My doctor told me to quit smoking, yet I do not smoke." These are the words of Alex Barongo who used to live near VOK dumpsite in Nyali, Mombasa, but had to shift to another area because his health was at risk. He had lived in VOK from 2015 to 2017. Due to the noxious smoke from the 1dumpsite, he developed chest problems and was diagnosed with bronchitis. “I went to the hospital and the doctor told me to stop smoking. I told him that where I stay there is a lot of smoke but I do not smoke and that is when he advised me to move from that place. Since I moved, I'm now okay,” he said. Residents say fire is lit on the dumpsite every day from 2am, and they inhale the smoke all day long. Resident Paul Ngei said his food business is failing because of the dumpsite. This is because it becomes difficult for people to eat with the awful smell emanating from the dumpsite. He says the garbage spills all the way to the road, making it difficult for people to use the road to his eatery. “I have a small eatery around there and so many people are not using that road, so they need to go around a long route to reach my hotel,” he said. The dumpsite is also putting residents at security risks as street boys visit the area in search of scrap metals and other items they can sell. Ngei said the dumpsite is even a grazing area for cows. “Actually, even at night, you can hit a cow because the cows come there at night and a cow has no reflector,” Ngei said. During the commissioning of 10 garbage trucks in Mombasa last year in October, Governor Hassan Joho blamed private garbage collectors for illegal dumping. Residents, however, complained that county garbage trucks have been dumping garbage at night. Speaking to the Star yesterday, MCA Salim Kalume said the dumpsite is a menace to residents. “The county trucks used to dump garbage there long ago so it was then decided that they should stop and if they are caught, then a photo should be taken and forwarded to the authorities,” Kalume said. He said if he had the powers, then he could have ordered for the dumpsite to be closed and those still dumping penalised. 