The looming exit of attacking duo of Duke Abuya and Sidney Lokale is not a major cause of concern for Kariobangi Sharks, head coach William Muluya has assured. Abuya and Lokale are absent as they pursue better deals outside the country. Muluya insisted he had a squad that was capable of coping with the demands of the campaign even without them. “As a club, we are happy when our players are able to get the opportunity to further themselves outside the country. We will be happy if Duke and Lokale get their moves through as that is our main target as a football club,”said the coach after guiding an unrecognisable Sharks outfit to their second win of the campaign when they beat Bandari 1-0 in midweek. Club chairman Robert Maoga confirmed Lokale was to jet out to Finland yesterday, where he has already agreed terms with HIFK Fotboll AB while Abuya was in Zambia for trials. “Sydney has already signed for his new club and all the paperwork is ready. He will leave today (yesterday). For Abuya, he left for trials with several clubs in Zambia but we hope he will secure a deal,”remarked Maoga. Maoga reasserted Sharks' policy of signing youthful players vowing that they will not go into the market to sign experienced footballers as their aim is to give players a platform to play for maybe one year and then sell them off when opportunities arise particularly in European countries like Belgium and Finland. “We want to see our players grow. We will only be recruiting players from the current system we have at Sharks. Another option will be to continue unearthing talent at the grassroots like we did with Mwangemi (Boniface),”stated Maoga. Mwangemi, who only finished school at Dagoretti High in November last year,has impressed since he signed for Sharks, starting at left back in their last two matches. They drew 2-2  against Sofapaka and won 1-0 over Bandari on Wednesday. “The only way young players will play is when the more experienced ones exit and it's a policy we will continue to implement. When our players seek greener pastures abroad, we will not stand in their way,”Maoga reiterated. Sharks face Mathare United in their next match on Sunday at Kasarani.