The High Court on Friday quashed the award to a London-based firm of a Sh200 billion contract to build the High Grand Falls Dam in Kitui and Tharaka Nithi counties. Justice John Mativo said the National Irrigation Board demonstrated the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) acted unlawfully by failing to uphold the precise requirements of the tender documents and provisions of the law. "It is unlawful for the PPARB to pass a decision awarding a tender to a bidder in circumstances where there has not been a full and complete evaluation of the bidder's proposal and proper compliance with the bid requirements," he said. On March 21, the board had directed NIB to proceed and complete the procurement process, including making the award within 14 days. The board considered the tender documents, evaluation reports and all the documents supplied in arriving at its decision. But NIB declined to award the contract to a consortium of British and Turkish firms — GBM and ERG Consortium — on grounds that the board’s decision was "tainted with illegality". The Irrigation Board said that GBM, despite being pregualified, later failled on several evaluation aspects, hence the decision to quash the tender. The GBM and ERG Consortium were among seven prequalified international construction firms, five of them Chinese, which participated in the bidding. The High Grand Falls Dam Project is part of the Sh1.5 trillion Lamu Port and Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor (Lapsset) project. GBM, after losing the tender, took the matter to the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board that after hearings directed the Irrigation Board to award the contract to the British firm. The Irrigation Board then moved to the High Court challenging the decision by the procurement board to compel it to award the tender to GBM. Judge Mativo ruled the directive by the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board was irregular and inconsistent with the tender documents. “Where a decision is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, the act and the tender documents, such a decision is invalid,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 