ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi now claims that the January 18 Western Kenya meeting in Kakamega to discuss the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report has ill motives. Mudavadi said the meeting at Bukhungu Stadium has little to do with the BBI report since it is targeted at him as a senior politician from western Kenya. "Organisers of the so-called seminar to discuss the BBI report are targeting me. They should come straight for me and avoid hiding behind the BBI," he said. Speaking to the Star, Mudavadi added that meeting is particularly geared towards isolating him as a leader from the region. "That so-called drive has got nothing to with unity but it is a cologned ODM party affair. At least Siaya senator James Orengo has the political maturity and courage to admit as much," he added. Western Elders Council has since distanced itself from the meeting arguing that there is a likelihood of the event being turned into a rally to undermine some political leaders from the region. Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya are organising the meeting. The two indicated that President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga had been invited to the function. Leaders opposed to the meeting have further questioned Atwoli’s role in preparing a national government function. They claim the meeting is bent on being used to whip up ethnic emotions for the political gain of certain individuals. However, a faction led by Oparanya maintains that the event is meant to give locals a platform to air their views on the BBI report. Yesterday, Mudavadi said the whole process is divisive, compromised and deceitful. "If it is me they are after, politically, let them declare openly instead and come for me but not cower under a phantom called BBI," the former Vice-President said. The ANC leader added that it is unfortunate whenever the Western Kenya region is focused on the presidency, people are unleashed to scatter the resolve. "I'm unbowed and I will outbox them. The elders have already seen through the deceit and told them as much. Now they're throwing in the name of President Uhuru to help mobilise the unsuspecting public," he added. He wondered how organisers of the event expect to conduct an expert briefing for a group of 35,000 people. Elders had indicated that Uhuru’s name was used to entice them into attending the event. The Bukhungu meeting was mooted at a meeting on Boxing Day at Atwoli’s residence in Khwisero in Kakamega. It was attended by Raila and Oparanya.