Tigania East MP Josphat Gichunge has said Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri should tell Merus what he wants instead of beating around the bush. Gichunge said Kiunjuri might be interested in a national seat in 2022 and he should state so categorically. He said Kiunjuri was nowadays using Gikuyu proverbs and idioms whenever he went in Mt Kenya region. “We do not know what he wants but he should help us eradicate locust invasion instead of going round engaging in politics,” he said. Kiunjuri urged the Gikuyu, Embu and Meru leaders to stop undercutting each other for political gain and gave the example of Western Kenya leaders he said not only engage in politics but also focus on development. Mt Kenya politics is centred on hatred compared to Kisumu and Coast politics, he said. Kiunjuri has said some Mt Kenya leaders want to “put a fly in the soup because they will not be drinking it.” He cautioned the region's leaders would be scattered in 2022 and lose out politically if they did not unite. Kiunjuri said Gema should not be duped not to unite in 2022 behind one presidential candidate and gave the example of a lion that separately ate three bulls after convincing each of them that the other was against them. Gichunge said the Building Bridges Initiative was creating wrangles in Jubilee and might wreck the party if not handled well. “President Uhuru Kenyatta should be respected but Deputy President William Ruto should also be respected. There should be no double standards,” he said. He said there was no need of repeating rallies as already Sh10 billion had been used in countrywide tours and the economy was not very stable. He said ODM leader Raila Odinga was recognized more than Ruto despite the fact that the DP played a key role in President Uhuru Kenyatta's election in 2013 and 2017. He spoke in Mikinduri Technical Training Institute where he encouraged students to do technical courses. He said Jubilee was doing well by upgrading and supporting technical schools. The legislator said the country should emulate Singapore and other Asian countries by ensuring there was good technical knowledge for innovations. “I want to urge parents to bring children as there is subsidy in the technical institutions,” he said. He said technical jobs like plumbing and electrical installation were marketable as there were not many people with those skills.