The Association of Muslim Patrons has renewed a campaign aimed at fighting radicalisation and violent extremism among the youth at the Coast and Kenya as a whole. The campaign named ‘Strengthening Community Resilience against Violent Extremism’ was formally launched in 2014 shortly after the first spate of al Shabaab terror attacks in Mpeketoni, Kibaoni, Witu and Hindi that left more than 100 people dead. Sheikh Mohamoud Mau said the new initiative has brought on board all Muslim clerics from all the six coastal counties and also stakeholders from the security sector. They are also working with Christian leaders, activists and community leaders, he said. Speaking in Lamu on Monday during a consultative forum at the Huduma Centre Hall, Mau said there is a need for all sectors in the country and for all Kenyans to work together to win against terrorism, radicalisation and violent extremism. He said it was a mockery of religion for people to involve themselves with radicalised groups and terrorism in the name of religion. Mau said some people had deliberately misinterpreted the meaning of religion to suit their wicked interests and serve their twisted missions. He said even without religion, all people are entitled to a life of peace and security. He noted that Islam was itself a peaceful religion and that those taking part in terrorism are simply covert criminals whose choice of behaviour has nothing to do with Islam or any other religion. “In Islam, Jihad and peaceful coexistence go hand in hand. None can function without the other. Islam doesn’t permit fighting someone who hasn’t wronged you. A true believer will ensure lives and property are safe,”  Mau said. He said there is a need for a clear understanding that Islam recognises the rights of non-Muslims. “It means, therefore, that non-Muslim minorities in Islamic countries ought to be protected. It's a major sin to kill innocent people. Let's spread the message of peace and work with all security agencies to bring peace to our nation." AMP director Sheikh Libondo Khamis said acts of terrorism being perpetrated by criminals are not even close to what Jihad ought to be. Libondo observed that there is no compulsion and that Islam doesn’t coerce anyone to its fold. He emphasised on peaceful dialogue on matters religion and the need to appreciate everyone’s culture. He called on Christians to also make an effort and understand what Islam stands for. “When militants force passengers in buses to chant the Shahada failure to which they are shot dead, that is not part of the Islamic teachings and that cannot be Jihad. Claiming that Islam is spread by the sword is mere propaganda," Libondo said. He observed that the lack of understanding of other people’s cultures often results in bias in preaching and provocation. Edited by R.Wamochie