City residents have been told not to panic about the Nairobi Fly or narrow bee fly. Since early this month, some Nairobians have expressed concern about the comeback of the fly, which often attacks people at night. The residents took to social media to voice their concerns, with a one tweeting, “I mistakenly touched a Nairobi Fly on my eye and now I am flaking like nonsense.” Beth Niva asked if fumigation would help control the problem. Another person wrote, “It’s been two weeks since she had contact with a Nairobi Fly and her face has experienced a swollen pimple, bruise wound and now a scaly scar.” The government has, however, sought to assure that the narrow bee fly is not a big problem but added that it will follow up on the complaints and monitor the situation. “We have not received any data from the county government on the Nairobi Fly issue,” said Kepha Ombacho, the director of Environmental Health in the Ministry of Health. Veska Kangogo, the acting county Health executive, said the epidemiology report on people affected by the fly so far show four mothers from the newborn unit in Pumwani Hospital, two cases at Ngong Road health centre — all reported on January 4 — and two cases in Kibera GSU reported last week. According to a post published by the MedicalHub, the Nairobi Fly menace in Kenya was last reported in 1998 and 2007. Experts say the insect does not bite or sting but has a corrosive and toxic substance known as pederin, which causes a burning sensation on the skin. “The substance is released when the insect is crushed against the skin. The effects, which include itching and ugly patches of blisters on the skin, may not show in the first 12 to 24 hours. Symptoms start to show two to three weeks,” the post reads. In addition, a condition known as Nairobi eye may develop when one touches his or her eyes with hands that have come in contact with the toxin from the fly. “The eyes will swell, become red and/or develop further complications. The fly is a source of pain and discomfort and many Nairobians do not know the home remedies to use to help manage it,” experts say.