President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have appeared publicly together for the first time in more than a month. The two attended the installation ceremony of presiding Bishop Abraham Mulwa at AIC Milimani on Sunday. Before this, Uhuru and Ruto had not appeared together in public since December 19, during a Cabinet meeting. Talk has been rife of a rift in Ruto and Uhuru's political 'marriage', although Ruto dismissed the claims. Ruto on Thursday said as far as he knows, he is only married to one wife - Rachel - and not anyone else. "I have heard many stories, and I have read many headlines - the marriage has died... bromance, and love. My friend, Uhuru Kenyatta is married to Margaret; and I am married to Rachael," he said. Ruto was responding to a question about his relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta in Jubilee party during an interview on NTV. He added, "There is no marriage business here. We were elected by the people of Kenya to do a job. Uhuru Kenyatta as president, me as his assistant. What you should be asking me is, ‘are you delivering on the job you were given by Kenyans?". Ruto further dismissed claims that the government is frustrating him. "I have heard the narrative that I am fighting the President but many people who are running the narrative are people in NASA. They have never voted for Uhuru Kenyatta but are now inciting him against me," he said. BBI rally On Saturday, Ruto's allies for the first time joined the BBI rally which took place in Mombasa. This was after making an announcement on Tuesday that they supported BBI and would attend rallies, and possibly take charge of them. They included Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Nakuru's Susan Kihika, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Nyali's Mohamed Ali and Malindi's Aisha Jumwa. The legislators at first had a tough time accessing the venue of the rally at Mama Ngina Waterfront Park as their security was locked out and they were booed, but they finally gained access. There was also a scuffle over seating arrangements. Top leaders from across the political divide attended the Mombasa rally, with ODM party chief Raila Odinga declaring that the BBI train had left the station and 'nobody can stop reggae'. Ruto attended a separate event on Saturday in Trans Nzoia.