Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi may be the biggest beneficiaries of the push by the Coast region for a federal system of governance and an expanded Executive. The plot is to have Joho take up a position in the national government, most probably the Deputy Prime Minister position. This would leave Kingi as the most likely Coast regional leader. The fact that he was given the mandate by Coast leaders to present the resolutions at Saturday’s BBI rally could be an indication that he is being positioned to take over from Joho as the Coast kingpin. For the last two weeks, the behind the scenes meetings that preceded the charged rally at Mama Ngina Waterfront Park on Saturday intensified. In the federal system, there would be a President, Deputy President, Prime Minister and two deputies. These positions would be added to the two speakers in the Senate and the National Assembly, Chief Justice and the Attorney General to makeup nine top positions in the country. “It is a recommendation that these nine top positions are shared equally among the regions,” Kingi said. “This would ensure equitable inclusion and representation of the Coastal people in top government positions in leadership and management of public institutions and resources.” It is understood that since Joho has already served his constitutionally-allowed two terms as governor, and is ODM leader Raila Odinga’s blue-eyed boy, the push for an expanded executive would be a political gift for his loyalty. The 16-point resolutions by Coast leaders, which were praised by their counterparts from other regions, was an indication that the elusive Coast unity is now being achieved as they spoke in one voice and the issues were cross-cutting despite the fact that they are from different political affiliations. The resolutions were given a thumbs up by governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui), who were among the 24 governors who attended the rally. “I am glad that Joho has taught me Kiswahili which says that kidole kimoja hakivunji chawa (unity is strength),” she said while lauding Coast leaders on their united approach in advocating for Coast issues. Years back, there was clamour for secession of the Coast region by some of the region’s leaders because of historical injustices. At some point, their concerns were married with those of the outlawed separatist group - the Mombasa Republican Council. But their resolve was watered by the elusive unity. On Saturday, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, who had been opposed to the BBI,told the Star the rally was good because there were ‘sober and mature’ discussions for the better part. However, he said he is opposed to the federal system of governance because it will be too expensive for taxpayers. “The BBI was good. Everything was good although at the end it started being spoiled by the likes of (Cheranganyi MP Joshua) Kuttuny who spoke dirty language, while everybody was speaking one language,” said Ali. About the regional governments, he said: “That will be too much for the people. That is conmanship.” He likened the regional governments to the era of Provincial Commissioners who were powerful and rendered the District Commissioners powerless and only instruction-doers. He said leaders who said the referendum is inevitable whether people like it or not, were misguided. “You cannot say that when you are starting a conversation. We have not heard the other counties what they want,” said Ali. But Joho said the referendum issue is as good as done and dusted. He said: “We have 24 governors here. For a referendum to happen, it must be supported by at least 24 county assemblies. So what do you think will happen?” For the first time, the leaders also wanted October 8 to be recognized under the Constitution as the day that changed the destiny of the Coastal region. October 8, 1963 is the day when Coast officially became part and parcel of Kenya as a protectorate.