The war of words between COTU boss Francis Atwoli and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula over the proposed Kakamega leaders meeting escalated yesterday as the trade unionist told the senator to either shut up or risk his political career. Speaking to the Star yesterday on the phone, Atwoli said that Wetang’ula should be the last person to attack him because Atwoli has been supporting him financially since his entry in politics. On Wednesday, the Bungoma senator rubbished a Luhya unity forum slated for this month, accusing Atwoli, the convener of the meeting, of "hawking the community for his selfish interests." “Atwoli is a man looking for relevance and attention and every time he plays his games, he has some people funding him,” said Wetang’ula. But the trade unionist said that Wetang’ula was bitter because Atwoli refused to support him in the Kibra by-election. “He came to me and sought for financial assistance but I declined because I knew even if I funded him he would not deliver the seat even after collecting money from everyone in the republic,” he said. Atwoli said that the proposed meeting to be held in Kakamega on January 18 was not meant to anoint the community spokesperson but a BBI one which requires every leader to attend including Wetang’ula. “Bukhungu II is coming in 2021 and Wetang’ula should be prepared because we shall put him where he belongs,” Atwoli said. He accused Wetang’ula of political conmanship saying that he had been lying to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi that they would unite and form one large party. “He is now telling the whole world that he is talking to Mudavadi to work together,” he said. The senator had said that those seeking the presidency were not interested in tribal chieftaincy. “There is an old man called Atwoli who thinks that he is an electoral college in Kenya. The man should be told that they are no tribal kings in Kenya,” said Wetang’ula. Atwoli said that he was the Luhya spokesperson and Wetang’ula had waged war against Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati because he wants to become Bungoma governor in 2022. “If Wetang’ula wants to know my strength in Luhya land let him wait for 2022 and we shall put him where he belongs. He is either DP William Ruto,” he said.