Some Murang’a leaders and have denounced  Kandara MP Alice Wahome, telling her to stop dragging President Uhuru Kenyatta into 'dirty politics' and instead quit the Jubillee Party. Wahome claimed last WEEK  that Uhuru is an existential threat to the nation and alleged a plot to keep him on as the prime minister, with Raila Odinga as president. Wahome is a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto and she said the plot is aimed at keeping Ruto out of the presidency through BBI. Deputy Governor Kamau Maina said on Saturday the MP’s personal opinion should not be taken as the stand of the people Murang’a. Kamau, former Maragua MP Elias Mbau and others defended the government for its many development programmes in the area. He said roads are being tarmacked and many projects in the county are improving residents' lives. The leaders and residents gathered at Maragua on Saturday and said it is hypocritical for the MP to blame the President for the country’s troubles when all she does is follow his deputy, William Ruto. T he Deputy Governor Called Wahome's comments "hypocritical, considering that she recently praised the livelihoods of residents. Mbau said it was shameful for the Wahome, leader elected on the Jubilee ticket, to blame the President for what she called "dwindling of democratic space". no one is gagged, he sad. “The Kandara MP said whatever she said since she is enjoying freedom of speech, but when, other people talk, she claims they are being sent to speak,"  Mbau said. Mbau, who is chairman of the Tourism Trust Fund, told Wahome to stop talking about BBI, which is yet to go to the public for input. Some leaders and residents called on Wahome to top complaining and leave the Jubilee Party. Alex Mbote, a Kigumo resident, said, "we want the country to know we don’t support her actions and are solidly behind the President,” Mbote said. Joshua Mwangi from Kiharu said every Kenyan can see Jubilee government’s achievements, especially in infrastructure. He also said the President has included many people in the government from the Mt Kenya region. Leaders allied to the Tangatanga movement fail to work with government officials to better the lives of their people and instead continuously politick, he noted. “We want them all to resign if they are unable to work for Kenyans. Let them know that the region solidly supports the President until he completes his term,” Mwangi said. He said just as people came out in large numbers to vote in the in the Jubilee government, they will defend the President even if it means going to the streets. Kamau Kamau from Kangema said Uhuru is Mt Kenya’s kingpin. He said if Wahome feels there is no democracy in Jubilee or government, she should quit and run on another party's ticket, he said. He said it is wrong for leaders such as Wahometo play politics aimed at dividing Kenyans. “Murang’a is a peaceful county endowed with agricultural resources that leaders should concentrate on developing so they can help residents,” Kamau said. Woman Representative Sabina Chege asked wondered how many failed development bills Wahome has taken to Parliament. “We don’t want people who want to divide Kenyans. We want to remain one as a nation and I am saying this as a woman, we need to speak with one voice as leaders and ask ourselves what we can do to make our country better,” she said. Four days ago Wahome accused President Kenyatta of being the biggest threat to the country’s economy, democracy and freedom of political affiliation and speech. She said the BBI report is a special purpose vehicle for the President to seek the prime minister post in 2022 as suggested by Murathe, Mugo and Cotu leader leaderFrancis Atwoli. The two called for a forensic audit of Wahome’s CDF to establish what she has done with the Sh 700 million she has received since she was voted in. Some MCAs accused Wahome of seeking popularity by attacking Uhuru and claimed she is being paid to attack the President. Gaturi MCA Kiiru Mbembe said  Wahome's "CDF has received close to Sh1billion and there's nothing tangible to show for it. He said Wahome should apologise to the President.  (Edited by V. Graham)