Deputy President  William Ruto’s allies have vowed to stage a fight over the control of Jubilee this year and insisted that he will vie for the top seat in 2022 on the party's ticket. Led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, the allies said President Uhuru Kenyatta is surrounded by people out to destroy the ruling party and also ruin his legacy. “Time has come for Uhuru to come out and speak for himself on many issues in this country because Kenyans are getting tired and may even stage a revolution against the Jubilee government," Sudi said on Saturday. The MP, who was with Jubilee official in Uasin Gishu Paul Kiprop, named Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, PS Karanja Kibicho and former Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe as some of those scheming to destroy the party. They accused Atwoli and Murathe of perpetuating claims that Uhuru would remain in power after 2022 in the position of Prime Minister. “Atwoli has overstayed in Cotu and thinks Uhuru is naive like him to stick to power.  He is always talking rubbish along with Murathe but we want Uhuru to come out and clarify such issues instead of allowing such brokers to mislead the country,"  Sudi said. He also said they fully support recent sentiments by Kandara MP Alice Wahome who accused Uhuru of being the main problem over the country’s dwindling economy and muzzling of democratic space. He asked why Atwoli and his likes have been on a warpath with Wahome for speaking the truth. Sudi also accused Matiang'i and Kibicho of holding frequent night meetings "to scheme evil". The lawmaker warned that Ruto allies would counter the same in equal measure. “We thought this year we would concentrate on the poor economy and problems which Kenyans are facing but it seems we have started on the wrong foot again. If they want us to face each other, we will." The outspoken MP said the country’s economy was at its worst since Independence noting that as schools reopen, the majority of parents would not be able to pay fees and many businesses were shutting down due to the economic problems. Sudi said many governors were unable to run their regions because they had been scared stiff by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission.  Sudi said the governors would, however, not be forced to back down by "some individuals". The MP said Jubilee would its polls this year and they would support leaders to be elected during the polls.  He said those who want to quit Jubilee should do so instead of dragging DP Ruto’s name into such claims. Edited by R.Wamochie