President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed all Cabinet secretaries, their Principal Secretaries and Chief Administrative Secretaries to keep off politics. In a directive issued by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, Uhuru said all government officials must focus on service delivery so as to solidify the one-government approach. The directive was issued during a two-day induction course at the Kenya School of Government (KSG) in Kabete, Kiambu County for Chief Administrative Secretaries (CASs). This comes a week after Uhuru reshuffled his Cabinet. The training at KSG aims at equipping the CASs with knowledge  on government policy and their roles and responsibilities in enhancing government agenda. Matiang'i in a statement to newsrooms said since appointment of 10 new CASs and the reshuffle of others, the President affirmed that he requires three things from the new incumbents under the one-government approach programme: recognition that they were all equally accountable; reduction of bureaucracy and red tape; building and fostering a theme of togetherness. He added, “You ought to be fully aware of all of the Presidential Directives and National Flagship Programs to which we have all dedicated significant energy, time and resources. He said the appointment of the mostly Young Turks CASs was pegged on their exposure, merit and higher education. "The installation of young people in government is a demonstration of the State's commitment to youth and an ideal mechanism for moulding the next generation of public sector managers," he said. Matiang'i further noted, "It is commendable that a majority of you are youth; some are seasoned while others technocrats; a clear testimony of the President’s intention to blend different complementary abilities and experiences to actualize his dream of transforming Kenya through effective service delivery". Matiang'i challenged them to work hard and take pride in the rare privilege to serve Kenyans and work together, rather than compete, with other Government Departments. “The Head of State insisted that we now adopt a new mode of collaboration to collectively support the government’s economic agenda,” he said. “The President has also been categorical that we focus on work that makes the lives of Kenyans better, and we already have specific targets and deliverables set out for us,” he added. On his part, head of public service Joseph Kinyua said the  phenomenal infusion of experience coupled with fresh blood shall serve Kenya well  positioning the higher echelons of the Public Service to be more responsive and better able to deliver on the Head of State and Government’s transformative agenda for Kenya.