Residents from Kariokor estate are calling on investors to partner with the county in the affordable housing projects. The residents, who held several meetings last month, want to be part of the planning process. Kariokor Ward Rep Millicent Mugadi said on Wednesday that already, a committee has been formed to spearhead the process and look for investor to partner with. "In the meetings we discussed and saw it best not to wait until the county looks for investors and we decided to take it upon ourselves to search for them," she told the Star. "The residents will be the biggest beneficiaries and that is why we want to be part of the project from decision making up to the end. We realised that if we don't take interest and be part of the plan that will bring development to our estates, someone else will do so and we shall have a lot of misunderstanding," Mugadi added. Mugadi said the initiative would forestall any clash between the three parties: the residents, county government and investors. "Pangani and Jevanjeee estates where the project has already kicked off had delayed because of differences and disagreements with the public and it was because the residents from never took the initiative to be part of the foundation plans of the project," she said. In 2018, the County Government of Nairobi awarded six companies multibillion-shilling tenders to construct affordable houses in Nairobi. Twenty six developers had expressed interest in the redevelopment of the estates. The firms - Technofin Kenya, Green Ederman Property, Green Prestik, Jabavu Village, Stanlib Kenya and Directline Assurance Limited - will be putting up more than 8,000 units across the city. Estates which have been targeted for the affordable housing project are Old and New Ngara, Jeevanjee, Suna Road, Ngong Road Phases one and two, Bachelors’ Quarters and Pangani. Mother titles will remain with the county government but sub-leases will be created. The project, which is in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four Agenda on affordable housing, is expected to give Nairobi a face-lift and ease pressure in the housing market. The tenants are to receive a Sh600,000 facilitation fee before relocating to pave way for construction works. However, the same tenants would be given first priority to occupy the modern houses once complete. In mid-November 2018, the housing project in Pangani kicked off with earth movers on the ground. Technofin Kenya will redevelop 1,434 units in the estate, which was previously occupied by 48 occupants and their dependants. As per the contract, Technofin will allot 40 per cent of units for sale at market rate and 60 per cent as low cost housing. Pangani redevelopment, which is meant to be the pilot, had been delayed for almost an year by controversy and disputes between the county and tenants. Last year in August, some of the tenants were forcefully evicted at night by the county to pave way for the project. Last month, 80 tenants at Jevenajee were also relocated to pave way for the project. Similar to Pangani, the residents were compensated. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had urged the tenants not to play politics at the expense of development. "I am humbly appealing to our tenants of Jevanjee to prioritise development and never to be drawn into unnecessary confrontations that will slow down development in our county,” he said.