National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Tuesday held talks with Egyptian Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly in an effort to champion the African Free Trade Area regime. He also met his counterpart from the Egyptian House of Representatives Ali Abdel Aal, conversations where the Kenyan delegation pushed for stronger ties. Muturi called on Egypt to consider more direct investments in agriculture, water conservation, health, and manufacturing – pillars of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four plan. The speaker noted that “Egypt has been Kenya's strategic ally both in the North African Region and in the continent since the pre-independence period.” "Egypt was the second nation after the United Kingdom that Kenya established diplomatic relations with. That highlights the strategic importance that we accord our relationship," Muturi said. He also expressed gratitude, on behalf of the government of Kenya, following efforts by Egypt President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to mediate in the Kenya- Somalia maritime dispute. The International Court of Justice adjourned the case to give room for negotiations. A ruling is expected in June. Speaker Muturi also held talks with the Minister of Agriculture Elsayed Elkosayar and the Deputy Foreign Minister for African Affairs Hamdi Loza. During the deliberations, PM Madbouly expressed Egypt's desire to enhance trade between Nairobi and Cairo. He noted that Egypt was keen to promote peace and security within the African continent. The two also stressed the need for a sustainable use of the Nile River water resources. The Nile River basin covers 11 countries - including Kenya and Egypt. In talks with Speaker Aal, Muturi called on Egypt to join Kenya in her "Visa on arrival policy" for residents of the African continent. He said this would be in an effort to promote the implementation the Africa Continental Free Trade Area established by 54 out of the 55 African Union nations. The speakers agreed to institute legislative interventions as they explore new areas of collaboration through Parliamentary diplomacy. Speaker Aal is expected to visit to Nairobi in July as part of the exchange which would be extended to Parliamentary committees and friendship groups. Their talks also centred on Kenya's bid for a non-permanent seat at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the period 2021-2022. In this regard Speaker Aal assured Kenya of Egypt's support, quickly adding that Kenya would be a great Representative for the continent at the UNSC. Muturi was on a four-day reciprocal visit to Egypt on the invitation of Speaker Aal who was in Nairobi in July last year. He was accompanied by members of the speakers’ panel Moses Cheboi, Soipan Tuya, Jessica Mbalu, Chris Omulele, Patrick Mariru and the Clerk of the National Assembly Michael Sialai.