Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has ordered the arrest of a man who married a Form One student in Kisumu county. He said the county security team should swiftly arrest the suspect and be charged. The suspect, Fredrick Odhiambo, married the 17-year-old girl forcing her not to join the school. He escaped into a sugarcane plantation when being pursued. The minor has since been rescued and admitted to Form One at Achego Girls High School. She sat 2019 KCPE at B One primary school while expectant in Muhoroni subcounty. Matiang'i said those preying on school girls have no space in the society and should be jailed. He was speaking at Achego Girls High School in Muhoroni during a fundraiser to build a dormitory. A total of Sh14.5 million was raised. President Uhuru Kenyatta donated Sh2 million with Raila Odinga Sh2 million. Matiang'i  said early marriage is unacceptable in the country. "What do you discuss with a child? We can't tolerate such act of confusing our young children," he said. He added, "I want that man taken to court and tell the magistrate why he's marrying a 17-year-old girl." "Let us respect and take good care of our children. How do you marry a child and stand before people that you have a wife? Such a stupid act cannot be allowed in Kenya," He said there are many women in the country who are mature enough for marriage who men should talk to and not minors. "If they don't know how to approach women then they can seek help from elders and leaders to help them get wives instead of children," Matiang'i said. He pledged to pay the school fees for the girl for the four years. The CS told chiefs, Deputy county commissioners and county commissioners in Nyanza to ensure 100 per cent transition government policy is achieved. President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed that all children who sat KCPE must be admitted in secondary schools. He also warned chiefs against negotiating with culprits who take advantage of minors that action will be taken against them. "We want all our in schools. Anybody derailing that must be dealt with," Matiang'i said. In Nyanza, 96 per cent of students have joined Form One according to Regional Commissioner James Kianda. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Governor Anyang Nyong'o, Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo, East African community CAS Ken Obura accompanied Matiang'i. Senators Okong'o Omogeni, Janet Ongera and MPs Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Julius Melly (Tinderet), Rosa Buyu  (Kisumu Women), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache) and Jared Okello  (Nyando).