A proposal is in the pipeline to include Kenya Sign Language as a compulsory subject in secondary schools. According to government data, about 800,000 Kenyan have one form of hearing impairment or another. The suggestion by the Kenya Institute of Special Education (KISE), therefore, wants the deaf integrated with other members of society so they get equal opportunities as the rest. The proposal puts weight on a parliamentary bill, which also seeks to ensure sign language interpreters are deployed in courts, government offices and schools. The bill is advanced by senators Gertrude Museruve and Margaret Kamar. If adopted, sign language will be the third compulsory language to be taught in schools after Kiswahili and English. While KSL was recognised as a language in its own right eight years ago, it has yet to gain popularity in schools and institutions of higher learning. Of more than 10 million children in primary and secondary schools, only a tiny minority learn sign language. KISE Council chairman John Mugo on Wednesday expressed concern that an isolated minority of learners with hearing difficulty are left with little or no opportunity to learn crucial language skills. He said the proposal will end barriers faced by deaf learners and allow them to communicate with others, and have access to education and a fighting chance to get into the workplace when they leave school. "We would like to weigh in on the bill so more people are conversant with the sign language. It will be easier done if it is injected into the education curriculum," Mugo told the Star on the phone. However, the plan remains tenuous given that the country has inadequate tutors who have specialised in sign language. The move, however, is an all-important first step towards nationalising the little known Kenya Sign Language. The language involves both visual and tactile signs and symbols, including body movement. The proposal by the special needs agency further seeks a review of Kamar's bill that proposes Kenyan Sign Language is offered as a discipline of study in technical and vocational training institutions, public colleges and public universities. Kenya ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008. The convention requires countries to eliminate all forms of discrimination against the disabled. In addition, the Constitution calls for the promotion of the use of sign language so the deaf have access to information. At the moment, little has been done to conform to the constitutional requirements, with the exception of media compliance through the selective introduction of interpreters for television programmes. (Edited by F'Orieny)