We are currently seeing politicians becoming increasingly involved in the Building Bridges Initiative process. I would, however, not call this politicisation of the process because since its inception, and throughout the time, politicians have been part of this activity. I would, therefore, want to stress that the political class is part and parcel of the process. The views politicians hold, and what they think about the process should form part of the final report. I would say they are very critical in this. This is also because, at the end of it all, whether the issues of the BBI are going to be embedded in policy and in law, politicians will be required to actualise it. Implementing the recommendations of the BBI will require politicians. I know there have been questions about how the sensitisation meetings are being conducted. Some MPs have said the process has been politicised while others feel the process in on the right track. Though a few have disagreed on the matter, they all concur that the process means well for Kenyans. The entry of politicians into the process is very welcome and it is very necessary at every stage. This is because they are the final key through which the BBI recommendations will pass before they see the light of day. We are not going to decide how they will be part of the process because they are already involved. They are deep in the process. What we are doing now is to watch and listen to what they are saying with the view of including their wishes in the final report. I want to reiterate that their viewpoints are an integral part of this process and a critical aspect of the recommendations that we will make once we are done with the public forums. We are also striving to ensure that as we listen to politicians, we also get to capture the views of as many Kenyans as possible. We are participating in as many gatherings just to make sure we do not miss anything. We have also been inviting people to dialogue among themselves and come up with view points to submit to us. Paul Mwangi, the BBI joint secretary spoke to the Star