Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has vowed that Deputy President William Ruto and his allies will not decamp from the Jubilee Party. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator warned 'outsiders' against reaping where they have not sowed saying that he together with other leaders will not leave the ruling party and will continue to stand with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said that as Jubilee members, they have invested greatly on the President and the party and that nobody will lecture them on leaving the party. "For those who think they will reap where they didn't sow, we are not about to separate ourselves with Uhuru Kenyatta and Jubilee, that is our investment," he said. The senator spoke on Tuesday during the burial of Martha Kirigo, the mother of Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and the late Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua. "We have put our own political investment for more than 10 years on Uhuru and nobody can give us a lecture and no one can tell us to leave Uhuru alone," Murkomen said. He went on to state that even Uhuru himself can't escape from them. "This investment is not going to be changed so if you were planning for William Ruto, Kipchumba Murkomen, Moses Kuria to leave Jubilee or leave Uhuru Kenyatta, then you better change because we are giving you that message today," he added. "We are not leaving Uhuru and Jubilee because that is our shares and investment and we have to reap the investment in 2022." Last December, Murkomen challenged Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga to "stop hiding" their agenda on the BBI report. Murkomen said the two were taking Kenyans round in circles with the report for no reason. He spoke at Waondo village in Homa Bay county during the burial of Mama Dorcas Ajwang’,  the mother of Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’ and Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’. Murkomen urged the two to declare their interest to avoid leaving Kenyans guessing. He said, "Let Raila and Uhuru tell us if it is a parliamentary system or presidential system that they want instead of taking Kenyans round in circles. Hon Raila, you and the President have numbers in Parliament to ensure what you want can pass in Parliament but it is unpleasant to take Kenyans round and round with this BBI report."