Many Kenyans sleep hungry, yet tonnes of food rot away, an environmental lobby group has said. The recently released Global Index Report on food security put Kenya at position 86 out of 117 hungriest countries. Greenpeace Africa’s food campaigner Claire Nasike says the ranking makes Kenya among the 50 hungriest countries in the world. Nasike lamented that this is worrying. The problem could have been fixed if the country put in place better post-harvest handling mechanisms, she said. Nasike explained that much of the food produced in Kenya goes to waste because of poor storage measures, leading to the loss of hundreds of tonnes that could be enough to feed the country for years. In Machakos, for instance, farmers expect a bumper harvest. Early this month, county Agriculture executive Wambua Musyoka cautioned them against selling their maize. He wants them to cushion themselves from hunger in the event the long rains fail. Musyoka urged residents to dry their harvest and preserve it in well-ventilated stores as they wait for the dry spell when they can sell it at a profit. He was addressing farmers in Kabaa, Mbiuni location, Mwala. He said following heavy rains that had been experienced in the area, farmers expect an unprecedented bumper harvest. Musyoka said the county government was in talks with the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) on how the state can purchase and store the maize to protect residents from unscrupulous middlemen. In addition, the officer advised maize farmers to pack their produce in appropriate bags to prevent contamination due to foul weather and pests that could destroy and render the crop unfit for consumption. But Nasike, in a statement, said it is appalling to hear that Kenya suffers from serious hunger when tonnes of food spoil because of poor post-harvest handling techniques. "Farmers lack proper storage facilities and infrastructure, among other challenges. It is disturbing that Kenya’s hunger situation has declined from a global hunger index score of 23.3 in 2018 to 25.2 in 2019," she said. Her organisation has urged the government to institute proper mechanisms to address post-harvest losses. It said the lack of adequate and nutritious food is a key contributor to underdevelopment in many third world countries. Nasike called upon the new Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to prioritise food production as articulated in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda. Munya was appointed to the Agriculture docket on January 14, 2019, following the sacking of his predecessor Mwangi Kiunjuri. "To boost domestic food production, the ministry needs to ensure farmers have access to proper and timely information on the weather patterns, efficient storage facilities, access to markets, and adequate water during dry periods and access to indigenous seeds that are well adapted to the local climate,” Nasike said. Greenpeace has also appealed to Kenyans to resort to indigenous foods that have been found to be more nutritious to safeguard against emerging lifestyle diseases. Last week, the organisation's senior political advisor Fredrick Njehu, while welcoming Munya's appointment, said the new CS should bring hope to millions of farmers who had almost given up after years of mismanagement of the sector, thanks to the entry of ruthless cartels and middlemen. Njehu said Munya’s entry into the powerful docket brings with it an aura of synergy and expertise evidenced by his sterling performance in the Agriculture sector as he served as Meru governor between 2013 and 2017. According to the United Nations, Kenya consumes about 46 million bags of maize every year and it is the sixth-largest consumer of the crop per person after Lesotho, Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa. In 2017 alone, maize production in Kenya stood at 3.19 million tonnes but has been fluctuating because of adverse weather conditions caused by global climate change. And to reduce the shortfall, the country supplements local production through imports. In July last year, the National Drought Management Authority (NDMA) reported that at least two million people in the ASAL regions were facing an imminent food crisis following failed long rains. Overall, the number of people in need of relief food increased from 1.6 million in May to two million in July last year, according to the NDMA.