The Jubilee party leadership at the Nairobi county assembly could be headed for a showdown following plans by a group of MCAs to stage a coup. Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu on Monday claimed the ward reps have lost the trust of Majority Whip June Ndegwa and Deputy Majority leader Millicent Mugadi. Plans to remove the two started last week. Kiragu, who is collecting the signatures, said 64 out of 66 Jubilee MCAs have signed. "The MCAs have agreed to have an election and vote for anyone whom they wish to be their Majority whip. The process has been completed and the remaining part is the assumption of office, which will be done later after informing the party. But until then, I will be the interim chief whip," Kiragu said. Last year in November, Abdi Guyo was removed as the Majority leader, James Kiriba as deputy Majority leader, Waithera Chege as Majority Whip and Chege Mwaura as deputy Majority whip. Jubilee secretary general Raphel Tuju said he was aware of the plans but emphasised that the party should be engaged and the members must have legitimate reasons for the change. “Our position is that the status quo remains and if anyone has legitimate reasons to want some changes, then they should involve the party before involving the media. At the assembly, we know there are many interests and shenanigans happening that is why as a party we insist that the status quo remains," he said. Ndegwa described the plan as a witch hunt by MCAs who had a good rapport with Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, citing that they want to get back to leadership. "This is not acceptable but I expected it and was aware that they had been called to start off the process of my removal. The problem they have with me is that I have insisted that procedures must be followed as laid out in the law," Ndegwa said. "No one has approached me and said the problems warranting my removal but I have been accused of being a person of the system. I don’t know what system they are claiming but all I know is I am being attacked because of standing for what is right." She accused Sonko of forcing MCAs to sign for her removal. Last week, Ndegwa said, Sonko interrupted a lunch meeting which was attended by MCAs and them for an abrupt meeting. "Some members called me after saying they were forced to sign. If the governor was not involved, no one would have signed." Deputy Majority Leader Millicent Mugadi said they were being "punished for being in support of Speaker Beatrice Elachi". "They want to remove all women leadership in the assembly leading to the removal of Elachi," she said. Edited by R.Wamochie