Deputy President William Ruto has urged the BBI task force to guard the process against being hijacked by political interests. “The task force should not be intimidated by political brokers who would want to revive their fortunes,” he said on Friday. Ruto spoke on Friday in Taveta during a leaders’ consultative meeting. He asked the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) task force to move swiftly and share its countrywide programme with Kenyans. The DP said this will make Kenyans prepared to share their input with the task force, thereby making the final report inclusive. “The programme would guide and prepare us because we would want to see the opinion of all Kenyans to count in this process,” he said. The forum was attended by Taveta MP Naomi Shabaan, Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydiah Haika, former Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu, former Woman Representative Joyce Lay and several MCAs. The Deputy President further called on the task force to avail sufficient copies of the BBI report to Kenyans. “By reading the report, Kenyans would be able to make informed decisions,” he added. He said Kenyans should turn up in large numbers and support the process that may define their future. “Let us cooperate and make it a success so that by June, we have the second report of the Initiative.” Ruto said the successful completion of the process would usher in a new era that would accord Jubilee government ample time to steer the country’s development agenda. He asked the Senator Yusuf Haji-lead team to carry out the work professionally, and accord Kenyans an opportunity to freely present their input on BBI. Ruto called on leaders for work together in transforming Kenya. He said there was need for politicians to compete on their development programmes and agenda rather than engaging in divisive politics. Shabaan said they were in support of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy. “We do not want our country to be torn apart by self-centred kind of politics. We would continue rallying behind these two leaders because of their development agenda for our country,” she noted. Haika asked Kenyans to ensure that their share their views with the BBI committee. This, she said, would ensure that their pressing issues are factored in the final report later in the year. Mruttu asked leaders to discard the politics of hate and focus on empowering Kenyans.