Sofapaka's new signing David Simiyu has rallied his teammates to go for a win when they face rock-bottom Chemelil Sugar tomorrow as the Kenyan Premier league resumes after a two-week Betway FKF  Cup break. Simiyu, brought in from the cash strapped Awasi-based side in the current transfer window, touted the clubs'  preparations during the break from action as a reason why they should pick three points. “We’ve been having proper preparations during the short break. Everyone is giving his best as we chase our target. Chemelil are a good side despite the challenges they are facing and I am urging every player to go for a win so as to maintain consistency,” said the midfielder, who has already established himself in Batoto Ba Mungu's first-team after impressing in their recent matches against Kariobangi Sharks and Nzoia United. “We started the year on a positive note and it will only be good for us and the team if we maintain that momentum. Each game is like a final to us now. We are not going to underrate any opponent because football is funny and such can be costly." Already, Simiyu has shown that he possesses more than playmaking abilities by scoring the opening goal in the 4-1 hammering of Nzoia last time out. Despite the financial challenges facing Chemelil, Simiyu warned his teammates to still be wary of them as the fervent fans are always behind the team when they play at their Muhoroni grounds backyard. “The atmosphere and fans in Awasi will be amazing. They are so passionate about supporting their club and they always come in numbers. It will be a great moment for me, full of mixed feelings but first, it will be business because we are on a mission and every game counts," added Simiyu. "It feels good to have scored my first goal for the club in our last encounter and I am looking forward to adding more.” After playing  16 games, Sofapaka, with their 25 points, are 12 adrift of league leaders Tusker. Chemelil, on the other hand, have four points in a campaign that is certain to end in relegation.