Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, charged with attempted murder, will spend a week in remand pending a ruling on his bail application on January 27. He denied all charges. Probation officers will compile a probation bail report, including the view of shooting victim Felix Orinda, aka DJ Evolve, on whether Babu should be released on bail. “I notice no mention of the views of the victim on whether the accused should be released on bail. I, therefore, order that the probation department file a bail report within seven days,” Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi ruled. The legislator was charged on Monday with attempting to murder the DJ at B-Club on Galana Road, Kilimani, last Friday on January 17. According to court documents, Babu unlawfully attempted to cause the DJ's death by shooting him on the neck. He was also charged with disorderly conduct while carrying a firearm. The MP allegedly became disorderly while carrying a pistol and firing one round of ammunition with intent to shoot the DJ. Andayi said the High Court once extended the remand period due to the logistics required to prepare the bail report, "hence, seven days were enough". He rejected pleas by defence lawyer Dunstan Omari to have Babu remanded at Gigiri police station and also for an early mention date awaiting the bail report. Babu was also represented by Cliff Ombeta and five others who sought his release on bond. The prosecution objected, said the MP is likely to interfere with witnesses since he is an influential person. "He is well known to the victim and has made attempts to reach witnesses especially the victim's father," the prosecution said. The prosecution also alleged the MP is facing another charge at Kibera law courts. But Ombeta said there is no case. Nine bullets, a spent cartridge and a CZ P-10C pistol were confiscated from the lawmaker. On Saturday, the MP was moved from Kilimani to Gigiri police station. Ombeta said Babu was transferred to avoid interference with investigations "because people were crowding Kilimani station, insisting to talk to Babu". Around midday on Saturday, Babu accompanied detectives to his home in Kileleshwa where a search was conducted and ammunition confiscated. Ombeta said after the search, they went to the Government Chemist for a DNA test, then returned to Kilimani police station so Babu could record another statement on the fresh findings of the search. DJ Evolve is recuperating at the Nairobi Hospital after undergoing surgery to remove a bullet lodged in his neck. Ombeta told the court the MP had taken the victim to the hospital and showed the court the receipt of a settled Sh600,000 bill he said had been paid by Babu. Edited by R.Wamochie