Kenya has lost more than half of its wildlife in the past three decades because land adjacent to parks is diminishing, a new report has shown. The World Bank report shows that wild herds that once roamed freely across the borders of Kenya and Tanzania have reduced and some vanished from much of the North. The report 'When Good Conservation Becomes Good Economics —Kenya’s Vanishing Herds' notes sustainability of wildlife populations are jeopardized once connected habitats have been destroyed, with herds trapped into shrinking areas. “Perhaps most troubling is that recent monitoring of wildlife populations suggests that long-term declines of many of the charismatic species that attract tourists— lions, elephants, giraffes, impalas, and others—are occurring at the same rates within the country’s national parks as outside of these protected areas,” the report says. The report says the parks in Kenya were established in areas in which large aggregations of animals were observed typically during the dry seasons. However, policymakers neglected the migratory needs of wildlife, especially of the ungulate herds as they established the protected areas. Kenya boasts of elephant and rhino populations of 34,000 and over 1,000, respectively - the fourth and third largest country populations in the world. “Dispersal is a fundamental biological process that influences the distribution of biodiversity in every ecosystem and determines whether a species will survive,” the report says. The process of dispersing from a natal territory is essential to avoid inbreeding and it strongly influences individual fitness. As a result, wildlife depends as much on adjacent land for continued viability as it does on the protected areas. The report says pressures around the parks are affecting wildlife within the parks. “The way in which land outside of protected areas is utilised and managed will become a crucial determinant of the industry’s future,” the report says. It says that expanding tourism to some of the areas remains among the most successful approaches that have been piloted. However, the feasibility of this approach depends on economic incentives and the opportunity costs of land. The report says reasons for the decline in Kenya’s wildlife include factors such as population growth, the expansion of arable agriculture, fencing, poaching, and intrusive infrastructure. Roads are typically accompanied by a change in land use pattern from natural habitats to farms and settlements, the report finds. On average, the extent of conversion is especially stark up within a corridor of about 20 kilometres from the road. Thereafter, the conversion of natural habitats into cropland slowly decreases and is almost negligible for settlements. “An obvious consequence of this change in land use is the almost complete collapse of wildlife in areas around the roads,” the report notes. The report indicates that roads built over the last four decades have caused an 80 per cent decrease in wildlife within a 20-kilometre radius. There are also predictable effects on migratory corridors, which have almost all been diminished and degraded to varying degrees. The report says conservancies have played an important role in diversifying the tourism product and securing critical habitats while generating economic activity. Currently, there are more than 166 conservancies spread across Kenya’s 28 counties. They cover an area larger than the country’s national parks, are home to more than 22 per cent of Kenya’s ungulate wildlife biomass, and have some of the highest densities of wildlife in the country. In fact, 18 out of the 20 zones with the highest density of wildlife are in conservancies and not parks. “Conservancies create buffers around parks and maintain connectivity between several ecosystems. In essence, conservancies are key to the resilience of wildlife evidence of catastrophic declines in the number and range of wildlife populations,” the report says.