 The chairperson of the Women in Business Committee Mary Nyachae has petitioned JSC to remove Justice Msagha Mbogholi from the bench, citing gross misconduct. Nyachae wants the judge removed for giving varying orders in a case that had other orders at the magistrate's court. On Thursday last week, Nyachae got orders from senior resident magistrate Marryanne Murage stopping WBC's elections that were intended to replace her. A day later, Justice Mbogholi set aside Murage's orders and allowed Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia to conduct the elections. Through lawyer Danstan Omari, Nyachae says Mgogholi handled the matter in a way that was suspect. "It is suspect how the judge entertained an application filed past noon and proceeded to grant very disturbing orders that are contemptuous to the judicial authority granted to the magistrate," Nyachae says in her petition. She accuses the judge of being incompetent and breaching the Judicial Code of Conduct. "The conduct of the learned judge does not only bespeak of grave incompetence but is also suspicious and suspect of ill will, shrewdness and high handedness." She said Mbogholi lacked legal authority to give the orders. She said Mbogholi did not give her audience even though she already had orders from a different court that rendered the case meaningless. Nyachae says a judge shall exercise judicial authority independently on the basis of his assessment of the facts and in accordance with a conscientious understanding of the law, free of any extraneous influences, inducements, pressures, threats or interference, direct or indirect, from any quarter or for any reason. “That the judge proceeded to vary, discharge and vacate the orders issued by the magistrate while there was no proper appeal before the court essentially undermined the judicial independence and intellect of the magistrate's orders." She says Mbogholi's action cannot be explained away as judicial fallibility or mistake. "He has extensive knowledge, experience and wisdom as a judge." Nyachae and KNCCI are embroiled in a tussle over the position of chairperson at Women in Business Committee. She insists she is the chairperson of the committee and that her term is not over while Ngatia conducted elections that replaced her following Mbogholi's ruling.  edited by peter obuya