Struggling Kenya Premier League side Kisumu All Stars have started receiving applications for the vacant position of head coach following the sacking of veteran tactician Henry Omino. Omino was sacked on Monday alongside assistant coach Andrew Aroka and goalkeeper trainer Joseph Ongoro following a string of poor results. Germany-based KNVB and DFB trained Arthur Opiyo will be in charge of the team in on an interim basis and will be assisted by Francis Oduor while Evans Oketch aka Uche remains the trainer. “Oduor and Uche have been retained for continuity sake,” said the club's chief executive officer Nicholas Ochieng. “I have already started receiving calls from potential candidates. Opiyo will be charge on an interim basis for one month before he returns to his base in Germany. We want to conclude the recruitment process by February 1,” he said. He added: “We want a coach who will instil discipline in the squad, improve morale of the players and lift us from the 16th position. With the kind of talent we have, we don't deserve to be in that position and that is why the board thought it wise to make the changes,” he added. Ochieng revealed that the board is keen  to recruit a local coach. Ochieng admitted that the management of the team and sponsors, Kisumu County Government failed the players. The players have not been paid for seven months and Ochieng admitted that this contributed to poor performance. “We have failed the players terribly. However, by next week, they should get their dues. This was assured by the patron governor Anyang' Nyong'o. It's regrettable that it took so long to work on their paperwork,” he added. Last year, the players boycotted training and threatened not to honour their fixture against KPL champions Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. They lost the game 3-0. He at the same time announced that the club has lost Cal Wekesa who has joined the National Super League side Ushuru. He said they anticipate losing up to five players in the mid-season transfer window which opened on January 1. “We intend to strengthen the team especially in the defence and striking departments. We want to sign up to five players in the current window depending on the departures,” revealed Ochieng. Former Western Stima defender Vincent Omuombo is eying a move to the Blue Eagles. Opiyo faces a baptism of fire when All Stars play high flying Tusker today at Ruaraka in Nairobi. Tusker coach Robert Matano wants to pile more misery on the Kisumu-based side as they seek to leapfrog Gor Mahia. 