Half of the single mothers in Nairobi slums receive financial and childcare support from at least one family member and almost one in five does not receive any help. The UN  study on the Progress of the World's Women 2019-20 shows that 45 per cent of single mothers in Nairobi'sinformal settlements heavily rely on their child's maternal grandmother to help take care of the child. Since a large number of women in slum areas are internal migrants, family support can be limited and even when family members are close, high levels of poverty make it difficult for them to assist financially. The study surveyed 500 single mothers living in a Nairobi slum. It shows that shows that only a third of grandmothers provide both financial support and assist in childcare. "However, an even larger proportion of lone mothers (63 per cent) relied most heavily on the child’s older sisters for childcare assistance. Older brothers and maternal aunts were the next most frequent helpers," reads the study. "In contrast, only five per cent of fathers and virtually no paternal kin offered childcare assistance." It adds that despite grandmothers and other family members often being relied upon to assist in raising children, single mothers who have weak state support critically need these family support networks. They assist the single mothers through supervision, feeding, bathing, playing or reading with the child. "Lone mothers living in slum areas can face particularly large challenges in raising children, including navigating high unemployment rates, having limited access to nutritious food, shelter or other necessities, and encountering dangers stemming from violence, accidents and poor sanitation," the report reads. According to the study, women need affordable and safe daycare options, as well as job creation programmes suitable for single mothers. "In particular, the exceptionally high levels of child care provided by older sisters may have a negative impact on their own ability to attend a school or engage in leisure activities. State-provided services are essential to mitigate this," the study reads. Children, especially girls, are significant unpaid care providers and according to the International Labour Organization, approximately 800 million children aged five-17 perform some unpaid care and domestic work for the families. "There are 54 million children aged between five and 14 who perform at least 21 hours of unpaid care and domestic work per week, two-thirds of them girls. This level of work negatively impacts children’s ability to attend and benefit from school," it reads further. The study recommends paid family leave and affordable and accessible childcare services as some options to assist single mothers to raise their children. It adds that family leave enables women and men to take time off to take care of their dependents without jeopardising their income security or their health. "Maternity leave allows mothers to recover from childbirth and provides care to young infants, while paternity leave enables fathers to become active and nurturing co-parents, especially if the leave is of adequate length." By reducing economic penalties off taking time off work to care for their children, it adds, paid leave policies allows women and men to enjoy their right to care, foster gender equality in caregiving — incentivise men to take more paternal leave. Additionally, it recommends extending social insurance schemes, including maternal benefits, to informal workers such as domestic workers and seasonal agricultural workers. However, to cover informal workers who are self-employed such as farmers and street vendors, the study recommends introducing non-contributory maternal and paternal benefits such as cash transfers that are financed from the regular state budget. Edited by R.Wamochie