Athletics Kenya are worried that there are still athletes who do not care about their health, Kenya’s image internationally and the integrity of the sport. Despite numerous efforts by AK, Anti-Doping Agency, Athletics Integrity Unit and World Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya, AK president Jackson Tuwei regretted that athletes are still being caught in violation of the set rules. “Athletes should know that with the kind of machinery we have to fight doping, there is nowhere to hide. It is either they work hard and remain relevant in the sport or hang their spikes all together because the anti-doping winds are too strong for those who want to engage in hide and seek,” Tuwei said. While addressing journalists at Riadha House following the recent suspension of 2013 world junior 800m champion Alfred Kipketer and former world marathon record holder Wilson Kipsang, Tuwei added: “Contrary to the perception that AK should take the flak of whatever is happening in athletics circles, we would like to state that the current investigations and suspensions are happening as a result of our current cooperation with AIU and ADAK.” He observed that it is only last month that, alongside various stakeholders, the governing body held an athletes’ conference in Eldoret where everything in as far as doping is concerned, was laid bare courtesy of AIU, who had sent officials. “We would like to state that doping is a choice and victims of the menace must take full responsibility and face the consequences. Please note that besides working with AIU and ADAK to zero-rate doping, we will continue to churn out and nurture new talent through proper channels,” added Tuwei. While castigating those being caught in contravention of the rules, he observed: “Either this is an act of ignorance or a deliberate move to take a short cut to stardom. However, they need to know that the world is currently on the alert and they would be lucky to survive a single race without being nabbed.” “As a country, we are aware of the consequences of doping and that is why we opted to work with AIU to eliminate the menace and revive Kenya's athletics glory. It's a shame that some athletes are not able to manage their whereabouts schedule despite AK having taken them through several training sessions.” Tuwei revealed they are also directing their efforts towards establishing the source of the prohibited substances, saying: “We have also decided not only to deal with the consumer but also the source in a bid to end the menace once and for all. We also direct all coaches both local and foreign to register with AK with immediate effect in order to make it easier for us to monitor their activities with our runners. AK will not tolerate coaches who want to loiter the country in the pretext of coaching athletes yet they are engaged in other activities.” “AK in collaboration with the Ministry of sports will ensure that only clean athletes feature in our events. Those sanctioned or found guilty of doping should as well plan their retirement because there will be no second chance,” he added. And to help intensify the fight against the vice, Tuwei revealed that there are plans to increase ADAK’s funding to ensure that all athletes are tested anytime, anywhere without notice and as many times as it can be done. “In addition, Athletics Kenya has drafted a bill to the Ministry of Sports to be taken to parliament in order to criminalise doping,” added Tuwei.