The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has urged Kenyans to avoid non-essential travel to Wuhan, China, until the Coronavirus situation is contained. “Those on essential travel must comply with additional screening measures that have been put in place by authorities. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will keep updating on the situation of Kenyans living in the affected region,” the ministry said through a statement on Monday. The ministry further said its embassy in China has issued an alert to Kenyans living in China, especially those residing in Wuhan, Hubei province, to take high precaution to protect themselves and to comply with measures put in place by the local authorities. “The Embassy is aware that there are 85 Kenyans in Wuhan who are registered with the Embassy and is closely monitoring the situation. We encourage unregistered Kenyans to register as a matter of importance,” the Ministry said. It denied media reports that the Embassy in Beijing is not protecting Kenyans in China. All Kenyans in China have also been advised to contact the Kenyan embassy in Beijing for advice and consular assistance. Chinese authorities have imposed a lock down on the Wuhan region in a bid to contain the spread of the virus that has also infected 2, 744 people and killed 81. MFA also said the Embassy of China in Nairobi “is constantly communicating with its capital and the Kenyan students in Wuhan under the Chinese government scholarship program on the status in order to improve protection”. Victor Onjolo, an environmentalist based in China and who left Beijing on January 23, said he is aware that the embassy has taken the names of students. "However, most complaints are that of freedom of movement and association being curtailed under the measures put in place by the Chinese government. Most of them are of the opinion that the embassy should pick them and bring them back to the country or to safer grounds," Onjolo told the Star. Authorities in Hubei province have announced the postponement of the opening of universities and colleges and suspended exams calendar indefinitely in an effort to curb movement and the spread of the virus. Kenyan students studying in Hubei have been advised to stay away from the Wuhan city until further advised.