Is a lawmaker from Western part of the country just getting more romantic with his wife or his randy nature has been exposed? The man known for large appetite for anything in skirt and love for bottle nowadays is in the company of his wife even in political events, something that was unheard of. The new lifestyle has left his colleagues worried about the turn of events. A mole has however whispered to Corridors that legislator’s wife has insisted in accompanying him to rallies and meetings after she got wind of how her husband changes ladies like clothes when out for party functions. The wife has so far accompanied him to the two BBI rallies in Kisii and Kakamega. Even after a clear directive from none other than Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha that schools should not force parents where to buy uniforms, it seems some learning institutions from Nyanza are a law unto themselves. The schools insist that parents carry cash to school to be issued with the uniforms or parents are directed to specific outfitters which in most cases are run by the teachers or their proxies who charge sometimes twice the market price. Maybe it is time the good CS cast his net on this side of the world. Is it a men’s club at the Council of Governors (CoG) or just the male chauvinism in the Governors’ umbrella body could not allow space for the few women elected Governors in the Council? Well, this is the question on the lips of millions of Kenyans after the last week’s council election at a Nairobi. All the ten positions which were up for grabs were filled with male governors dwarfing the country’s push to achieve gender parity in all institutions and government agencies. Currently, Kenya has only two female elected Governors (Charity Ngilu and Ann Waiguru) after the death of former Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso. Residents of a constituency in Bungoma county are slowly coming to terms with the conmanship of a budding Politician. Corridors has been told that the man who is eying a parliamentary seat issued bursaries to several students in a constituency he is interested in. All the cheques bounced because the man had no cash in his account. It is said that after residents bashed him over bounced cheques, the young man reached out to is Coastal-based financier who is said to have given him Sh3 million.