 The Mombasa government wants residents to sort out waste in different containers at the point of origin to make it easy to recycle garbage. Households, business premises, landlords and tenants will be required to separate garbage at the or point of disposal according to their classification and dump in separate specific containers for collection and disposal. Waste collectors and transporters would also be forbidden from handling any garbage that has not been separated at the source. The new rules are contained in the Mombasa County Solid Waste Management Bill, 2019 that is before the county assembly. “In order to facilitate reduction, recycling and recovery of solid waste, separation at source is essential. Currently, the county experiences poor solid waste handling, storage and separation at the sources,” the bill says. It recommends a fine of up to Sh2,000 for waste generators who fail to sort their garbage at the time of dumping. Industrial and commercial entities will face fines not exceeding Sh50,000 with an imprisonment term of not more than a month. "Waste collectors who transport garbage that has not been sorted will face fines of up to Sh10,000 and jail terms of not more than one month," the bill says. Mombasa has been an eyesore, thanks to haphazard solid waste management strategies that have left city streets and estates with piles of garbage. During the 2017 election campaigns, Governor Hassan Joho promised to deal with the garbage menace after his opponents turned the county's poor solid waste management strategies into campaign fodder. Tourism stakeholders, including Mohammed Hersi, the chairman of the Kenya Tourism Federation, among those speaking out the against the city's filthy state. Joho is seeking to respond by crafting a law that will guide the management and recycling of waste. Public spaces such as markets, business premises, educational institutions and health facilities will have containers for specific classifications of waste. “Persons operating enterprises in public markets shall deposit waste in waste collection containers for the specific type of waste,” the bill says. Environment chief officer Ilhan Abbas said the county does not have a regulatory framework to guide solid waste management. She said Mombasa produces up to 2,000 tonnes of garbage daily, with many people depending on community-based garbage collectors to dispose the waste. The bill says those transferring waste by use of a motor vehicle, tricycle, pushcart, handcart, wheelbarrow or any non-motorized transport will be licensed. “Provided that such a group is registered under the relevant law.” Abbas said registration will make it easy to track the collectors. “Apart from waste collectors taking garbage to designated places for us to be able to transfer it to dumping sites there are those who dispose it haphazardly. But if they are registered, we will be able to know when the waste collectors have not delivered their cargo to the right places,” Abbas told the Star. “If we are able to hold each and every person accountable, this town would be clean.” The bill proposes the establishment of ward solid waste management committees to coordinate and mobilise the implementation of the law. Stakeholders have welcomed the bill, saying it will streamline waste management. Bosco Juma, a director of an environmental community-based organisation that deals with waste management admitted that lack of a guiding policy has been the missing link. “We needed to have this policy like yesterday because things need to be regularised for smooth running,” said the Big Ship director.  edited by p. obuya