The Mombasa government has embarked on a project that intends to improve the level of education in the county. According to the Department of Education and Children, a county is as good as its system of education, and the starting point is "the formative stages of a child’s life where cognitive abilities begin to develop". “If this system is neglected, society as a whole will disintegrate. This is because an educated society is an empowered society,” chief officer Innocent Mugabe told the Star on the phone on Monday. The Department is constructing and refurbishing 17 early childhood development centres. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Mugabe said the ECD sector had been neglected and that is why Governor Hassan Joho’s administration decided to invest in it. “The national government never funded ECDs. They were funded by parents, which was a burden to them. The county saw it fit to chip in and relieve the parents of this burden,” Mugabe said. There are currently 98 public ECDs in Mombasa, which accommodate slightly over 10,000 pupils. The number of trained teachers has increased from just 31 in 2013 when Joho took over Mombasa county as governor at the inception of devolution to 235 at the moment. In 2013, there were about 6,000 pupils in the 85 public ECDs in Mombasa compared to about 50,000 in 685 private ones. There were 301 ECD teachers in 2013, only 31 of whom were trained teachers. The majority of untrained teachers were mostly employed by parents. Mugabe said the ECDs are the best place to help children get the best foundation for a bright future thus need trained teachers. “This is when the cognitive abilities of children are developing. It is thus important that they get a good environment to learn at this early stages,” said Mugabe. Last Monday, Mombasa deputy governor William Kingi presided over the distribution of learning and teaching materials to all the ECDs in Mombasa. Kingi said with the 204 additional trained teachers, the ratio of teachers to students in ECDs has improved from 1:90 to 1:45. “This has improved pupils concentration in class,” said Kingi. Kingi and Mugabe said the county wants to promote education in the far-flung areas of the county and that is why it focuses on ECDs outside the Island. Only two of the 17 ECDs being constructed or refurbished are on the Island. “No parent should be charged any kind of fee for sending their children to public ECD Centres in Mombasa. They are free and compulsory,” Kingi said. Mugabe said sub-county administrators have been tasked to ensure that all children who attain the right age are taken to ECDs. “If our teams find any children who are supposed to be in ECD but are not, they will intervene. If the parent refuses to have them go to ECD, they will be arrested,” Mugabe said. To help retain the children in class and improve their concentration, the county provides free milk to them and primary school pupils. “The milk programme has been a success. We proved milk to 32,000 students every single day,” Kingi said. The aim is to improve the transition rate from home to ECD and eventually from primary to secondary.