Schools reopened on Monday for a new academic year and a first term packed to overflowing with pupils and loaded with The opening will be prove hectic for primary schools as they admit more than one million new pupils to Grade 1. However, students joining Form 1 will enjoy a week-long extension to their holidays. Their admission is set for January 13 to allow them time to prepare for the new term. Other activities include registration of learners for KCPE and KCSE exams, rolling out of the new curriculum to Grade 4 and a mix of co-curricular activities. The opening school comes just a few days after the festive season which is mostly characterised by financial constraints due to the high expenses. On Sunday, parents and guardians were in the last-minute rush to purchase books and other school requirements. Those who spoke to the Star said they planned ahead for the beginning of term expenses. Millicent Akumu, mother of four (two in secondary and two in primary school) said, “We were informed long before the festive season and it helped us to spend responsibly. We strive to provide what is needed and will continue doing so.” A spot check at various public transport providers in the city also revealed an overwhelming number of passengers and often many students. This had led to inflated fares. Last week, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha warned school heads against inflating school fees above the recommended government guidelines. Government capitation Speaking during the release of the KCSE exam results, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the government has set aside Sh40 billion for capitation of primary and secondary education. The government funds primary schools depending on the number of students. Each student is allocated Sh1,420. In secondary schools, each student is allocated Sh22,244 to cater for essentials. “We are working with our colleagues from the Treasury to ensure the capitation funds are released within the first two weeks of January to ensure schools are up and running upon opening,” Kipsang said. Disbursement of capitation to schools is done in three tranches in line with the number of terms in the school calendar. The ratio for distribution is 50:30:20. However, increasing acrimony between the Teachers Service Commission and the Kenya National Union of Teachers threatens to slow down the school calendar. Last month, the TSC failed to remit the Knut dues —  two per cent of member teacher's salary —further causing a slow-down in union activities. Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion has warned of dire consequences should the employer continue with what he terms "starving the union." Edited by R.Wamochie