A resurgent Shujaa face a stern test at the Hamilton Sevens in New Zealand tomorrow. Shujaa are in a tricky Pool 'B' and open their campaign against England at 2:41 am. Kenya and their former colonial masters clashed in the Dubai Sevens in December, where the East  Africans lost 12-5. Shujaa are yet to state victory in 14 meetings against England. Paul Feeney's charges will then face Japan in its second match at 8:08 am. The two sides clashed six times last season with Kenya winning two meetings against the Asian outfit 28-15 in Las Vegas and 31-24 in Singapore. Shujaa 's final match will be an Africa derby against South Africa on Sunday morning at 1:13 am. The Blitzbooke won both encounters in Dubai and Cape Town recently, 17-12 and 17-5 respectively World Rugby have tweaked the tournament format with only the group winners advancing to the semifinals, meaning there will be no quarterfinals in both the Hamilton and Sydney tournaments. Shujaa will be buoyed by their performance in Cape Town last month, where they got to the quarterfinals after beating Australia (12-7), Samoa (24-19) and drawing 24-24 with Ireland. Skipper Andrew Amonde was bullish about Kenya's chances having had a solid week of training in the build-up to tomorrow's kickoff. "We have had a good week of training and we know what's at stake. It's a winner takes all in the group and so we have to be at our best in all three games to give us a chance of qualification to the semifinals on Sunday,” said Amonde. Head coach Feeney termed the group tough but said the boys were ready to rise to the challenge. "There are no easy pools in the world series and the format has made it even tougher but we will take one game at a time,” said Feeney. He observed that youngster Geoffrey Okwach will be given a chance in the pool phase. "He has trained well. He is the 'baby' of the team but he will get his chance this weekend,” noted Feeney. Talisman Collins Injera, who missed the first two legs of the series is back in the squad and is expected to play this weekend.