Sports Cabinet Secretary Ambassador Amina Mohamed is satisfied with preparations at the World U20 championships athletes' village at the Kenyatta University. Amina, speaking when she was taken around the facilities along Thika Road by the championship's Steering Committee, said that she was confident everything will be in place in time for the arrival of the athletes. The facilities, which hosted the participants during the 2017 World U-18 championships, remain in good shape with Amina saying only little improvements are needed to ensure they are up to scratch by April. “We are not going to carry out any major works. We are going to make repairs for some damages. We hope the renovations will be carried out in a short period of time,” explained Amina. “It's good the tartan is here. We need to get the glue out. We have two months to get the work done and I want to thank the Organizing Committee for the hard work and taking up the challenge for ensuring the work is completed in good time.” Prof.Paul Wainaina, the Kenyatta University Vice-Chancellor said that though students are still going on with their studies, repair works will go on albeit they will not affect normal campus programmes. “The students are here until April. We are however not going to wait until the students are out so that we do the repairs. We are going to start from outside. What then remains will be done when they are on their break,” assured Wainaina. Mike Rabar, the World U-20 CEO, said that based on what was promised, all the amenities will be complete at Kasarani in time for the Kenyan trials. Athletics Kenya chairman Jackson Tuwei was thrilled that the facilities remain in good condition three years after they were erected for the World U18 championships and lauded KU for their role in keeping them pristine. “We, first of all, want to thank KU for accepting to host the participants — athletes and officials of the World U-20 in July. We saw them the last time and they need only touch-ups here and there. We will work to ensure they are ready,” said Tuwei, adding that AK were in the process of seeking to know the preliminary entries of participants and officials for better preparations.