A security brief doing rounds on social media which is alleged have come from the Nairobi criminal investigations office is fake, the DCI has said. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has asked the public to ignore the brief that lists foreign installations purported to be vulnerable to terror attacks. The document signed by a Ben Nyakwaka names several installations, social and places of worship. “We wish to confirm that this is a fake document. The casual draft is evident for such information if it was genuine at all. It is an open document marked for ‘ALL’,” the DCI said. The DCI said no such classified document is dispatched from any authoritative office in that style and design. The directorate said that the office of the Nairobi RCIO was not authorised nor has the capacity to issue such information. “There are authorities that deal with such operations and are best placed to issue such alerts. We urge the public to ignore it with the contempt it deserves. It is purely meant to cause apprehension, fear, despondency, and panic.” The directorate is investigating the source of the document and severe action will be taken against the culprits. It urged members of the public to desist from spreading the information further. Nairobi regional police boss Philip Ndolo said that none of the police divisions in the city had received the document. “My offices have not yet received any document on such information. I can’t, however, comment on it because we have got no mandate to generate such,” Ndolo told the Star on the phone on Sunday. Meanwhile, al Shabaab militants murdered three teachers and destroyed a telecommunication mast in Garissa county on Monday morning. Police sources say the militants attacked Kamuthe Primary School, Kamuthe Police Post at 2am on Monday. The communication mast was partially damaged but operational. The incident happened just a few days after al Shabaab attacked a military base used by US and Kenyan military personnel in Lamu. A US soldier and two US contractors were killed.