Failure by the Senate to convene a special sitting has left hanging the impeachment of embattled Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu. As such, the troubled county chief may be have to wait until next month when the House resumes from Christmas holidays to know his fate. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said he is yet to receive a petition from either Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen or his Minority counterpart James Orengo to call for a special sitting to consider the governor’s intended ouster. “I am waiting the Leader of Majority or Minority or both to write to me seeking for a special sitting. They also need 15 senators to sign up,” Lusaka told the Star. The speaker confirmed receiving communication from Kiambu County Assembly speaker Stephen Ndicho within the required timeline, thus leaving the ball squarely in the Senators court. He, however, was optimist that the two leaders would write to him this month to recall the senators to determine Waititu’s fate. “They are likely to write to write to me. You know everyone has been on holiday,” the speaker added. Some 63 MCAs – two third of the members of the Kiambu county assembly – voted on December 19 to impeach Waititu for alleged gross misconduct and abuse of office. However, in a letter to Lusaka, Waititu has protested his impeachment, saying it was flawed and done unprocedurally. He claimed the House did not have requisite numbers to impeach him. “From the commencement, the assembly did not have the requisite statutory quorum at any particular time. The number of members of the assembly is 92, thus statutory quorum required under section 33(2) of the county government’s act to pass such a special motion is 62 members,” he said in the letter. Section 33 of the County Governments Act, which stipulates the procedure for impeachment of a governor, states that the county assembly speaker shall, within two days of the House impeaching a governor, shall notify the speaker of the senate, in writing. Within seven days of the receipt of notice of a resolution of the House from the speaker of the county assembly, the speaker of the senate is required to convene a meeting of the senate to hear the charges against the governor. The Senate, by resolution, may appoint a special committee comprising 11 members to investigate the matter. At this point, the committee may invite the governor and the county assembly to argue our cases. “A special committee appointed under investigate the matter and report to the Senate within ten days on whether it finds the particulars of the allegations against the Governor to have been substantiated,” the Act states. Waitutu will be the fifth governor the senators will be determining their fate following their impeachment of their county assemblies since the advent of devolution. However, only case, that of Embu Governor Martin Wambora, has been successful. But Wambora did not leave office due to court orders. Late last year, the Senate rejected the impeachment of Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja for lack of enough evidence. The senators have also saved Governors Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Mwangi Wairia (Murang’a) and former Machakos Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala. “If the special committee reports that the particulars of any allegation against the Governor have not been substantiated, further proceedings shall not be taken under this section in respect of that allegation;  have been substantiated, the Senate shall, after according the Governor an opportunity to be heard, vote on the impeachment charges,” it adds.