National team head coach Cliff Owuor hopes to bring home China-based play-maker Edwin Scott and US-based Teddy Ochieng ahead of the next round of the Afro-basket later in the year. Owuor revealed he is keen on beefing up the squad with the best available players because their next opponents are among the best on the continent. Kenya will face Angola, Senegal and Mozambique in the November/December show. “The next phase of the championships is the hardest part and we must start our preparations earlier. I have identified the players I need and I will discuss with the federation to bring them home,” he added. He said he has information that the two are doing well with their respective clubs and he will continue to monitor them. Owuor was speaking after Kenya team grabbed the sole ticket to represent Zone Five in the continental show later in the year. “I have the information, Teddy, a student in USA, is doing great in his college and I will continue to monitor his progress and find a way on how he can join the team later,” said Owuor. “Denmark-based Tyler Ongwae and Ronny Gundo who left the country a few years ago to play abroad will also be key to the programme I want to build,” he added. He said he intends to hold training every weekend to keep the national team in shape and focused on the task ahead. “I will keep them busy once the new season gets underway. This will be important. At the same time, I will cast my net wider and fuse in any upcoming player who can make an impact in the team,” he said. Captain Griffin Ligare said they received key tips from Ongwae, prior to facing South Sudan. Kenya beat South Sudan 74-68 on Saturday in an explosive tie at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium. The host led 25-19 in the first quarter but South Sudan took over the proceedings with a 30-29 second quarter edge. At the end of the third quarter, it was still a close fight but Kenya prevailed with a 27-22 margin. Ligare was the ‘Man of the Match’ taking matter in his own hands in the last seconds as the Sudanese threatened to spoil the party. His last quarter heroics did the trick as he made game high 26 points. France-based Robert Nyakundi was also superb, sinking 18 points while Bush Wamukoto anchored the defence, scoring 13 and hauling a massive 18 rebounds. Going to this decider, the two sides had not lost a game going in the competition and lived up to it’s billing as a top fixture of the five day show. 