 A businessman has sued his rival demanding Sh1.7 million compensation for alleged destruction of property. In his affidavit, Josphat Kamunge accuses John Nduhiu of irregularly evicting him from his premises at the Kimathi Industrial Plots in Jericho, Nairobi. He accused Nduhiu of using deceit to obtain an order for the eviction. The alleged order was issued by chief magistrate P. N. Gesora of the Commercial Court on December, 6 last year after Nduhiu, through Mariara & Company Advocates made the application. Kamunge says he was not represented since he had not been served with the suit documents. Nduhiu had listed Kamunge and Benard Odero as defendants. He had obtained orders baring the two from selling or transferring Plot No 38 situated at Kimathi Industrial Plots in Nairobi pending the hearing and determination of the suit. But Kamunge says the order only stopped further construction of the property and not eviction. He accuses Nduhiu of lying to the court that he had served him with the suit papers, saying he only learnt about the case when he was served on December, 28, last year. The illegal eviction was carried out on the night of December 12, Kimunge says. He accused Nduhiu of attempting to grab the property, saying the real owner was Petro Ndonji Ondiro (deceased). He said Ondiro's son, Benard Odero, leased the property to him in 2017. Plot No 38 is part of the land that was allocated by the defunct Nairobi City Council to Kimathi Ward Jua Kali Co-op Society Limited members who had been in occupation since 1974. The City Council in an extraordinary meeting on December 5, 1996 approved the allocation of the land to the listed members. In a letter dated December 6, 2005, and addressed to the Director of Physical Planning, Ministry of Lands and Housing, Kimathi Jua Kali Co-operative Society Limited secretary Johnson Mwai listed all the 46 members of the Society occupying the said land. Ondiro had since 1974 been occupying the parcel of land and was later joined by his son, Benard Odero, who was running a carpentry business. In 2017, Odero leased the land to Kamunge and the family subsequently entered into a sale agreement with him to sell the land once they got all the necessary documents from City Hall. Since 2017, Kamunge has been in occupation of the land where his wife has been running the butchery business. He also put up semi-permanent structures that were leased to tenants. Kamunge says that in 2017, Nduhiu started claiming he had bought the land from Elizabeth Achieng Nyaoro who purportedly acquired it on January 8, 2002. Kamunge said Nyaoro’s name does not appear among the 46 members of Kimathi Ward Jua Kali Co-op Society Limited forwarded to Director of Physical Planning on December 6 2005. “There is no way the extraordinary council meeting allocated plot 38 to two people, one of whom (Elizabeth) is not a member. The said letter is a forgery and backdated,” Kimunge says. The trader says on the night of December 12, 2019, youths hired by Nduhiu descended on the property and destroyed it. Through Nalyanya Muruka Wawira & Company Advocates, Kamunge demanded compensation for the damages.  edited by p.o