At least 200 Boni pupils in Lamu are yet to report back to school, three weeks into the first term. Only Std 1-4 pupils have enrolled in the five schools reopened in January. Std 5-8 pupils were to report to Mokowe Arid Zone Primary School in Lamu West. On Thursday parents said the school is more than 100km away and they lack fees, food and means of transport to take their children there. They asked for the county's help. The county has over the past few years taken care of all the needs of the Boni pupils while they school at Mokowe but parents said this year there has been no communication. “The county has been paying fees and providing transport and food for our children. This year however no one has said anything. It's three weeks already and our children are not in school yet they know we cannot do it on our own,” Habrufa Segera from Mangai said. The children were moved to Mokowe after five schools inside Boni Forest were closed in 2014. This was after teachers fled following threats by al Shabaab, which had made Boni Forest their hideout. Some of the schools were vandalised and torched by the militants. The schools are Basuba, Kiangwe, Mangai, Mararani and Milimani. They were finally opened this year in a ceremony led by Coast regional commissioner John Elungata. But only lower primary pupils (Std 1-4) have enrolled due to a shortage of teachers. Upper primary pupils were to enrol in Mokowe. The school was established in 1992 to accommodate pupils from disadvantaged communities such as the Boni, Sanye and Orma. Much of the area is under the Linda Boni security operation and as a result, movement is limited. The situation has made transport impossible, with learners from the minority Boni community struggling to shuttle between Mokowe and their villages. A huge number of secondary school students have also not reported to school due to fee arrears. Basuba MCA Deko Barissa accused the county government of not being forthright on why Boni learners have not been receiving the help they need to stay in school. “We were told bursary has gone up from Sh127 million to Sh176 million every year and that’s why I don’t understand why we have children who have not reported to school for the new term because of fees," he said. "I was shocked when some of the secondary school learners said they owe as much as Sh120,000. It is ridiculous. Something is wrong.” The community wants the government to establish school-feeding programmes to attract and keep learners in school. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya