The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says 85 Kenyans are stuck in Wuhan in China as health workers continue to battle the raging coronavirus outbreak. At the same time the ministry has warned Kenyans not to travel to China unless it is absolutely necessary. In a press statement, the ministry said the Kenyan embassy is in touch with the Kenyans who have been affected by the lockdown of the city. “The embassy is aware that there are 85 Kenyans in Wuhan who are registered with the embassy and is closely monitoring the situation,” the ministry said in a press statement on Monday. The ministry believes there may be other Kenyans stuck in the city. “We encourage unregistered Kenyans to register as a matter of importance. All Kenyans in Wuhan and in China in general should endeavor to immediately contact the Kenya embassy in Beijing for advice and consular assistance as appropriate,” the ministry advised. Additionally, the ministry had advised against non-essential travel to the affected city. “Those on essential travel must comply with additional screening measures that have been put in place by authorities,” the statement said. The coronavirus outbreak came to prominence on January 9 following the death of a 61-year old man who had exhibited symptoms similar to the common cold and the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). So far, 81 people have lost their lives whereas 2, 744 cases have been confirmed as positive. Its symptoms include breathing complications, fever, kidney failure, pneumonia, severe coughing and impaired liver and kidney function. Apart from China, other countries such as Australia, France, Cambodia, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore, South Korea, the United States, Vietnam, Thailand and Taiwan have confirmed cases of the virus. Subsequently, various airports worldwide, including the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), have set up screening points to examine passengers arriving from China. The ministry said it was liaising with the Chinese embassy in Kenya to monitor the situation of Kenyan students who went to study in China on scholarship.