Saturday's BBI rally that was scheduled for Tononoka Grounds in Mombasa has been moved to Mama Ngina waterfront. The announcement was made by ODM leader Raila Odinga who is attending a forum on the BBI organised by Coast Governors. “We are moving to a bigger, spacious ground,” Mombasa Governor Hasan Joho told the Star earlier. Meanwhile, a group of youths disrupted a press conference by Deputy President William Ruto allies in Mombasa. The goons threw stones at MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Shariff Athman (Lamu East) and nominated Senator Christine Zawadi. The MPs had before the disruption said they will be at the Wild Waters Complex where about 3,000 Coast delegates will be meeting. However, the goons, about 30 in number, appeared out of the blues saying they want their money. "Twataka pesa zetu! Mshatudhulumu sana! (We want our money! You have oppressed us a lot!" shouted the goons. Ali and Jumwa said the goons were hired to deliberately attack them so as to intimidate them. "They want us not yo go yo Wild Waters or Tononoka tomorrow! We will be there!" they said. Ali said if what happened is the kind of unity that the BBI is about then they will not support it. The goons also attacked journalists with stones, some of who had to run for dear life. A few remained as they interviewed Ali amid a hail of stones. Tana River Governor, Dhadho Godana said the MPs should be arrested since they had some hidden agenda. “The only meeting today was for Coast leaders to meet at Wildwaters to air their views. Any other meeting is illegal, they have themselves to blame,” he said. In his response, Mombasa Governor Ali Joho condemned the attacks saying it was wrong. “We have to be tolerant. Every view is important. We don’t want any disruptions or interference. We want every voice to be heard, every opinion is important. The one who organized the goons, we condemn them,” Joho said. Earlier, Richard Chacha, Mombasa county director of communications, said Joho cannot stoop that low that was the incident was a reflex reaction by people not happy due to the kind of politics being practiced by Jumwa and Ali. “Joho and other leaders are busy fixing national issues. The Governor is not a chaotic person, and has never been associated with chaos,” said Chacha.