A large number of students might fail to secure places in secondary schools due to the harsh economic times. Parents and teachers interviewed said the guardians have been forced to sell the little they have, borrow or plead for help from well-wishers after the students failed to report to secondary schools on Monday due to lack of fees. “We have enough money given out in bursaries but the political leaders are not giving these funds to the needy in the society. Last year, 28 per cent of students, could not access secondary school after KCPE and we expect the number to go higher following the tough economic times,” the Chairman of Parents teachers Association Nicholas Maiyo said. The reports come a week after the government launched a Sh3 billion scholarship program for secondary education to carter  9,000 candidates under the Elimu Fund Scholarship. Maiyo said that there were enough funds from the CDF, county and national governments to support all needy students but leaders have turned them into a political tool to reward those who have been loyal to them. “The government should establish means that ensure these students get these funds so that they smoothly pursue their dreams,” Maiyo said. Last Monday, a form one boy determined to learn, reported at Kanga High school with an empty box and no school fees to pursue education. Levis Otieno Raba was flanked by her mother Monica Atieno without shoes. “My mother had only managed to borrow a small amount of money from a neighbour which was barely enough for a metallic box and two bars of soap,” he told a local TV station Otieno scored 399 marks in KCPE at Pala Kojwanga primary school in Homabay county and was determined to report to school at all costs. Lucy Ombok from Kisumu told reporters that her daughter appeared troubled since the release of the KCPE results and wanted to commit suicide. The 13-year-old girl who scored 391 marks at Xaverian Primary School in Kisumu Central penned down a suicide after she realized that her parents could not afford her school fees to join the famous Asumbi girls. “I know it is not the only way to solve this problem, but it is the best option for me to take,” the suicide note read. A casual labourer (Mjengo) Yunis Atieno is unable to raise Sh26,700 so that her son can join Maseno school last Monday. “My son got 399 marks at Nyamaseria primary school and was called in his dream learning institution Maseno school but I don’t have the funds,” Atieno told the Star on phone. “I have tried all I can but it has been hard. I call on well-wishers to help me.” Atieno said. A well-wisher, who was helping in the mobilisation of funds Victor Ayoki said that it was high time leaders utilised government bursaries to help the needy. Ayoki said that Ochieng might miss a chance of joining Maseno School, which is one of the few National schools in Nyanza. “We have a number of bursaries and we believe that they can be put into good use if they consider such brains,” Ayoki said. “Maseno School is prestigious. James Ochieng must join that school. He worked hard for it.” The top KCPE student Odhiambo Dickens Omondi in Kibra is among those who have failed to raise his fees. Popular musician Refiga was known by the track 'Banjuka tuu" intervened and Odhiambo is set to join  Murang’a High School.