A road that has been the subject of controversy between Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi and Chinga MCA Kiruga Thuku will now be rehabilitated. Mugambi said Sh750 million will be spent to tarmac the 45km Kariki-Kagicha-Kairo road. It will also connect to Kiria-ini town in Mathioya constituency in Murang’a county. The MP spoke to journalists in Gichiche, Othaya, on Friday when he accompanied the contractor and government engineers to the site. He said the road would begin immediately. His Mathioya counterpart Peter Kimari was present. “This road has been a thorn in the flesh of residents because it had developed a lot of potholes. The government had engaged a contractor to seal them, but he slept on the job,” Mugambi said. The contract had initially been given to MaxVictor Enterprise Limited who was to seal the potholes at a cost of over Sh60 million. However, the contractor lost the tender after engineers, residents and leaders complained that he was doing a shoddy job. The contract has now been awarded to SS Mehta. The contractor has 24 months to complete the road. MP Mugambi said he lobbied to have the road tarmacked instead of just filling potholes. “The contractor was not doing a good job initially, and we had to intervene to have the work stopped,” he said, adding the contract had to be given to another contractor. The road, he said, is important as it is used to ferry tea leaves to Chinga tea factory, and milk to the collection and cooling plant in Gichiche and a privately owned milk processing plant. It also leads to several secondary schools in the area. Mugambi also told off politicians who have been using the road to campaign, saying it will never be used as a campaign tool again. Kimari said the road will offer better transportation and communication services for residents of the two constituencies. He expressed hope that the contractor would speed up the construction by doing the work in less than six months. The road has been at the centre of controversy between the MP and MCA Thuku, with the MCA organising a demonstration to demand it be repaired. Mugambi had accused Thuku of inciting residents against the contractor and seeking political mileage using the road, which he termed as crude, misleading and misusing of the youth. Later Thuku mobilised residents to seal potholes using murram. The MCA said residents had taken matters into their own hands and embarked on fixing the potholes after the contractor took so long to seal them. “We have waited for so long for the road to be repaired and our patience has worn out,” Thuku said. Boda boda rider Paul Maina said the road is in bad shape and the potholes have been the cause of a lot of accidents. “The road had gaping potholes, and we lost two lives through accidents. I am sure that will be a thing of the past if it is done,” he said. Motorists said they are forced to use an alternative route to get to their destinations. 