Deputy President William Ruto has said there are elements within the government plotting to revive the ICC case against him. Ruto, while speaking during an interview with NTV at his Karen home, said last year, he had a detailed conversation with the Director of NIS and can confidently report that people have been sent to Kenya to "explore all ways of reviving the case". The DP said the cabal is working with his political opponents in a bid to stop his presidential ambitions in the 2022 General Election. "I had a conversation with the NIS director last year and as we speak, some characters have sent people to Kenya to revive ICC case. But I want to categorically tell them they will not succeed. In fact it will be a big surprise to them," Ruto said. With regards to a case in which he is linked to the controversial sale of land, the DP said he wasn't surprised with the move by the DCI to reopen the case. He said it is about succession politics and his opponents are committed to ensuring they shut him down. "We have been there before and this is about succession games and people who move in boardrooms to manipulate politics to install people who can serve their interests," he said. Ruto said during Presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki succession eras, such things happened. In 2018, Ruto’s allies resuscitated the ICC ghost and claimed the DP’s detractors were fuelling talk the case could be revived. The politicians claimed the Hague-based International Criminal Court was working with Ruto’s enemies, whom they did not name, to breathe new life into the case against Ruto with the hope of blocking his path to State House in 2022. The conversation was triggered when the ICC presented its annual report to the United Nations Security Council in which it said it was still actively gathering evidence about the Kenyan cases. The crimes against humanity case against Ruto collapsed in 2016 after prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said she did not have enough witnesses to successfully prosecute the case. The collapse of the Ruto case followed that of Uhuru, former police commissioner Hussein Ali, former Cabinet minister Henry Kosgey and former head of Public Service Francis Muthaura.