Landslide victims in West Pokot fear they might be thrown out in the cold when schools reopen on Monday. They said they have not started constructing their homes two months after the landslide. Most are camping in schools. “The government had not begun construction of our houses as earlier said, and we fear we might be chased away from schools we are currently camping in,” Veronica Limang’ole said. Various organisations have donated building materials to help affected families set up new homes. The Ethic and Anti-Corruption Commission staff welfare donated 700 iron sheets, the Red Cross of China donated Sh10 million and Safaricom gave Sh 4 million to help in the second phase of resettling the affected families. EACC Commissioner Dabar Abdi Maalim said the funds were contributed by the staff and will help in providing shelter to the affected families. “The staff during this festive season decided to contribute something small and purchase iron sheets to help the affected start a new life,” he said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo asked Safaricom to ensure the whole county is fully covered by its network. “In areas where we lost many people, there was no network coverage to alert people to move to safer grounds,” he said. He said the county has many hills and this has hindered some areas from having reliable network coverage. Lonyangapuo appealed to the victims to be patient as the government is in the process of resettling them. “Resettlement phase is very tricky, slow and requires a lot of understanding since many people will come claiming that they were affected. We have a team carrying out assessments, and we shall resettle them soon,” he said. The governor said they have done cost estimates and each house is going to cost Sh.108,500. Multi-Agency Team Shelter Assessment report indicated that 146 houses were completely destroyed and 82 partially destroyed and declared unhabitable, totalling 228 homes. In Batei ward, 113 houses were destroyed, Tapach ward (68)  and Weiwei ward (47).