Sprinter Mark Otieno is determined to make his Olympics Games debut in the 100m dash despite  the qualification times having been lowered further to 10.05 secs  for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics Games from 10.20 secs for the previous games in Rio. Otieno, who is the national 100m record holder (10.14), is slowly getting his season up to speed ahead of the national championships that will be used to select Team Kenya to the Tokyo Olympics later this year. The 26- year-old speedster has upped his training  at the  Moi Stadium, Kasarani  as he looks to improve on his all time best in order to make  it to the Olympics. "I believe nothing is  impossible with God on your side. I am now working more on recovery as well as doing quality work from the programme given to me by my coach Owen Anderson. I hope by the time the national championships are here, I  will be in good shape and form,"said Otieno. The sprinter has been in the  sport for the last five years and was part of the Kenyan team to the 2017 World Championships in London, where he was eliminated in the heats. He also fell at the preliminary stage  at the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia in 2018. "It was a good experience taking part in the two competitions alongside world class athletes. It was a good motivation. I hope to use that experience to qualify for the Olympics and compete at an event  higher level,"said Otieno. Otieno, who has competed at three  world  relay meets twice in Bahama (2015, 2017) and Eugene, USA (2019), suggested that specialised training  of sprinters would give the country a  competitive edge in the short  races both at continental and world level. "I strongly believe if we had exchange programmes with countries that are top in short races and specialised coaches, our sprinters would do well in international competitions because the raw talent is there and only needs to be nurtured," he finished. Otieno targets to reach the finals of the Senior African Championships to be held in June and then attempt to qualify for the Tokyo Games this year.