Barely a week after veteran tactician Twahir Muhiddin took over the reigns at Bandari, Harambee Stars winger Abdallah Hassan believes his training methods will restore their fast-fading glory. Muhiddin was picked to replace Bernard Mwalala who was shown the door last week following a series of unwanted results, which heavily contrasted their last season's performance including Shield Cup triumph and a runner up finish in both the league and Super Cup. The former Harambee Stars coach served as a technical director during Mwalala's tenure and was tasked to man the touch line on interim basis after the latter was fired. Hassan revealed that Muhiddin reintroduced the 'Coastal' style of play which entails short passes and dribbling and will go along way in rediscovering their form. Hassan, who was part of the Stars squad which won bronze in  last year's Cecafa Senior Challenge in Uganda, said the players had positively responded to the new philosophy and its impact will soon be felt. Besides introducing the new playing style, Hassan disclosed that Muhiddin had worked overtime to sharpen the goal-shy striking front ahead of their weekend match against league champions Gor Mahia. "Muhiddin has brought a new philosophy which is common in the Coast. We will be knocking the ball around and dribbling a lot which the players have adapted to well. He has also put a lot of emphasis on capitalising on the scoring chances and I think we will soon hit our top form again. He is an experienced coach who everyone at the club enjoys to work with," he added. Meanwhile, Hassan is upbeat that they will put Gor to the sword despite missing the services of Congolese forward Yema Mwama who is injured. Bandari will hit the road for the clash seeking to redeem themselves from a 2-0 home loss in the first leg and a 1-0 loss in the season's curtain raiser;KPL Super Cup. "We can't afford to lose to Gor three times in a row. We have lost the past two duels his season but we will be out for a revenge. They will feel the new energy and playing style by the players. We have been training well although Yema is still out injured."