Is Chief Justice David Maraga aware that a top High Court judge is facing serious problems, including financial issues? Corridors understands that the high profile judge has resorted to his colleagues for financial assistance. Last week, some magistrates said they fund raise for the "deeply depressed" man. According to the magistrates, the judge has not been attending court sessions due to his "deep" financial woes. They want the CJ to come to the rescue of the member of the bench before matters get out of hand. Board members of a parastatal have been left in shock after word went out that the chairman verbally told the company secretary to inform one of them not attend meetings. It transpires that there is no love lost between the chairman and the board member. Because his orders were illegal, the chairman did not have the courage to write to the member. Corridors has learnt that board members are perturbed by the lack of order and respect for the law and have demanded a meeting in which the matter will be raised. The chairman apparently had told the company secretary that the powers that be had issued the order and he did not know how to tell them to follow the law as he got the job as a political favour. Two senior government officials were busted eating forbidden fruits and drinking sweet stolen waters at their hideout along Kindaruma Road, Kilimani. The duo, who cut the posture and mien of spruced up, cultured and have it all, was caught pants down by a dumbfounded wife. The senior Judiciary officer never hesitates to drop biblical verses while the other officer from the education sector runs roughshod over her subjects by imposing outrageous regulations to kill off established outfits. The Judiciary officer begged for forgiveness and vowed to fulfil lifetime promises to keep his reputation. Did ODM leader Raila Odinga recently humiliate a first-term MP from Nyanza who was reporting a case to him? A source has disclosed that the legislator had reported to the party boss about a colleague who was pushing to return to the outfit. The returnee contested against the former before ditching the party prior to the 2017 polls. He reportedly told the party leader that his colleague wants to unseat him in 2022 because of the differences they have had over who should be the next county governor. But Raila is said to have told him in the presence of some party officials that he is young in politics and not to fight every war.