A strong field is expected at the Nyanza South Cross Country Championships to be held at Kiendege Secondary in Nyamira County tomorrow. Athletes from Nyamira, Kisii and Migori counties will battle it out for slots in the regional team to the national cross country championships, according to Nyanza South Athletics Kenya vice chairman Charles Asati. “We want to pick a very strong team of 45 athletes to represent the region at the nationals. For the first time, we shall have the 6km and 5km races for under 18 athletes,” said Asati, who won a gold medal at the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, Germany. Dickson Simba, who recently won the Nyaribari Masaba constituency, Gusii Sports Legends and Nyamira County cross country titles is favourite to defend the 10km men's title which he won at Kehancha last year. Simba, who has a personal best of 27:16 over 10km, has expressed his confidence that he will defend his title. “I'm in top form and my aim is to retain my title on Friday. Once I qualify for the national championships, I will focus on speed because that is what cost me a slot in Team Kenya last year,” said Simba, who is also a mountain runner. Simba, a father one, is part of a strong Nyamira County team which also has Richard Atuya, Brian Nyangaresi, Dennis Kiyaka and Edwin Mokua. Veteran marathoner Sammy Nyokaye, Simba's mentor also confirmed his participation despite missing out on the Nyamira County cross country two weeks ago. “I had a busy December in China where I paced in two marathons and finished in one. I will take part in Friday's race to test my body,” said Nyokaye. Ronah Nyabochoa, winner of the Gusii Sports Legends cross country and Nyamira County cross country titles, will battle it out with training mate Teresa Omosa and World Aids Day Marathon winner Nancy Kerage in the women's 10km race. Kisii County is expected to field strong teams in junior and youth events from Eluni Academy, St Peters Keberesi and Mogonga PAG High School. Jane Ghati, a pupil at Eluni Academy is favourite in the under 18 event. She has been peerless since last year. Last week, she easily clinched the title during the Kisii County championships at Sameta. Kisii County also has a strong relay team comprising of international sprinters Maureen Thomas and Brian Tinega alongside Samuel Mwita and Cynthia Ombese.