Some of the 'loyalists' at City Hall made a grand comeback after Nairobi Governor's Mike Sonko latest changes in his county government. In a notice on Friday, Sonko reinstated Charles Kerich to the Lands Department and Mohammed Dagane to the Roads department. Sonko kicked out Pauline Kahiga who was serving at the Lands and Finance Docket. "I'm glad to be back and given another opportunity to serve the people of Nairobi. This is a very sensitive docket with projects that are meant to transform the lives of Nairobi people. I shall put in the effort to ensure the governor's manifesto is achieved," Kerich said. "I thank the Governor for giving me another chance and I will deliver as expected." It became evident that Kerich was Sonko's trusted CEC as he had served in four dockets until he was suspended. He was sworn in November 2017 as the CEC for ICT and was later moved to Lands department and also acted in the Health docket. Kerich also served in the finance docket and even read the Nairobi City County 2018 and 2019 budget. Last year, Sonko made Kerich a 'super executive', appointing him to coordinate all county programmes. The governor mandated Kerich to oversight, coordinate and implement county projects Dagane had served in the Roads and Transport docket since he was sworn in November 2017. He survived the numerous cabinet reshuffles, indicating that Sonko had trusted him in overseeing the county-owned road projects. Dagane headed the Transport docket until January 2019 when he was moved to the health docket where he served until his suspension. "This is a docket that I had served for over a year and saw tremendous development. With the near completion of the Nairobi regeneration Project on roads, Phase One we will now shift focus on other roads in the city," Dagane said. "With the ongoing rainfall, some roads have been damaged but one the rains are over the contractors will be back to rehabilitate them. But am delighted to be back and thankful to Governor for believing in my ability to deliver services to the city residents and to serve in his cabinet." Kerich and Dagane were the only CECs together with former CEC for Education Janet Ouko that had a five-year contract under Sonko's cabinet. After being left out in the cold for almost five months, Charles Kerich and Mohammed Dagane have been recalled back to the County Government of Nairobi. Speaking to the Star on Friday, the two expressed their gratitude to Governor Sonko for being recalled back to the office. Despite the two being on suspension and focusing on their own personal businesses, City hall troubles were still haunting their "leave". Last year in December, the two together with the rest of the eight CECs appeared before the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission headquarters at Integrity Centre regarding the Dandora Stadium.