Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria ha said he is ready to pay the price for others to get freedom. The MP on Friday said it was unfair for police to arrest him over a matter he claims to be a complainant over. Kuria, through Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, said his adamant stand on the BBI is what has put him in trouble, but he will not be intimidated. He said because he has chosen to be part of the William Ruto camp, some elements within the government have resorted to frustrating him. Kuria said he does not understand why police chose to arrest him, yet last year he made a formal complaint at the Kilimani station over the assault claims. The MP was arrested on Friday morning for allegedly assaulting a woman during a TV show at the Royal Media Services premises. He was on his way to attend a burial in Nakuru and later launch programmes to educate Mt Kenya residents on the BBI. Joyce Wanja, an activist, said she was assaulted on December 8 last year at the RMS premises during a show she and the MP were invited to discuss BBI. Speaking to Wanjiku TV, Wanja said the MP attacked her when she confronted him over his remarks during a fundraiser for orphans in Kiambu. "I told him he was talking about matters which were irrelevant to the event at hand and more so, inappropriate for children and faithful," she said. Wanja accused Kuria of abusing women in Kiambu during the event by allegedly commenting on their underwear. She said she hit back at the MP and her comments irked Kuria, making him rise up from his seat and beat her on her left arm. She said she fell to the ground and had to be helped get up by people around. But Kuria, who is currently being held at the Kilimani police station, said he has been receiving threats against supporting Ruto's stand on BBI. "Kuria wants his supporters to know that choosing to support the William Ruto camp has cost him this, but he says he is ready to bear the cross," Ichung'wa said. "He says he has been categorically warned that he will not be allowed near the Ruto camp at all costs." According to Ichung'wa it is ironic that Kuria is being held without indication of what he is being accused of or where he will be arraigned. He said Kuria's decision to support controversial city lawyer Miguna Miguna's return was also another reason why he had been arrested. His sentiments were echoed by Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, who said Kuria is a "martyr" of the BBI project. He said they have concrete evidence that the said woman was not assaulted. Nyali MP Mohamed Ali criticised the government, accusing them of using unjustifiable means to silence those opposed to BBI. Ali said instead of the government ensuring the BBI is about development, it is using the initiative to cripple the gains of the handshake.