Interior ministry has released 10 focus points it will prioritise to make Kenya a better place between 2020 and 2021. The focus points include; Countering terrorism, police reforms, citizen services, Integrity, firearms and war against drugs. Others are;  Transport sector reforms, university security, full automation of Citizen Services and training of government officers. Speaking in Mombasa on Wednesday, Matiangi said the plans will focus on a ruthless pursuit of a secure Kenya, free from terrorism and their keepers. He released the plans during a meeting that brought together top security team in the country. Countering terrorism Matiang'i said the continued weaknesses in the governance structures of Somalia has seen the resurgence of al Shabaab and other criminal groups. "This has been complicated by collaboration, cooperation and collusion between terrorists and select elements within our local communities,"he said. Police reforms Matiang'i said his ministry will continue to commit resources to achieve the reforms in the National Police Service and transform the efficiency and effectiveness of our Police Service. Citizen services The CS directed the PS responsible for Citizen Services to ensure strict and uncompromised adherence to the Service Charters of the department. "Further, County Commissioners must now conduct impromptu checks at service centers, report and take action on lack of efficient service delivery," he said. The CS said in order to achieve greater efficiency in the delivery of citizen services, several processes have been earmarked for automation. Full automation of citizen services He also said the issuance of IDs, birth and death certificates and passports will be issued on the same day of application by July 1 in Nairobi. Implementation of full automation of Citizen Services has also been prioritised by the ministry. He said that this will be achieved through synchronisation of existing data sources into unified electronic systems. To ensure accountability to Kenyans, the CS said his ministry will be introducing a Service Level Index that will enable citizens to measure and report on the efficiency and quality of service we render to them. "I hereby direct the President’s Delivery Unit, to develop and roll out the Index by the 1st of March, 2020," Integrity The CS said his ministry will also endeavour to achieve radical improvement on integrity perceptions. "...personally, I will not condone any acts of rent-seeking, citizen shakedown or creation of fear, anxiety, and desperation with the sole purpose of conferment of a personal benefit by our officers," The CS warned. Firearms The government has also suspended firearms dealers licenses with immediate effect as a way of securing the country. Last year, the government destroyed 8628 illegal firearms and almost 370,000 rounds of ammunition. War on drugs Matiang'i said the government will intensify the war on drugs and organised crime and that it will show no mercy to merchants of death, doom and darkness. University security The government will also form University Community Security Committees to secure Universities and Technical Training Institutions. "As directed by H.E. the President, I have held consultations with the CS Ministry of Education and resolved to upgrade the security status in our institutions of learning, a process in which you are going to play a leading role,' Matiang'i said. Transport reforms Matiang'i said transformation in the transport sector and reviewing the government’s administrative policies and procedures will also be his priority.