Lawyer Miguna Miguna's flight to Kenya was on Tuesday night cut short after he was ejected from an Air France plane moments after boarding. The airline said Miguna did not board the flight although he had checked in on flight AF 814 from Paris to Nairobi. "Air France apologises for any inconvenience caused," the airline said. Miguna had earlier tweeted that he was homebound after a 10 hour delay following a red alert. Earlier on Tuesday morning, Miguna been denied access to a Lufthansa flight in Frankfurt, Germany, on grounds of a red alert issued by the Kenyan government. He was scheduled to leave  Germany for Kenya and was to arrive on Tuesday at around 9.25pm. Miguna was finally able to board a plane. In a tweet accompanied with a photo of him in a plane, Miguna said, "Unbowed, dynamic, resourceful." But the self-declared general said he had been barred from boarding the plane. On Tuesday evening, Miguna tweeted, "Air France has just removed me from the flight stating that the 'Kenyan authorities have told them that I cannot fly into Kenya'. This happened after I had boarded and sat on my seat," Miguna said. Speaking to Hot 96 on Tuesday morning, Miguna said German authorities had been instructed not to allow him board flight to JKIA or any other African country. "In fact, the Kenya Government has demanded that Lufthansa must refund my fare. They have demanded that Lufthansa should not fly me into any other African country, either," he said. "Lufthansa flight manager is saying that the Government of Kenya must send official communication to Lufthansa at Frankfurt office before I can be allowed to fly to Kenya or any other African country." Lufthansa said it had received a red alert from the government, barring Miguna from boarding their plane. In a tweet response, the airline said, "The Kenyan authorities require airlines to send passenger data to them in advance before every flight departs to Kenya. In the case of the passenger, they requested that Lufthansa deny boarding. However, we are trying to help him in whatever way we can." However, the government denied interfering with Miguna's return. In a statement on Monday, the Interior Ministry confirmed it will comply with court orders directing it to allow the lawyer back into the country. Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna on Sunday said the state would not interfere with Miguna's return to his motherland.