Kenya is among countries set to declare its stocks of rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory stocks. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora(CITES) made the announcement in a notice dated December 30. CITES is an international agreement between governments whose aim is to ensure international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. The Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013, requires that the Kenya Wildlife Service undertakes a yearly audit of government trophy stockpile held in the country and publishes the results. Besides, the CITES convention requires state parties, Kenya included, to take certain action steps to properly manage ivory within their jurisdictions. The exercise involves taking an inventory of all ivory and rhino horn stockpiles, including court exhibits and others that might be held by other agencies by virtue of their legal mandates such as the judiciary, the police, custom departments, and wildlife conservancies. Yesterday, Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala told the Star on the phone that 61,483.22  kilogrammes of elephant ivory and 546.13 kilogrammes of rhino horns have been gazetted and are set to be declared to CITES. "We gazetted last year," Balala said. This includes 13,556 pieces of elephant trophies and 260 pieces of rhino horns that were possessed by the government as of December 2018. CITES said all parties that have stocks of rhinoceros horn to identify, mark, register and secure such stocks and declare them to its secretariat each year before February, 28. The declaration is done in a format defined by the secretariat. "The Resolution also inter alia urges the secretariat and other appropriate bodies, where possible, to assist parties that have stocks of rhinoceros horns with the control of stocks, by providing them technical advice and relevant information," CITES said. Kenya boasts of elephant and a rhino population of 34,000 and more than 1,000, respectively — the fourth and third largest country populations in the world. It also has about 2,000 lions. In April 2016, Kenya reduced 105 tonnes of elephant ivory and 1.35 tonnes of rhino horn to smouldering ash. The stockpiles were estimated to be the remains of some 6,500 elephants and 450 rhinos killed for their tusks and horns. CITES said in the notification that parties that wish to seek the assistance of the secretariat in the control of stocks are invited to contact the secretariat directly. Parties are also expected to declare their inventory of government-held ivory stock and privately held ivory stocks, and the reasons for any significant changes in the stockpile compared to the preceding year. CITES said the request to submit an inventory is directed to parties in whose jurisdiction there is an ivory carving industry, a legal domestic trade in ivory, an unregulated market for or illegal trade in ivory, or where ivory stockpiles exist. The secretariat, subject to available resources, will provide technical assistance to parties to support, where requested, the security and registration of government-held ivory stockpiles, and a model table that can be used by parties for reporting their inventory. "Parties are also invited to include a summary of information on the ivory stocks disposed of during the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, in particular, the volume of raw and worked ivory and how it was disposed of."