Some Sh1.3 trillion has been earmarked for the actualisation of the Big Four agenda in the next three years. Pressed for time, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration has prioritised expenditure on projects tied to the head of state’s legacy whose pillars are Health, Food Security, Manufacturing and Affordable Housing. A Treasury report indicates that Sh101.3 billion will be spent on agricultural projects; Sh991 billion on energy, ICT, and Infrastructure; Sh167 billion on health, and Sh35.5 billion on projects by entities that facilitate the Big Four agenda. The plan contained in the 2020 Draft Budget Policy Statement contrasts critics who have been arguing that the Big Four goals may not be achieved by 2022 when the President’s second and final term ends. Big Four has been accosted by budget shortfalls amid the multi-trillion-shilling debt stress which has clouded the legacy plan. But a resilient Uhuru administration says it will, brick by brick, continue seeking allocations for the projects to their ultimate success within financial years 2020/21 – 2022/23. Notable in the venture is the overpass from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) to Westlands - presently under construction, and a second runway at the JKIA. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, in his justification of the BPS, says the facility will be put up to further boost air transport in line with Kenya Vision 2030. “Expansion of JKIA is geared towards enhancing economic efficiency, regional integration, and facilitating international trade all of which are key in supporting the manufacturing pillar,” the BPS reads. The Jubilee government has also lined up the Mombasa-Nairobi six-lane expressway and further intends to spend Sh1.5 billion on phase two of the Nairobi regeneration programme. The construction/rehabilitation of a total of 6,000-kilometre roads – mostly key links to industrial parks, health centres, and housing units, will be factored in the next budgets. The government has also given a signal that it is continuing with financing negotiations and detailed designs for Phase 2B of the Standard Gauge Railway. Yatani cited the performance of Madaraka Express which by September 2019 had ferried 3.6 million passengers and 6.2 million tonnes of cargo. “The completion of Phase 2B will connect Kisumu city with the newly established Naivasha Inland Container Depot to ease cargo freight through to Mombasa,” the BPS report reads. “This will, in turn, boost fish export and agricultural commodities in the Western and Nyanza regions.” More works are expected at the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone free port and the Kisumu Port. In what signals plans to revive the pyrethrum sector, the government also intends to put an extraction plant in areas where the crop is grown. The Treasury says resources will also be set aside to connect over 280,000 Kenyans in 32 counties to the mains electricity grid in the fourth phase of the Last Mile connectivity. In addition, the government seeks to invest more on the construction of 21 electricity substations; 2,946km transmission lines and distribution of transformers to all counties. All this as it continues with the exploration and distribution of oil and gas in the country as well as alternative energy sources - solar, wind and mini HEPs. The digital literacy programme, phase two of the National Optic Fibre Backbone as well as installation of an Internet-Based 4G Network is also in the works. On housing, the government intends to build 65,051 units from its coffers and an additional 100,000 units with the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOP). The long-awaited Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) infrastructure is also envisaged to be put up in the said funding period. In the works are 48 BRT stations; park and ride facilities, four depots and 60km BRT lanes as well as 13 flagship markets. Yatani has also prioritised the completion of the first berth of Lamu port; construction of Naivasha Special Economic Zones, and connectivity of the  Big Four projects. On food security, the government seeks to issue 1.35 million title deeds by 2023 and develop a National Land Value Index in 25 counties. Digitisation of Mombasa, Kisumu and Nakuru land registries; profiling of landless database and settlement of 25,500 squatters are also planned. About 1 million fruit tree seedlings will also be distributed to enhance the national tree cover with more efforts to put more ADC land under crops. President Kenyatta has over time restated his commitment to the Universal Health Coverage with the same now planned to be extended to all the 47 counties. Its components are Linda Mama (free maternity health services); subsidies for the poor, elderly and vulnerable groups; persons with mental health; and secondary school children. Additional efforts will be put to bolster NHIF cover in order to reduce out of pocket health expenditures. In the Governance, Justice, Law and Order sector, the police kitting programme and Huduma Namba are projected to be funded at Sh14 billion for the three financial years under study. The Treasury has also set Sh640 million ceiling for e-passports, Sh300 million for legal compensation payouts, and Sh400 million for delimitation of boundaries.