Defending champions Gor Mahia opened a two-point gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League log after labouring to a 2-1 win over Sofapaka yesterday at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. The match saw Gor, who have a match in hand, unleash their new signing Ugandan Juma Balinya, whose contribution earned him praises from coach Steven Polack. Polack said the former Yanga striker had shown traits of a lethal finisher and tipped him to thrive for the next two years he will be attached to the club. “He worked hard and showed character in the minutes he played. Gradually, he will hit to the level where we want him to be. We had about 60 percent of the ball but we were not sharp before goal. Nonetheless, I am happy with the way the player pressed until he got the second goal,” said the former Asante Kotoko tactician. His Sofapaka counterpart John Baraza attributed the loss to the handful of chances his forwards flapped. He hinted of shipping in more players  before the transfer window closes tomorrow. “We were punished for not converting our chances. We played well but I feel there are areas we have to strengthen before Friday. We should not be written off in the title race as we have more than 15 matches remaining,” he said. Kenyan international Lawrence Juma broke the deadlock for the home side in the 14th minute but Sofapaka replied through Jedinak Ameyaw six minutes later. Skipper Kenneth Muguna put the result beyond Sofapaka’s reach in the 69th minute. Elsewhere,Mathare United coach Salim Ali blasted the officials who manned their game as they blew their lead twice to settle for a two-all draw against hosts Zoo Kericho. “I rarely complain on the levels of officiating but the officials here were biased. We worked hard as a team but I think the referee (Caroline Wanjala) was not fair . That kind of officiating hampers the growth of the league,” claimed Ali South Sudan import Dani Lual opened his goal account in a Mathare shirt after plundering home the opening goal barely eight minutes into the game. The towering forward who was signed from Altabara at the start of the month had not found the back of the net in the last three matches he had featured. The lead lasted for a paltry seven minutes as Wilson Anekeya scored from a free-kick to level matters as well as serve his former employees with bitterness. Anekeya spend the first leg of the season with Mathare but switched his allegiance to Zoo in search for playing time. After the break, James Kinyanjui restored Mathare’s lead in the 54th minute but experienced forward Collins Neto restored parity for the hosts in the 72nd minute to ensure the two sides shared points.