The government will reconstruct houses for thousands of victims of floods, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has said. He said the government would also partner with county governments to fix roads and bridges that were cut off by the disaster that befell the country late last year. Speaking in Tana Delta subcounty in Tana River county during relief food distribution on Friday, Wamalwa said they are waiting for the rains to subside in February for the work can begin. "Experts announced that rains will persist up to the end of this month, we pray for the rains to be over by February so that roads can be fixed, those whose houses were swept away by the disaster will be reconstructed," he said. He said his visit was meant to give flood victims an assurance of government support dispelling claims the government is solely focused on combating the locust invasion. The government he said has a capacity to deal with locusts, floods, famine and even terrorists, he said. Last year, he said it was difficult for Kenya as it started with extreme drought due to the lack of short rains in 2018. "The beginning of October saw good rains after many of us prayed for rains because of the persistent drought witnessed in the country that time," he said. However, he said, people have died and thousands of others displaced by floods. "There are many farmers who had planted their farms but lost all their crops and animals they were rearing, so it was a hectic year." He added, "We started with drought, followed by floods and finally locust invasion which has so far affected 10 counties." Locusts have invaded areas of Mandera, Wajir, Turkana, Kitui and Tharaka Nithi among others. Wamalwa said the ministry had supplied enough relief food in Tana River to support flood victims. However, he said, the food has been lying in store for some time because there was no means to supply it to the affected as roads were cut off in some parts of the county. "We came here together with the Kenya Police airwing to ensure we dispatch relief food to supply relief food to the affected victims." Edited by R.Wamochie