County Lands executive Pauline Kahiga on Tuesday said she is ready to leave the Finance office but insisted that the law has to be followed. On Monday, Trade executive Allan Igambi took over the Finance office in an acting capacity after it emerged that the changes were made in December. Kahiga had taken over the docket last year after Governor Mike Sonko suspended Charles Kerich. But in a Gazette notice dated December 13, 2019, acting county secretary Leboo Morintat, on behalf of the governor, degazetted her as the county executive for Finance. “The governor of Nairobi city has appointed Allan Esabwa Igambi as the acting county executive committee member for Finance and Economic Planning and degazetted the appointment of Pauline Nyambura Kahiga as county executive for Finance and Economic Planning effective from December 5, 2019,” the notice read. However, highlighting Article 179 of the Constitution, Kahiga said only the governor can make changes in the County Executive Committee through suspensions, sacking, transfers or appointments. “Morintant is a junior staff as he is a chief officer and in an acting capacity in the office of the county secretary. which law is anchored that a person in an acting capacity can make such changes on behalf of the governor?” she asked. “For Morintat to act so, he must have received written instruction from the governor prior. This has not yet been revealed up to date.” Kahiga questioned why she was let to stay in office since December if the changes had been made in the department. “Up to last week, I’ve been carrying out functions as the CEC for Finance. From December 5, 2019, up, why didn’t they see it fit to eject me from office on January 20, 2020?” she asked. Kahiga said she was kept in the dark and only saw the notice of her gazettement on Monday. “Since December, no one, including the acting county secretary, has brought me the document, yet we have engaged several times, including the recent meeting between him, chief officers and directors,” she said. Her sentiments were, however, dismissed by the director of communications in the Office of the Governor, Elkana Jacob. Jacob defended the Gazette notice, saying it was timely. “Vacating or relinquishing some duties requires some proper timing. December was already a festive season and everyone had travelled either overseas or upcountry, this was the perfect timing,” he said. “The executive is firm and determined to carry the county mandate, especially the promises H.E the Governor made during the campaign period. If anyone has any issue with the assembly, that’s her or his personal wangles.” For his part, Morintat yesterday argued that he was acting under instructions of the county chief. "I did not gazette it myself but on behalf of the governor upon instructions. He was not in the office that day, that’s why I forwarded the notice to the Government Printer,” he said. According to the Constitution, a county governor should appoint County Executive Committee members with the approval of the county assembly. By a decision notified in the county gazette, a governor assigns every executive responsibility to ensure the performance of any function within the county and the provision of related services to the people. The county secretary is the head of the County Public Service.  The functions of the office as highlighted in the County Governments Act include arranging the business and keeping the minutes of the CEC, subject to the directions of the committee, which includes the governor, the deputy and executives. The occupant of the office also conveys cabinet decisions to appropriate persons or authorities and may perform any other functions as directed by the CECE.