President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday said the looming Brexit may end up being a blessing in disguise for Kenya. While pitching for private sector support to accelerate his Big 4 agenda, Uhuru said Brexit presents an opportunity for Kenya and the UK to forge deeper trade ties. Uhuru noted that Kenya is entering a new stage in its partnership with the UK post-Brexit. “I think this might end up being a blessing in disguise for all of us because there is huge potential to re-ignite once again the partnership and the investments that were actually the driving force of the global economy before we all seem to lose interest in each other," Uhuru said. He added,  “I must admit that some of us are not keen on a Brexit situation but we are glad that it has happened". He said the move by the UK government to aggressively seek new opportunities outside Europe could be advantageous to Kenya and the rest of Africa. Uhuru was speaking in London during a meeting between Kenya and UK business executives. “Kenya is opening new opportunities not just for locals but also for foreign investors. We welcome you to Nairobi, the gateway to East and Central Africa,” he said. On the Big 4 Agenda, Uhuru said the four areas of affordable housing, food security, manufacturing and universal health present huge investment opportunities and partnership for both Kenyan and British investors. “We are focused on achieving the Big 4 Agenda that we think will lift the living stands of our people, deepen prosperity across the nation, create greater equity and ultimately bring about sustainable political stability,” the President said. The head of state pointed out that the blue economy is another new area where both Kenyan and British investors could venture in. “We have huge resources in terms of the blue economy and we want to see how investors can work with local communities to create sustainable employment. Our duty, as government, is to create a conducive environment for that to happen,” he said. He urged Kenyan and British business executives to use the meeting as a platform for creating new business linkages, strengthening existing partnerships and promoting investments. He noted that UK is one of Kenya’s key strategic trade partners and ranks as the 5th largest export destination for Kenyan exports. “Kenya has established a market niche in the United Kingdom for some of its leading products such as tea, coffee, flowers, fruits and vegetables,” “We, on the other hand, have never lost faith in UK manufactured goods including motor vehicles, printed materials, machinery, and chemicals,” the President said. His sentiments were echoed by the UK Deputy Commissioner for Africa Rebecca Fisher-Lamb who said  UK companies continue to grow their investments in Kenya. Fisher cited East African Breweries parent company, Diageo, which plans to spend 100 million pounds to scale up its operations in the country. Apart from Diageo, the UK Deputy Commissioner for Africa said Tullow Oil is also injecting 1.2 billion pounds in Kenya's emerging oil and gas sector. She lauded Kenya’s relationship with the UK, saying it was referenced at every session of the just concluded inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit as the type of relationship that the UK wants to build with Africa. “My most favorite highlight of the day was the number of references that Kenya got at the summit in the Prime Minister’s opening speech,” she said.