Western region was a major beneficiary from Rift Valley flops as the Athletics Kenya (AK) regional cross country meetings concluded over the weekend. Tough competition in Rift Valley regions forced some athletes to seek national cross country tickets in Western Kenya ahead of February 8 trials. The Western region cross country held at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) ground was dominated by North and Central Rift on Saturday. Reigning East Africa Secondary Schools 1,500m champion Felix Korir won the men’s 8km race in 24:56.78 while his counterpart, Janet Chepkoech (22:09.99) ruled the 6km junior women’s race. Emmanuel Maruu (25:05.50) and Felix Kibet (25:16.64) were second and third in the men’s race while Naomi Charokony (22:44.09) and Sella Boiyo (23:50.75) both from Bungoma completed the podium in the junior women’s race. Korir, who represented Bungoma County, is a Form Four student at Chewoyet Secondary School in West Pokot County. Korir won the West Pokot County championships but failed to compete at the regional championships held last weekend in Lodwar, Turkana County. “I did not travel to Lodwar because of the high temperatures. However, I wanted to run at the national championships and that is why I opted for the Western region race,” said Korir, who trains alongside schoolmates Jacob Krop and Shadrack Kipngetich. Chepkoech said: “I opted out of the Lodwar race because it was too close to the county race yet I really wanted time to recover.” Besides, the Form Two student at Kamariny High School in Elgeyo Marakwet, said the regional race was too competitive hence there was a high probability that she could miss an opportunity to run at the nationals. In women’s senior races, former Nelson Mandela Half Marathon silver medalist Sarah Naibei clocked 27:30.44 for the title ahead of Nancy Chepkwemoi (37:43.28). Chepkwemoi is former world junior 1,500m and Africa cross country junior bronze medallist. “Defeating Chepkwemoi was very inspiring because she is very experienced,” said Naibei, who was representing Vihiga County. Peter Lang’at won the seniormen’s race ahead of Kennedy Kipyego and Peter Mayabei.