We are being humiliated by this ‘wife’ you brought into this home, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has told President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kuria, who referring to ODM party leader Raila Odinga as a 'second wife', demanded respect. "We were in Mombasa and my seat was snatched away from me because I refused to stand for this ‘wife’ you brought home. We do not have a problem with them because if a home has two wives, we as children can only accept and because we accepted this ‘wife’ to come home, why don’t you tell them to respect us too and stop despising us," he said. Kuria spoke in Lari on Wednesday. He said Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Murkomen was also forced to call Raila  'Baba' eight times during the BBI forum in Mombasa. "And he kept throwing glances to the back as he said 'Baba' in case he is punched from the back. Now when we have to stand for this ‘wife’ and call them Baba, is this the home we created?" he posed. "And because we have not refused this ‘wife’ to come home, why don’t you tell them and their children to respect the children of the first wife?" In Mombasa, Kuria was also roughed up as orderlies tried to take his seat away but resisted all attempts as he 'defended his seat'.  WE ARE SORRY Noting that he loves Uhuru, Kuria said there are a lot of people who lost a lot so that Uhuru could be President. "Our joy is waking up and hearing your name being announced as the president of Kenya. We get excited like small children. But we want you to forgive us if we have wronged you. Anyone who is human makes mistakes," he said "Even the Bible says that we are all sinners. But even you as our father, I want to ask you to do for us something. Cover our embarrassment." Kuria further noted that Jubilee legislators went to Naivasha last week to deliberate on the Building Bridges Initiative, only for ODM to claim that they wanted to impeach the president. "Now, they are saying that we want to overthrow the government of Uhuru who we elected three times when they were telling him he is scratching his behind," Kuria said. NO WAY? Last week, 173 MPs allied to DP William Ruto attended a two-day retreat in Naivasha and resolved to embark on parallel rallies even as they unveiled a raft of proposals they want to be incorporated in the BBI report. The huge attendance at the meeting by the Tangatanga-allied MPs was seen as a deliberate political message to the DP's political adversaries about their numerical might in the bicameral Parliament. "Now those of us who elected him, are we the ones in the wrong now that we cannot go anywhere? We cannot even go to the toilet… We cannot go to take tea because we want to overthrow Uhuru’s government which we elected?" Kuria posed. "This contempt has to come to an end. It is too much. There is no Mt Kenya MP who is sleeping peacefully because of these  threats." Kuria said legislators built a home (Jubilee) and welcomed everybody on board and did not expect to be despised by anybody. "We are now just wondering whom we wronged. I was told this BBI baby is not ours. I want us to speak out because we may miss the opportunity because they are not even allowing us to reach the President," he said. "When we went to Naivasha in 2010, we agreed that as Kikuyus what will help us forever because we do not have as many constituencies, is the the presidential system." "Now I hear they are bringing the parliamentary system and you know too well that we do not have enough parliamentary seats. Anyone who can take back Kikuyus to a Parliamentary system may they be cursed."