Plans by the government to construct a waterfront in Lake Naivasha hangs in the balance after experts questioned the viability of the Sh300 million project. The government has allocated funds for the waterfront, which is expected to boost tourism. This comes a month after other groups opposed the move to construct Malewa Dam in Aberdares, noting that this could kill the troubled water body. Lake Naivasha Water Resources User Association (LANARUA) chairman Enock Kiminta said the waterfront is a great idea but its implementation could hurt the lake’s ecosystem. He said the lake's water levels keep fluctuating depending on the rains, and it would be hard to be sure its location did not interfere with the ecosystem. “An environmental impact assessment should be done before this project is carried out. Our fear is that the project will have negative effects,” he said. Speaking during a tour of the lake on Tuesday, Kiminta said vegetation around the lake had been wiped out due to encroachment by farmers and pastoralists. “Construction of the waterfront would lead to the lake losing more of the vegetation that sieves waste from nearby estates and dirt washed by floods,” he said. Friends of Lake Naivasha chairman Francis Muthui said the lake is under a lot of pressure. He said the planned waterfront, Malewa dam and opening of more corridors could end up killing the lake that supports thousands of people directly and indirectly. “We should first focus on addressing the challenges facing the lake instead of creating more which will end up hurting this critical resource,” he said. Lake Naivasha Landscape Association chairman Paul Ruoya said they were not opposed to capital projects. He, however, called for consultations and proper environmental research before the projects were carried out to save and protect the lives of hundreds around the lake. “If all the projects are implemented, there will be lots of negative implications around the lake and this will lead to job losses in all sectors,” he said. 