 A court on Thursday allowed Anti-Terrorism police to detain for 10 days a man suspected to have been collecting information in Nairobi with a view to committing a terrorist act. Osman Noor Abey was accused of collecting information at the Sarit Centre in Nairobi. He had been frequenting the Java House and African Dishes at the Sarit Centre for about a year before his arrest on January 8. Police say he was spending too much time at the premises. Abey has been living in a hotel within Eastleigh for the past one year, a fact that raised doubt among security officers given he has no formal employment. “I have considered the facts and I find that there are compelling reasons to warrant the detention of the suspect for 10 days. I direct that the suspect be held at an appropriate police station pending investigations,” Milimani magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot directed. Abey was arrested after the management of Sarit Centre shared information about him with police officers. According to the prosecution, the suspect did not have any physical identification document or passport in his possession at the time of his arrest. Abey also frequents Kuwait where he claims he goes for religious training. The court heard that Abey is suspected to be on a mission of collecting information for the purpose of committing a terrorist act. “The respondent is being investigated for the offence of collecting of information for the purpose of committing a terrorist act,” the prosecution said. The suspect’s mobile phone was seized and forwarded to the Anti-Terrorism Police ICT lab for forensic analysis. During the investigations, police will contact Safaricom to receive call data records which will assist in the probe. While seeking his detention, the prosecution said that intelligence reports indicated that Abey's associates were still at large and that if released, the suspect would interfere with the investigations. It was submitted that the suspect is a flight risk and has no fixed place of abode in Nairobi. Abey did not oppose the application by the prosecution saying that he was okay with being detained for the 10 days. “Sarit Centre is my shopping place where I take coffee and food at the Swahili dishes. I often go to City Walk to get caterpillar shoes. These are not in Eastleigh,” Abey said.  edited by p.o