What really propelled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to nominate a deputy governor after rejecting calls for his/her appointment for two years? Well, sources close to the city boss have disclosed that he made up his mind following threats of impeachment by MCAs. A section of the county lawmakers has been pushing Speaker Beatrice Elachi to call a special sitting to impeach the governor. The governor took the MCAs by surprise after he appointed a deputy barely hours before a kamukunji of the city county reps. It seems the Friday Nyanza BBI conference in Kisii is fast turning into a fresh supremacy contest between the region’s governors and senators. Our mole whispered that the senators – who have all indicated they will go for top seats in the counties – are not happy with the manner the governors have hijacked the meeting turning it into their own. The senators also took issue with the governors’ move to have their photos on the conference banners locking out other elected leaders. According to the senators, the meeting is being organised by ODM leader Raila Odinga and no one should take credit. They have vowed to expose the governors on the material day. The supremacy battle on who should lead or speak on behalf of the Kamba community in the 2022 succession politics appears to be taking a new dimension. A key politician from the region claims that his rivals are spending huge amounts of money to have members of the community attend their functions in masses just to give the impression that they are popular. And in an effort to prove that he is the favourite, a mole whispered to Corridors that the politician plans to host a "mother of all meetings" in February to showcase his popularity in the Kamba community. A South Rift county  MP is on the radar of a joint team of sleuths from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Corridors has learnt that informers have tipped the two anti-graft agencies on how the legislator has been demanding a cut of 20 per cent from beneficiaries of Constituency Development Fund. School committees are the most affected. The detectives are also said to be closing in on how he bulldozed the construction of a major road to a company associated with his brother in-law.