And it came to pass, that a majority of leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto, did not get an opportunity to talk during the BBI rally in Mombasa. The only Ruto-ally who was given the opportunity to talk was Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen, with his speech catching many by surprise, as he supported BBI and referred to former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, as ‘baba yetu’. The MCs of the event, Mvita MP, Abdulswamad Nassir and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed, had a hard time controlling the speakers towards the end of the rally, as every leader tried to lobby for a slot to speak. Raila, who spoke after Governors, and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, was to comment on the resolutions made by Coast leaders, and then speak much later after MPs and other invited guests had spoken, but that was not to be. The 16-point resolutions were read by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. The resolutions covered historical injustices and thorny land issues, port operations to be done from Mombasa port, formation of the regional tourism board, Coast region to be divided into two, lower and upper Coast. It also included a call for the establishment of a federal system of government, expansion of the executive to include a president, deputy, prime minister and two deputies, support the war on corruption, revival of defunct coast industries, improved security and exploitation of the blue economy. The program seemed to have ended unceremoniously when Nassir called Kuria to speak, but there were several other leaders who wanted to speak as well, and the dias was full and chaotic. “Only three people will speak and we shall finish the program,” Junet said. At some point, Susan Kihika, another Ruto ally, was given a few seconds to greet the crowd as well. “The dias is full and is becoming unmanageable,” said Nassir when leaders started asking for a chance to address the crowd. By then, Raila had signaled the MC that it was time to cut short the program, after he realized the crowd was demanding for more speakers. Despite being vocal about attending the BBI rally and vowing to air their voices on the same on Friday, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, Malindi’s Aisha Jumwa, Lungalunga’s Khateeb Mwashetani,  who all come from Coast region, were not able to address the crowd.