Civil society groups have called for a review of the laws to deny police powers to block or cancel protests and meetings that project divergent views. The Civil Society Reference Group on Monday condemned the conduct of the police last week in response to protests in Nairobi's Kasarani and the brutal dispersal of a public meeting in Mumias. Last week, a person died as police dispersed residents protesting the state of a road in Mwiki, Kasarani. On Saturday, police engaged local politicians in running battles as they tried to stage a parallel BBI meeting in Mumias. Police argued the permit for the rally was cancelled to allow the state's BBI rally to proceed unchallenged at Bukhungu stadium. But the lobby group said, "There is an urgent need to amend the Public Order Act that the police may have relied upon to cancel one rally and allow the other to proceed so that everybody feels that they are treated equally before the law." In light of the violence witnessed during the Kasarani protests, the lobby said, all laws governing the right to freedom of assembly–including the 1950 Public Order Act regulating planning of protests–are restrictive rather than facilitative of the freedom of expression through protests. The umbrella agency of rights lobbies claimed that as it is, the police are gullible to political manipulation to block public meetings and expression of divergent views, terming it a contravention of the law. The group said it was regrettable that the colonial-era Act still made it mandatory that public protests and meetings go ahead only with the blessings of the police "yet the 2010 Constitution made public protests and picketing a right". The lobby said that now that the victims of the blocked Mumias meeting were largely MPs, it hoped that "some of them will see the urgency and take it upon themselves to engage stakeholders in a process that should culminate in the review of the Public Order Act." Reform of the law will guide the police better so that they do not abuse their powers and show bias in their handling of competing notifications and interests from the public, it said. The review, the group said, should also empower police watchdog Ipoa to enforce accountable policing. Edited by R.Wamochie