Six civil society organisations have petitioned the Homa Bay county assembly to suspend debate on a bill they say had no public participation. Nominated MCA Nancy Anyngo sponsored the Homa Bay County Civic Education and Public Participation Bill 2018. The bill is due for second reading when the assembly resumes in February. But on Thursday, the six civil society groups called on the MCAs to stop debate on the proposed legislation. The lobby groups opposed to the bill are Pambazuko la Wanawake Magharibi, Homa Bay County Bunge La Wenye Nchi,Interface Community Help Desk, Homa Bay Disability Forum, Ndhiwa Accountability Network and Africa Gender Research Agency. Pambazuko la Wanawake boss Evaline Khaemba said they want the bill to specify the village as the lowest level for public participation forums. “There is a need for the bill to be specific on quorum and state which type of people should be present during a public participation forum. “The bill should recognise the presence of various groups including the disabled, women, youths and men, the elderly and other groups of persons in society,” Khaemba said. The activists said the bill should stipulate allocation of resources for undertaking public participation. Bunge la Wananci coordinator Okano Nyasanga said no notice of dates and venues for a public participation forum was given to the residents. “Undertaking public participation without residents' input is tantamount to excluding them in decision making on matters affecting their lives. They are also denying them services,” Nyasanga said. Interface Community Help Desk chairman Oloo Gor said their aim was to ensure the requisite category and number of Homa Bay residents’ views are captured. The civil society leaders said they were not stopping the bill but want pertinent issues captured to enable it to transform the lives of residents. “Let it come out clearly that the bill is good but we want it stopped to enable us to improve it,” Nyasanga said. Anyango who sponsors the bill said she was ready to collaborate with anybody committed to improving it.