A UK judge who directed Dari Restaurant to pay Sh1.4 billion to a bank for defaulting on a loan was not biased, it has been argued. East African Development Bank lawyer Michael Sullivan yesterday told court the fact that he shared the same chamber with judge Daniel Toledano was not proof of any bias under the English law. Judge Toledano ruled against the hotel on June 19 last year. He declined to grant an application for his recusal as sought by the hotel which is associated with Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju. He cited a number of precedent decisions made by English courts which supported the argument that all members of chambers are independent of each other. Most importantly, he said, the UK judge allowed the hotel’s lawyer to amend their response in the case and did away with the need to re-serve the same on the other parties. In his view there was no fraud and the hotel raised that in order to shoehorn itself into law it was quoting. Sullivan pointed to judge Winfrida Okwany who is being asked to set aside orders allowing recovery of the money that Dari filed its defense in UK case and also lodged an appeal which was dismissed due to lack of merit. As such the hotel could not be heard, arguing that there was fraud in the UK proceedings or any bias on the part of the judge. In documents filed in court, Tuju says despite being directed by the UK court to pay Sh1.4 billion he did not get a fair chance to present his evidence and the challenge evidence of the bank against him. As a result, he says, his rights to a fair trial have been violated and he wants the court in Kenya to set aside the order allowing enforcement of UK decision. “The appearance of independence and justice is a critical component in the administration of justice,” said lawyer Paul Nyamodi, representing the restaurant. He showed email exchanges where his client had raised the issue of the judge and Sullivan being from same chamber, which he alleged pointed to conflict of interest and possible bias. The court was also told that the bank did not release the entire amount of the loan sought. It opted to withhold some part, which amounted to breach of contract. However in reply the UK judge had indicated that he had no connection to the case, nor did he have any connection with Sullivan despite being in same chamber. He refused the plea for recusal. The bank initially filed the case before a London court seeking to compel Dari to offset the $13.6 million (Sh 1.4billion) loan, which includes the principal and interest. According to court documents, Dari entered into an agreement with the bank on April 10, 2015 under which it agreed to give Dari a $9.3 million (Sh962 million) loan. However a $102,916 (Sh 10.6 million) further loan which was part of the deal was cancelled. Tuju being one of the directors promised to guarantee payment.