Ulinzi Stars stretched their recent unbeaten run to 12 matches after gunning down Posta Rangers 2-0 in a Kenyan Premier League match at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday. The four-time Kenyan champions found the back of the net in either half through their dreaded striking pair of Enosh Ochieng and Oscar Wamalwa to keep their title hopes alive. The win left coach Benjamin Nyangweso over the moon after narrowing the rift between them and league leaders Gor Mahia to four points. "I am happy with the boys. We pounced on our chances to move close to the top teams, something which excites me ahead of our next duel, against Wazito. The title race is tight and the win is a plus in our quest to clinch," While Nyangweso could not contain his joy, his Rangers counterpart Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo directed his anger at his centre-halves for gifting their opponents cheap goals. "With that kind of performance, we deserved to fall. I am disappointed with my players especially the centre-halves for letting in easy goals," said Omollo. It was a slow start by both teams, who struggled to string passes together and maintain rhythm in the opening minutes of the game. However, Rangers settled as the clock ticked and managed to squeeze a handful of attempts on goal but veteran Ulinzi shot-stopper Jacktone Odhiambo proved equal to the challenge. Ulinzi's right back Byron Odiaga, who was making his first start of the season had a first half to forget as the duo of Francis Nambute and Michael Apudo pooled efforts to torment him but their deliveries were well met by the centre-halves. The youngster, who was picked to replace the injured and regular starter Brian Birgen, was caught flat-footed but had Bonaventure Muchika to thank for covering him. After a rather a quiet start, the soldiers broke the deadlock in the 38th minute through Ochieng who tapped in Daniel Waweru's cross to the bottom left corner after the defenders failed to clear. Rangers made their first change of the day, bringing in Marvellous Ingotsi for the ineffective Danson Kago before the restart and would make their second 10 minutes later resting Gershon Likono for Eliud Lokuwam. The two changes breathed life into Rangers onslaught for an equaliser, troubling the Ulinzi defence but their hopes of restoring parity were put off in the 84th minute after Wamalwa found the back of the net to double Ulinzi's advantage. Elsewhere, AFC Leopards rose above their financial challenges and massive player exodus to beat Zoo Kericho 4-1 at Bukhungu Stadium. John Makwata helped himself to a hattrick with Boniface Mukhekhe also on the mark. Collins Neto netted Zoo's consolation.