A fight pitting the country’s political class and the IEBC is looming over the electoral agency's composition ahead of the 2022 election. IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati on Wednesday stood his ground, saying he was going nowhere despite numerous calls to leave them commission. Stakeholders have raised questions about the legitimacy of the three-man commission after the exodus of four colleagues after the disputed 2017 presidential election. Roselyn Akombe, Margaret Mwachanya, Paul Kurgat and Connie Maina left, leaving chairman Chebukati, Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu. The commission was blamed for bungling the 2017 presidential election, a position buttressed by the land mark ruling of the Supreme Court which annulled the August 8, 2017 presidential results. The latest push to disband the commission is from the Building of Bridges Initiative  whose report recommends removal of the current commissioners citing lack of public confidence. On Wednesday, Chebukati vowed to stay put and disclosed that his team had already started preparations for the 2022 polls. “The next General Election is less than two years away. From the lessons learnt from previous elections and electoral programmes, the commission has started early preparations including undertaking legal reforms, putting in place a framework for procurement and general electoral logistics,” IEBC said in a statement. Chebukati went further to demand timely and sufficient funding to facilitate smooth running of the activities. A number of politicians have voiced opposition against the Chebukati team overseeing the 2022 polls, demanding that a new commission takes over. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in an exclusive interview with the Star said it was unfortunate that reforms at IEBC had taken backstage despite the 2022 General Election approaching. He said Parliament should expedite the passage of crucial laws that will guarantee a credible election as was directed by the Supreme Court in 2017. “It is true IEBC needs to be sorted out. However, we have gone silent on pushing for these reforms yet time is running out. Stakeholders are obsessed with handshake, a proposal no one knows its fate. We will be caught again with time trying to fix the electoral body,” he said. Siaya senator James Orengo – a close ally of Raila – on Monday described the IEBC as a "criminal enterprise" which must be disbanded before the next election. “We may have to do with this IEBC for purposes of the referendum but make sure it goes after the referendum because, in my view, this IEBC is a criminal enterprise. It really should go,” Orengo said. Saku MP Raso Dido Ali, on the other hand, defended the three commissioners noting that they underwent rigorous vetting before they were appointed. He said if indeed Orengo was unhappy with the electoral agency he should resign as he was a product of the commission. “The commissioners took the oath of office and are legitimately in office. When the rest left, they left on their own volition; no one was coerced. The problem is us the politicians. We have no problem with IEBC on how it conducted elections for the six slots but we are unhappy on the presidential results. What a shame!” he said. Ali said Parliament should proceed to pass the bill seeking to provide a mechanism on how to pick a selection panel that will fill the vacant positions, saying the three remaining commissioners have successfully conducted several by-elections. “That shows competence of the commission. BBI is not a law; the report is just wishes of some people. IEBC is a constitutional office and the Senate should proceed and pass the bill so that a panel is recruited to start the process of filling the vacant positions,” he said. National Assembly Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali told off Orengo, saying already Parliament had done its part. “It is the same perennial losers who are back again criminalising constitutional institutions. They pushed for the disbandment of the previous commission only for them to lose again,” he said.