Implementation of the Competency Based Curriculum is going on well in Kiambu and teachers and parents are full of praise for the new system. They say children are able to comprehend what they are taught faster. Kasarani Junior School Academy director Irene Kamau told the Star on Monday the CBC is the way to go since not every child is good in academics. Schools ought to identify talent in pupils early enough and encourage them to aim  higher, she said. “We need to remove the notion that we go to school so we can end up working in offices,” the school head said. Kamau said parents are happy with the CBC which has helped their children to do things that they thought they could not do. “Every child has got their capabilities and teachers are now able to bring out those features in every pupil at an early stage,” Kamau said. Kelvin Kimaru, a parent, said he never believed his daughter would play the piano since at his home he does not own one. But the CBC has helped in nurturing his daughter’s talent. “I would not have thought that my daughter could play the piano yet here we are realizing that talent for my child and it is up to me now to support that talent until it is fully realized,” said Kimaru. Because there are some public schools disadvantaged in effective implementation of the CBC, Kamau has taken the initiative of enrolling disadvantaged pupils through sponsorship as a way of giving back to the community. “At Kasarani Academy, we are advantaged to have some equipment and playgrounds which some public schools do not have and we enroll pupils who come from a poor background. What we have achieved has put smiles on the faces of parents,” Kamau said. Education CS George Magoha has assured that all is set towards successful rollout of the new curriculum and he has been categorical that the government will ensure all children get quality education. “I want to assure the country that Grade Four is ready to be rolled out. Books distribution is now at 98.8 per cent and by today we will be approaching the 100 per cent mark,” he said. At Pleasant View Schools in Githunguri subcounty, head teacher Gerald Mungai said the CBC has helped at pupils in lower grades to be more attentive and are always eager to be at school since they are taught using props. “CBC is what will mould our pupils to understand things better as they progress. It should have been rolled out years ago,” Mungai said. A spot check on Kiambu subcounty public schools revealed the MP Jude Njomo has made major strides to improve the infrastructure through the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) by rehabilitating the classrooms and building modern staff rooms. Njomo has constructed basketball, netball and lawn tennis courts in the schools as well as enrolled pupils to play golf in Kiambu golf club. He is constructing a swimming pool at Ndumberi Primary School that will benefit pupils from other schools. The MP  has acquired musical equipment from international sponsorship for Riara Primary School which will be a model school for music.