 Two Meru legislators have called for an audit of the money allocated for under former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri. John Paul Mwirigi of Igembe South and his South Imenti counterpart Kathuri Murungi urged the new CS – Peter Munya – to expeditiously initiate the audit. "We want the balance sheet from when President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the Sh1 billion allocation for miraa," they said. But Governor Kiraitu Murungi yesterday dismissed the MPs' concern, saying the money was available. He was not specific in his address at the Njuri Ncheke Nchiru shrine. Kiunjuri had in 2018 announced that the ministry and the county government had agreed to use part of the miraa bailout money to buy macadamia and avocado seedlings so that farmers can diversify. This sparked outrage with three Meru MPs demanding clarity from Murungi and the minister. Kiraitu distanced himself from CS's claims, saying the county had not received or spent a coin from the national government’s miraa funds. “I have met with CS Kiunjuri several times but we have never agreed on how the cash will be used,” he said. Kathuri lauded President Kenyatta for appointing Munya to the Agriculture docket. He called for the creation of a miraa directorate to market the crop following its ban in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. “Miraa is a crop like coffee, tea and sugarcane which have parastatals addressing their concerns. Miraa must get own directorate," he said. The MPs supported the handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “We fully support BBI report but we demand the support of our farmers.  There should ready markets for miraa, tea, milk and coffee," they said. The MPs noted that each region had its challenges which are being highlighted during the BBI forums. "This is why we could not attend the BBI meetings at the Coast, Western and Kisii. We will raise our concerns during the forum in Meru." Mwirigi said the BBI cannot be said to be inclusive and pro-mwananchi when some counties ban the trade, sale and transportation of miraa. “We condemn counties that have introduced policies aimed at rendering miraa farmers jobless by banning the crop," he said. Kathuri said youth empowerment through businesses financial support, employment and talents nurturing must be elaborate in BBI.       