Is it that Deputy President William Ruto is popular among Nairobi traders or have some people taken it upon themselves to market his 2022 presidential bid? In the last few months, traders in Muthurwa and Gikomba markets have been selling huge wall hangings and calendars featuring images of the Deputy President. Small traders in the central business district have taken it a step further and have reportedly formed prayer cells at various points to plead with God on Ruto's behalf every evening. A prominent Nairobi businessman of Asian origin is reportedly on Kenya Revenue Authority's radar for all the wrong reasons. Those in the know say the man has been colluding with rogue individuals at KRA to evade paying taxes. He is said to owe Sh60 million in taxes alone. It is reported that the businessman gives some KRA insiders small sums in exchange for tax compliance certificates. Are some Mt Kenya MPs allied to DP William Ruto planning to ditch him for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Kieleweke camp? This seems to be case if what some Tangatanga MPs were heard saying in Parliament last week is anything to go by. The leaders said they will not hesitate to move to the President’s side if the orders he gave early last week in Mombasa to address farmers’ problems in the region are addressed. The leaders said they have been ‘making noise’ because they had been blocked from accessing the President by some State House operatives to present their constituents’ grievances to the head of state. Is there a plot to bar some of the Jubilee MPs who announced they will join the BBI consultative forums from addressing the rally in Mombasa on Saturday? A small bird has whispered to Corridors that the conveners of the Saturday event – the majority of whom are pro-ODM leader Raila Odinga – are suspicious of the lot. They have decided to ‘put them on probation’ first to keep them from confusing Kenyans over the mission of the regional consultative meetings. The conveners argue that the team has been hitting at the initiative and their sudden change of heart is suspect and should not be taken at face value.