The government has allocated over Sh2 billion for road construction in Kasarani constituency following angry protests by residents. One man was killed and many others injured during clashes with anti-riot police during weeklong  demonstrations against the poor state of the Kasarani-Mwiki road. Matatu operators boycotted the road, leading to a major transport crisis. Kasarani deputy county commissioner Kabune Kaimba said the money will be used to tarmac roads in the subcounty following public outcry. The roads to be upgrade include Clay City-Thika, Lakisama-Githurai and Kasarani - Mwiki roads. They have been awarded Sh50 million, Sh1 billion, Sh300 million respectively. “We thank the national government for its commitment to developing the infrastructure in Kasarani subcounty. The state has already allocated over Sh2 billion towards road projects in the area,” Kaimba said. The administrator spoke during a consultative meeting with stakeholders on Wednesday. He said all the projects were ongoing, while the 2km Clay City – Thika road construction will take six months. Kasarani MP Mercy Gakuya said the Njiru-Kamiti road will be dualled before the end of the year. “More development is coming. Kasarani constituency is being built afresh,” Gakuya said. She lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government for considering her constituency for the projects. Gakuya said that the consultative meeting enabled all the stakeholders to come up with resolutions towards implementing road projects in the constituency. Some of the resolutions included road designs and manpower to be involved in the projects. Kenya Urban Development Authority is the implementing agency. She said residents will benefit from the projects since they will be directly employed through contracts. She, however, said infrastructure should not be used by politicians to stage demonstrations for political mileage. “Some people take advantage of the poor state of roads to stage unnecessary demonstrations. This should stop,” Gakuya said. Kaimba said police were pursuing the politicians behind the Kasarani road demonstrations which led to a man’s death.