The national government's plan to reopen schools in terror-prone areas in Lamu is uncertain because Boni residents say the infrastructure is dilapidated and unsafe. Parents threaten to keep their children at home and say the schools must first be upgraded and bushes and thickets cleared before learning can take place. Regional Education director Hassan Duale has affirmed that five schools will be reopened this month and children are expected to attend. Security has been tightened and teachers are to be housed in security camps. Basuba, Milimani, Mararani, Mangai and Kiangwe primary schools were closed in 2014 after a spate of attacks by terror group al Shabaab hiding in the vast Boni Forest where the schools are located. But Duale said his office is working with the TSC to assess whether some schools can be converted to boarding schools. He said all headteachers have been served with their posting letters. They were expected to report to their posts by Wednesday, January 1. He urged parents to send their children to the schools. The government has launched Operation Open Boni Schools. It is in line with the Linda Boni security operation underway since 2015. Its aim is to flush out al Shabaab militants fro the forest. Officials say it has been generally successful and the threat has largely been neutralised. The Boni community, however, on Monday expressed concerns that the government is not prepared as the schools lack adequate infrastructure for proper functioning. Some of the schools were looted, vandalised and torched by the militants at the peak of terror attacks between 2014 and 2015. They have never been rebuilt and residents question how such schools are expected to open and function normally. Efforts to open the schools since 2017 have not been successful. Teachers posted to the schools in 2017 demanded to be transferred days later, citing direct threats from L Shabaab. Speaking in Basuba village, parents said they want the schools renovated and equipped with all necessary learning materials before learning resumes. Elder Abdalla Wakatti said most of the classrooms have rusted iron sheet roofs and cracked walls and floors. “The schools have been closed for a long time. Some roofs are falling off, the iron sheets are badly rusted. The walls and floors are in bad shape. These schools need serious infrastructural attention otherwise we won’t release our children come January,” Wakatti said. Touring Boni villages in November last year, Regional coordinator John Elungata directed the Teachers Service Commission to deploy enough teachers so learning can resume this year. “We are asking the TSC to make arrangements and deploy enough teachers to these schools. We expect schools in Boni to reopen in 2020 just like the rest of the country," he said. Edited by R.Wamochie