Once again leaders from the Western region have reiterated the importance of Luhya unity ahead of the 2022 General Election. The leaders, who included Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, Ikolomani MP Benard Shinali, Lurambi MP Bishop Titus Khamala and a score of MCAs, spoke during the Butsotso cultural day at Ikonyero Primary School in Lurambi constituency on Tuesday. Wetang’ula, who is also the Ford-Kenya party leader, said the Luhya community over the early years was united, only to be divided by outsiders. “The Mulembe family has always been together. During the days of Masinde Muliro, we were together, in the days of Wamalwa Kijana the Luhyas walked together. In the 1960s the Luhyas came together and put up Western College of Arts and Applied Sciences (WECO), which is now Masinde Muliro University. And that is the foundation of our unity; we should always remember that we are of the same Father. We can do this again” Wetang’ula said. He said the Luhya community should not allow other people to divide them along political lines and added that he was already working together with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi as they look into shaping the 2022 succession politics. The senator reiterated that the Luhya do not need any external force to be united and castigated Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli who is planning to have a major rally this month, in which he intends to name a Luhya leader. “We should not allow people to divide us. We know their agenda. We united during the days of Wamalwa Kijana and all the Luhya seats were in Narc the then ruling party. It can be done again, it’s going to be done,” Wetang’ula asserted. Shinali, who is the chairman of the Western Members of Parliament caucus, said all the Luhya leaders will meet this week in Nairobi to chart the way forward as far as the Luhya unity is concerned. "I'm telling you today with authority that all the Luhya leaders will meet including Musalia, Wetangula, Oparanya, and others and we shall give you the way forward. "This time around we cannot afford to go to the polls divided. We must work together, we cannot gamble again," Shinali said. Khamala said the Luhya unity will foster the region into a formidable voting bloc that will give it the bargaining powers on the country’s leadership table. “Our vote will be a bloc and no longer a swing vote again, we shall not allow it,” Khamala said.