The High Court will on February 4 rule on whether it will bar two crucial state witnesses from testifying against impeached Governor Ferdinand Waititu in a Sh588 graft case. The date was set on Thursday after parties made their submissions. Waititu, who was impeached by the Senate on Wednesday evening, wants Faith  Harrison and Justus Kinoti expunged from the record. He told magistrate Thomas Nzuki that they held senior and influential county positions as director of supply chain management and chief Finance office, respectively. “The state witnesses have duly acknowledged in their witness statements that they played fundamental roles in the transactions touching the substratum of the suit. They made the final decision or approval in their respective docket. They should be here as accused persons, not witnesses," Waititu said in court papers. The court heard that Waititu is apprehensive that the evidence to be adduced by the witnesses will be skewed and designed to infringe on his constitutional rights, culminating in an unfair trial. “I have a constitutional right to adduce and challenge evidence and the state and the two witnesses have a constitutional obligation to be accountable for their administrative acts,” Waititu said. He said the two witnesses were in charge of making final approvals of any procurement transaction and if there was any breach in the county, then it was done under their eyes. Much of the case centres on road tenders and kickbacks. “Is there real transparency in this case for the two to be prosecution witnesses in this matter? Their evidence is a calculation, an attempt to find or violate the constitutional rights of a fair trial for my client,” Waititu's lawyer John Swaka said. The Director of Public Prosecutions opposed the application. Prosecution Counsel Nicholas Mutuku told the court that the evidence intended to be adduced through the two witnesses is relevant. He said Waititu will be given an opportunity to challenge or test the veracity of their testimony in cross-examination. "The two played fundamental roles in the transactions in question as evidenced in their witness statements and should be allowed to testify and shed more light on the same," Mutuku said. Waititu was arraigned in July last year alongside his wife Susan Wangari . Also charged were Luka Mwangi, Charles Chege, BethWangechi, Zacharia Njenga, Joyce Ngina, Simon Kabocho, Anselem Gachukia, Samuel Muigai, Testimony Enterprises Limited, Saika Two Estate Developers Limited and Delta Hotel. It is alleged that between July 2 last year and March this year in Kiambu county, Waititu knowingly acquired an indirect private interest of Sh25.6 million in respect to payments made to Testimony Enterprises Limited for contracts awarded to the company by Kiambu. Waititu faces another count together with his wife with whom he and cofounded the Bienvenue Delta hotel. It is alleged that between October 3, 2018, and January 2019 the two proprietors of the jointly received Sh7.2 million from Testimony Enterprises while having reason to believe the amount was acquired from Kiambu County through corrupt conduct. (Edited by V. Graham)