Migori MCAs were on Monday kicked out of the House by armed police officers and orderlies amid a looming impeachment of speaker Boaz Okoth. The House, which was in recess, was called for a special sitting by Okoth in a gazette notice to help pass the Migori County Public Service Board before it turned chaotic. There was tight security inside the assembly and within the premises as armed police officers were on standby. North Kanyamkago MCA George Omamba, who is Okoth’s main rival and said to be behind the planned impeachment, was escorted out by orderlies and armed police officers. His South Kanyamkago counterpart Graham Kagali and Macalder-Kanyarwanda's George Duro were also ejected from the House. The three rejected a new election saying it was illegal because of existing court orders and that lists were crafted privately. “We knew we were to vet members of the board, what has happened to table the list of new members of committees and party officials was not done according to procedure,” Omamba said outside the assembly. In the ensuing melee, Okoth sought for members' approval of a list of new assembly officials elected insisting that “part of the county assembly laws of dissolution states that the assembly can make a resolution on such matters". Bukira East MCA Chacha Mathew was elected as the deputy speaker of the assembly to replace Omamba who was impeached last year by MCAs. Also elected was South Sakwa MCA Ken Ouma as the new Majority leader a week after Wasimbete's Roland Asiga resigned accusing Okoth of dictatorship, a move which sparked the collection of signatures to impeach Okoth. Brian Osodo (Kachieng) was elected a member of the county assembly board. After the MCAs were thrown out, Okoth hurriedly convened a second section to swear in the new officeholders. Ouma, as the new Majority leader, tabled a list of nominees for the CPSB which was chaired by immediate former Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo. A list earlier presented to the assembly by Governor Okoth Obado was rejected, prompting the governor to pick new nominees including Mwita Range Maroa, Phoebe Adhiambo, Hesbon Otieno, Jemima Were and Enock Ochieng. But speaking outside the assembly, the rebels led by Omamba said “the elections and passing of new board qualify for express contempt of court". He claimed that a court order issued last year by Employment and Labour Relations Justice Nduma Nderi reinstated him as deputy speaker. “But despite the orders asking the assembly to reinstate me I was overlooked as the speaker and his cronies schemed to formally ratify my ouster." The MCA added, “The elections were supposed to have been done when the recess is over. But I wonder why the House was recalled to do it when we are still on recess." But Okoth insisted, during house sitting, that the assembly was not aware of any orders by the court. The wards reps had earlier questioned the leadership of Okoth and role of the assembly in the oversight of the executive. MCAs who spoke to journalists accused Okoth of high-handedness and treating MCAs like students through threats. Edited by R.Wamochie