A senior government official who was moved in yesterday's reshuffle by President Uhuru Kenyatta is lucky. The official is said to have got so comfortable in the ministry that the official started engaging in what insiders called open conflict of interest. Some said the official was looking for the sack, if not prosecution. Sources tell Corridors that the senior official would invite a close family member to the ministry's  functions as a consultant. The relative would then be paid huge sums for the 'service'. Some staff were incensed but could not speak out for fear of being victimised. The staff of a ministry went into celebrations marked by ululation along the corridors of their offices immediately President Uhuru Kenyatta announced changes in his Cabinet, which affected their boss. A source in the ministry whispers to Corridors that some were seen toasting drinking water just to celebrate the Cabinet secretary they say has been heartless since he was posted to head the docket. Some staff went on to say that the floor of the building that housed the office of the Cabnet chief as a no-go-zone and those who were allowed in would be subjected to a thorough frisking. Are key figures in the national polity trying to groom a reserved businessman to take up the contentious post — some might say a poisoned chalice — of Nairobi deputy governor? Well, Corridors is told that despite the uncertainty of how such a nomination would be implemented, those keen on the undoing suspended Governor Mike Sonko are shopping for the tycoon. The man, with deep interests in real estate and property management, is said to be uneasy with the proposal, sending the proponents into a panic. Our mole, who is privy to the negotiations, says the lot has not given up and is even employing emissaries to convince the man to take up the job. Was former PM Raila Odinga less than amused with the crowds that turned up at the Gusii Stadium during the BBI consultative meeting last week? Well, our little bird within Raila's circles confided to Corridors that the opposition chief expressed dissatisfaction with the poor mobilisation that led to just a few people turning up for the event. Raila, according to our mole, expected a huge crowd but was surprised with the paltry turnout. Apparently, resources were released by the BBI functionaries to mobilise citizens for the event. The ex-PM is said to have said he would start delegating his own people to mobilise people whenever he attends BBI rallies to avoid negative publicity about a lack of enthusiasm for reexamining BBI. 