The development of a state National Addressing System is expected to commence this year, nearly four years after it was conceptualized. The Communications Authority, which was mandated to develop and enforce numbering of streets, properties and parcels of land to aid recognition says the project is estimated to be developed over a five-year period. “We expect the project to commence this year after the government through the Ministry of Information Communications and Technologies (MOICT) has gazetted draft legislation that will operationalize and enable coordinated implementation countrywide initially through pilots in selected counties,” CA told the Star. In 2016, the government and key stakeholders revealed plans to set up a National Addressing System (NAS) that will see streets and buildings assigned names and numbers for easy identification. NAS is backed up by the Kenya Information and Communications (Numbering) Regulations 2010, which tasks the CA to set up a National Communications and Addressing Plan (NCAP) for postal codes, communication numbers and addresses in collaboration with global organizations that deal with numbering and addressing systems; and make sure that NCAP includes geographical postal points of delivery. “Global organisations involved include the Universal Postal Union which developed the National implementation roadmap which the National Steering Committee used to develop NAS instruments,” CA stated. This is aimed at boosting e-commerce in the country which has been on the rise by easing door-to-door delivery of letters and goods bought from online retailers. It will also ease the taxi-hailing business in terms of facilitating easy identification and location of places as the unique identification numbers for buildings and naming of streets will make it possible for service providers such as cab operators to locate passengers. It will also come in handy for supermarkets and restaurants that provide delivery services to easily access their clients. CA notes that a key challenge in implementing the project has been securing financing estimated at sh2 billion for the Five-year period, adding that the Authority has already approached the World Bank to help fund the project. “The World Bank is expected to be a key player and has also been provided with a concept note on the project for consideration of financing although this is still at the concept stage,” CA stated. Another key challenge has been bringing together all stakeholders since the project cut’s across the board involving all counties, Ministry of Lands, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Postal Corporation of Kenya, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission among others.