@alalmaurice  Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has said he won't be cowed by propaganda and cheap politics in his fight against environmental degradation in his constituency. The lawmaker said politicians were spreading propaganda that he was hiding behind the war on pollution to fight Kibos Sugar Company for selfish interests. Speaking on Mayienga FM on Saturday, Koyoo said factories in Muhoroni must stop polluting the environment by discharging raw effluent into rivers. "I will continue with my push for proper implementation of environmental laws in Muhoroni. It is for the benefits of locals," Koyoo said. Kibos Sugar Company is facing allegations of pollution by locals and neighbouring schools. The company is located next to the Kibos Primary School for the Blind and Kibos Special Secondary School. Both schools share a compound. Koyoo said the noise and effluent from the company affect learning in the schools. The company has denied the pollution allegations saying they have complied with regulations. Agro-Chemical and Food Company has also been accused of pollution, allegations its management has denied. Koyoo said he had no personal problem with Kibos and urged the management to conserve the environment. He told the company owners to keep off politics and focus on addressing pollution concerns and workers' welfare. Koyoo supported the companies for employment opportunities they have created but asked the management to ensure all the concerns are resolved. “The owners are my good friends but they must do the right thing. Special school children and my people are suffering because of pollution,” he said. The legislator said he cannot abandon the electorates at the expense of friendship. “I am in chicken and egg situation. I was voted to represent my people and fight for their rights.” Koyoo said those spreading propaganda that he was fighting Kibos were engaging in cheap politics. “I am not that type of politician who seeks for handouts.” He added, “I will not visit Kibos until they fully address the welfare of workers and pollution concerns.” The company should also implement the collective bargaining agreement it signed with workers, Koyoo said. Last week, Education CS George Magoha directed the company to relocate Kibos Special Schools to a conducive location or risk being shut down. Magoha said learners were exposed to pollution from the factory. “We cannot allow children with special needs to continue suffering due to environmental hazards they are exposed to by the factory,” the CS said.  edited by p.obuya