Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria says that his support for Deputy President William Ruto has made him a target of the state. Speaking outside Kilimani police station after being released, Kuria said that they will continue supporting Ruto's 2022 bid. Kuria said that their wing should be respected as much as that which has aligned itself with the BBI led by ODM leader Raila Odinga. "I have no shame... I have no guilt to say that we are going to the elections in two years and we are going to see formations. Yesterday, we saw a formation of Raila Odinga, CS Matiang'i and Anne Waiguru. What happened yesterday was the launch of Raila - Matiang'i - Waiguru presidential campaign," Kuria said. He added; "I belong to the wing where I am in alliance with Deputy President William Ruto. And if that's why you're arresting me, take me back now coz I am not shifting." Addressing President Uhuru Kenyatta, Kuria told him to ensure that Ruto's supporters are not harassed for exercising their right. "You (Uhuru) are in a polygamous family. Be even-handed on both. Let Raila - Mataing'i - Waiguru camp look for power... it is their right. Let us, those in the other wing led by Ruto, play our game and we meet at the ballot," Kuria said. On Friday, Raila Odinga led several leaders for a BBI forum in Kisii where some declared support for the ODM leader and Matiang'i for 2022. There has been speculation that the Interior CS is the compromise candidate for those that support the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. The BBI supporters have also been calling for amendments to the Constitution to reintroduce the position of prime minister or move to parliamentary system of government. Kuria also said that he and Uhuru were keen in ensuring that Kenya has a Presidential system in 2010 so that the Mt Kenya region is not disenfranchised. "I cannot believe that there is any personal gain on yourself for you to forget from where we took our people from. Do not sell our people. We chose the presidential system because of our people and nothing has changed," Kuria told Uhuru. Kuria was released from the Kilimani police cells on Saturday around 7pm after he deposited Sh20,000 to secure his freedom. The vocal legislator was forced to spend Friday night behind bars despite the court directing that he be released on a Sh50,000 cash bail. Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot said Kuria set should be set free until the hearing of his application on Monday at 11 am. Kuria was arrested on Friday morning for allegedly assaulting a woman at the Royal Media Services premises.