Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula has described as shocking, the new regulations by NHIF that require new members to wait for three months before accessing services. This is an increase from the previous two-month waiting period. Other regulations introduced include a 50 per cent penalty for defaulters and introduction of a six months waiting period for maternity health care. NHIF further reviewed its terms reducing the number of beneficiary children to five from the current 10, while only one spouse will be eligible. Wetang'ula on Friday said in order for Jubilee administration to achieve its Agenda 4 development goal on healthcare, President Uhuru Kenyatta should urgently intervene to save ‘Wanjiku’ from the new rules by blocking implementation. “The president must overhaul the NHIF management team and give other qualified Kenyans an opportunity to serve in such positions,” he advised. Wetang’ula regretted that the government has allowed commercialisation of an institution that is mandated to provide affordable, accessible, sustainable and quality health insurance for Kenyans. “About half of the country’s population lives on less than a dollar a day. This means the majority of Kenyans cannot afford health insurance cover offered by other commercial institutions away from the NHIF,” he explained. In a statement on Friday, the Bungoma senator criticised the government for being ‘insensitive’ to the needs of the majority of Kenyans. He added that the NHIF model is meant to cushion the poor, but said the institution is condemning to death poor Kenyans who cannot afford to pay for quality healthcare services. He further denounced the decision to increase waiting period for new members from two months to 90 days, impose 50 per cent penalty to defaulters and introduce six months waiting period for maternity health care. “The new regulations target voluntary subscribers of the scheme. Managers at NHIF should be aware of is that the said category has majority mama mboga, hustlers, and majority of unemployed Kenyans who struggle to put food on the table besides raising the monthly subscription of Sh 500,” he stated. NHIF further reviewed its terms reducing the number of beneficiary children to five from the current 10, while only one spouse will be eligible. Additional dependents are subject to payment of additional premiums to be communicated after actuarial valuation.  FACT BOX  Previous provisions 