A businessman accused of smuggling 40 cartons of cigarettes valued at Sh9.7 million wants the court to unfreeze his bank accounts. Josphat Kamau says the continued freezing of his three accounts at Equity Bank has subjected him to irreparable damages as he draws his sustenance from them. In December last year, Justice Mumbi Ngugi froze Kamau's accounts which had a total of Sh43, 528,578 after the Assets Recovery Agency argued the money was the proceeds of crime. Fredrick Musyoki, an officer attached to ARA, told the court that on November 5 they obtained information from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations that the accounts held by Kamau were suspected to have received proceeds of crime or benefits of tax evasion. Musyoki said that in their preliminary investigations they were able to establish that on October 26 last year, Kamau's motor vehicles were impounded smuggling 40 cartons of Super Match cigarettes made in Uganda valued at Sh9.7 million. ARA subsequently filed an application seeking to have his accounts frozen, which was granted. "Preliminary investigations established that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the funds in the above accounts were obtained through the illegitimate trade in smuggling goods. We believe that the accounts are holding proceeds of crime and used as conduits for money laundering," Musyoki said. Kamau was charged jointly with another with smuggling goods and importing restricted goods in Eldoret chief magistrate's court. Kamau says the vehicles which were impounded are of more value than the money in his accounts. He said he uses them for his cereals business. The vehicles are still held at Eldoret police station. "I have been engaged in the cereals business since 2014 to date without interference until October 26 last year when I was arrested on the basis that the vehicles had been detained for transporting restricted goods,"Kamau says. Kamau wants the orders freezing his accounts lifted to enable him access at least one of them.