Kenya Revenue Authority(KRA) continues to charge importers of raw material higher levies despite the Finance Act 2019 reviewing Import Declaration Fee (IDF) and Railway Development Levy (RDL) for some goods. The authority has failed to implement the new rates of 1.5 per cent for imported raw materials and intermediate goods, the Star has established, a move that has impacted businesses negatively on the cost of importation of industrial inputs. A communique' seen by the Star has revealed the taxman continues to charge the levies at the rate of finished goods, 3.5 per cent IDF and two per cent (2%) RDL rates, leading to manufacturers paying an extra 2.5 per cent cumulatively. In the current financial year's budget read on June 13, 2019, National Treasury proposed to reduce the IDF on intermediate goods and raw materials used by manufacturers from two per cent to 1.5 per cent. It increased the rate on finished goods from two per cent to 3.5 per cent while Railway Development Levy for finished products was raised from 1.5 per cent to two per cent. These, Treasury said would cushion local manufacturers from imports and “facilitate the growth of the sector.” The new rates were gazzetted on November 7, 2019 (Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 178 (Act No. 23). “Up to date, the manufacturers have not realized the benefits therein,” manufacturers have complained in a letter dated January 20, to Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, seen by the Star. Sources familiar with the new provisions have attributed the failed implementation on the absence of a list of approved manufacturers and their corresponding imported raw materials and intermediate goods. This is despite the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) sharing a list of raw materials and intermediate goods exempt from Pre-Verification of Conformity (PVoC) program with relevant ministries, Treasury and KRA for implementation. KRA continues to rely on PVoC list of exempted raw materials and intermediate goods to award lower rate of IDF and RDL. According to manufacturers, the PVoC list does not capture all the raw materials and intermediate goods as approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. “There are serious challenges related with the implementation,” KAM says in its letter. These comes as KRA's Integrated Customs Management System (iCMS) for cargo clearance continues to face challenges. The authority is rejecting airfreight iCMS system exemptions hence the manufacturing consignees have to pay fully duty of 5.5 per cent, which includes the 3.5 per cent IDF and two per cent RDL. The current time taken to process each manual consignment based application takes longer than the service level agreement of three days for sea freight and two days for airfreight. This has forced importers to accept higher IDF and RDL rates in fear of incurring punitive storage and demurrage charges. On the other hand, there is no legislative framework for refund mechanism provided by the National Treasury for the extra IDF and RDL paid by manufacturers due to implementation challenges. “There is urgent need to implement the comprehensive list of bona-fide manufacturers and their raw materials, intermediate goods shared by KAM and convene a meeting to discuss proper implementation of the new rates,” KAM CEO Phyllis Wakiaga says in the letter copied to KRA and two other ministries. Manufacturers and importers had requested for a meeting with the relevant authorities to be held yesterday, saying the failed systems are “causing serious frustration to business and negatively impacting on the confidence of investors.”