A Sh50 million fire engine bought by Governor Okoth Obado in October last year has been lying idle because of lack of firefighters to operate it. The engine with a capacity of 7,500 litres of water and 500 litres of foam, was a campaign pledge in both of Governor Obado’s election campaigns. Migori Disaster Management chief officer Joshua Ngwala said despite buying the engine they are yet to employ staff and drivers to manage it. Ngwala said the county is also yet to put a public service board in place after the previous one's term ended last year. “We are planning to find ways of employing workers on contract terms until then, or train those available to manage the machine,” Ngwala said. The Migori MCAs came from recess for a special sitting to table the names of the new board members who will be led by former Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo. “We know delays to put the fire engine to work has seen residents facing many challenges in disaster, but we will soon resolve the issue,” Ngwala said. He spoke to the press on Monday after goods and property worth over Sh4 million were gutted by a dawn fire in Awendo town. On January 18, goods and property worth millions were also razed in Rongo town. In both instances, residents and traders were forced to use water and other crude means to put out the fire. Joash Aduda, whose posho mill in Awendo was burned down said they called officers in Migori for help without success. Attempts to get an alternative fire engine from the collapsed Sony Sugar Company failed, he said. “Sony has no money to maintain the engine or pay drivers. So the engine is grounded. Those we called said the fire engine from Migori has not been in use,” Aduda said. Traders have faulted the county government of not utilising the Sh50 million fire engine launched with much fanfare. “Obado bought a toy for public relations and to score a political point. Ever since it was bought it remains in the governor's compound for bloggers to take pictures and post on social media while we suffer,” trader Margaret Alambo said. He said the delays have been unfortunate to Migori residents. (edited by O. Owino)