Versatile Chemelil Sugar midfielder John Ochieng is crossing fingers as his possible transfer to record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia is slowly gathering steam. Ochieng's performance during their last week's 4-0 loss to Gor at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu caught the eye of coach Steven Polack who according to the player, opened up over his intentions to secure his signature before the transfer window closes. Ochieng, who is in the final year of his contract with the Awasi-based sugar millers, said it is just a matter of time before he decamps ostensibly due to the financial constraints at the club and also to quench his thirst for trophies. The former Tusker player who has been at Chemelil for one and half seasons believes he has come of age and he is ready  to don in Gor colours should the club formally approach him for his services. "After our last week match, Polack approached me and enquired if I was comfortable at Chemelil. We had a brief talk with him about my career, contract and my future plans. He told me he will convince the office to sign me and I am eagerly waiting for their offer. I believe I have what it takes to play for the club and I am looking forward to it," he said. He added: "We have gone for one year without pay at Chemelil and I think time is ripe for me to leave for the sake of career progression." Ochieng, who at some times trains with former Kenya Premier League side Thika United, revealed that switching from the financial stable and 11- time champions Tusker to Chemelil was a tough decision but does not  regret it. Ochieng had a three-year long contract with the Ruaraka-based Tusker but left just a year into it for what he describes as search for playing time—a decision he says has thus yielded fruits. He disclosed that despite going without pay, Chemelil was not badly off as they offered the playing unit free accommodation to cap the playing time. " I was relatively young by the time Tusker poached me from high school. They had experienced players and it was tough to get consistent playing time. I was fully aware Chemelil was not doing good financially but the move has shaped me into the player I am today."