 Thieves returned to an Ol Kalou church in less than a week and made away with a generator worth Sh8,000 and plastics utensils valued at Sh600. Thugs had broken into the Africa Inland Church in Passenga, Ol Kalou and stole electronic equipment worth hundreds of thousands of shillings last week. They returned on Wednesday night and even stormed the Anglican Church of Kenya. AIC Passenga town chairman David Kamau said the thieves also packed two electric guitars, two carpets, mattresses, hotpot cups, glasses, a toaster and water dispensers but did not carry the items away. "They left the items in the vestry where they had assembled them and made away with only a generator and the plastic stand," Kamau said. Kamau said the criminals could have escaped when they noticed police who patrolled Passenga town throughout the night. He said the church would have incurred a further loss of sh120,000 had the items been taken away. On Saturday last week, the church lost equipment worth Sh250,000 after thugs made away with a projector, keyboard, gas cylinder, a sound mixer, and wireless microphones. That same night, criminals broke into SDA Passenga town and made away with a keyboard and a woofer, both valued at Sh82,000. A day earlier, burglars entered ACK in Maran on the outskirts of Passenga town. ACK chairman Peter Kanyi said nothing was stolen. He said they broke the drawers where the alter wine and other Holy communion items are kept, books cabinets and the store where the electronic equipment is kept but did not steal anything. Kanyi agreed with Kamau's thoughts that the thugs could have escaped upon noticing police on patrol. He said it appears they were waiting for a vehicle to take away the items from the two churches but feared police would notice. “Or perhaps God struck them with the spirit of confusion," Kanyi said. Nyandarua North subcounty police commander Timon Odingo said police were on the lookout for criminals terrorising residents. He said night patrols have been enhanced and promised those perpetrating crime will be arrested.  edited by p.obuya