Police have intensified probes into the theft of more than Sh15 million worth flat-screen televisions among other assortments of electronics in Athi River, Machakos. The officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters recovered another 243 TV sets in a strenuous operation at a residential house in Ukunda Court, Buruburu Phase 4, Nairobi, on Saturday. The items were stolen from a Godown located along Mombasa Road in Syokimau, Machakos, on December 1, 2019. The number of TVs so far recovered, alongside other electronics, is 373. This was revealed by one of the senior DCI officials involved in the operations. He said one suspect, John Maina, 56, was arrested during the operations and placed in police custody. Maina will be arraigned and charged with robbery with violence on January 6. His arrest raises the number of suspects arrested in connection with the theft to three. Two others were nabbed on December 31 in a similar operation in Machakos and Kajiado counties. The detectives also recovered more than 130 flat-screen TV sets in Machakos county. The duo had been arraigned and charged with robbery with violence. The TV sets and assorted electronics were recovered from a house in Mbiuni, Machakos. Forensic intelligence led the detectives to Kitengela where a lorry, which was used to ferry the Sh15 million Syinex TVs during the robbery, had been hidden. Further investigations led the team to the house where the items were recovered and tallied, the DCI said. The officers requested the court to allow them to detain the two suspects as they sought their accomplices and the remaining items. On December 28, the police recovered 149 mobile phones during a crackdown within Nairobi’s CBD. Ten suspects were arrested. The recovery was made after cops raided six stalls along Race Course Road. Some 150 dismantled phones and five laptops were also recovered. Meanwhile, the detectives have also intensified a probe into a car theft syndicate in the city. Its operations led to the arrest of the fourth suspect and the recovery of two more vehicles on Sunday. Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo said they are committed to intensifying their operations to suppress crime. The four men allegedly stole eight vehicles on Christmas Day. Nicholas Opiyo, Kelvin Oduor, Patrick Mburugu, and Jack Odhiambo were arrested on December 26 as they allegedly sought to sell one vehicle. Opiyo, 20, Oduor, 28, and Mburugu of Kariobangi North, Baba Dogo and Ngara estates in Nairobi respectively, were tracked to Mburugu’s rural home in Meru, where a Toyota Fielder was recovered. The suspects were detained by a Milimani court for seven days pending further investigations. The DCI had warned Kenyans against purchasing laptops, mobile phones and TV sets from traders who lack requisite trade documents, including licences, permits, and other local and national approvals. Criminals steal, rebrand and repackage the items before selling them.