Nine soldiers were killed and scores injured during an attack on KDF Kolbiyow base in Somalia on January 27, 2017. Somalia terrorists had hurled at least two vehicle-borne bombs at the base before launching a massive ground assault. Accounts differ as to the outcome of this attack.  It all started when the B Company of 3 KR was deployed to Hulugho Forward Operating Base in November 2016. Major Geoffrey Ndung'u says in The Soldiers Legacy that Hulugho was deceptively peaceful. But attempted IED attacks persisted, eight of them in two weeks. "We were lucky to neutralise these threats and this led to unpredictable tranquillity. The worst was, however, to happen." On January 26, Ndung'u, who was officer commanding the area, received a report from platoon commander, Lieutenant Lokale. "He reported that he had spotted a trail of footprints along IIkabere Sarira Hulugho route and that the footprints seemed to lead to Kolbiyow." Ndung'u promptly informed Kolbiyow OC Major Girenge who deployed a platoon-size ambush patrol seven kilometres from the FOB in the general area where the suspicious footprints had been detected. That evening the unmanned aerial vehicle that operated from Hulugho FOB was overhead 50 kilometres east of Badhadhe. Ndung'u says this was necessitated by rising threat indicators in the Lacta belt of southern Somalia which neighbours Boni Forest in Lamu. "Three days earlier, an IED had been neutralised along Hulogho-Kolbiyow main supply route. Optimum vigilance was required." At around 3 am on January 27, 2017, Girenge rang Ndung'u saying that a lorry full of al Shabaab operatives had been sighted at Hida shopping centre. "Immediately I requested the UAV team to redirect surveillance onto Kolbiyow since, in my view, the FOB faced possible attack," Ndung'u writes in the book. According to the major, the UAV took about 20 minutes to fly from Badhadhe to Hida. "No sooner had we trained our eyes on Hida than we saw an estimated 80 armed persons advancing towards Kolbiyow FOB. Hurriedly, I left the UAV control room to a spot where the telephone signal was strong enough to allow me to update Major Girenge on the latest developments." Girenge and his team called indirect fire onto the moving enemy, Ndung'u says.  He continued to relay UAV observations to both Girenge and Major Mwangi, the battery commander. "Friendly indirect fire continued in conformity with enemy movement. However, this being a moving target, some rounds were accurate while others were not." Ndung'u says that at about 5.45am, a speeding vehicle was seen headed to Kolbiyow FOB. "I informed the two commanders and they continued to engage. It was 6am when one of the UAV pilots shouted. 'It has exploded!'" "A Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device -VBIED had actually burst into flames inside the FOB. I knew all was not well. At that point, I stopped monitoring UAV observations and decided to deploy a platoon-size patrol to marry up with the Kolbiyow ambush patrol." The troops moved for about eight kilometres at which point they encountered an IED attack, resulting in one fatality and many injuries. Thereafter, Ndung'u instructed Captain Wasonga to halt and evacuate the casualties. I mobilised another platoon to reinforce Kolbiyow. Within an hour we were at the scene of the IED attack." Ndung'u later released the National Police Service personnel to return to Hulugho and resumed movement to Kolbiyow with two KDF platoons. "We dismounted and marched despite the scorching sun and eventually married up with the ambush patrol in Kolbiyow. Upon reaching, we learnt that the enemy had retreated after being engaged by Kenya Army helicopter gunships. Our first task was to deploy a security cordon," he writes. The soldiers cleared the surroundings and tried to consolidate the FOB. "I noticed the main point of impact of one VBIED. The only remaining parts of the vehicle were the engine which was thrown 70 metres from the centre and the chassis which lay 100 metres away. The nearby trenches had been flattened. After clearance we embarked on accounting for everything as best as we could." Some of the wounded were in the trenches as well as the fatalities facing the direction of the attack. Captain Ekidor, who was instrumental in coordinating medium mortar fire, had also succumbed. The FOB was, however, fully restored by 4.50pm. All the personnel and equipment were accounted for by the end of the attack.