Operators of public service vehicles in Engineer town, Nyandarua, yesterday refused to use the main bus park in protest against its pathetic condition. They accused the county government of ignoring the facility, despite collecting Sh1,600 monthly levy from each of the 400 vehicles that use it. The park has huge potholes, particularly at the exit point, hence causing a nightmare for vehicles, especially small ones. It also has heaps of stinking garbage, which residents say is a health risk. The protestors blocked the entrance to the bus park and picked and dropped passengers at the roadside. They informed the police they will not operate from the facility until it is repaired. “Today, we are saying not even a bicycle will access the bus park. The county government has been a nuisance, only demanding money from us and offering no services,” tuk-tuk operator Karuma Kamau said. They pulled down a makeshift iron sheet office used by county enforcement officers who collect levies at the park. The drivers threatened to lynch the officers if they confront them. “Every time you will see them with wheel clamps immobilising our vehicles. Today, let them try. We are ready to fight with them until the end of time,” Gachuhi Wambui said. Engineer traders chairman Jackson Waithaka said the county enforcement officers walk around with clubs to enforce compliance, yet the facility is not worth being called a bus park. He said bus parks in other towns such as Ol Kalou, Miharati and Njabini have been built to standard and even paved while that in Engineer “is more of a cowshed”. Waithaka demanded Governor Francis Kimemia tell the operators if the situation will be rectified, “otherwise, he should forget our money.” County Transport, Energy and Public Works executive Daniel Wangenye told the Star the county administration is aware of the challenges facing not only the drivers but the entire Engineer town community. “We intend to upgrade the entire Engineer town at a cost of Sh20 million through the Kenya Urban Support Programme under the Department of Lands,” he said on the phone. Wangenye said a team has been sent to Engineer town to fix the potholes at the Bus Park.