For Kundu sisters-Agrippina and Annete, January 2020 will be an unforgettable period in their sporting careers. The siblings enjoyed a remarkable sporting achievement at the highest level that is unrivalled in their stellar careers to date. Volleyballer Agripina and footballer Annette are a rare breed of international level sportswomen who have excelled in two different disciplines, leaving the sporting fraternity excited. The two are the latest entrants into Kenyan sports where siblings have represented the country in national and international championships. The daughters of Reuben and Jane Kundu have both donned the national colours playing for Malkia Queens, the Olympics-bound national women volleyball squad and Harambee Starlets the reigning Cecafa regional football champions respectively. Last week, lady luck smiled on the family when the younger Annette, the Harambee Starlets goalkeeper, signed a three-year deal with Lakatamia FC based in Cyprus while Agrippina won the sole ticket for 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan with the national women volleyball team, Malkia Strikers. Annete was joined in their maiden European sojourn by her national team compatriot defender Ruth Ingotsi, who previously turned out for Kenya Women Premier League side Eldoret Falcons under coach Joshua Ariko. Annette achieved a rare feat of not conceding a goal en-route to winning the ‘Golden Gloves’ as the best shot-stopper in the triumphant Starlets squad at the 2019 Cecafa Senior women’s tournament played in Tanzania. Apart from that, she was also the number one keeper for Starlets on their journey to clinch the Olympic slot where they were ousted at the penultimate stage. Annette said: “I have been waiting for such a moment in my career. My dream has come true to play professional football across the world. I always worked hard hoping luck will come on my side and play abroad.” The Ibinzo Girls High School alumni has been inspired by her elder sister Agrippina, who advised her to take up goalkeeping because of her height. Agrippina said she was happy for her younger sister and encouraged her to go and continue working hard in her training. “She is a good girl who listens to instructions and I know she will do her best upon reaching Cyprus,” remarked Agrippina. Falcons coach Ariko said they received the news with joy, terming that as an inspiration to her teammates “We have been struggling with the girls for years and I’m excited that something good has finally come their way. This will boost morale for the remaining team members to always work hard,” said Ariko Apart from the Kundus in football and volleyball, there are the Masika brothers led by Harambee Stars winger Ayub Timbe Masika whose younger sibling Musa Masika turned out for the national team at the Cecafa Senior challenge as well as three sons of a medical doctor, Wilfred Emonyi Injera — retired Humprey Khayange, Collins Injera and Michael Agevi — who are all international rugby players among several blood siblings playing top-level sport. Khayange and Injera have made it to the national Rugby Sevens team on numerous occasions and have featured prominently in the World Rugby 7s circuit. Khayange, the firstborn, made three appearances at the Commonwealth Games. The 38-year-old was recently nominated to vie for a place in the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Athletes’ Commission in July this year. Injera, meanwhile, is the Sevens World Rugby Series top try scorer. The duo were awarded the presidential Order of Golden Warriors (OGW) for their performance in the 2008/2009 World Series. The Wanyama siblings of footballers Mcdonald Mariga, Sylvester Wanyama, Thomas Wanyama and Victor Wanyama, as well as their basketball-playing sister Mercy Wanyama, have equally endeared themselves to the sports-loving Kenyan public for breaking new grounds in their disciplines. Mariga was the first East African to win the UEFA Champions League with Inter Milan in 2010, Victor became the first player to feature in the English Premier League (Tottenham Hotspur) while last year, Mercy became the first female basketballer in the country to play in Spain when she joined second-tier side Antuna Adba. Another family also well represented in sports is the Wamusamia family of Dennis and Johnstone, who play rugby 15’s. Osinde Wamusamia, the former footballer, married a volleyballer Penina Tallam. In track and field as well as marathon there also exists a good share of sibling rivalry. Newly-crowned world 10km record holder Rhonex Kipruto, competes alongside his young brother Bravin Kogei on track. Last year, during the national trials, Kipruto defeated Kogei as the family hierarchy was maintained. Others include Daisy Chepkemei who competes with her elder sister Norah Jeruto. The list is endless.