Despite opening a two-point gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League log following a 2-0 win over Kisumu All stars,Tusker head coach Robert Matano heavily criticised his players for below par performance. Coming into the match, Tusker had humiliated Chemelil Sugar 7-0 last weekend but failed to replicate another a high-scoring result from the numerous scoring chances created. The match staged at the Ruaraka grounds saw the brewers take the lead in the eighth minute through Jackson Macharia with Timothy Otieno putting the result beyond All Stars reach in the second half. Matano faulted his players for complacency infront of the goal and their general input which he noted fell short of his expectations. “I am glad we won but we played poorly.We would have had a won the match with a convincing result. I am not looking at the title as yet. I want to concentrate in maintaining a winning culture,”he said. As Matano went hard on his players, his Kisumu All Stars counterpart Arthur Apiyo who began his tenure following the sacking Henry Omino admitted that the brewers were stronger than his side. “I am hardly a day at the club and there was little I could have done to turn around the performance. Most of our players are young and could not match Tusker’s experience. I believe for the time I will be around, I will be able to inject new tactics in the team and help the players improve on the weak areas,” Elsewhere, Kariobangi Sharks recorded their second win of the season after beating Bandari 1-0 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The relagation battling Sharks scored the lone goal through Kevintom Machika. While Sharks gathered maximum points for the second time in the campaign, Chemelil Sugar had something to smile about after seeing off Nzoia Sugar 1-0 at the Sudi Stadium to pick their maiden win of the season. KCB handed coach John Baraza his first loss since taking over the reigns for Divaldo Alves in November last year as Sofapaka went down fighting 2-1 at the Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. Brian Ochieng’s brace was all what the bankers needed to pipe the 2009 champions who scored through debutant Collins Wakhungu. Western Stima recovered from a goal doen to electrocute Mathare United 2-1 at the Moi Stadium Kisumu to take extend their fine run in the season. Goals from James Ogada and Henry Onyango were enough to seal a win for tbe powermen.Tyson Otieno was on target for Mathare. Ulinzi Stars took their recent unbeaten run to 13 matches after gunning down Wazito 1-0 at the Afraha Stadium. Harambee Stars’ forward Oscar Wamalwa was on the on the mark for the soldiers while Allan Wanga’s last gasp goal saw Kakamega Homeboyz hit Zoo Kericho 1-0 at the Kericho Green Stadium.