A group of MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto will kick off their own rallies on the BBI in Nakuru in two weeks time. This resolution arose from a two-day retreat in Naivasha that brought together more than 120 legislators made up of Jubilee MPs and other like-minded parliamentarians. The decision will see them hold rallies to counter those organised by another group led by ODM leader Raila Odinga and some governors. On Saturday, the pro-Raila group was in Mombasa where some of those in Naivasha attended with Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen being the only pro-Ruto leader to address the rally. The first rally is set for February 8, in Nakuru's Afraha Stadium where Jubilee was formed and will come two weeks before the Raila team holds theirs in the same venue. Murkomen was, however, quick to warn that the series of the rallies were not meant to counter the other meetings. "These rallies are meant to strengthen the initiative and the President, his deputy, Raila and other like-minded leaders are invited," he said. The Senator said that unlike the Raila team, the MPs would fundraise for the rallies and the money used to sell the original BBI report to Kenyans. "We shall start with Nakuru on February the 8th and all leaders regardless of the political alignment are welcome to these rallies and they will not have to swear their allegiance to anyone," he said. Murkomen noted that unlike the Mombasa meeting where only top political leadership spoke, Kenyans from all walks of life would be given a chance to air their proposals. "We are asking the BBI taskforce to use funds given by the State to print the original BBI report so that Kenyans can go through it before airing their views," he said. On the proposals to have a referendum, the Senator said that they would reach a decision on this based on the recommendations from Kenyans to the BBI taskforce. He at the same time said that plans were underway to amend the law so that the judiciary allocation would be capped at 3.5 per cent of the national funding. Murkomen admitted that the judiciary could not freely dispense justice due to underfunding a move that was affecting millions of Kenyans facing legal matters. “We have seen a case where Treasury is using the funding to antagonize the department and we want to make sure that budgetary allocation is protected in the law for a free and fair judiciary,” he said. Earlier in a statement read by Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga, the legislators expressed their concern over how the BBI rallies had been conducted. She noted that the discussions were about personalities and positions for the political class with issues affecting ordinary Kenyans forgotten. “This is in stark contrast to the original objective of the course and we are desirous of shifting the discussing to the people,” she said. On his part, Saku MP Dido Ali Rasso called on the BBI taskforce to release the schedule of public engagement meetings. He noted that the group would ensure Kenyans of all walks of life would speak during the BBI rallies so as to understand the initiative report. Notable legislators present during the meeting were MPs Aisha Juma (ODM) and Mohammed Ali (Independent) who are now close allies of DP Ruto.