There was a moment of scare along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway after a bus burst to flames on the wee hours of Friday morning. The over 50 shaken passengers had to flee through the windows of the Greenline Services Bus during the 3 am incident near Gilgil town. During the incident, the majority of the passengers lost all their personal effects before police and members of the public managed to put off the fire. Some of the passengers were left nursing minor injuries as they scrambled to flee from the fire that spread very fast from the front to the rear. Quick action by police patrolling the highway saw many of the shaken passengers evacuated before the brand new bus was reduced to a shell. A passenger Liz Mwende termed their journey to Kitale from Nairobi as very peaceful and safe until they had a tyre problem on arrival in Gilgil town. Mwende noted that along the way, the driver had stopped on several occasions to check on the front tyre before the incident occurred. "The driver parked the bus by the roadside to change the tyre but there was smoke from the front and in minutes a fire erupted completely burning our luggage," she said. Gilgil OCPD Emmanuel Opuru confirmed the incident adding that a mechanical problem could have contributed to the fire. "No one was injured during the incident but unfortunately the majority of the passengers lost all their luggage to the fire," he said. Earlier on Thursday evening in Kikopey area in Gilgil, scores of passengers were injured following an accident involving four vehicles. One person was seriously injured and admitted in Gilgil sub-county hospital while the others were treated and discharged. According to the police boss, a Prado hit a Vitz which in turn rammed into an incoming matatu that was heading to Naivasha. He added that a trailer heading in the same direction also rammed into the Vitz once again seriously injuring the lone driver. “The driver of the Prado who is to blame for this accident fled from the scene and we have launched a manhunt for him,” he said. Opuru added that the wrecks had been towed to the area police station while the injured had been released from hospital apart from the driver of the Vitz.