Defending girls' champions Falling Waters have a chance to win back-to-back titles in Central region as Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom heads to Nanyuki Stadium this weekend. The Laikipia-based side, formerly Barcelona FC,  play Karima Queens from Nyeri in the first girls’ semifinal while last season’s losing finalists, Limuru Starlets take on Achiever’s Queens from Thika in the second semil. Eight teams will grace the two-day event. Falling Waters coach Emman Gullit is banking on the team's thorough preparation to retain the title even though he admitted  his charges face an uphill task to attain their target. “The hardest bit about being at the top is remaining there. We do not take it lightly that we managed to become Season 2 Central region winners and our goal is to successfully defend the title," he said. He added: "I  have prepared the girls well enough in readiness for the tournament and I expect nothing but a win. I hope some of them will secure slots in the Spain -bound team,” said Gullit. The region will have a new boys champion after reigning champions Euronuts exited the tournament at the group stage. Laikipia's Ulinzi Youth take on  Kiamatugu Boys from Kirinyaga as Thika's JYSA take on Irigiro from Maragua in the other semi. Semi final winners will face off in the final on Sunday. During last year’s regional final, Barcelona FC beat Season One regional champions Limuru Starlets 2-1 and at the national finals, they were eliminated by eventual winners Kitale Queens from Rift Valley at the semifinals stage. The winning teams in both categories will walk away with Sh200,000 each while runners up  will pocket Sh100, 000. The winners will also have the opportunity to represent the region at the national finals. They join North Eastern’s Berlin FC from Garissa, Coast region’s Yanga from Malindi and Kwale Ladies in the fight for Sh 1 million top prize. Two coaching and scouting clinics conducted by certified La Liga coaches have with the next one set for Nairobi February 22 -23.