Time is fast running out for parties to elect new officials and register audited financial results to the Registrar of Political Parties. The law demands that parties conduct elections at the end of the term of the current office holders, which is defined in their constitutions. As a result, the parties are required to file the new list of officials and financial returns before March 29 with the Registrar. These are part of the requirements of the Political Parties Act meant to bring law and order. “Where there is a breach, showcase notice is issued as provided in the Constitution,” Nderitu said. The Registrar said parties which fail to comply with the law will be deregistered or suspended. Registrar Ann Nderitu on Monday said party election dates vary among the 68 fully registered parties depending on their Constitution. Officials at the Registrar told the Star that Jubilee, Wiper, and ODM are the most affected after the five-year term of their officials expired. The parties announced they will have staggered polls in the first quarter of this year. “These are party elections. We also have party primaries to elect potential aspirants in the country’s general polls,” Nderitu said. Jubilee officials complete their three-year term this month at a time the party is deeply divided between Tanga Tanga and Kieleweke, who are fighting to control the party. Wiper officials' term ended, and most of them are in office in an acting capacity. "We have not released the timetable however we will release it soon. We are planning to have officials across the country at all levels," Wiper executive director Jared Siso told the Star on phone. Also affected is ODM following the controversial party polls in 2014 infamously characterised by 'men in black . Officials have overstayed in office for more than six years, which is against the Political Parties Act. Jubilee, ODM and Wiper have also announced that they are expected to conduct elections in the first quarter of 2020 to meet the March 29 deadline. However, the parties have not set aside dates and assembled plans as well as logistic requirements on how they will conduct the polls. " The Office of Registrar of Political Parties (ORPP) continually guides the parties prior and during the elections based on their respective constitutions and nomination rules,” Nderitu said. The political parties act also gives the office of the Registrar of Political parties powers to withhold funds. However, the deregistration or suspension cannot affect those elected to Parliament or county assemblies, who will continue to serve for the remainder of their term as independents or as members of other political parties. There were growing concerns the officials have a limited time to set dates, organise and have party elections after the term of the current officials expires. If conducted on time, the staggered polls will give members an opportunity to elect leaders from grassroots to the national level. This would allow parties to file the new list of officials and audited results to the Registrar. The audited financial statement must include how the parties raised funds, souces and how it spent. "A political party shall, within ninety days of the end of its financial year shall publish be in at least two newspapers having nationwide circulation,” the Act adds. The International Center for Policy and Conflict executive director Wainaina Ndung’u said the laws in place to bring order in the political parties sector were effective. However, he blamed the Registrar of Political Parties for not doing enough to bring order. “Despite having good laws on political parties I can say that primaries are skewed to favour individuals. The parties are never held responsible on how they manage themselves or how they serve Kenyans,” he said.