A family in Mikwa village, Kyuso subcounty of Kitui county, is still struggling to come to terms with the brutal murder of their 29-year-old son. Sammy Muthui was killed early on Monday when suspected al Shabaab militants attacked Kamuthe Boarding Primary School in Garissa where he taught since 2018. “My son was asleep when the shooting began and as he ran for his life he was shot three times, dying on the spot," said Benard Kimanzi, the deceased's father. He was the lastborn child. The father of 14 said the heavily armed militants targeted non-Muslim male teachers in the attack. Muthui was to get married in April. “My son was set to have a church wedding in April but his wish has now remained a dream ,” Kimanzi said. Kamuthe Boarding Primary school was the teacher's first posting by the TSC. The family said they were in shock how armed men could attack and kill an innocent and unarmed person who, according to his father, was asleep. He said the attackers struck around 2am robbing the family a young soul. Kimanzi said the sudden death was a major setback for the family that had put all their hopes on the success of their son in whom they had invested a lot. He appealed to the national government to compensate the family. “We invested so much in our son from raising him to educating him and had high hopes that he would support the family, only to learn of his cruel killing in the hands of al Shabaab,” the father said. Kimanzi described his son as a very calm young man who got along well with everyone and was very supportive of his parents. “Sammy was my last-born son and was so supportive and lived a peaceful life with family members and members of community,” he said. The deceased's elder brother Victor Mutinda recalling the last moments they shared before Muthui returned to Garissa said the family was looking forward to his return for the April holidays. “My younger brother always wanted us to remain united,” Mutinda said, adding he spent most of his time with him during the December holidays. Mutinda said Muthui had promised to buy a motorbike for him to start a transport business. “I feel like all my hope is lost for I depended on him to better my life,”he said. Mutinda urged the government to curb the rising insecurity from al Shabaab attacks. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu who went to console the family condemned the heinous act, terming it an act of cowardice. “An armed man should fight with another armed one not attacking innocent persons who are asleep,” he said. The MP termed the late teacher as a very resourceful person who volunteered to referee Malili cup tournament which took place two weeks ago in Kyuso town. “It is sad to loose Sammy who was a very hardworking young man who died working so hard to transform lives of young people where his call of duty was,” Nzengu said. The legislator urged the government to take responsibility for the lives lost and offer compensation to affected families. Muthui was killed alongside two other teachers among them Caleb Mutua from Makuka in Kitui.