Community members around the Oloisukut conservancy are now benefiting from beekeeping and fattening of steers for meat. The members are also benefitting from better livestock breeds, a clear departure from the era where one would keep hundreds of cattle. Conservancy executive director Jackson Ole Mpario said WWF-Kenya has provided women with 50 modern beehives with a target of increasing them to hit over a thousand beehives. "The market for honey is huge. Mara alone is enough, we are not bothered with the market," he said. Conservancy members get capacity building on matters of governance, marketing and livelihood strategies to better improve their lifestyles and economic well-being. The intervention includes identification of appropriate livestock breeds to better optimise on yield and off-take and adoption of pasture and grazing schemes on holistic management based on a zonation arrangement. Ole Mpario said the women's group got Sh600,000 from honey last year. "We have also trained them on how to make by-products such as candles from honey leftovers," he said, adding that they also have branded merchandise for sale. Ole Mpario said the livestock fattening program is also picking up. There are plans to set up a Sh60 million slaughterhouse that will enable them to do value addition. "We have also done artificial insemination for 94 cows, where every single member benefits," he said. He said cows should be few to avoid degradation of land, adding that members also benefit from disease control. PARTNERSHIP WWF-Kenya Sustainable Rangeland Management project officer Joseph Kathiwa said the partnership framework between the conservancy and WWF-Kenya provides opportunities for landowners to diversify their economies through alternative revenue streams aside from livestock and beekeeping. Currently, cattle keeping is the main economic stay of landowners. “The basic principle is keeping few but high-performing animals. Replacing the high-number but less-performing traditional zebu cattle,” Kathiwa said. WWF handed over a vehicle and motorbikes to support in conservancy operation and field support. This is in addition to the support of training of scouts and provision of uniforms. Kathiwa said livestock-wildlife integration is further enhanced through training on developing grazing plans and compatible land-use practices in the rangelands. "The principle of conservation is that people benefit from ecotourism and also have grass for their livestock," he said. Around the conservancy is a critical elephant range area that has been secured following efforts by the WWF in partnership with the conservancy,  a nascent community conservation area nestled on the edge of the Siria escarpment in the Transmara conservation part of the Mara landscape. Kathiwa said the fragmentation, coupled with the disintegration of traditional Maasai customary governance structures around the National Reserve, has seen a reduction in the total area available for elephants and other wildlife between the key protected area.