Former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando wants an end to the political ‘marriage’ between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. On Thursday, he said the Jubilee that was united under the auspices of The National Alliance and United Republican Party is “no longer at ease.” The former MP wants President Kenyatta to immediately dissolve the Parliamentary leadership. For starters, Kabando wants Elgeyo Marakwet MP Kipchumba Murkomen sacked as Leader of Majority. The ex-MP called out Murkomen, accusing him of playing Ruto’s hatchet-man in the August House – “…the one we pay to whip for government, voted against. Own goal!.” Kabando said in cracking the whip, the President “will serve the country good.” “A new seed must germinate,” he said. “That is, if the leaders don’t find it in their conscience to on principle resign their seats and work from opposition benches where they obviously now belong.” The assertion spells doom to the parties that folded to form the President’s party, which has continuously fallen apart as the country throttles to 2022. Kabando said Ruto has left government, accusing him of rallying Senators from his URP side to vote against Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s impeachment. In the bold note, Kabando took a swipe at the DP, accusing him of hijacking the party – taking patterns of the Senate vote. He holds that it was gross for the DP to mobilise against the President on a matter in the latter’s home county, adding that such action could pass as “sabotaging the fight against corruption.” “As expected, all URP senators defended Waititu. When we said Ruto had hijacked Jubilee for personal power and graft, we were isolated, fought and hated,” the ex-MP said. Waititu was impeached on Wednesday in an event which has further pushed the Jubilee wedge inches deeper. Deputy Governor James Nyoro was due to be sworn-in on Thursday, but it was postponed, with Kiambu county speaker Stephen Ndichu saying the change of plans was due to unavoidable circumstances. The swearing-in was then pushed to Friday. Kabando said that the impeachment vote depicted an act of defiance on the side of the Deputy President and his allies in the Senate. The former assistant minister said this while clarifying a conversation someone posted on social media from a public discussion he was part. Saying it is no longer business as usual, the politician restated to the Star that President Kenyatta needs to act fast and “call the house to order”. “Uhuru must act fast and boldly or be the biggest regret to his admirers and supporters. Ruto is sabotaging every effort to fight corruption,” he penned. The ex-MP said the happenings at the assembly “vindicate them from the cautions and alerts they raised since 2013.” He holds that the DP has left government and should be treated as one whose “ambition runs counter to national interest.” “Ruto always said he was in charge. But now that Uhuru is in charge, it is no longer business as usual!” The former MP exuded confidence that the Building Bridges Initiative would yield a Handshake government in the next election. Kabando revisited the shambolic Jubilee primaries of 2017, saying it was no coincidence the events of the Senate mirrored the nomination patterns. “Almost all Jubilee nominated senators opposed the motion. These were nominated by DP Ruto. When we said 2017 JP nominations were a sham, we were insulted and dismissed. But we remain clear, bold, and steadfast,” he said.