Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has transferred over 180 health staff as he seeks to improve service delivery in his final years in office. In the changes announced by his office on Tuesday, Busia county radiologist Namudala Emukule takes over as the new medical superintendent at the Busia County Referral Hospital. He replaces David Mukabi who has been moved to the office of the director of public health and sanitation to coordinate universal health care services. Namudala, one of the two radiologists in the county, was deputising Mukabi before the internal departmental transfers involving 184 health workers across the county were announced. Namudala will be deputised by county pediatrician Emma Namulala. County director of medical services Janerose Ambuchi, director of public health and sanitation Melsa Lutomia, county pharmacist Abiud Machuki, administrator at the county referral hospital Benjamin Owuor and Butula subcounty health ministry head Evans Sumbeiywo retained their posts. Jimmy Wafula moves from the county referral hospital to Kocholia subcounty hospital.  Cedric Onyango moves from the county referral hospital to Port Victoria while Stephine Angira from Port Victoria joins the team of health heads at the county referral health facility. Among pharmacists affected include Paul Mburugu was transferred to Port Victoria from the county referral hospital, swapping positions with Doreen Ratemo. Nelson Aluku moves to Matayos from the county referreal hospital, exchanging positions with Joshua Solo. Jacob Asoka moves to Kocholia from Sio Port. Four public health officers were also affected in the transfers. Martin Osotsi was moves from Kocholia to Port Victoria, swapping positions with Harriet Nyanusi while Betty Ochieng moves from Nambale to Matayos, exchanging positions with Mildred Wanyama. Chief officer for health and sanitation Isaac Omeri said the internal transfers were sanctioned to improve on service delivery, noting that the affected officers will take up their new positions with immediate effect. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong recently warned county employees to stick to their lane and serve the people of Busia or be sacked.