A woman invaded a Nairobi court and started wailing, disrupting proceedings. As she was crying, she branded court officials as corrupt and people with no intention of serving justice to the poor. The woman also said she intends to write a book and expose the immoral part of the Judiciary. “I must write a book! I must write a book! I must write a book! where is justice,” she wailed. “My Jesus, there is no justice in this court. There is no justice in Kenya. You told me to pay and I paid and here are the receipts and now he has been taken to prison.  I want him back,” she added. The police officers who were in the court premises watched her keenly and at some point threatened to arrest and charge her with creating disturbance. “Huyu nitamshika, akule plea ya creating disturbances, eti sasa anadhani nduru ndo suluhisho, eti sasa anadhani Lori ya prisons ingemngojea akuje ndo ieande, wacha ajaribu kuingia huko ndani ataona,” one of the officers said. Minutes later the Kilimani police patrol vehicle arrived and the officers took their position as the Star left the venue. A male prosecutor from the office of the DPP angered her female colleague after he told her that her "Ethiopian hairstyle" extension on her hair was worth only Sh300. “Madam to be open, your hairstyle, although you have said it is an expensive one from Ethiopia, I approximate it to cost Sh300. Wake up and let us confirm from the nearby salon,” he told her. This caused laughter among the court staff, which the woman didn't take lightly. The prosecutor had to leave after he realised his comments had made the woman almost cry. She later left the court premises. A court clerk at a Nairobi court on Monday said he successfully seduced a female suspect and was on his radar. The clerk was well dressed in a black suit remained confident even after other court staff listened to him in shock. “Unaona ule suspect mrembo mwenye alikuwa Court Four jana, ako box yangu. Naplan tu sasa kuminvite kwangu alafu,…..mjijazie,” he told his colleagues in an ICT room where he had visited to take some tea. Other court officials present said he may be suffering from some mental illness. “Wachana na huyo maybe ni wazimu," the ICT department head joked