Any school that fails to register its students through Nemis will miss out on this year's government funds, Education CS George Magoha has said. Magoha said in Naivasha that primary schools that have not registered their pupils using the National Education Management Information System will be left out. He admitted that some primary schools faced challenges in registering the students through the system, adding that they should seek ways of solving the problem. The CS said schools should use the student admission number to register them under Nemis, not the birth certificate. This, he said, was aimed at ending the problem where some schools could not register students due to lack of birth certificates. “Any primary school that fails to register its students through Nemis will miss out on this year's capitation as the government is keen to make sure all students are registered,” he said. Magoha visited Milimani, Central and DEB primary schools in Naivasha to assess progress made in the ongoing implementation of the Competence Based Curriculum (CBC). On the new curriculum, the CS was full of praise for teachers, noting that they had embraced the system despite facing various problems. “Away from parties that were opposed to this system, we have seen major strides made and I want to commend the teachers for this achievement,” he said. Addressing the press, the CS noted that nearly all schools in the country had been supplied with the new textbooks apart from areas affected by flooding. “Some schools like in West Pokot, Kisumu and Tana River have been affected by the ongoing floods but we are working to make sure they are assisted,” he said. Magoha defended the decision to increase the number of textbooks the students were using under the new curriculum noting that this was meant to improve their knowledge. “We have so far supplied over 1.4 million textbooks to students in Grade Four under the new curriculum and I am happy with the progress made by the teachers,” he said. During the tour, the CS put on notice secondary head teachers who had illegally increased school fees noting that their days were numbered. “We have not received any official complaint but we are warning any head teachers found to have flouted the fees guidelines that they will be sent home,” he said.