Kenya Premier League side Western Stima have signed up four players to bolster the team as they seek a top-three finish. Coach Salim Babu confirmed the signing of midfielder Fester Mukoto from Kakamega Homeboyz, strikers Stephen Onyango and Kevin Omundi from defunct Sony Sugar. Omundi had signed a pre contract with Betika National Super League side Shabana but opted out after the Kisumu-based side showed interest. The club is keen to sign a centre back but he has not been released by his club. “We have agreed on terms with the player. He is only waiting for his release letter,” said Babu who declined to name the defender. Babu was impressed by Omundi and Onyango in their 1-0 win over NSL side Migori Youth at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Sunday afternoon. Kevin Ochieng scored the lone goal. “They gave a good account of themselves and I'm happy with what I saw. They will increase competition for starting places in the team which is good for us,” added the tactician. Babu confirmed the club has released defender Vincent Omuombo, Erastus Mwaniki and Henry Juma. “We wish them the best in the future endeavours,” said Babu. Omuombo is currently in talks with Kisumu All Stars. He added that he was happy with the third-place finish in the league in the first round and is looking forward to a better performance in the second leg. “We want to keep on fighting and maintain the top three position at the moment. Any slip up from the top guns, we are there. You know anything can happen in football but we take one game at a time,” noted Babu who won the KPL title as player with Sony in the year 2006. Tomorrow, the club which currently sits fifth on the log entertain eighth-placed Mathare United at Moi Stadium in Kisumu and coach Babu has warned the slum boys to be ready for a hiding. “We want maximum points from Mathare, nothing else,” a confident Babu said. At the same time, Kisumu All Stars have parted ways with veteran coach Henry Omino and his assistant Andrew Aroka. Yesterday, the two were not at the team's training at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. German-based Arthur Otieno takes over from Omino on interim basis. Contacted, Omino said: “Yes I'm not at the stadium. As far as I'm concerned, I have not been sacked because there is no official communication.” Club's chief executive officer Nicholas Ochieng on Sunday told the Star that changes in the technical bench were to be effected yesterday.  The struggling club will today face second placed Tusker at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos.