Jubilee legislators allied to Deputy President William Ruto have made a list of demands to be met before they accept the BBI report. In a statement on Monday after their two-day retreat in Naivasha, the MPs said they want the BBI task force to implement the first BBI report. The group also said it wants the Judiciary allocated 3.5 per cent of the national Budget and that for devolution increased to 40 per cent in a bid to improve service delivery at the grassroots and build the local economy. Gatundu MP Moses Kuria and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen were the conveners of the Naivasha meeting. The legislators also want the TJRC and Ndung’u reports implemented and have called for a five per cent guaranteed return fund to protect investors and farmers. They also want a five per cent budget allocation for the post-education school fund. "We were looking at the issues affecting us as Kenyans. We didn’t propose but the leaders who attended were presenting what the people who voted for them wanted them to do," Kuria said. Other demands include the setting aside of five per cent of the national revenue to go towards National Business Capital Support Fund as well as five per cent to go to the National Landless and Squatters Resettlement Fund. Earlier, the legislators said they would kick off their own rallies on the BBI in Nakuru in two weeks time. The retreat in Naivasha brought together more than 120 legislators made up of Jubilee MPs and other like-minded parliamentarians. On Saturday, the pro-Raila group was in Mombasa where some of those in Naivasha attended, with Murkomen being the only pro-Ruto leader to address the rally. The first rally is set for February 8, in Nakuru's Afraha Stadium, where Jubilee was formed and will come two weeks before the Raila team holds theirs in the same venue. Murkomen was, however, quick to warn that the series of the rallies were not meant to counter the other meetings. "These rallies are meant to strengthen the initiative and the President, his deputy, Raila and other like-minded leaders are invited," he said.