The high number of professionals required and costs associated with the treatment of assisted reproduction influence the final fee. The procedure requires gynaecologists/IVF specialists, fertility nurses, clinical embryologists, laboratory technicians, psychologists, legal and administrative personnel. Clinical scientist and senior lecturer at the University of Nairobi Moses Obimbo told the Star that there is a lack of information about the actual costs of different parts of the process. Compared with the US where the procedure costs about Sh1.2 million, Saudi Arabia (Sh650,000) and Singapore (Sh750,000), Kenya has relatively low prices. The cost in Norway is approximately Sh500,000, similar to Kenya's. However, India is the cheapest at approximately Sh330,000. He explained that in vitro fertilization (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) enables couples who would have otherwise been infertile to have children. "In Kenya, the IVF programmes are out of reach for many couples due to high costs," he said. Obimbo said meeting the professional fees of thee specialists is costly. Secondly, costs associated with hormone treatment range from Sh80,000 to Sh175,000 which constitutes between 50-80 per cent of the total expenses. The percentage is determined by the hormonal dosage required by the patient. The hormonal treatment may have side-effects, such as bloating, occasional headaches, general tiredness, and tummy aches. This is because of the high number of eggs the body is producing- about 10 eggs are required. When eggs mature, they are usually between 1.8cm and 2.4cm. "Hormone treatment is necessary to stimulate the growth of the eggs called follicles," Obimbo said. Costs also include; health screening, ultrasound for follicular growth tracking, sperm analysis, DNA testing, egg retrieval, egg/embryo freezing. Egg freezing is the process of preserving fertile eggs so individuals can try to have children at a later time. Others are embryology laboratory and equipment such as high definition microscopes, embryo transfer procedures, psychological counselling. The specialist says the process begins with patient consultation, investigation, and evaluation. "Depending on whether one is using a donor or their own eggs, hormones, and drugs are used. The patient is stimulated with hormones (to stimulate the growth of the eggs) and monitored for 14-35 days depending on the protocol," he said. After the eggs are harvested and sperm collection and analysis begin followed by fertilisation before the egg is transferred. According to the Mayo Clinic, eggs are retrieved in a process referred to as transvaginal ultrasound aspiration. "An ultrasound probe is inserted into the vagina to identify follicles. Then a thin needle is inserted into an ultrasound guide to go through the vagina and into the follicles to retrieve the eggs," reads the clinic website. Further, if the ovaries are not accessible through transvaginal ultrasound, an abdominal ultrasound may be used to guide the needle. Multiple eggs can be retrieved in about 20minutes after which they are removed from the follicles through a needle connected to a suction device. "Mature eggs are placed in a nutritive liquid and incubated. Eggs that appear healthy and mature will be mixed with sperm to attempt to create embryos," the clinic said. "However, not all eggs may be successfully fertilised." Other steps in the process include; psychological counselling, Luteal support with progesterone, pregnancy evaluation, and managing complications. Mayo clinic states complications that may arise include; multiple births, premature delivery, and low birth weight, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome(ovaries become swollen and painful), and miscarriage. Others include ectopic pregnancy, birth defects, cancer, and stress because IVF is financially, physically and emotionally draining. Last year, NMC Fertility Kenya partnered with Dubai Islamic Bank to offer personal financing to individuals seeking fertility services such as IVF at the centre. Patients will get a loan range of between Sh100,000 to Sh1 million and repay within a year. The loan applies to any employee, whether on a contract or permanent basis and is paid to the clinic within 48 hours.