DCI detectives on  Tuesday recovered more than 130 flat-screen television sets in Machakos county. The televisions and assorted electronics were recovered from a house at Mbiuni in Machakos subcounty by police from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Police said the items had been stolen from a godown along Mombasa Road in Athi River last year on December 1. Two suspects were arrested during the recovery operations. Forensic intelligence led the detectives to Kitengela where the lorry, which was used to ferry the Sh15 million Syinex TVs during the robbery, had been hidden. Further investigations led the team to the house where the items were recovered and tallied,  the DCI said. Police said the suspects had been detained while accomplices were being sought, along with the remaining stolen items. Police on December on 28 recovered 149 mobile phones during a crackdown within Nairobi’s CBD. Ten suspects were arrested. The recovery was made after cops raided six stalls along Race Course Road. Some 150 dismantled phones and five laptops were also recovered. The detectives have also intensified a probe into a car theft syndicate in the city. Its operations led to the arrest of the fourth suspect and the recovery of two more vehicles on Sunday. Nairobi regional police commander Philip Ndolo said they are committed to intensifying their operations to suppress crime. The four men allegedly stole eight vehicles on Christmas Day. Nicholas Opiyo, Kelvin Oduor, Patrick Mburugu and Jack Odhiambo were arrested on December 26 as they allegedly sought to sell one vehicle. Opiyo, 20, Oduor, 28, and Mburugu of Kariobangi North, Baba Dogo and Ngara estates in Nairobi respectively, were tracked to Mburugu’s rural home in Meru, where a Toyota Fielder (KCH 301R) was recovered. The suspects were detained by a Milimani court for seven days pending further investigations. The DCI had warned Kenyans against purchasing laptops, mobile phones and TV sets from traders who lack requisite trade documents, including licenses, permits and other local and national approvals. Criminals steal, rebrand and repackage the items before selling them as new. Edited by R.Wamochie