The frustrations Miguna Miguna is facing epitomises the hypocrisy of Kenyan politics of “change and Kenya mpya", Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has said. Murkomen on Wednesday said blocking the lawyer's return to the country paints ugly the BBI and the handshake which was a symbol of unity between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. "If we can’t embrace MM with his divergent ideas how shall we pretend to unite a nation? MM should be facilitated and not frustrated," he tweeted. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator proceeded to say that the President had publicly approved Miguna's return and whoever was blocking him was trying to embarrass his administration. "As far as I am concerned President Kenyatta gave orders which orders he restated publicly that Miguna Miguna, his views notwithstanding, is welcomed back home. Those frustrating MM are outrightly sabotaging the head of state, embarrassing his administration and denting his legacy," he said. While responding to a twitter user who asked him what he is doing about it, Murkomen said he is ready to help the embattled lawyer if his office was required. "If my office was required to do anything for MM or any other citizen I would have done it. I have given my counsel. The courts should jail government officials who are in contempt of court orders. There is no collective responsibility in violating the constitution," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr who said it was a violation of Miguna's right as a Kenyan and someone will soon be held accountable. "One day someone will be held accountable for the outright violations of Dr Miguna’s rights as a Kenyan," he said. The senators' comments were also backed by Kandara MP Alice Wahome who insisted that Interior CS Fred Matiang’i does not 'tell stories' through government spokesman Cyrus Oguna. "Bring Miguna Miguna home. Don’t expose your inefficiency or worse still tyranny," she tweeted. Miguna has blamed the Kenyan Government for frustrating his return to Kenya saying that the State was 'scared' of him. The government has however insisted that the fiery lawyer was free to return and do not know why he has not travelled back to Kenya. Miguna was twice blocked from travelling to Kenya on Tuesday from Germany and France.