Farmers are warning of an acute maize shortage in the next four months because of reduced production last year and heavy purchases by traders and exporters. Maize prices have shot up in most parts of the North Rift to about Sh3,000 per 90kg bag. Reports indicate some traders are buying maize in bulk and exporting to African countries facing shortages. “Farmers are happy at the moment because we have better prices in the open markets due to the ongoing heavy purchase by traders and the fact that last year’s production dropped by about 10 million bags,” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. He said there had been no imports of maize last year, leading to the good prices currently but warned that supplies in the market would soon be depleted leading to shortages. The farmers have asked the Strategic Food Reserve Board headed by Noah Wekesa to ensure that expected maize imports should be allowed to flood the market. “We urge the board to ensure that only the required quantities will be imported and the flood gates won't be opened so we end up with excess maize in the market," prominent farmer Thomas Korgoren said. Farmers harvested fewer than 34 million bags of maize last year, a huge drop from the usual 43 million bags annually. The NCPB is yet to open its depots to buy maize despite the looming shortages. Dr Wekesa says the farmers are still getting good prices in the open market and there was no urgency to intervene, though the board plans to buy four million bags to fill depleted stocks at the NCPB. NCPB has about 2.5 million bags in the strategic reserves but is required to have about 5 million bags at any time. The board has allowed some farmers to use its drying and storage facilities at a fee. “We are working with farmers closely so they remain in production at profitable levels as we also work to ensure the country has enough maize stocks for the food reserves," Wekesa said. Moiben MP Sila Tiren says the SFR board should firmly regulate maize imports so the agriculture sector remains stable and farmers' profits are good. (Edited by V. Graham)