A local agent of the UK based firm Cambridge Analytica reached out to ODM leader Raila Odinga’s allies to manage his campaigns in the run-up to the 2013 General Elections. Leaked emails have revealed that the company sought and obtained a meeting with Raila’s top confidants in a bid to revamp Nasa presidential candidate’s image. Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm, was behind TNA and Jubilee election campaigns in both the 2013 and 2017 elections. It branded and re-branded the party, drafted its manifestos, conducted research and designed messaging that sold Jubilee to the minds and souls of most Kenyans – mainly the youth – propelling its candidate to victory. But the opposition coalition, Cord in 2013 and later Nasa in 2017, accused the firm of manufacturing propaganda against their candidate, Raila. Raila threatened to sue the firm while Nasa demanded investigations to establish the roles it played in the elections. However, emails leaked by former employee Brittany Kaiser indicate that the firm’s agent sought a meeting with ODM top brass in an attempt to turn around Raila’s and Nasa’s fortunes in the polls. Raila lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta in both the 2013 and 2017 elections. Kaiser worked with the company as it's Business and Development director for four years – between 2014 and 2018. The emails show that Marcus Beltran, the local agent, held a meeting with ODM top brass headed by Raila’s permanent secretary Mohamned Isahakia. “As a quick reminder, whilst working for Jimnah, he got me a meeting with the seemingly all of Odinga's senior staff and they were interested,” reads an email dated January 5, 2015. The email was sent by Beltran, an agent, to Alexander Nix, the firm’s managing director. Another email read, “I hope you are fine. Last time we had a fruitful engagement which led to a meeting with Marcus Beltran of SCL and Orange Democratic Movement ODM top brass who included the Former Prime Minister's Permanent Secretary Mohammed Isahakia.” However, the opposition, apparently, turned down the offer. It continues, “It was truly unfortunate that ODM were too confident and thought that the services of SCL would best serve them in 2017 elections when they were already in power. The results of their overconfidence is well known.” The company has been accredited with helping the top individuals ascend to power. It was behind US President Donald Trump’s surprise victory. It also helped the ‘Leave Side’ to win the Brexit referendum in the UK. Cambridge Analytica has also worked on elections in Nigeria, India, Czech Republic and Argentina.