Nairobi MCAs are now pushing for the revival of the regeneration team to oversee the revamping of services in the city. The ward representatives on  Thursday made an about-turn on the formation of an ad hoc committee to run City Hall following Governor Mike Sonko’s suspension over the loss of Sh 357 million. Instead, the ward reps said the revival of the moribund of the Nairobi Regeneration team would play a key role in oversight over the resumption of services in the capital. It was expected that an Adhoc committee would be formed to oversee the revamping of service as mentioned on Tuesday after having a Speaker’s Kamkunji but it was ruled out "It would have been challenged in court in the sense that we cannot oversight and the same time sit with the executive committee members who are supposed to do the implementation,” said David Mberia, the Minority leader. In the special sitting on Thursday, County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi directed that the regeneration team be revamped and proceed with its work together with the County Executives to ensure effective service delivery to the residents of Nairobi. The areas mentioned included Water, Roads, Pending Bills and Solid Waste Management. “ The Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company should give out the water rationing program, the executive should partner with KURA in tarmacking and maintenance of county roads and work should be framed on how to deal with the refuse collecting firm,” Elachi said. She further directed that all pending bills be cleared especially those touching on youth, women and persons with disability. The regeneration team which was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta two years ago to the myriads of challenges the city has been inactive for the better part. The team is co-chaired by Tourism CS Najib Balala and Governor Sonko. Mberia who doubles up as Karen MCA moved a notice of motion where the ward reps tore into the leadership crisis in Nairobi saying it has affected service delivery to the resident. “ The executive arm is destabilised and as the legislative arm we must show leadership,” he said. Majority leader Charles Thuo put the chairpersons of various committees into task, urging them to take up full responsibility on ensuring that proper oversight is done. "Our business as a house is to ensure that services are offered to the people and the chairperson should wake up and be active," he said. Majority Whip June Ndegwa urged the legislatures to instead find a solution that can solve the existing problem. "Let us perform our oversight roles and that includes coming up with solutions. Let us know who is in which position in the executive and where the gap is,” she said. Ndegwa further insisted that the legislators should not take up roles that will portray that they are taking over the functions of the executive Nominated MCA Leah Naikane urged that the liaison committee of the assembly should e strengthened for proper oversight. The minority side of the house, however, put the executive in check accusing the Jubilee MCAs of working with the executive. Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi questioned the competence of the chairpersons accusing them of forgetting oversight mandate. ‘It is important to work with the executive but we should not forget our oversight role,’ he said. Embakasi Central MCA Michael Ogada stated that some departments had been closed due to suspensions. "This government is not functioning and we need to accept. Sometimes we are misguided that supporting someone will make you re-elected. Let’s not have a county remain on autopilot mode forever. We cannot have as planning department without engineers because of suspensions," he said. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok said the county has been on autopilot for two months and the assembly need to take action. Backing his statement was Nominated MCA Emily Oduor who suggested that the assembly should be streamlined to properly oversight the executive.