Kenya Hockey Union Premier League champions Blazers are hoping for a better season this year after enduring one of their roughest patches in 2019. The team's major misfortune came when their sponsors of 30 years, Telkom Kenya, dropped as their main sponsors, forcing them to rebrand to Blazers. This, however, did not affect their drive as they went on to clinch a record-breaking 22nd league title. The telecommunications company said they were reviewing their brand asset strategy to align with the ongoing business development. The team's performance was not adversely affected as they dropped only four points from a possible 42. And in a twist of fate, long-serving coach Jos Openda reshelved his retirement plans and returned to the touchline. He said: "The sponsors pulled out at the most unexpected time and it really demoralised the playing unit and affected our results. Our performance dropped even though we were winning matches." "Keeping the team together has been a Herculean task. We felt what other self-sustaining clubs go through and this will prepare us to accept stormy situations in the future." Captain Tracy Karanja described 2019 as a bitter-sweet season but said the players' love for the game won them the title. "The spell was good and bad in equal measure but we remained united than ever before. Retaining the title was our concrete objective and the ill-timed departure of our financers was hard-hitting and a tough-to-bear decision," noted the diminutive midfielder. The Kenyan international added: "We drew only two matches. The likes of newbies Lakers who finished fourth really gave us a run for our money. We won because the inspiration was fuelled by the deep passion and renewed desire from the team as we stuck together." Hard economic times made the team lose their youngsters and the 10-time African champions hope to reunite with the players ahead of the new season, which kick off in late February. Players could not turn up for training sessions on regular occasions and the team even sent home three of their young talents in October as the situation became unbearable. Elina Chebet, Rose Akoth and Joan Anjao were at one time dropped by Openda but as things stabilised, they returned to the fold. Chebet went on to become an important member of the team after finding her goal-scoring touch. She emerged runners up in the goal-scoring chart with seven, one behind joint top scorers teammate Jackie Mwangi and Strathmore's Gilly Okumu. Karanja credited the senior players for Chebet's progress and tipped more junior players to get regular playing time next season. "We were really excited about them in the team. They brought fresh legs, diversity and unique energy. Fresh from high school, it was a transition period for them but they showed what they are capable of. The future looks bright for them," said Karanja. "I look forward to more opportunities in 2020. Transport to and from training was our biggest challenge but it was an impressive year in general,"  summed up Chebet. The 18-year-old was also crowned the female hockey player of the year during the Magharibi Michezo gala held at Bungoma Tourist Hotel on December 23. She beat five other nominees. Blazers also missed the African Cup Club tournament in Ismailia Egypt after pulling out late, thus failing to defend their title. The team also missed the Betty Tioni tournament in Nakuru as well as the Shaban Yusuf tournament in Mombasa. And despite all their troubles, Openda said they are not looking back at all. "First of all, we have to trace and bring back eight of our players who could not continue with us during the high waters.  I don't want to lose girls at a young age because chances of them getting married or indulging in immoral behaviour are high," remarked Openda. "We need to protect them from these bad vices. We are also open to recruiting  new players but we are still fearful since they will have to be driven by passion and not cash, until the situation improves." "We have engaged some corporates as we try to find our way out. We hope to get a better footing in the new season." As Blazers had a fair share of their misfortunes, things literally looked up for men's champions Butali Warriors as they sealed their fourth title and a second consecutive in typical style. The Warriors are sponsored by the Butali Sugar, a Kakamega-based milling company. And to clinch the title, the Kenneth Nyongesa-captained side were unbeaten in the season, winning 15 matches, and drew three for a total of 48 points, 12 more than second-placed Wazalendo. The sugar men were also the most rampant side in the league, scoring a total of 52 goals. Their desire to win the league with three games to spare was necessitated by the fact that in 2018, they went toe-to-toe with seasoned rivals Kenya Police until the last match of the season. Police' inconsistency meant Butali had no strong challenger despite Wazalendo's unrelenting title push. Much credit goes to the merciless attacking trio of George Mutira, Calvins Kanu and Amos Barkibir, whose efforts were complemented by a mean defence that conceded just 11 times. The team was had four players in the national team for the Olympic qualifiers. Constant Wakhura captained the side as Francis Kariuki, Moses Ademba and Barkibir donned the Kenyan jersey in Stellenbosch, South Africa. Frank Wanangwe missed much of the second part of the season with an injury, the only notable absentee. Title-winning coach Denis Owoka resigned from his role after guiding the team to two consecutive titles and is now the Tunza Sports coaching director. Team manager Kamal Sambi said they will recruit new players as they hope to defend the title. He remains optimistic of granting players their wish of playing in the African Cup Club championships this year after giving it a wide berth last season due to the unavailability of most players through to work-related commitment. "Another successful year from the lads and everybody associated with the club. Becoming a champion is easy but maintaining the high standards is the biggest challenge we look to address next season," said Owoka. "We will inject some fresh blood to the already quality team. We have a good chance of playing in the African tourney and we'll see how things will pan out." Meanwhile, Parkroad Badgers and Mombasa Sports Club were promoted to the men's Premier League while Wolverines and Orange Leonas will play in the women's top tier. 