Two Western senators have called for President Uhuru Kenyatta's intervention to address the economic needs of the region. Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) and George Khaniri (Vihiga) asked the President to support the revival of the troubled sugar sector, which largely supports the region's economy, as well as tea and maize farming. "I thought the President will be here so that I can tell him what's ailing this region. But I want to send Prime Minister Raila Odinga to tell him that we want him to hold a meeting with us here in Kakamega as he did with central Kenya leader at Sagana to talk about our economy," Khaniri said. He said Western had been starved of development, yet billions allocated to mega projects in other regions are stolen. He said the region has been neglected by the Jubilee government in state appointments, as it does not have a single CS from the region. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa comes from Trans Nzoia county. “Bwana Prime Minister, tell the President that we have read and supported the BBI. However, some things like Cabinet positions and state jobs do not have to wait for a referendum,” Khaniri said. Wetang'ula said the Luhyas, the Teso and the Sabot tribes that are in Western are not strangers in Kenya and are entitled to services and development like any other Kenyan. "We're not strangers in Kenya. We have a right to be here. And here we shall be, and here we shall remain, and here we shall talk and bargain," he said. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said President Kenyatta will receive the sugar task force report when he returns to the country. Oparanya co-chaired the task force with sacked Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. He said the national and county governments will work closely to revive Mumias. "We're talking and we have a technical committee and I can assure you that Mumias will be revived," he said. The leaders spoke during the Western BBI public consultative meeting in Kakamega on Saturday. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said Uhuru will visit Western in two weeks after receiving the sugar report to chart the turnaround strategy for the sugar and the maize sector. Western region economy depends on sugarcane farming, which is doing badly, and maize farmers are becoming disillusioned due to low prices. The giant Mumias Sugar Company is currently under receivership while Nzoia Sugar Company is on its deathbed. Mumias resumed ethanol production last Friday after over one year closure for lack of adequate raw material besides heavy debts running into billions. Earlier attempts by the national government to revive the millers were unsuccessful,  even after sinking Sh 3.7bn in its turnaround plan.