A Cabinet Secretary has been frequenting an estate in Uthiru on weekends to visit a girlfriend. One is likely to spot official vehicles assigned to him—including chase cars fitted with sirens—parked at a club near the woman’s house. A resident told Corridors that the man’s aides push them around whenever their boss visits. They are sometimes denied parking near the minister’s cars. Their cry is whether Acting Treasury CS Ukur Yatani exempted some state officers from complying with his directive restricting the use of government vehicles to official working hours in an attempt to curb wastage. A former government official from Nyanza who was hounded out of office over graft claims is the talk of his village. It is claimed chickens stolen from residents are sold to his hotel. Residents say the rate of chicken theft was not as high before the facility was put up. Corridors overheard an elderly woman, a theft victim, telling a neighbour not to look far for her fowls that were stolen on New Year’s Eve. Whenever someone loses their chickens, villagers gleefully ask the victim whether they have looked for them at the fairly big hotel. Just how did a university administration arrive at the Sh16,000 fine it imposed on students after a strike last year? Some parents have questioned what the more than Sh280 million that will be collected from the students be used for. Their take is that the students just destroyed two refrigerators, a small gate, lawnmower, and window panes – items they say don’t match the fine. A small bird in the top management told Corridors the charge could be a plot by some quarters to rip off parents. The official wants Education CS George Magoha to help stop the culture of university administrations using students' strikes as a cash cow. Still on education, a primary school in Bungoma county is the subject of a heated debate on social media after it emerged that pupils are required to be in class by 6.30am. What is more shocking is that learners in upper classes stay in class until as late as 6:30pm. The official class hours set by the Ministry of Education are 8am to 3:30pm. A parent told Corridors that only children in Early Childhood Development Education have been exempted from the tough new rules by the school’s administration. The toddlers, nonetheless, are required to report to school equally early for their age. They are required to be seated in class by 7:45am.