Kandara MP Alice Wahome claims there is a plot to make President Uhuru Kenyatta Prime Minister and ODM party leader President through the BBI in the 2022 General Election. She says President Uhuru is the biggest impediment to the growth of the economy of the country, to democracy, and freedom of speech. The MP, allied to DP William Ruto's Tangatanga faction, said President Uhuru inherited a stable democracy from former President Mwai Kibaki but expressed fear that the country was retrogressing to the old days of the 1990s. She was addressing a press conference at a Malindi resort on January 2. She wondered why the president has not responded to statements by the former Jubilee Party Vice Chairman David Murathe, nominated Senator Beth Mugo and COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli. "Raila Odinga is his new political mercenary for hire, and the BBI itself, the BBI report is the special purpose vehicle heading to the route that has been suggested by Murathe, Atwoli  and Beth Mugo," she said. She said the president should retire after serving 10 years as head of state. "I am sure Kenyans must be thinking Murathe is dreaming, no I don't think Murathe is dreaming. I don't think Atwoli is talking from nowhere. I do not think Beth Mugo, who is a close relative of Uhuru Kenyatta, is speaking from Nowhere,"  she said. Wahome said when the Constitution made the provision of a term limit, there was no age limit because they thought even at 70 years anyone would contest. She also said the constitution did not also state that the qualification for one to stay after serving two terms was age. The MP said the suggestions that President Kenyatta was going nowhere because of his age was an abuse and insult to the intelligence of Kenyans. "Even though the persons saying may be expressing their opinions and views I think His Excellency, who we respect a lot, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta, should actually respond to some of those issues," she said. Wahome said the issues were raised by persons who are closely been associated with the head of state. The chairperson of Inua Mama, a Tangatanga women's band, claimed the President and Raila want to use the handshake and BBI to bring changes that would allow one to contest for the Prime Minister's position as the other one goes for president. She wants the Building the Bridges Initiative abandoned until after the 2022 General Election.