Kisole Primary School in Mwingi Central, Kitui, did not open for the new term on Monday after parents kept their children away to protest poor performance in last year's KCPE examination. “As the community, we are disturbed by the deteriorating performance of our school in KCPE in recent times. There is mismanagement in the school and a lot of laxity among the teachers,” Festus Savali told journalists on behalf of the parents. About  350 children  enrolled at  the school stayed away  on the first day  of  the new term. Parents stormed the school early  in the morning and barricaded the gate with thorny bushes. The bushes  placed at the gate and a new padlock used  to secure  the gate  stopped  teachers  from accessing the school. The teachers, including head teacher Peter Mulandi, spent time idling outside the gate. After about a two-hour wait, it  took  the intervention  of the local Mwambui chief  Lawrance  Munyithya to have the thorny bushes removed and  the padlock  opened for  the teachers  to  enter the school. The  chief  reprimanded  the parents  and  some for old boys at the primary school for  failing  to follow the right channel to have  their grievances addressed.  He said they should not have resorted to taking the law  into their hands by illegally closing the school. Munyithya directed parents to allow children to resume classes in the new term.  He announced that a meeting between the parents, the school management and education authorities will be held on Wednesday to address the parents’ grievances. But even as the parents agreed to the meeting, they vowed not to allow their children back to school until their grievances are adequately addressed. “We will only take our children there on Wednesday and if the issues we raised are not adequately addressed at the meeting, we will continue keeping them at home to await a lasting solution,” said  Wanza Muthui,  a parent. Head teacher Mulandi  said  teachers and the school  management were not to blame  for the  poor performance  in KCPE, saying  most  of the  bright  children had  been pulled  out of the  school by parents and enrolled  in private schools. He condemned the parents for taking the law into their hands and closing down the school. He said wrangles over sponsorship of the  school pitting  the  district education board and African Brotherhood Church were the genesis of the troubles at the school.