Garissa Governor Ali Korane will on Tuesday convene a security meeting to address the rising terror activities in the region. The one-day meeting will be attended by about 200 delegates among them clerics, security committees members, NGOs, and elected leaders. The meeting is expected to address among other issues boosting of local National Police Reservists (NPR), collaboration between the security agents and the public and how to motivate locals in order to share valuable information on security matters without feeling intimidated. According to county communication director Abdikadir Sugow, the conference will come up with a raft of resolutions aimed at combating the prevailing insecurity. “Governor Korane has expressed concern over recent attacks. This has ripple effects on our education and other key economic sectors," Sugow said. "That is why he has decided to facilitate the platform that will come up with ideas on the best way to curb the rising insecurity in the region,” he added. He said by targeting the education institutions, health facilities and communication installations, the Al-Shabaab militants want to cripple the region economically. Recently, the Al-Shabaab thugs have intensified attacks in the region targeting  non-local teachers, Safaricom masts and security agents. Late last year, the thugs waylaid a Mandera-bound bus near Kotuo where they shot dead 11 non locals, eight of them security officers. On January 7, they shot dead four pupils of Saretho Boarding Primary School, Garissa  county. Last week, they murdered three non-local teachers at Kamuthe, Garissa. In both attacks, they destroyed Safaricom masts. As result, TSC withdrew all non-local teachers from Fafi, Dadaab, Hulugho and Ijara sub-counties. The teachers were redeployed to schools in Balambala, Lagdera and Garissa Township that the teachers body claims are safe. Some of the affected teachers declined the transfers and vowed to go and camp at TSC headquarters in Nairobi to plead with their employer to transfer them out of Garissa county. According to the teachers "there is nowhere that is safe for a non-local teacher in Garissa today". North Eastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana, when commenting on Kamuthe attack, said that there was an element of conspiracy between the locals and the militants in the attacks. Ndalana said it was not possible for the militants to come all to Kamuthe, over 100 kms away, without the locals knowledge. The regional commissioner, who vowed to fight the terror group, said he will hold a meeting with the elected leaders from the region on how best to involve them in war against terror.