Confusion has rocked Ukambani leaders over the Building Bridges Initiative. The leaders, who have announced their loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta and support for the BBI report, are openly fighting on who should lead campaigns in the region. While Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka supports the report, one of his close allies, former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, is calling on the community to reject the document saying it intends to create political positions for some leaders. The confusion that started after ODM Raila Odinga parted ways with Kalonzo and chose to work with the three Ukambani governors, Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos). This was evident on Saturday at the burial of Rael Mbeleete, the mother of former Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu, in Makindu where Kalonzo rebuked his lieutenants for criticising the three governors. Raila incorporated Kibwana, Ngilu and Mutua in the Kibra by-election, a move that did not go down well with Kalonzo allies. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua and Kenyan ambassador to Uganda Kiema Kilonzo told Raila he can only penetrate Ukambani through Kalonzo and not the three governors. “Let it be known today that the lower eastern region is in full support of the BBI, but that direction will be given by one person, his Excellency Kalonzo Musyoka, any other road on the BBI in this region is null and void,” Wambua told mourners in the ceremony that was attended by Deputy President William Ruto. He was echoed by Kiema Kilonzo, who said that whoever wants to talk to the community on BBI should pass through Kalonzo. “There is no house that has no door, the door to the lower Eastern is Kalonzo Musyoka, even the head of state appointed him as his special envoy to South Sudan in that respect,” Kilonzo said. However, Kalonzo rebuked the two saying the region is open to all leaders for the BBI campaigns and political negotiations. The former vice President said he is a national leader and not a tribal king pin. “Just like I want to go to other parts of Kenya to talk to Kenyans and ask for their support in my Presidential bid, the same way Ukambani is open to any other leader to come and ask for our support,” said Kalonzo, who insisted that he will be a presidential candidate in 2022. The Wiper leader announced a major rally to campaign for BBI in Wote town in Makueni County early next month and invited the three governors, but said they were free to mobilize their own gatherings to campaign for the report. “The purpose of BBI is to unite Kenyans, but woe unto you if you are celebrating your tribe,” he said.