New Mathare United striker Dani Lual is keen to follow in the footsteps of his compatriot and Tusker's David Majak as he seeks to land his maiden call up to the South Sudan national team. Mathare snapped the player from Altabara FC on a three-year long deal at the start of the month and the lanky striker believes he will sparkle in the league like Majak and earn his first call up to the senior team. Lual, who prior to to signing with Mathare, had unsuccessfully tried his luck with Spanish side Valencia City, said playing in the Kenyan Premier League would unlock his dream of featuring in the senior team after graduating from the Under-20. Lual revealed that he will draw inspiration from Majak, who was handed his first call up to the national team against Equatorial Guinea in a 2022 World Cup qualifier match in September last year. Majak, who grew up at the Kakuma Refugee Camp from the age of 12 years , burst into limelight after clinching the 2018 Chapa Dimba na Safaricom Most Valuable Player(MVP) and would later pen a contract with Kakamega Homeboyz. His stay at Homeboyz was short-lived as he left for Mt Kenya United but settled at Tusker, where his goal scoring prowess paid off  after being named in the senior team. “I want to achieve what Majak has achieved for the short time he has been in KPL. I envy his success and I am hoping to follow his footsteps. I only watched him play once last year in the World Cup qualifiers and I was impressed with his performance which has been polished up by playing in the KPL. I have played in the U-20 team and I feel I am ripe to advance to the next level,” he added. Besides making it to the national team, Lual will be gunning to score more than ten goals in the remaining bit of the season. The towering player has played three matches against Western Stima, Kariobangi Sharks and KCB but he is yet to find the back of the net. He, however, hopes he will hit the ground running when they play Zoo Kericho this weekend. “I have adapted to the physical demands of the league and I have set a target of scoring more than ten league goals in the remaining matches. The Kenyan league is tough but I am catching up and soon I will discover my scoring instincts,”