The Mombasa government has renewed the contracts of four executives. The Commission for Human Rights and Justice had threatened to sue Joho for holding the county ransom. In a letter dated January 13, CHRJ executive director Julius Ogogoh said by delaying establishing a new CEC, the county was denying residents employment and services. The county government has been operating without a cabinet since last November 12, when the contracts of the 10 CECs expired after two years in office. Chief officers took charge of the dockets but their contracts are set to end at the end of the month, according to reports. On Monday, CHRJ gave Joho 14 days to appoint a new cabinet or face a legal suit. “We write to petition your office to appoint County Executives pursuant to Article 47, which grants the right to fair and expeditious administrative action,” Ogogoh said. The four whose contracts have been renewed are Taufiq Balala (now in charge of Water, Sanitation and Natural Resources), Mariam Mbaruk (retains Finance and Economic Planning), Godfrey Nyongesa (retains Environment, Waste Management and Energy), and Hazel Koitaba (retains Health). Balala previously held the Transport and Infrastructure docket. There had been speculation that his contract had already been renewed, claims denied by county director of communication Richard Chacha on Monday. “When anyone gets any letter of appointment, I will let you know,” he told the Star. Two weeks ago, Balala was spotted at the Inspectorate department, addressing workers after a go-slow. He is said to have directed the askaris to clamp down on motorists who break county traffic rules. The Mombasa county assembly on Friday held a special sitting to discuss budget estimates. But nominated MCA Fatma Kushe said the sitting had nothing to do with the appointments. She said renewing the executives' contracts "is like a new appointment” so “of course, they will have to be vetted afresh.” Chacha said more appointments will be made soon. On Monday, he promised residents that the appointments would be made before the month ends. He said, however, the lack of a substantive cabinet did not in any way affect service delivery. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya