A 43-year old mother stabbed her two daughters, her two sons and herself on learning her husband had married a younger woman. The mother, Mercy Anyango, had recently moved with her four children from Homa Bay to a rented house in Awasi township in Nyando, Kisumu county. The husband, who was not identified, was not with them. Anyango was a small-scale farmer. She was told by her neighbours that her husband had married another woman, triggering the crimes, police said. Anyango stabbed her children in the back before stabbing herself in the stomach. Neighbours said the children were crying and asked the mother to take them back to their father. The five were being treated at Jaramogi Oginda Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. The mother's condition was initially described as critical, the children's as serious. Hospital CEO Peter Okoth said the mother and children were all stables on Wednesday afternoon. "We are taking care of them. The mother arrived in a critical condition but now she is better. They will be discharged soon," he said. Nyando Subcounty acting deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said the victims were found at about 3pm on Tuesday following a tip-off from the public. They were first rushed to  Awasi Catholic hospital, then transferred to Jaramogi Oginga Odinda. Wanyoni termed the crimes sad. "Stern action will be taken against anybody attempting to commit suicide. They will face the full force of the law," he said Wanyonyi has advised residents to seek dialogue to solve conflicts and prevent violence, which is on the rise. "Resorting to violence or committing suicide will not solve any problems within families. It is a crime and action must be taken," he said. Wanyonyicalled on non-governmental organisations, churches and guidance and counselling officers to talk to the community against resorting to violence during conflicts. "Let them come forward and help with counselling residents. We must stop cases of suicide and murder in our society," he said. in another case, primary school teacher in Muhoroni subcounty also died after stabbing his lover Vivian Perez Ajwang before stabbing himself Wanyonyi, who is the Muhoroni subcounty DCC, said Peter Ongulo Ojayo, 43, also drank pesticide. He taught at Muhoroni primary school. The incident occurred in Kisumu Day Secondary School. "The two had just finished admitting their adopted son. They argued over a matter yet to be established. The teacher was rushed to Avenue Hospital in Kisumu where he died while the woman is admitted at Kisumu county hospital. Wanyonyi said the rise of suicide is largely attributed to economic hardship and stress levels especially in the month of January. (Edited by V. Graham)