The High Court in Eldoret will hear a succession dispute involving the 35 children of former MP William Murgor who are quarrelling over the Sh2 billion estate. The court had allowed the family to settle the dispute out of court through a mediator, but the process failed last December. The case will now be decided by Justice Hellen Omondi. Murgor, who was MP for Kerio Central, died on September 28, 2006, leaving behind five widows and the children. The widows are Soti Murgor, Rosa Kimoi Murgor, Rosaline Murgor, Anne Murgor and Philemona Murgor. He also left behind a vast estate, including more than 2,000 acres of farmland and commercial plots in the North Rift region. Daughters of the deceased, led by Enid Murgor, filed a case at the High Court complaining that some family members had been sidelined in the sharing of the estate, yet they had a right to benefit from the property. Keiyo North MP James Murgor is the eldest in the family. He was the first to testify in the case and was cross-examined by lawyer Phillip Murgor, who is representing Enid and the other aggrieved parties. Some siblings accuse the MP of taking over a larger share of the estate. Phillip told the court that the MP used a fake will to distribute the assets of the deceased, giving himself a lion's share. “Your honour, the will purportedly left behind by the deceased has been examined and proved to be fake and a forgery and hence it cannot be relied on at all,” Phillip said. The MP was put to task during the cross-examination to explain the authenticity of the purported will. The MP insisted that the will was genuine and had been penned by the deceased before he died. He also denied that as the eldest son he was head of the family, causing laughter when he said he was only the head of his own family that includes his children, wife and mother. “I have never been head of my father’s family at any time. My father was the head of his own family,” the MP said. The legislator has in the past been chairing family meetings as the eldest son at his Kapkoi farm in Keiyo North on how the estate that was left behind by their father should be shared. He said that did not amount to him being the head of the family. At one point, the MP and lawyer Murgor clashed during cross-examination, forcing Justice Omondi to intervene and cool down tempers. He urged the MP to respond to questions posed by the lawyer without being emotional. “Do not lose your temper and simply just tell court the truth because it is very easy. You don’t have to get angry at all,” Justice Omondi said. The MP further shocked the court when he said it was against the Keiyo culture to include girls in the distribution of the family property, arguing that they were reckless and were bound to squander it. He said they had allocated his sisters two acres each as part of the distribution of their late father’s wealth on condition that they should not build on it or sell the land to outsiders but only carry out farming activities. “Even if they wanted to sell the land, they can only sell it within the family in accordance with the wishes of our father,” the MP said. Among the assets at the centre of the dispute include a prime commercial plot located in Eldoret town CBD, which is valued at Sh400 million along with another prime piece of land in Iten town valued a Sh250 million. In her suit, Enid has sued the MP on behalf of other siblings for denying them part of the inheritance. “As his [the former MP] children, we have the right to benefit from the estate of our father,” Enid argues. Enid, who is daughter of Anne Murgor, argues that their father’s estate had been distributed discriminatoryly by the MP. “He favoured his own direct family and left other out other members of the family,” she says. She argues that the distribution was not in tandem with the Constitution, which provides for equality in such matters. Enid further complained that the widows had not been catered for appropriately in the distribution of the estate and noted that they were living in abject poverty. Justice Omondi adjourned the case to February 26, when the MP will be cross-examined again. 