The finance department is the backbone of the county government, making it a hot docket at City Hall. Recent events have put the finance docket under the spotlight, exposing the rot in the department. A county officer who sought anonymity said on Monday that the finance department is always under pressure because of money. "There is pressure from suppliers who want to be prioritized. MCAs have a lot of retreats and are always pushing to be paid allowances, which makes the office very busy with plenty of human traffic which sometimes affects delivery of administrative duties," the officer said. The finance office is at the centre of dealing with external auditors and the CEC appears before oversight agencies. Oversight following an audit is duplicated as the CEC is the first to be grilled by the Senate and then must appear before the county assembly to answer the same questions. "At any given time there is more demand for money than there is cash available. As a result people feel they stand higher chances of getting paid if they lobby," the City Hall official said. "Other times it is through proxies, including county assembly members. If the holder of the office is strict and a stickler for the law, that CEC will inevitably rub people the wrong way and they push for his or her removal,” the officer explained Governor Mike Sonko's numerous cabinet reshuffles have always affected the department, an issue raised by the wad reps who said it could hurt performance. Since Sonko's administration took over in September 2017, the department has had seven CECs, either substantive or in acting capacity. Vesca Kangogo was Sonko's first CEC for finance before she was replaced by Danvas Makori on February 26, 2018. In April 2018, Newton Munene was vetted for the CEC position but was never sworn in. Charles Kerich took over in acting capacity. Between July 2018 and early March 2019 Allan Igambi headed the docket. Last year in April, Winfred Kathangu took over until May when Kerich was gazetted as the CEC for Finance. After being suspended in September 2019, Pauline Kahiga was moved to the docket. Last Friday, the Government Printer reject a notice that had degazetted the appointment of Pauline Kahiga as finance executive from December 5, 2019. The CEO of the Government Press Mwenda Njoka said the purported notice was not in accordance with law. "The purpose of this letter, therefore, is to inform you and all relevant authorities that we have done an appropriate corrigenda in the Kenya Gazette, reverting to the status quo prior to notice number 172 of December 13, 2019," Njoka said. The county assembly budget and appropriation committee vice chair Patrick Karani said yesterday the Finance department is reluctant to fixing challenges especially those faced in revenue collection. "The county has money but the people collecting the revenue divert the money and as a result the money collected never reaches set targets," Karani said. According to the Utawala MCA , as of December 31, 2019 Sh3 billion was collected against a target of Sh6 billion. Karani said the assembly and the public were in the dark over the contract between City Hall and Noveta Ltd which collects the city's revenue. Noveta came to light when City Hall last year announced it would contract it and National Bank of Kenya for revenue collection. The county parted ways with JamboPay in June, 2019. "I can tel you from where the assembly sits, we do not know anything pertaining this Noveta, who manages it and how they collect the city's revenue. Such crucial information should be coming from the finance department but as lawmakers and people who pass the budget we are in the dark," Karani said. The legislator further said that the county treasury headed by the CEC for finance was involved in irregular use of public funds. "Having numerous directors of parking, market, revenue. So how is a director supposed to report to another director?" Karani asked. Ideally, he said, there ought to be one director of revenue and the others should be deputies reporting to him. The Nairobi City County Revenue Administration Bill 2019 which was passed in May creates the office of county revenue administrator, similar to the Kenya Revenue Authority. "The bill seeks to ensure all the inadequacies and capacity challenges that have led to low revenue collections are solved, but has never been implemented by the executive until today," Karani said. The assembly's budget committee vice chair said centralization of funds by the finance department hindered CEC oversight. "At City Hall, the chief officers don't have control over their departments due to political interference. The Public Finance Management Act gives them power and authority. The CEC for Finance should be able to hold them accountable on how money is spent but that does not happen," Karani said.