The body of a ten-year-old girl was found lying lifeless in Moisbrige town some miles to River Nzoia after it was dumped by unknown killers. The minor(name withheld)was abducted on Tuesday morning by unknown people and her body found lifeless and dumped at the railway crossing area miles from the River Nzoia. This occurs even after the area residents are still mourning college students who was butchered some few months ago. Speaking to the Star,  Sinoko Member of county assembly Antony Wabuge said that the police have in the recent past days not done enough to secure residents from murders and killers. "We want security in this area to be beefed up, last year Emmy Wanyotta was killed, now an innocent soul has been taken away, what is the function of the police, we want this person arrested as fast as possible," Wabuge said. The girl's uncle Gideon Manyonge said that the girl was heading to the shop when she was abducted and murdered. “My niece has died a bitter and painful death, we need justice, as we speak now the security in the area needs to be beefed up and the killers must be arrested for justice to prevail,” he told the Star. Her teacher Carolyne Namwalwa described her as hardworking, jovial and respectful and called on the police to arrest the killers. She was a jovial and good girl who was bright in academics, she was a visionary child. So far the area has seen the increased number of insecurity forcing the residents to cast doubt on the police and blame them for laxity. Last year a college girl, Emmy Wanyotta was murdered in cold blood and the family has since called the director in Public prosecution to make sure that the case in court against the killer whom they term as serial murder is locked up in cells. Commenting on the matter, Soy Sub-County divisional police commander Fanuel Nasio said the girl was defiled and then strangled. “The girl had been urged by her mother to buy super in Moisbrige town when she was abducted never to return at home,” he told the Star. He said that the investigations into the incident are ongoing and soon the culprits will be arrested and be drought to the corridors of justice. 