Lamu Old Town is no longer faces the risk of being delisted as a World Heritage Site by Unesco as earlier feared, the National Museums Of Kenya has said. Speaking in Lamu on Tuesday, NMK director of Antiquities, Sites and Monuments Purity Kiura said key mitigation measures had been put in place to ensure the heritage site is fully protected. Kiura said a recent visit by the World Heritage and Site Monitoring Mission Committee revealed the town is not in danger of being delisted. She noted that the government is keen on ensuring that all development projects in Kenya are cognisant of conservation measures to protect sites such as the Lamu Old Town. “Lamu has been on the receiving end from World Heritage Committee for a very long time and we’ve tried our best since we’ve had several reactive monitoring missions from World Heritage experts to generally check and see what’s going on." "They have raised issues with the Lapsset as well as the airport and its expansion. They also raised an issue with the cultural aspect of Lamu being eroded,” she said. She said they have put mitigation measures in place to guide on how the new development will be undertaken. "We can’t stop development but are doing everything to ensure all of them are in line with the protection of Lamu as a world heritage site," she said. Kiura said the NMK is working with Lamu county and other stakeholders in the development of a management plan specifically for the Lamu World Heritage site. “The old town was listed due to its cultural aspect and authenticity of the architecture. That is why we are working on a plan to help us conserve and protect what was enlisted,” she added. The town was listed as a World Heritage site in 2001 owing to its well-preserved culture and heritage spanning decades. It is the oldest and best-preserved Swahili settlement in East Africa, retaining its traditional functions. The World Heritage Committee has, however, numerously raised concerns over increased modernisation and development projects in the region, which pose a direct threat to the culture and heritage of the town. There have been concerns, for instance, that the Lapsset project will cause a population influx and subsequently cultural erosion and introduction of more western aspects. There have also been concerns on the entry of boda boda and Tuk Tuk vehicles that have joined the long list of factors that risk costing the town its listing tag by Unesco.