Gaudencia Makokha maintained her status in the national team ahead of the CAVB Sub Zonal (V) beach volleyball Tokyo Olympic Games qualifiers between January 9 and 12 in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Coach Sammy Mulinge named Makokha and former Malkia Strikers’ captain Brackcides Agala-Kenya One, while Phoscah Kasisi and Yvonne Wavinya make up Kenya Two. Agala, Wavinya (Kenya Prisons) and Kasisi (Kenya Commercial Bank) are all making their maiden appearance in continental beach volleyball (BVB). This makes Makokha the only experienced BVB player in the team following the knee injury that has sidelined Naomi Too from action the last two months. “I commend the girls, especially the newcomers who have mastered BVB skills fast. We are ready to stage a tournament-winning show in Dar,” said Mulinge. Prisons' Loise Tarus and KCB’s Mildred Wabwile were axed from the traveling party. The side, which has been training at the Flamingo Beach Hotel in Mombasa, will leave for Dar-es-Salaam tomorrow at 6.30am. They will be accompanied by Mulinge, assistant coaches Patrick Owino, Salome Wanjala and Kasuja Wanyonyi as the head of delegation. Makueni-based teacher Nzinga Kyalo was appointed by CAVB to officiate at the tournament. Meanwhile, teenage Sharon Jepkogei who was a late inclusion in the provisional squad was released from camp over the weekend to resume school this week. The 13-year-old class eight pupil at Soin Primary in Turbo was part of the National Olympic Committee of Kenya Elite Youth Program held in Lukenya Academy last month. From the camp, Jepkogei impressed Beach Volleyball Commission. “She has exceptional talent in beach volleyball and it’s my humble duty as a coach to nurture Jepkogei and other youthful players in line with BVB commission wider master program,” said Mulinge. The tactician said the BVB commission has an elaborate youth development programme starting this year. The programme hopes to develop players for 2022 World Youth Summer Olympic Games set for Dakar, Senegal and other FIVB age group competition in 2021. “We shall continue identifying young players across the country and having national camps during school holidays. It's my appeal to school coaches with potential young players to liaise with the federation in order to give them basic BVB skills in their youth,” he added.