More than 200 parents yesterday stormed the Kwenikab Ilet Secondary School at Ndarawetta in Bomet waving placards and chanting over the institution poor KCSE exam results. The 10am incident disrupted learning activities for more than two hours as the parents confronted the principal to explain why the school had perennially recorded poor results. Led by Andrew Bosuben, the group said it was a high time Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha transferred the school head. Bosuben said the principal had overstayed at the school and that he had a poor working relationship with the teachers. “There seems to be a lapse between the teachers and the principal and so to ensure better results in future we want the principal moved immediately,” he said. We are giving them an ultimatum of three days for him to pack and go, Bosuben said. Ann Chumo and Raston Korir said the school had normalised failure in the national exams, with little being done to check it. She said for the last 10 years the school's performance has been on a downward trend with nothing to celebrate about as parents hide their shame. "As other schools are celebrating the good results by their children we are left to contend with the shame that is why today we are saying enough is enough," she said. Village elder Joseph Langat accused the principal and the board of management of failing to convene a meeting with relevant stakeholders. “These people have never at any time invited us for a meeting to discuss ways of ensuring better results are achieved in this school that is why we blame them,” he said. During the 2019 KCSE, the school had a mean score of 2.6 while in 2018 it had 2.3. Out of the 41 candidates, one student had a B- while six posted Es. Those with C- were three, D+ (four), D (nine) and D- (18). School principal David Langat said for a school to post good results, there was a need for concerted efforts among all stakeholders. "This is a collective responsibility of all, I should not be the one to blame entirely if we all join hands we shall achieve our targets," he said. He said that with the need for a 100 per cent transition he has had to admit all students from the community regardless of their primary school scores.