The looming exit of Harambee Stars' trialist Mohammed Katana from Bandari will not affect their plan to retain the Betway Shield and have a respectable finish in the league. The search for greener pastures abroad has seen Bandari strive without the services of the youngster and are now ready to cash him abroad to the highest bidder. Katana, popularly known as ‘Messi Agige’ left for trials in Hungary in November last year and Bandari have revealed to have been approached by a handful of clubs for his signature. The coast side said they are not afraid of losing him ahead of their Betway Shield  title defence in February. The highly-rated attacking midfielder, who was part of the Harambee Stars provisional squad for the Cecafa Senior Challenge tournament held last month in Uganda, signed a one-year long deal with Bandari after his previous stint with Portuguese side Leixoes SC elapsed. However,  it is just a matter of time for the Aspire Academy graduate who scored the match winning goal on his debut against Zoo Kericho in September before he  returns to Europe. Bandari have confirmed to have received hard-to-ignore offers from different clubs in different countries. “Messi is as good as gone. We have received several deals from clubs who want his signature and we won't stand on his way. We would have loved to have him around but for the sake of his progression, we are left with no other option other than to sell him. His departure will not affect us in our bid to achieve a respectable finish in the league,” said team manager, Wilson Oburu. Meanwhile, Oburu disclosed that the Shield Cup holders will be hunting for a proven goal poacher in the ongoing player transfer window. Bandari have been firing blanks in front of the goal this season and Oburu believes a lethal finisher who will supplement efforts from the duo of Yema Mwama and Wycliffe Ochomo will inspire the club to retain the Shield and better their results in the remaining KPL season. “We have depth in our unit but the missing ingredient in our quest to defend the shield is a proven finisher. We are looking for a striker who can convert the many chances we create to achieve our objectives,” said Oburu. The dockers find themselves in a unfamiliar 11th position after 16 rounds in the season having garnered 18 points out of a possible 48.