Terrorist sponsors be warned. And errant police officers as well. This was President Uhuru Kenyatta's message on Friday. The head of state reaffirmed his commitment to fighting terrorism and corruption, which he said are intertwined. In a meeting with top security officers from all the regions on Friday at State House, Mombasa, Uhuru said terrorism remains the gravest national security challenge. He praised security organs for their efforts but said more needs to done, pledging more support for the sector. Uhuru said blocking funding channels used by terrorists is key to winning the war on terror. “Smuggling of contraband goods from neighbouring countries directly funds al Shabaab,” he said. The President said all loopholes used by smugglers must be sealed to put a stop to the financial streams of the sponsors of terrorism. “I expect more of the major sponsors of terrorism to be dealt with by ensuring they are listed nationally and internationally to curtail their ability to operate,” he said. The main targets now are terrorist groups' recruiters, the institutions used to recruit and radicalisation. Uhuru said the focus must remain on hotspot counties in Northeastern and the Coast.  “My administration will continue to modernise and equip our security apparatus,” he said. Apart from the hardware, human capital should also be rewarded for their input, Uhuru said. He ordered the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and other relevant authorities to immediately release all police officers' field allowances. “Mnakataa kuwapatia kwa nini [Why do you refuse to give them]?” Uhuru asked SRC chairperson Lyn Mengich. Mengich explained that the process is ongoing and the allowances will be released soon. Uhuru ordered the money paid by the end of January. Give credit where it's due Uhuru instructed Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to identify and reward hardworking and effective officers. However, those who fail to meet expectations and those who fall on the wrong side of the law will be sacked. “Ikiwa ni makosa jameni ujitayarishe kwenda nyumbani [If you are in the wrong, prepare to go home]. We will not be transferring corruption and other vices,” Uhuru said. For years, Kenyans have witnessed a dubious punishment for errant police officers—they are transferred to different areas. Uhuru said this does not solve any problem, something he will not tolerate. “Hakuna mambo ya kucheka na mtu sasa [No more joking around]. This is what I will do with you,” he told security officers. The President told the security officers bosses to be strict with the people working under them because he will be strict with them. “Do not carry someone else’s burden,” he warned. Uhuru said security operations to flush out terrorist operatives and sleeper cells in Coast and Northeastern must be increased. The two regions have received their fair share of attacks. Kenya has suffered a number of attacks in recent days, some targeting critical infrastructure. The President said the state will not be shaken and will remain firm in repulsing the attacks. “People of Kenya should rest assured that we shall respond robustly,” Uhuru said, adding that all counties must implement their county action plans to prevent and counter violent extremism. He warned against the silo-mentality (unwilling to share information among department) in addressing security issues. Uhuru warned that those who will not cooperate will be dismissed immediately. Matiang’i said 2020 will be a year of action—Kenyans should expect more neutralisation of threats, arrests, prosecutions and convictions of terror suspects. “We are only waiting for the final marching orders. This is going to be a year of action and implementation,” the CS told Uhuru. “We are present, prepared and ready to deliver on the work that you have given us.” The State House forum was the climax of a two-day security meeting to map out a security strategy for the year. Two years ago Uhuru directed top security organs to meet at the beginning of the year to review the performance of the previous year and prepare for the new year. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya