 A section of Murang’a leaders praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for regulating the agriculture sector. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said he will withdraw his case against the Kenya Tea Development Agency following the President’s directive to have the agency investigated. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari and his Gatanga counterpart Nduati Ngugi separately said the restructuring of the agriculture docket will go a long way in securing the President's development agenda. The leaders said the changes will boost farmers’ returns and stabilise the sector which has been struggling. Late last year, the Murang'a county petitioned the High Court to order an audit what was paid to farmers and the reason for a Sh2.1 billion compared to the previous year’s payment. Wa Iria said the President’s directive to also have the tea sector looked into was broader of dealing with tea issues. “In respect to the steps taken by the President, I have directed my lawyers to withdraw the case against KTDA,” he said. The governor also commended the President for his directive that there must be minimum guaranteed returns or tea farmers. This, he said, will cushion farmers from fluctuating prices. “KTDA makes huge profits which are not properly channelled to farmers,” wa Iria said. He also applauded the directive to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and EACC to move into farmers’ co-operatives and organisations to establish the integrity of officials and the marketers. “I once told the President that the problem in the coffee sector is in the co-operatives and unions where coffee is marketed and returns mismanaged,” he said. Kimari said the challenges experienced in the agriculture sector required radical changes. “I am very happy with the re-organisation of the tea sector and I hope the changes will be effected soonest possible,” he said. He welcomed the decision to support tea factories to engage in value addition as it will ensure more earnings for farmers. The MP said the out-going Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri had demonstrated his inability to support the President. “These changes were long overdue. You cannot be working in a government that you do not support,” he said. Nduati said the President’s move to restructure his cabinet was overdue. “The reshuffle was very good.  Anyone not supporting the President’s agenda should be removed. How can you be a Cabinet Secretary while propagating ideals of other people?” he asked. He said Peter Munya, the new Agriculture CS, is capable of handling the docket. 