A speaker's Kamukunji has been scheduled for Tuesday where MCAs will deliberate the ongoing Nairobi county crisis. This comes as the courts last month barred embattled Governor Mike Sonko from accessing his offices following charges of graft. He denies charges of wrongdoing. He has refused to name a deputy but once suggested fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna, who was deported but is returning this week. County assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi called for the Kamukunji of the house in a letter addressed to both the Majority and Minority leaders. "The Speaker of the Nairobi county assembly wishes to notify you that there will be a Kamukunji of all members of the county assembly on Tuesday, January 7, at 10am in the assembly chambers," the letter reads. "This, therefore, is to notify you and ask that you notify honourable members from your respective parties to attend this important meeting." The city faces uncertainties over governance as Sonko has been charged with graft, which he denies. For two years he has not named a deputy governor. The Constitution is silent on what should be done in the current situation. On Sunday, Speaker Beatrice Elachi told the Star that the meeting will be a guide in discussing urgent issues while the year is still new. "I felt it was prudent to have a speaker's kamukunji before the special sitting so that the members can first have a platform to discuss among themselves what needs to be addressed," she said. "The assembly is supposed to be on recess but the legislators are concerned with what next for the county. This is not about an individual nor about Jubilee or ODM party but the people of Nairobi." Elachi said she will gazette a special sitting likely to take place on Thursday at 2.30m. Minority leader David Mberia confirmed that the minority side of the house comprising Nasa-affiliated MCAs will attend. Mberia had written to the speaker twice asking for a special sitting — the last me on Christmas EvE —and had given Elachi a seven-day ultimatum to call for the sitting. He had wanted it held last year on December 31. "At least now we are heading somewhere because this kamukunji will help all legislators brainstorm and review what is happening in the county and which direction we need to take as the active arm of the county government of Nairobi," he said. The Karen ward rep stated that Nairobi county which has two arms: the legislative arm (assembly) and the executive which appears deflated as Governor Sonko was barred from accessing his office by the court ruling last month. "We cannot lie back and wait for other institutions or our brother from the upper house (Senate) to tackle our house issues. We want to take the bold step and try to bring a solution to the county because If we don't, the people who elected us will not forgive us," Mberia said. Majority leader Charles Thuo said Jubilee members would attend. A highly positioned Jubilee MCA who sought anonymity said the legislators were concerned about the functioning of the county, especially the executive. "We are all worried because the county is on auto pilot, with suspended staff and CECs meaning some departments are not functioning properly. The MCA cited the Planning department which he said is completely paralysed "after almost every staffer was sent home". "The kamukunji will help us know as MCAs which buttons to press to run the county," the ward rep said. The MCA further dismissed allegations of hesitating to accept the request for a special sitting and also extending the assembly sitting days, stating that everything had to be down according to the Constitution and the County Assembly Standing orders. "We had already extended for a week and, therefore, I could not extend the assembly further to avoid interference with the assembly calendar. For the special sitting, the first letter was vague and had not highlighted the main purpose for the sitting," the ward rep explained. However, both the speaker's office and Jubilee Party are waiting upon the advisory opinion from both the Attorney General's Office and the Supreme Court. Last week, Elachi confirmed that the Supreme Court stated the matter was among the priorities once justices return fro their break. Jubilee secretary general Raphel Tuju said he was certain that the AG will also respond to the party as well on the issue. Edited by R.Wamochie