Former East Africa girls' hockey champions Sinyolo and boys' soccer champions Barding are among the schools banned from this year's secondary school games for various offences. Sinyolo were banned for one year for fielding an ineligible player during the Nyanza Region Secondary Schools games at Homa Bay High School last year. The player, according to sources, did not meet the 90-day rule. Barding was slapped with a two-year ban for allegedly fielding ineligible players during the Nyanza  games in Kisumu last year alongside Kisii County's Gesero Mixed. Kisii School's rugby team was also sent packing for one year for fielding a player who did not conform to the 90-day rule during regional championships. Little known Simbi secondary received a two-year ban while the Principal got an even harsher penalty of five years. Nyanza Region Secondary Schools Sports Association acting secretary, Geoffrey Nyantika said he was aware of the bans but referred journalists to the Ministry of Education which imposed the sanctions. “Our office has been informed but action was taken by the ministry,” Nyantika told journalists at Kisumu Day High School during the ongoing three day clinic for referees and coaches. Nyanza Region director of Education Limo Chepkawai confirmed the bans  but did not reveal details. "The schools will not field teams in the affected disciplines," he added. In Western region soccer giants Kakamega High, St Peter's Mumias and Kibabii have also been banned for one year while in Coast, former East Africa champions Kwale Girls got a two-year ban for fielding ineligible players during Coast region games. At the same time, more than 1, 200 coaches and referees drawn from secondary schools in Nyanza region are gathering at Kisumu Day for a three-day coaching and officiating course. “We have top notch facilitators from various federations. This clinic is aimed at updating the referees and coaches on the changing trends in various games. This is very important for us before we start our championships next month,” added Nyantika.