 The EACC has summoned Nairobi county officials to be questioned following allegations of procurement irregularities in connection with the Sh350 million Dandora Stadium project. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak on Thursday wrote to acting county secretary Leboo Morintat asking him to facilitate the interrogation of the officials. Environment executive Vesca Kangogo and former finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi were expected to appear at the EACC headquarters at Integrity Centre. Urban renewal, housing and project management chief officer Marion Rono, M.M. Muiruri (acting deputy director quantity survey section), Preston Miriti (procurement officer) and Lydia Kwamboka ( County Attorney) will appear for questioning on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Patrick Mwangangi (head of supply chain management), Peter Kariuki ( deputy county secretary), Abdimutalib Ibrahim (Sports chief officer) and J.K M'riria (public works and transport chief officer) will be interrogated. Stephen G Mwangi Urban renewal, housing and project manager Stephen Mwangi, sports, culture and social services manager Rachel Ngigi will be quizzed on Thursday before the interrogations are concluded on Friday when Everlyne Kerubo (supply chain management), Muthoni Ouko (former Education CEC) and J.N. Muchina (acting assistant director for quantity survey will present themselves. The summon follows queries raised by the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority over the tendering process. PPRA recommended EACC to investigate the matter. "This commission is investigating allegations of procurement irregularities in tender number NCC/ED/T/193/2017-2018 for proposed construction and completion of 4No. Stadia awarded to M/s Scanjet Construction Limited during the Financial Year 2017/2018," reads Mbarak's dated January 9.   EACC took up the matter after the PPRA received a complaint on June 13 last year, claiming the contract awarded to Scanjet Construction Limited, with a cost for the construction of a concrete structure was irregular. It was alleged that the contractor put up steel structures in contravention of the specifications of the contract. The authority reviewed the project following complaints regarding the tender. A total of Sh1.03 billion tender was awarded to M/s Scanjet Construction Limited for the construction and completion of four stadia in Nairobi. They include Ziwani (Sh186.6 million), Kihumbuini (Sh250 million), Kawangware (Sh250 million) and Dandora (Sh350 million). The contract was signed in May 28, 2018 and was to be completed in 18 months. In a report signed by Francis Amayi, PPRA indicted the county government for paying Sh196.87 million to the contractor despite technical evaluators questioning the quality of work. “The Dandora contract was for the construction of concrete structures, however, the contractor supported by the officers at the county put up steel structures,” Amayi's letter to EACC says. In October last year, Governor Mike Sonko, through his communication officer Elkana Jacob, defended the project, claiming it had been sabotaged by politicians. Sonko has since been charged over the matter. PPRA flagged irregularities in awarding of the tender, forgery of documents, suspected irregular payments and alteration of contract specifications. The authority recommended investigations be carried in order to establish if the contract documents, including a cabinet memo that allegedly sanctioned the putting up of steel structures instead of concrete, were forged. “It is the authority’s considered opinion that the subject contract documents and the annexures attached to this report should be subjected to more investigations to determine whether they have been forged.” The stadium which is 85 per cent complete was meant to be launched last year. edited by p.o