 A Makadara court on Tuesday found a Mathare shopkeeper guilty of defiling a 12-year-old daughter of his neighbour. Kelvin Okelo Ouma was accused of committing the offence in 2016. Makadara senior resident magistrate Jackline Kibosia said the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that Ouma sexually assaulted the minor. "The upshot of this therefore, is that I do find that the prosecution has proved this case beyond reasonable doubt and do hereby convict him," she said. During the trial the court heard that Ouma defiled the minor on October 28, 2016 after luring her into his house in Mathare, Nairobi. He hid her slippers and locked the door before undressing the minor and committing the act. The mother said she was at home on that day. She said her daughter reported to her that she was experiencing so much pain. She realised the girl had pus and immediately rushed her to hospital where doctors said the girl had been defiled. Ouma denied the allegations and claimed he was being framed because of a grudge between him and the minor's mother. He said the woman had a debt incurred after she took items on credit from his shop. He claimed that five people, including the victim’s parents later stormed his shop and beat him up before they took him to a police station. Ouma claimed police demanded a bribe of Sh50,000 to free him but he did not have the cash. “This evidence was not corroborated. The accused person should have availed the credit book from the shop or any other document to prove that he was being owed. Since the shop was his, this document was easily available,” Kibosia ruled. “The accused further claimed he was badly injured by five people. From the record, the accused took plea on November 7, 2016 and the plea court was not informed of this fact as alleged by the accused.” A tearful Ouma asked the court to be lenient with him, saying he has a young family and that his wife had given birth a few months before his arrest. He said he was the first born in their family, hence has the responsibility of taking care of his siblings. He said he was remorseful for his action and claimed he had learnt a lot while in remand. Ouma will be sentenced on February 6 after the probation department tables his social inquiry report.  edited by peter obuya