Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has recalled all medical staff who were on leave after four people died following a malaria outbreak. Among those dead was a 14-year-old Form 1 student Vivian Kenei who had been admitted to Singore Girls High School. She complained of severe headache and fever and died as she was being rushed to Iten County Referral Hospital. She was buried on Saturday. There other three people including a child died at Arror Dispensary in Kerio Valley where another 20 students had been treated for malaria. In a statement issued by Deputy Governor Wisley Rotich, Tolgos said the medics should report back to help cope with a high number of patients seeking treatment. More than 600 people have been treated for malaria at hospitals in the county within the last week. “We have also dispatched drugs to the hospitals to ensure that all those seeking treatment are well attended to,” Rotich told the press. A spot check on dispensaries and health centres in the region indicated that there were many people seeking treatment for malaria. Most affected areas include villages along the border between Marakwet West and Tiaty constituency in Baringo. A shortage of staff has also been reported at hospitals in the region amid the ongoing outbreak. At Sangach and Arror dispensaries, there were only four health workers attending to more than 200 patients seeking treatment with malaria symptoms. “We have asked the county government to send adequate drugs because we have acute shortages due to the high number of patients,” area chief Timothy Limo said. Rotich said many people had been complaining of vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain before rushing to the hospitals for urgent medical attention. Medics have confirmed that most of the victims are suffering from malaria. “Our hospitals in Kerio Valley are working extra time to deal with a very high number of patients,” Rotich said. Rotich said that the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority had delayed supplying drugs to hospitals in the region, causing an upsurge in malaria cases. The county, he said, was in the process of distributing mosquito nets and was also taking other control measures in all affected areas. He said villages in Kerio Valley are the most affected and would be given priority in enforcing control measures.