Eleven-time Kenya Premier League champions Tusker FC could be without the services of Striker David Majak when they take on rivals Ulinzi Stars this weekend at Ruaraka Sports ground. Coach Robert Matano said the 2018 Most Valuable Chapa Dimba player, picked up an injury in training earlier in the week. He said the player  will be assessed ahead of the match before making the final decision. " As it is, I don't see him playing but the rest of the squad is in good shape," he added. Tusker  top the log having  collected 37 points in 17 matches. The brewers have won twice and lost three times against the soldiers in their last eight meetings. "Majak is struggling with an injury but there is still time to determine his availability. We will continue evaluating him to see if he will take part or not. We will prepare normally for the game bearing in mind the second leg is not easy as clubs have beefed up." Tusker lost by a solitary goal to Ulinzi in the first leg in October last year and herculean task await the two-time Super Cup winners who are enjoying a rich vein of form. The brewers have amassed 22 points from a possible 24 in their last eight matches. However, despite their winning spree, Matano is a worried man and expects a tough test from  the Benjamin Nyangweso tutored side. Even though he admitted that his charges cannot win every game, he challenged the playing unit to remain grounded. Matano opted not to comment on the team's chances of winning the Premier League title this season since their  last triumph in 2016 but chose to evaluate their performance. "Nothing changes at all. We are taking it one game at a time. I cannot talk about other teams but ours is to remain committed and focused and see what we can achieve at the end of the season. We have drawn against KCB and Western Stima and that shows you how hard it is to take maximum points in every match," remarked the 2017 GOtv Shield Cup winner with AFC Leopards. Tusker have lost twice, the second-fewest losses in the league alongside defending champions Gor Mahia, the bankers and the power men. Their Sunday opponents, Ulinzi, have only lost once and sit fourth on the table with 34 matches.