By Eliud Waithaka   @Waithaka06 Kieni MP Kanini Kega has reaffirmed that he was sent by President Uhuru Kenyatta to convey his condolences and deliver cash during the burial of the mother to Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua on Tuesday. Deputy President William Ruto was incensed and said he was the only person authorised to represent the President. Kanini criticised his colleagues for turning the burial of Martha Kirigo into a Tangatanga political rally after some leaders accused him of purporting to represent the President yet the Deputy President was present. Speaking on Wednesday in Tigithi ward, Laikipia, during the burial of former long-serving Kanu and TNA area chairman Christopher Maitho, Kanini explained to mourners that he was with the head of state at the Coast over the weekend. The President asked him to convey his condolences to the families of the Gachagua and Maitho. “The President sent me with Sh500,000 for each of the two families as his personal contribution towards the two burials. I was surprised when some leaders accused me of not telling the truth. I was very shocked,” Kega told the mourners before presenting the cash to the family. He urged leaders from Central region to stop acting as if politics will only be played in that region. “We seem to dictate who will become the next president forgetting there other regions in the country,” he added. Kandara MP Alice Wahome had accused Kanini of breaking protocol by purporting to represent the head of state at the funeral yet the DP was present. Other leaders present complained that politicians had turned burials in Central Kenya into political arenas. Former National Assembly Speaker Francis Kaparo urged leaders to turn down the succession politics and let the president implement his policies in peace. “I have been wondering why Central Kenya leaders are bothering the President. Are you tired after we gave you the Presidency?” quipped Kaparo amid applause. The former speaker also urged religious leaders to “get the devil of politics out of church” by blocking politicians from the pulpit. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi also called for an end to mudslinging. Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru called for the respect of the President and his deputy by all politicians. He said those attacking Ruto were also attacking the head of state since the two were an inseparable pair. “Let us not forget the friendship between Uhuru and his deputy Ruto, they were elected as a pair and still have a very tight bond,” Mariru said. (Edited by V. Graham)  