Marcus Rashford marked his 200th Manchester United appearance in style by scoring twice as the Red Devils returned to winning ways by easily despatching bottom-of-the-table Norwich. Rashford, 22, became the third youngest player to reach the landmark for the club and opened the scoring in the first half by stabbing home Juan Mata’s deep cross to the back post. United dominated possession throughout the game and were rampant in the second half, England international Rashford netting his second after Brandon Williams was brought down in the box by Norwich goalkeeper Tim Krul. Anthony Martial, who is also closing in on a double century of United games, rose highest to nod in from another inch-perfect Mata cross to seal victory before the hour mark. Full-back Williams should have scored for the hosts but somehow blazed his effort high into the Stretford End from two yards out with the goal gaping wide open, but Mason Greenwood came off the bench to stroke in a lovely fourth. Norwich’s best chance fell to midfielder Todd Cantwell at 1-0 on the stroke of half-time, but the England Under-21 international’s low curler was kept out by a stunning save from David de Gea. United move back into fifth place, five points behind Chelsea, while the Canaries remain rooted to the foot of the division, a long seven points from safety having played a game more than the three teams above them. United were comfortably beaten by Arsenal in their last league game, failed to get a shot on target in a match for the first time in five years against Wolves in the FA Cup and were outclassed by rivals Manchester City in the Carabao Cup on Tuesday. But this welcome victory for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side in a performance that was a throwback to the Sir Alex Ferguson day, in total control at Old Trafford and taking their chances against a struggling side. Rashford impressed up front by showcasing a wide array of skills, including putting defender Sam Byram on his backside with an outrageous ‘elastico’. He was ruthless in front of goal too, taking his tally to 63 goals for United.