Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) has unveiled a national Under-20 provisional squad of 43 players ahead of the Africa Championship. The dates and venue of the event also known as 'The Barthes Cup' will be announced by Rugby Africa in due course. The squad began training last week after series of trials held in Nakuru, Kisumu, Kakamega and Embu with the final trials being held in Nairobi. Head coach Paul Odera sais he is satisfied with performance of the players at the  trials. "It is good to see we have a lot of talent across the country and the boys are ready to learn. Our goal is to see which of the players we saw during the regions can step up and live up to expectations,” he said. During the trials, several players who featured for Chipu in 2019 were having their session in the gym as they are still eligible to participate in all Under-20 competitions this year,” added Odera. The team will have conditioning sessions every Tuesday and Thursday and have half-day camps at Peponi School in Ruiru on Sundays. Chipu, as the Kenya national U20 squad is referred to, are the reigning Barthes Cup champions after defeating Namibia 21-18 in the final in Nairobi in April last year. This victory earned them the right to represent Africa at the World Rugby Junior Trophy in Brazil, where they finished sixth overall. Kenya U-20 Squad Props: Andrew Siminyu (Jo’burg Uni), Ian Njenga (Nondies), Charles Kiarie (Alliance High), Emmanuel Mulaa (Oilers), Edward Mwaura (Oilers), Ian Masheti (Impala) Rotuk Rahedi, Collins Obure (Blak Blad) and Tariq Ngige (Impala);  Locks: Kevin Wekesa (Kabras), Frank Aduda (Impala), Thomas Okeyo (Nakuru RFC),  Ibrahim Ayoo (Oilers) George Wandera (Homeboyz); Back-row: Samuel Were (Oilers) Julius Kangethe (Murang’a RFC) Reinhard Mwalati (Homeboyz) Darrensheldon Kahi (Blak Blad) James McGreevy (Quins) Joshua Weru (Quins) Collins Indeche (Kabras);  NO.8: George Kyriazi,  Reagan Juma (KCB) Ian Wamalwa (Mwamba);  Scrum Half: Mweti Muriithi (Nondies), James Mwangi (Impala); Fly Half: Coulson Dominic (Uni of Exeter), Ashley Owain (Cardiff Uni), Fidens Onyango (Northern Suburbs), Amon Wamalwa (Homeboyz); Inside-Centre: John Okoth (Top Fry), Shem Oloo ( Suburbs), Brian Kimani (Top Fry),  Elvin Kolian (Nakuru High); Outside Centre: Valerian Tendwa (Kabras ) Myatt Taylor Thomas (Milton Abbey),  Samuel Mwaura (Top Fry );Left wing Jeremy Weru (Quins) Keith Omwoyo (Nyamira); Right Wing: Adam Nyamweya (Mean Machine); Lewis Mark (Vandals); Full-back: Matoka Matoka (Strathmore Leos),  Arnold Onzere (Homeboyz RFC) and Walter Onyango (Strathmore Lets). 