Farmers in Kirinyaga have been urged to take advantage of the Korean market. Last year, the Korean government's Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency cleared the exportation of green bananas and broccoli from Kenya. Kenya is among the world’s leading banana producers, with an estimated annual production of 1.1 million tonnes, while broccoli is in high demand among Koreans. Agriculture CEC Jackline Njogu said the export window is yet to be fully exploited. “We want to educate and empower our farmers to take advantage of the opportunity which, if well-coordinated, could improve their earnings,” she said. Stella Nyambura, a farmer at Difathas village, urged the county government to organise farmers to enable them to export bananas. “We have the crop in plenty but we don’t know which way to follow in order to benefit from the market opportunity in Korea,” she said. “For many years I have farmed bananas without much benefit but now that we will be able to export the commodity directly through an organised system, then this is one opportunity I cannot afford to miss." She said there already exists well-organised groups in Kirinyaga and Mt Kenya region that can be used for exports. Through funding from the county government, a banana nursery was set up in the county and growers were trained to tend the crop. Jane Wangechi from Kimwea in Gichugu constituency is in support of the export programme. She grows bananas on her three acres. Turning to bananas was one of her best decisions, she says. “Locally, a bunch of banana goes for Sh120 but we have designed a method where we weigh the bunches with a scale attracting about Sh150. You can imagine the money farmers would receive if we start selling our produce abroad,” she said. Wangechi is a member of Kimweas group, which has 60 members, 40 of whom are women. She says there are 206 similar groups in Kirinyaga although 120 are unregistered. Wangechi said many smallholders farmers, apart from growing the native varieties, have embraced tissue culture banana farming. Edited by R.Wamochie