A Milimani court has allowed the DPP to table the evidence of eight witnesses in Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s hate speech case. Further, the court summoned the witnesses whose statements mysteriously vanished from the police file in the incitement to violence case. The eight are National Youth Service Director General Nelson Githinji, Gatundu senior chief Joseph Njiraini, chief investigator Andolo Munga, CEC Kiambu county Micheal Karanja, coordinator Stima Kiambu county George Muhia, Kenya power employee at Kiambu county Bonface Wanyoike, Susan Maina and Patrick Ngwiri Kaagu. Senior resident magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot allowed the application by prosecution to introduce new evidence saying no prejudice would be incurred if they testified. "In the interest of justice, I allow the DPP's application to introduce new evidence and compel the attendance of the eight witnesses in the case against the Kuria," Cheruiyot ordered. Last week, DPP Noordin Haji through Kennedy Panyako asked the court to allow them to call the witnesses, submitting that the evidence they intended to introduce was important and would not prejudice the defense’s case. Panyako also sought the court to compel witnesses to testify as some had written letters indicating they were not ready to testify despite their evidence being crucial in the case. The court heard that the statements had been found at the National Cohesion and Integration Commission offices following a mistake in filing of the case. Following the loss of the statements, the investigating officer contacted the witnesses after retrieving the statements but all the eight indicated they were not ready. However, Kuria through lawyer Geoffrey Omenke opposed the application claiming it was a delaying tactic by the prosecution. “What the DPP is seeking is to reopen the case and introduce new evidence at the same time when four witnesses have testified in the case," Omenke said. He had objected to the application saying that it would be prejudicial to his client since the last hearing the DPP had indicated only one witness was remaining in the case which has been in court since 2015. In November 25, 2015, Kuria was charged with uttering words which indicated it was desirable to bring death and physical injury to persons in Kenya.