An extra 1,000 learners are expected to report to schools in Kerio Valley after peace was restored in most areas that had for years been affected by banditry. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, however, said security will remain tight to ensure schools and other institutions operate effectively. Leaders in the region have also urged parents to ensure that all children report to schools on Monday for first term. “We are happy with the return of peace in this region, and we expect a higher number of children to report to primary and secondary schools,” Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Education officials in schools along the Pokot, Marakwet and Baringo borders said many schools lack facilities to accommodate learners. “We expect more than 1,000 new learners, including many who had dropped out of schools due to insecurity, but we will have to do with the few facilities we have so long as children access education,” education official in Kerio Valley Paul Chesire said. Catholic Bishops in the North Rift have also endorsed a peace deal signed between the Pokot and Marakwet communities to help end banditry activities in Kerio Valley and reopen the region for development. Six months ago, the two communities signed a peace deal that was witnessed by DP William Ruto and other local leaders. Since then there have been very minimal attacks reported in the region Kitale Catholic Bishop Maurice Crowley and his incoming Eldoret Catholic counterpart Bishop Dominic Kimengich urged communities in the region to safeguard peace. The clergymen and Tolgos joined Christians and residents on Sunday at Kapsait for the annual peace prayers in the region attended by communities from both Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties. The prayers are meant to seek divine restoration and maintenance of peace along the borders of the two counties that have for decades engaged in banditry activities leading to deaths and destruction of property. Bishop Crowley asked the communities to continue fostering peace. He said peace should begin with individuals and households. “You should also safeguard the family unit and lead your children in the ways of God to prevent them from engaging in lawlessness that has caused suffering for many years,” he said. Bishop Kimengich has been appointed by the Pope to take over in Eldoret and he will be installed in three months time. He said he would also work with leaders and communities to foster peace in the region. Tolgos said the prevailing peace is an indication that the annual prayers were not in vain. He thanked the Church for not only leading the prayers but also spearheading peace initiatives on the ground. He said other churches had joined the peace process, citing the AIC prayers at Kalya at the border of the counties. "We should bring total peace to our county through the church and we shall involve all denominations in championing the peace we need,"  Tolgos said.