Attorney General Kihara Kariuki has asked the court to consider the immigration law on re-entry of Kenyan citizens into the country in the Miguna Miguna case. In his advisory opinion, the AG notes that the court should be alive to the factual circumstances on compliance, facts and context which might complicate it. Justice John Mativo on January 13 requested the AG to explain why the state has failed to obey court orders allowing the return of Miguna Miguna. “We submit that obedience of the court orders is one of the tenets of the rule of law and concept of court and ought not to be counter named in a constitutional democracy such as ours,” the AG says in the advisory opinion. The AG, however, submitted that the courts in seeking to enforce the rule of law should be alive to the context of every case based on the application of the law. “We submit that in the present context of the matter any consideration of disobedience of court orders is legally limited to the final judgment and the orders of the court issued on December 2018,” he said. On January 6, Justice Weldon Korir prohibited the state from interfering in any way whatsoever with Miguna Miguna’s entry into Kenya. “An order is hereby issued directing the Registrar of the High Court to release to Miguna’s lawyer or an authorised officer of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights the copy of his Kenya Passport currently under the custody of the Court for the use by Immigration Officers in his identification as a citizen of Kenya,” Justice Korir ordered. The court further issued an order compelling Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Director of Immigration Alexander Muteshi, Inspector General of Police, Hillary Mutyambai and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to facilitate his entry into Kenya. Miguna is however yet to jet back in the country with the state claiming it has no control of the situation and if his travel documents are processed, he could come back to the country Yesterday Miguna’s lawyer John Khaminwa protested the move to have the matter mentioned on March 23, saying it is very far away. While addressing the media, Khaminwa said the matter was mentioned at 9am yesterday yet it had been slotted for 11 am. “I was astounded because we did not expect such a thing to happen. This is a matter that is very important to Miguna Miguna and we had gotten in touch with and assured him all is well today,” Khaminwa said. He accused the counsel for the Attorney General of not being candid, saying that he should have explained to the Judge that the matter was to be mentioned at 11am. “We intend to make an application by way of certificate of urgency to try to persuade his Lordship to give us a very early date so that the matter can be mentioned and we canvass before a judge so that Miguna Miguna can return to the country urgently,” he said. 