The life of the late retired Justice Daniel Sultan Aganyanya is not a mere journey but an outstanding call to duty that saw him hear cases and pass judgments and rulings for 38 years. His career depicts a judicial officer who dedicated his life to dispensing justice independently and fearlessly even in the face of a strong and an over controlling executive arm of Government. He stood firm as a legal mind serving with dedication and a passion for a corruption-free and independent Judiciary. One of his boldest moves is when he defended his integrity and moral courage in his book, ‘The Judicial Purge 2003 – That Never Was’ where he painted a picture of a Judiciary in which judges were habitually compromised. His career as a judge is much more than the total sum of his achievements. His courage to fight for justice is evident in his decision to opt to face the tribunal during the purge on the Judiciary that had been initiated to rid the institution of corrupt judges. Judge Aganyanya successfully fought against accusations of misconduct and was eventually cleared of any wrongdoing and reinstated as a High Court Judge and later in 2007 appointed as Court of Appeal Judge. As a lawyer, his career speaks of a humble beginning as a teacher at a School of Law, modelling students of Law who evidently are now top lawyers in the legal professions. Even when he left the Law School to open a law firm in 1971, he served as an Advocate whose focus was to help his clients access justice. In 1974, his long career as a Resident Magistrate started at a courtroom in Kakamega, rising to a Senior Resident Magistrate. Justice Aganyanya was appointed Acting Puisne Judge in 1982 while serving at Kisii Court and confirmed in this position in December 1982 and posted to Kakamega High Court. Thereafter, he served in various High Court stations as Puisne Judge including,Eldoret, Kisii and Nairobi. In March 2003, he was appointed the Principal Judge of the High court. On the bench, he handled many matters ranging from daily matters to high profile cases and disputes such as the Robert Ouko assassination, the Julie Ward murder and the Goldenberg inquiry. In 2007, Justice Aganyanya was appointed a Court of Appeal Judge, a position he served in until his retirement in 2012. He passed on on January 17, 2020 leaving behind his widow, Court of Appeal Judge Lady Justice Roselyn Nambuye, several children and many friends in the Judiciary, the legal fraternity and beyond. The writer is the Deputy Director of Public Affairs and Communication, Judiciary