Just what became of Cabinet Administrative Secretary Ken Obura? The EAC and Northern Corridor Development CAS who once served as Kisumu Central MP has disappeared from the national limelight. The once vocal Obura who at one time wanted to be ODM secretary general is hard to see and hear from, not even in the pro-BBI rallies. Sources however whispered to Corridors that the former MP whose development track record was hailed as impressive has maintained a strong presence within his vast home county. There are talks he is plotting a big comeback in 2022. That the National Youth Service – in its characteristic nature, has always been at hand to respond to disasters and emergencies – some involving road repairs – is not new. However, they say a mother can feed her children till she forgets her hunger. This is the case at the NYS headquarters whose roads are riddled with potholes that are rendered impassable when they flood during the rains.  The sorry situation has remained the same for long. Probably ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru should take up with NYS director general Matilda Sakwa this as the takes over the docket from the Public Service and Gender ministry. An operative at the Council of Governors is shameless. The officer did not regret one of her worst actions on Monday at a CoG meeting at a hotel in Nairobi even after being prodded to apologise. The second cadre officer openly blocked some guests invited to the event at Movenpick Hotel from having lunch despite them having been invited to the event. She said that lunch was only for governors and secretariat employees. Ironically, CoG vice-chairman Mwangi wa Iria had earlier cut short the sessions and invited all the guests for lunch before the programme could continue. At some point, the officer stood guard next to the cocktail serving area keeping vigil against her 'uninvited' guests. Those worst hit included bodyguards and aides of governors. Some of her colleagues were overhead holding her behaviour in contempt. Why she decided on who would serve for lunch and would not is suspect even as rumours swirled that she was up to no good in one of the worst conducts of a public officer. A county assembly speaker who was recently at the centre of violent confrontation at the institution could be staring at impeachment. Some MCAs have intimated to Corridors that they are planning to remove the speaker for causing ‘suffering and pain’ to them. They say their insurance cover has been stopped after the assembly failed to remit the money to the firm covering them. This, they said, has been caused by the ‘forced’ removal of the clerk by the speaker, thus disrupting operations in the institution. Some of the MCAs say they have been forced to pay for their medication out of pocket, a situation they said they cannot stomach any more.