The Huduma number is lawful, a three-judge bench has ruled. Judges Pauline Nyamweya, Mumbi Ngugi and Weldon Korir on Thursday ruled that there was public participation before the programme was rolled out. "We find that the advert published on May 7 2018 was sufficient enough and there was enough time for public participation," they said. "It is clear that the public were given sufficient time to give their views on the said programme." The Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC), the Nubian Rights Forum and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNHCR) had filed cases challenging the platform. The cases were consolidated. They sued the Attorney-General, the Interior and ICT CSs, the Director of National Registration and the Speaker of the National Assembly. The judges also said that other than the DNA and GPA coordinates, all the information collected by state from Kenyans was necessary. KHRC had said there was no way of ensuring data collected from Kenyans was protected. However, the judges said personal data can be collected, including children's personal data. "The child needs to consent to giving out their personal data and in cases where they can't consent, a relevant person should consent to that information being issued to the state. But we still maintain that the legislative framework relating to children's information is inadequate," the judges ruled. The judges said the state is at liberty to proceed with NIIMS process and use the data collected according to the law. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a mass registration of Kenyans into the National Integrated Identity Management System-NIIMS, better known as Huduma Namba on April 2 last year in Machakos county. The mass registration was to take 45 days with a target of capturing 40 million Kenyans on the system. The Sh7.5 billion project was among the government drives which opposition leaders rallied behind. The rollout was to have Kenyans' data captured in biometric kits and have data under a single national conservator. The process was also to enable the government to deliver its services to Kenyans efficiently and to ensure that its plans are effective. The government said that the database would inform planning for equitable resource allocation necessary for national development initiatives and key decision making. 