 Northeastern leaders are now seeking to rally residents behind security forces in a new strategy to defeat terror. They said locals have been hoodwinked to turn against the state by militants who claim the government is their common enemy. Mandera Governor Ali Roba on Friday said the trick had been reinforced by police who often terrorise locals during their security operations. Roba said militants were capitalising on police brutality to manipulate residents into believing their problems are caused by Kenyan security forces. “Al Shabaab has managed to create a situation of distrust and resentment of our own security forces reinforcing the message they preach to the locals that they are not the enemy, but the Kenya government security is the enemy. This means double tragedy for the locals. Fear of the al Shabaab and our own security forces,” Roba said. On Friday, the leadership of the three counties held separate meetings to address the insecurity menace in the region. They said ‘enough is enough’ and asked locals to work with police to combat terror attacks that have threatened to cripple education, health and the economy. The three meetings held in Garissa, Wajir and Mandera towns resolved that local solutions were the way to defeat terror. There have been heightened attacks since December last year. Al Shabaab militants waylaid a Mandera bound bus in Kotulo, Wajir county and killed 11 non-locals. On January 7, four pupils at Saretho Primary School in Dadaab, Garissa were shot dead by the militants. A week later,  three non-local teachers were killed in Kamuthe in Fafi subcounty of Garissa, forcing the Education Ministry to withdraw all non-local teachers from towns bordering Somalia. Last Friday's meetings were attended by the respective county security bosses, current and past political leaders, religious leaders and elders.  Roba said al Shabaab was imposing economic sanctions and killing the fabric of the society by targeting schools, health sector, businesses, development projects and isolating the region from the rest of the country. "They are creating a very bad image of ourselves and our region as a whole," he said. He said the problem had been compounded by the infiltration of al Shabaab terror cells suspected to be led by locals. “One is left to wonder, how can one win against an enemy fighting in your backyard, aided by one of your own, whose targets are unknown, motives of fighting you is unknown, an enemy whose strength is unknown? The above coupled with our herders adopting the approach of ‘hear no evil and see no evil attitude’ and by extension ‘don’t touch me and I don’t touch you attitude’ which has given safe passage for militants within our settlements,” Roba said. Garissa Governor Ali Korane said the time for blame game was over and that homegrown solutions to end the al Shabaab menace must be found. “Locals have a bigger role in the fight against terror. It is not time to engage in blame game but come up with workable proposals that we are going to share with national government security agencies,” Korane said. Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said it was time for the leaders and the locals to stand up against al Shabaab. “The attackers’ incessant aggression has paralyzed service delivery in virtually all the border towns that have degenerated into ghost towns. Education, businesses and health services have been greatly affected following the mass desertion of the local and non-local service providers in the affected locations. The intention of the heartless insurgents is to instill fear in the residents and penetrate further into the interior so as to make the entire Northeastern region ungovernable and non-productive,” Abdi said. He said fighting al Shabaab should be an everyday business and both leaders and the community must be united. The meetings resolved to continue sharing actionable intelligence with security officers and demanded that such intelligence be acted on immediately. They also resolved to reinforce the mind and heart campaigns to deter new recruits by al Shabaab and to build rapport between the security agencies and the public. Other resolutions include increasing plain-clothe intelligence teams embedded within the communities, need for more National Police Reservists in areas that are understaffed. The meetings also agreed that individuals suspected to be members of al Shabaab groups, relatives and sympathisers will be smoked out.  edited by peter obuya