President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to put aside their ethnic, cultural, political and religious differences and embrace unity for the country’s well-being. In his New Year’s message, the head of state called on Kenyans to shun bipartisan practices and negativity that have held back the country’s progress. “Even as we accept that despite the progress there are still challenges that we must overcome.  True as it may be, so true is that the remedy cannot be recrimination and confrontation,” Uhuru said. Cognizant of the problems the country faced in 2019–dwindling economy and high cost of living–Uhuru urged Kenyans to preach and sell positivity and create hope for a better 2020. “We cannot preach and sell negativity while at the same time pray to create hope for opportunities,” he said. An opinion poll conducted by research firm Trends and Insights Africa last month indicated that nearly half of Kenyans decried 2019 as a bad year that was full of broken dreams. Most cited a high cost of living and unemployment as some of the challenges that pushed them to the wall during the year. But the President urged Kenyans to be positive and turn the challenges into opportunities and hope. “By us together accepting our challenges should form the basis for division but rather a clarion call of how we must come together in order to turn the challenge to opportunity and prosperity,” he said. “Those opportunities will require unity, commitment and bipartisanship for us to be successful in our quest to enhance inter-generational equity." He pledged to fix the problems of unemployment, poverty, hunger, inequality and poor health through his legacy-defining programmes– the Big Four Agenda which include Food Security, Affordable Housing, Manufacturing and Job Creation. He reiterated his commitment to fostering an environment of unity, constructive political engagement, tolerance and the facilitation of participation by all Kenyans. Uhuru rallied Kenyans behind the Building Bridges Initiative birthed by the handshake between him and ODM leader Raila Odinga, saying it will address challenges faced by counties. “A key aspect of this quest will be anchored under the BBI, a process aimed at comprehensively addressing both historical injustices and emerging national challenges." Edited by R.Wamochie