Rafa Nadal’s immediate focus may not be on matching great rival Roger Federer’s tally of 20 Grand Slam titles, but the Spanish world number one would go one step closer at the Australian Open today with a win over Federico Delbonis. The French and U.S. Open champion opened his campaign Down Under with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-0 demolition of Bolivia’s Hugo Dellien and will again be the overwhelming favourite in his second-round match. Argentine Delbonis has not taken a set off 33-year-old Nadal in three previous meetings. “If I am able to reach my highest level, that’s the thing that I have to worry about,” Nadal told reporters. “So, I don’t care about 20 or 15 or 16 (majors). I just care about trying to keep going, keep enjoying my tennis career.” Local favourite Nick Kyrgios resumes his quest for a maiden Grand Slam against French veteran Gilles Simon, while fourth seed Daniil Medvedev squares off against Spanish qualifier Pedro Martinez and 15th seed Stan Wawrinka faces Andreas Seppi of Italy. Women’s fourth seed and two-time Grand Slam winner Simona Halep, who overcame a wrist injury scare to beat American Jennifer Brady 7-6(5) 6-1, will hope her second round clash against British qualifier Harriet Dart will be less tense. Spain’s Garbine Muguruza hope she is fully recovered from a virus before she meets unseeded Australian Ajla Tomljanovic while Czech second seed Karolina Pliskova takes on Laura Siegemund of Germany. Elsewhere, Serena Williams overcame an erratic performance at the Australian Open on Wednesday to beat Slovenian Tamara Zidansek 6-2 6-3 and advance to the third round. The 38-year-old American, who is bidding for a record 24th Grand Slam singles title, was hardly troubled in the first set as she broke Zidansek twice to wrap up the opener in just over half an hour. But the 70th-ranked Zidansek put up an impressive defence in the second set, saving seven break points as an increasingly frustrated Williams racked up more than a dozen unforced errors. Zidansek, however, could not keep up the resistance and Williams clinched the victory with a cross-court forehand winner to set up a meeting with China’s Wang Qiang.