Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba is ‘desperate’ to play after having his ankle cast removed following surgery earlier this month but there is still no timeline for the Frenchman’s return, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has said. The 26-year-old has made only eight appearances in all competitions this season having been sidelined for three months earlier in the campaign before deciding to undergo surgery. “Paul’s had a terrible season with injuries, he’s desperate to play football,” Solskjaer said ahead of last night’s League Cup semi-final against Manchester City. “It’s hard to put timescales on long-term injuries ... he loves playing and he loves just being out there training as well, and it’s been playing on his mind. I see a boy that is fed up of being injured ... Paul has always been a top professional. I don’t have any doubts when he comes back he’s going to enjoy himself,” Solskjaer added. Meanwhile, the Cheshire home of Manchester United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward has been attacked by a group chanting that he was ‘going to die’. A video posted on social media showed an individual throwing a red flare over a large gate, while others sang songs aimed at the 48-year-old. Woodward, who is married with two young children, was not present at the time. Manchester United said anyone committing a criminal offence or trespassing will be banned for life. A club statement added: “Fans expressing opinion is one thing, criminal damage and intent to endanger life is another. There is simply no excuse for this. We know that the football world will unite behind us as we work with Greater Manchester Police to identify the perpetrators of this unwarranted attack.” Woodward has been the subject of growing supporter discontent at United in recent weeks. Manchester United sit fifth in the Premier League ­— 33 points behind leaders Liverpool - and Woodward has been the target of blame by many fans. Both at the recent home game against Burnley and Sunday’s FA Cup victory over Tranmere, supporters have sung the same song about Woodward and made repeated calls for the club’s owners, the Glazer family, to leave. The incident is reminiscent of another attack, in 2004, on the car of then club director Maurice Watkins, whose shares ended up being bought by Malcolm Glazer as his bid for the club gathered pace. Woodward advised Malcolm Glazer and the Glazer family during its successful takeover of the club in 2005 before being recruited as a senior member of staff.