Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has changed tune on his support for the Building the Bridges Initiative and the push for a referendum. He said all politicians are in support of BBI and that political rivalry over issues should end. Murkomen spoke on Saturday at the BBI rally at Mama Ngina Waterfront Park in Mombasa. "It's the first time in history for politicians to sit on one dias and have a common stand," Murkomen said. He added, "It is no longer about us verses them, we are united. We've all agreed that referendum is a must." There were cheers from crowd when he acknowledged Raila as "Baba." He said history has been made in Mombasa where leaders have buried competition. "Coastal problems should be solved by leaders, not written in books to go gather dust at shelves," Murkomen said. He was the only legislator from the camp associated with Deputy President William Ruto, who addressed the public. James Orengo (Siaya) and Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) also said the only way to implement the BBI report is through a referendum. Wetang'ula said the country should pass the BBI resolutions before the end of the year. The Ford Kenya leader added that BBI will be the solution to the chaos Kenya faces during almost every General Election. He said the resolution will be passed through a referendum. "I have read the BBI report and the referendum is inevitable. It must be done in order to implement these matters," Wetang'ula said. Wetang'ula added that the problem facing people at the Coast region will be dealt with by BBI. Murkomen also said the referendum will be needed to unite Kenyans and end the 'us versus them' culture. He said the resolution passed by the Coast, including the Prime Minister post will be achieved through the referendum. "Lazima twende referendum ndio Wakenya wajipatie viongozi wanaowataka" Murkomen said. This loosely translates to, "We must have a referendum so that Kenyans get the leaders they want." Orengo also said a referendum is inevitable. He has previously called for a referendum as early as July.