The Kenyan swimmers angling to represent the country in Tokyo can afford a smile after the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK) revealed that the wrangles bedevilling the federation will not affect their participation. The swimmers risked being locked out of the Olympics after the International Swimming Federation(FINA) suspended the Kenyan Swimming Federation(KSF) for failing to put their house in order. The global body had issued ultimatums to KSF to hold elections in June and October last year but the latter failed to meet both deadline,  attracting the wrath of the world body who who suspended their operations. In a statement, Fina banned the national federations of Kenya and Federal States of Micronesia, until ‘proper’ elections are held in accordance to Fina rules. The decision was earlier deemed as a blow to the swimmers who have wildcards to the competition. Kenya has already named a provisional squad of four swimmers who will be muscling for the two slots set aside for the team. The four are Emily Muteti, Issa Abdulla, Danilo Rosafio and Maria Brunlehner. KSF last held their elections in 2014 and their activities have in the last two and half years been manned by an Interim Management Committee (IMC) under the watch of the Sports Disputes Tribunal. The federation has endured a rough patch as the push and pull among  parents, coaches and officials continued unabated. Nock sSecretary general, Francis Mutuku, revealed that his office has powers to enter athletes to the championships should the federation fail to comply with Fina rules in the next three months. “The advantage we have is that we have the right to enter them for the competition should the federation fail to put their house in order. They have three months to organise elections in accordance to the law but if they will not manage, we will admit them for the Olympics. There should be no cause for alarm as the two swimmers are safe,” he said Mutuku further confirmed that the leniency will also be extended to other federations who apparently have leadership wrangles or have been sanctioned by the international governing bodies. “We will go beyond swimming and assist our athletes to participate in the competition,” added mutuku who is also Tennis Kenya, vice chairman.