Fast-rising Marius Kipserem, Gideon Kipketer and Vincent Kipchumba have been added to the London Marathon field slated for April 26. Kipserem won the Rotterdam Marathon and Abu Dhabi marathons last year. In Rotterdam, Kipserem clocked 2:06:11 to win the race while in Abu Dhabi,  he posted 2:04:12. Kipsrem was one of the 40 athletes who paced the world martahon record holder Eliud Kipchoge on his way to breaking the sub two-hour barrier in Vienna, Austria in October. Kipsrem will be hoping to be included in Kenya's Olympic marathon squad for the 2020 bonanza in Tokyo later in the year.  Gideon Kipketer also joins the competitive field for the most prestigious city marathon. Kipketer won the Mumbai Marathon in 2016, clocking 2:08:35 and finished third at the Chicago Marathon in 2:12:20 in 2016. Kipchumba was victorious in winning the Amsterdam Marathon last year, posting 2:05:09 as well as Vienna , where he registered 2:06:56.  The trio face a stern test to win London title with defending and Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge seeking  a  record fifth title in the English capital. Ethiopia's duo of Mosinet Geremew and Mule Wasihun, who finished second and third last year, return, seeking to spoil Kipchoge's party. Geremew, 27, ran the fifth fastest time in history of 2:02:55 to take second place behind Kipchoge in last year’s race and then had to settle for second again in his next marathon, the 2019 World Championships in Doha last October. Wasihun’s time in finishing third at last year’s Virgin Money London Marathon (2:03:16) was the 11th fastest marathon the world has ever seen. Shura Kitata, who was fourth last year and second in 2018, has also been confirmed, leaving no doubt about Ethiopians' threat for kipchoge in London. Spencer Barden, head of Elite Athletes, said: “Last year’s  London Marathon elite men’s race was one of the best races we have seen for many years. Mosinet Geremew and Mule Wasihun pushed Eliud Kipchoge as hard as I have ever seen but ultimately could not hang on to the great man in the final two miles. But they will have taken confidence from last year and will come back this time round looking to cause a real shock.” 