African states have to pool their resources to mitigate the effects of climate change, Environment CAS Mohammed Elmi has said. Elmi said the country is on the right track in mitigating effects of climate change, "though more has to be done". “But we cannot do it as a government alone. We all have to work together as Kenyans and as Africa because the effects of climate change are adverse and affect all of us,” he said. The country is ranked among the top six in producing renewable energy. “We are way ahead of most of the other countries,” Elmi said. The Environment Chief Administrative Secretary spoke during the 54th Greater Horn of Africa Climate Outlook Forum at PrideInn Paradise Beach Hotel in Mombasa on Tuesday. Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre climate mitigation officer Timothy Ranja said Kenya is among the leading countries in Africa that have done well to curb global warming. He said most of the manufacturing companies in the country are trying to ensure their production processes do not affect the environment adversely. Cement manufacturing, for example, is one of the energy-intensive industries in Kenya, producing a lot of carbon dioxide emissions. “In the region, it is considered ahead of the other countries. Kenya has a strategy and an action plan. Recently, Kenya had legislation and a secretariat at the ministry dedicated to mitigating effects of climate change,” Ranja said. He said most companies in Kenya either do afforestation and reforestation apart from trying to use the latest technologies that ensure less emission of carbon. However, lack of capital to invest in technologies that lead to lower carbon emissions has been one of the biggest barriers in the campaign against climate change, Ranja said. “We are doing sensitisation programmes and linking up with those financial institutions that help heavy emitting sectors access funds from the global carbon platforms in order to help them transit to a low emission carbon pathway,” He said manufacturing companies need to start using energy sources that are more efficient to reduce carbon emissions. He said though the whole of Africa’s contribution to climate change is less than four per cent, it would be ideal if this was reduced to zero.  Edited by R.Wamochie