The government targets to wipe out locusts in North Eastern Kenya within two weeks, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said on Saturday. He said the eradication is being coordinated in Ethiopia. “But as a county, we have done our best and we are working with other ministries and departments  which include the Interior, Kenya Defence Forces, Environment and Agriculture among others and we have made the first move,” he said. The CS said surveillance has been going on in the last two weeks to establish where they spend their nights. He said it is difficult to spray them during the day or when feeding and the only way is to target them at night when they are resting and when they are laying eggs. He said the government will use low flying aircrafts to spray the locusts. “The aircrafts to be used in the fight are ready and the Ethiopian government is also ready to work with us to fight the menace,” said the CS in Kiswahili. He called for patience among Kenyans adding that locust invasion is rarely witnessed in the country but expressed hope that in a week or two, the government will have addressed the issue. Kiunjuri spoke at Gituamba area in Kieni East Sub-County, Nyeri County, during the burial of Pharis Gitahi, 96, who is the father of Ngobit MCA Robert Maina. Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna on Saturday said 3,000 litres of chemicals have been acquired and have been ferried to  Wajir, Marsabit and Mandera. According to Oguna, the spraying, which started Saturday, also entails the use of hand-held sprayers on the ground, which are being handled by only authorised personnel from the ministry. Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi and Eldas MP Adan Keynan also called on the government to move with speed and contain the invasion. The leaders warned of a looming humanitarian crisis, if measures are not taken to stop the spread of the locusts. Abdi, who was addressing the press in Wajir town on Sunday, said the more the government delays in its response the more the locus will cause more destruction. “The desert locusts are known to devour each and every green vegetation on its path. We are starring at a disaster if the government does not intervene now and quick,” said Abdi. “I am requesting his excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta to extend an helping hand to the international community who have the expertise in  dealing with the desert locust. The joy of green plenty pasture, water and vegetation for our pastoralist could turn into desperation if we don’t act now,” he added. Early this month, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) warned that desert locusts, which had hit Ethiopia and Somalia, would spread to other Eastern Africa countries including Djibouti, Eritrea, Kenya and South Sudan if early and sustained measures were not taken. According to FAO, the locusts have damaged about 70,000 hectares of farmland in Somalia and neighboring eastern Ethiopia. The insects reproduce, concentrate and then form swarms that can move up to 150 kilometers per day in search of food. The governor said that the desert locusts invasion could result in drought, famine and hunger. “We just came out of a drought cycle to a heavy rain season and if we cannot deal with these locusts then we shall be talking of another drought cycle in no time,” he noted. Kenya livestock marketing council chair Dubat Amey, said that the government should mobilise all its resources and stop the spread of the locusts. “If this does not happen then the country could be daring at a disaster that will take years to reverse. I am equating this to an invading foreign army that we must face head on lest its destroys the economic gains we have achieved for years,” he said.