They say you can run but can't hide forever. The lies of last year are coming to haunt those who promised us a bridge to harmony and stardom. While doubts were raised on how the vehicle intended to unite the nation was turning to be an exclusive club of two men, we were assured they had the best interests of the people at heart. However, everything has now come full circle, no more hiding...the fangs are all out and even subtle messages are no longer disguised. Anyone who still doubted that the entire BBI process and the handshake was a political ploy to be used as a political platform by those who think they are a rank above other Kenyans, Friday's Kisii meeting was a perfect answer. One only needs to go for the speeches of the attendees and the line of messaging to paint a clear pattern of people hell-bent on actualising a political formation they promised but using taxpayers' money while disguising the entire event as educating the public. There's no task force currently as the one led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji lapsed when they submitted their report to President Uhuru Kenyatta. There is now a mere intention by President Kenyatta to form another one — though with the same people — to spearhead what they loosely call Phase Two of the BBI. This team is to be backed by a team of experts. Its agenda and purpose will only be gauged when the President follows his intent by gazetting their names and their terms of reference. As it is, there is only a report that was launched at Bomas of Kenya last year. That report remains a mystery to Kenyans, who despite being told to read it for themselves, are yet to see the copies of the same. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed, who happened to be the MC for the launch event, intimated that the report had been read by his political godfather but other speakers differed, instead asking Kenyans to read and understand. He, however, seems to have been vindicated. Now that we don't have the BBI copies more than a month after the launch, and taxpayers' money being used to campaign for an uncontested document, one can only conclude that they are forcefully executing their nefarious schemes, protest or no protest. The writer is economic and political analyst