The killing of three teachers yesterday in Garissa county by al Shabaab as those charged with the responsibility of protecting Kenyans are busy popularising the BBI report must be condemned in the strongest terms possible. The Constitution is clear about the protection of lives and property and it is annoying that those charged with the security of Kenyans are busy engaging on matters that have no direct impact on their lives. This is a clear indication that Kenyans are being subjected to untold suffering because of misplaced priorities by the government. Several ugly incidences have taken place in the recent past, including the loss of more than 100 lives to floods, with West Pokot being the most hard-hit as more than 70 people died and others are still unaccounted for. To worsen the situation, the government has not come out clearly to take measures to ensure such incidents do not recur because it is giving more focus to the BBI. Any government that fails to protect the lives and property of its citizens has no business being in power because it has failed in its constitutional mandate. It is unbelievable that resources are being wasted on BBI that no one has objected instead of using such funds to fight terrorism, cattle rustling among other criminal activities. In my observation, since Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was made a ‘Super CS’, cases of insecurity have  skyrocketed because he is busy on matters not related to his docket at the expense of ensuring Kenyans' safety. President Uhuru Kenyatta should take charge of security matters of this country and stop the assumption that all is well when innocent lives are being lost to terrorists, cattle rustlers, bandits and carjackers, among other criminal gangs. We have had several cases of terrorists’ attacks on non-locals in northern Kenya, including the recent killing of police officers and the government behaved as if nothing happened. In case the President doesn’t trust any other leader to spearhead the handshake and the BBI, then he should appoint Matiang'i as Special Cabinet Secretary in charge of the Handshake/BBI and give Kenyans another person to deal with security. Kenyans from other parts of the country who thronged northern Kenya to get employment opportunities and take care of their families are now running away, fearing attacks by the al Shabaab terrorists. The current regime should learn from the tenure of retired President Mwai Kibaki, which was economically stable and secure. The fact remains that the handshake and BBI are dividing Kenyans along ethnic and political affiliations. It is because of the handshake that the country is seeing a situation where there is a selective war on corruption and arbitrary arrests of leaders perceived to support Deputy President William Ruto. The government has no option but to protect the lives of Kenyans and their property as enshrined in the constitution. Kericho