Divorces among gospel artistes are on the increase over reasons such as infidelity, cruelty, among others. Below are gospel artistes who are divorced. 1- Betty Bayo Betty, who was married to the famous pastor Kanyari, divorced the man of God after he was exposed for pretending to perform miracles yet he wasn’t. The gospel artiste is known for her hit ’11th hour’ had distanced herself from her prophetic husband and she has now moved on even though the two have kids together. Betty Bayo is currently dating and is set to get wed any time soon. 2. Gloria Muliro Gloria Muliro and her longtime husband Congolese preacher Eric Omba parted ways over infidelity allegations.  Sometimes back, they had a colourful wedding at PCEA Nairobi West and later on after 5 years, they renewed their wedding vows at Hilton Hotel, Nairobi. Omba has since moved on and gotten married again but Gloria has not. Gloria Muliro and ex-husband Eric Omba She narrates how her pastor husband was chasing women instead of being busy winning souls for the Lord. I always knew he was cheating on me and friends would always come around with reports but I always shut them out. I did not want outsiders, but God to show me the truth. In fact, besides my family and one bishop, no one else knew the hell I was going through. 3. Keziah Kariuki Keziah Kariuki, a Kameme TV presenter cum gospel artiste divorced her husband Mzee Kariuki Kiengei. In an earlier interview, with a local TV station, Kariuki said Kiengei broke her heart by marrying another woman, even though they had a church wedding. She said, “It was a painful experience. Sometimes I was getting ready for a TV show and I would break down. Kameme FM presenter Keziah Kariuki and her ex-husband In other instances, I would be getting ready to appear before the camera, only to burst out in tears and mess my make-up,” 4. Eunice Njeri Eunice split from her ex back in 2016, after walking out hours after the wedding. She stated that her biggest struggle remains being ridiculed for leaving her marriage. 5. Joan Wairimu Pastor Joan Wairimu Githuku and her husband have both filed cases in court accusing each other of adultery. Pastor Wairimu in 2013 initiated the case at a Nairobi court where she seeks orders of separation. Pastor Joan Wairimu But her husband, Bishop William Musyoki Mwangangi also filed a cross-petition asking the court to dissolve the marriage. The couple got married in 1996 in church. 6. Loise Kim Loise Kim has plans of running for a political seat this coming election. Speaking to Kikuyu Diaspora television she shed light about her marriage an issue that has been shrouded in controversy since she released a song that was speculated to have been about separation with her spouse. Loise Kim Loise Kim song “Wedo wa Kiabiriria” which can be loosely translated to the “First Love” became very popular but also opened a can of worms regarding her marriage. Loise Kim, who narrated how her marriage fell apart after just seven months of being together with said she sang the song because of the state of her relationship. “WHEN I WAS SINGING THAT SONG I WAS BITTER ABOUT MY MARRIAGE. WE WENT OUR SEPARATE WAYS BECAUSE WE LET THE DEVIL COME BETWEEN US. AFTER HE LEFT WE USED TO EXCHANGE BITTER WORDS WHICH MADE THINGS WORSE,” SHE SAID. She has two children with her ex-hubby and they have since divorced. She added, “I let go of everything and decided to live my life and my ministry”. 