There will be no time for sports federations and the Ministry of Sports to rest on their laurels as Kenya gears up to arguably its busiest year in international sports, Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia has said. The PS in his preview on this year's sporting calendar said that last years’ activities were important in laying the foundation for what will be a jam-packed season. Kenya will be welcoming the return of the Safari Rally to the World Rally Championship calendar, the World Under 20 Athletics Championships as well as preparations for Tokyo Olympic Games. “It’s a new lease of life for all of us in the sporting community more so because it is an extremely busy year. We have the World Rally Championships, Olympic Games, European Tour (Golf) and the World Under 20 Athletics Championships, all of which have great significance for the country, ”noted Kaberia The PS added that the nomination of Kenya to chair the advisory body of sports has added more responsibility on the country hence the need to hit the ground running. “There is no time or room for a break. The deadlines have to be met. By the end of January, we need to have to do something on Under 20 and the Olympics. We have to be sure everything is done and done in good time,” he added. Kaberia went on to disclose that this year a huge percentage of the Sports Fund that came in to being in April will be set aside for infrastructure development. Last year Sh3.6 billion was allocated to different federations and sporting activities. “It is a milestone because it was the first time the government was able to put in this kind of resources into the expansion of sports and especially give funds to the federations,” stated the PS. He added: “In 2020 more and more of actual infrastructure programmes will be supported. We have put aside 50 per cent of all the resources for such activities. In the past six months, we have spent a lot of money on soft activities like travels and qualifiers. Going forward, we are going to have a different approach availing more stadia, regional pitches, academy of sports to our youth." Kaberia concluded by revealing that the ministry will be seeking collaboration between counties and the national government in ensuring the availability of infrastructure that opens up more sporting disciplines including swimming, tennis and golf at the grassroots.