There was drama in Kilungu law courts in Makueni on Friday when one of the court officers appeared in court, grabbed files and charge sheets and left. Mark Wangia, a prosecutor in the court, who was allegedly drunk, paralyzed court proceeding before Senior Resident Magistrate Elizabeth Muiru, leaving litigants stranded and members of the public in panic. A senior court officer who spoke on condition of anonymity as he is not authorized to speak to the media, said it was the third incident to happen in the same court after Wangia stopped reporting to work since 23rd of last month. Speaking to The Star, the officer said Litigants and members of the public present were treated into a rear occurrence to see a drunk and disorderly court officer in an institution whose one role is to discipline such cases. “Operations have been paralyzed here because he has not been reporting to work and whenever he comes, he has no respect to the magistrate and the court,” said the court officer. The Magistrate was prompted to seek assistance from a senior police officer in Kilungu who is trained in prosecution of cases to help process cases after Wangia, the gazetted prosecutor failed to turn up to work on 23rd and 24th last month. On learning of the development, Wangia is said to have appeared on the last day of the month and caused commotion in the court accusing Muiru of interfering with his duties. According to the court officer, Wangia left the court room shouting that the magistrate had no powers to call police for assistance during his absence. “He stormed out shouting while the court was in progress,” he said. A police officer handling cases in the station who spoke on condition of anonymity said cases have been piling up following the officer's disappearance. He said the officer’s behavior has affected Sultan Hamud, Salama, Kyambeke, Kilome and the Northern corridor traffic police stations. “We find ourselves challenged because the law does not allow suspects to be detained for more than 24 hours, we have difficulties in processing the cases,” said the officer. The officer who was handling traffic cases said they had increased operations along the Nairobi – Mombasa Highway and that the crisis could affect the operations. Some of the litigants complained of wastage of their time and money from their places to the court. Top police officers and national government officers in the county were not available for comments by the time we went to press.