Let’s face it: modern culture is complex with high uncertainty. Therefore, the pressures of modern life are such that you cannot walk the success journey alone. You need a good support system to succeed – you need partners. According to the bestselling author, Steven K. Scott: “A partner is anyone who can provide needed insight, advice, wisdom, or any practical help for the effective achievement of a specific project, goal or dream.” This is important because every dream needs skills, insight, and help beyond the dreamer’s capacity. You need help from others to achieve your goal. Hence, the strategy of effective partnerships is one way to accelerate your success. The right partners will strengthen you with their wisdom, capacity, and help that would make you move much faster than you would have alone. This group genuinely has your interest at heart and to accelerate your success, you must find these partners. So how do you find effective partners? Here are three indicators. Integrity: It’s vital to establish a partnership with someone you can trust because their words and actions match. In modern culture, dishonesty is common. Many people portray what they are not, and this can cause much pain in partnerships. Character matters, integrity counts. Yes, we all make mistakes and miss the mark sometimes, but there are people to whom dishonesty is the rule, not the exception. Get into partnership with someone to whom integrity isn’t the exception, but the rule. Wisdom: An effective partner has the insight to help you get results. The proof of wisdom is results. Many people are stuck in life because they associate with people whose thinking is based on assumptions and foolishness – those who lack the insight, knowledge, and depth that gets great results. Foolishness will decrease your speed on the path of success because it will ensure that you’re not able to know the difference between a good and bad idea. Otherwise, a wise partner will help you successfully navigate the rough terrain of success because they have useful insight that ensures good results. Respect: Do not partner with anyone who has no respect for you; if they do not respect you, they won’t respect your partnership. Respect is non-negotiable in any partnership. Here, respect means that your position, interests, terms and personal boundaries are acknowledged and factored in the decision-making process. Also, your partner needs to have respect for laws, rules, and regulations. Disrespect or disregard for laws by a potential partner isn’t a good sign.