Former Mwingi North MP John Munuve and his lawyer brother Wilfred Nyamu are set to stir the political waters in Kitui county by seeking parliamentary positions in 2022. If they make good last Saturday's vow to run in the general election, it will be the first time in Kitui history for siblings to concurrently run for parliamentary slots. During the burial of the father of Bungoma county assembly clerk Micheal Kimwele in Mivukoni, Mwingi North, on Saturday, Munuve vowed to reclaim the area parliamentary seat. Munuve, who ahead of the last election jumped ship from Wiper to the Jubilee Party, lost the seat to the Kalonzo Musyoka-led party's Paul Nzengu in 2017. Speaking at the same ceremony, Nyamu said he will go for the Kitui senatorial seat currently held by Senator Enoch Wambua. The duo said there was nothing peculiar in their seeking positions in the same election citing former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and his brother Oburu Odinga. Closer home, Nyamu said Wambua and his sibling Edith Nyenze, Kitui West MP, were currently in Parliament together. The duo told mourners that it would be wishful for cynics to think that any of them (brothers) was spoiling for the other by running in the same election. They said the two positions had no direct correlation as one had a county-wide coverage while the other was merely a constituency seat. “My younger brother will seek votes in eight constituencies while I will confine my campaign to Mwingi North constituency,” Munuve said, adding that Nyamu had come of age politically. Nzengu said the brothers who hail from his constituency had the right to express their political ambitions. He, however, urged them to guard against interfering with his development programmes through premature campaigns. “I request you to give me ample time to serve the people and steer development in Mwingi North until my five-year mandate is over.  We will then return to voters who will make a decision. For now, let's tone down politicking in favour of serving the people." Edited by R.Wamochie