Kenya has made significant and convincing steps in the fight against corruption, a representative of US President Donald Trump has said. Sean Cairncross, the chief executive of Millennium Challenge Corporation, a US government aid agency that works to reduce poverty, said last Thursday that the American administration is pleased by the Uhuru government's interventions to ensure the scourge of graft is adequately confronted to ensure public money helps the tax payers. Speaking to reporters during a global telephone press conference organised by Nairobi's US embassy, Cairncross said the country qualified for an aid partnership having scored over 15 out of 20 in its criteria. The package could be in form of projects worth over $35 billion, he said. The country has missed out on the agency's aid package for over a decade now, mainly due to cases of rampant corruption and misuse of public funds. He said the board of the corporation met on December 9 last year and were impressed by "the country's diverse interventions to ensure rule of law, respect for human rights, democracy and investing in its people." Cairncross intends to visit Kenya and Mozambique this week. He said that during his visit, he intend to negotiate areas of partnerships with various sectors "to ensure a broad-based growth in the drive to confront and end poverty." He said that the US appreciates that while the efforts invested in the fight against corruption are impressive, much more still needs to done. "A lot still needs to be done in ensuring reduced wastage and effective investment in people to reduce poverty," he said. He also said that while the corporation has not yet settled on the sector to partner with in the country for support, he was largely inclined to infrastructure. Cairncross said his country views Kenya as a crucial partner in the East African region, explaining the reason for his visit. While in the country, he said, he would engage the government, political groups, the civil society and the private sector "as part of exploring areas of partnerships." The MCC was established in 2004 by former President George W. Bush and it has an annual budget of $800 million. The corporation says in its website that its aid packages to countries are evaluated against the country's score on three policy area: ruling justly, investing in people, and encouraging economic freedom. US and Kenya had agreed to have an American constructor, Beltech, build the $3 billion Nairobi-Mombasa express highway in a debt package. This project got stalled at some point, allegedly over the concern America had on the level of corruption and debt burden in the country. President Uhuru Kenyatta's second term saw a revamped anti-corruption campaign, with high profile arrests and arraignment of Cabinet Secretaries and governors.