 The High Court on Wednesday declined a request by Education CS George Magoha to revoke the appointment of Gitahi Kiama as the University of Nairobi vice-chancellor. In a gazette notice last week, Magoha revoked Kiama's appointment and picked deputy vice-chancellor Isaac Mbeche to act in his place. But Kiama moved to court and obtained orders reversing Magoha's directive. On Wednesday, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Maureen Onyango declined to lift the suspension of Magoha's orders and directed that the case be heard inter-party on Friday after the matter was certified as urgent. The judge said she could not reverse a ruling she made on Monday in which Magoha's appointment of Mbeche as acting vice-chancellor was revoked pending an inter-partes hearing. In an urgent application, Magoha said the court was misled by Kiama into issuing ex-parte orders adding, saying there was a vacancy in the office of the VC. The judge was asked to stay or vary the orders so that the CS can appoint an acting VC or his deputy to enable the university handle its critical administrative functions and "to stop misrepresentation by Kiama as VC". Magoha said Kiama unlawfully purported to make leadership changes at the University of Nairobi by appointing a deputy and issuing memos. The CS said the court orders issued on Monday disrupted the proper functioning of the university by creating a lacuna in the ofiice of the VC. “Unless the ex-parte orders are set aside, the University of Nairobi is unable to undertake critical administrative functions required of the office of the VC,” Magoha said in court papers. Through lawyer Evans Monari, the CS argued that despite the lacuna, Kiama has proceeded to misrepresent himself as the purported vice-chancellor making drastic decisions "and deceiving the public". Magoha also wanted the court to allow Mbeche to serve in an acting capacity. He insisted the court orders did not reinstate Kiama pending the resolution of the matter. Monari said only the University Council, which has since been dissolved by the CS, and the Public Service Commission have the statutory power to appoint a VC. On Monday, Kiama said he received a letter dated January 17 from Magoha informing him that his appointment had been revoked. The CS directed him to resume the duty of deputy VC for human resource and administration which he held before his appointment. Through his lawyer Fred Ngatia, Kiama said the action by the CS was a matter of intense, electronic and print media discourse. He said numerous attempts were made to have the CS rescind his decision which had plunged the university in grave and unpalatable chaos. "The CS contemptuously ignored the request prompting him to move to court," Ngatia said. Kiama said he was lawfully appointed as the VC on January 3 for five years with effect from January 6. He says the appointment was made by the University Council after consultation with the CS. He says he has already assumed office and commenced statutory duties as set out in the university Act of 2012. Meanwhile, about 5,000 University of Nairobi staff have expressed fears their January salaries might delay following the leadership wrangles. They told the Star the salaries have to be signed by the VC, deputy VC for finance and the finance officer before it's channelled through the bank. Mbeche, who Kiama ordered to proceed on leave, is the Deputy VC for finance and one of the key signatory in the payment process. “I’m still acting VC and I have a letter of appointment. Prof Kiama is refusing to accept that the minister called me back from leave. He is trying to install himself through the court. He should listen to the University Senate, students and other stakeholders," Mbeche said during an interview on K24 on Wednesday. Kiama is working from the old vice chancellor’s office in Gandhi Wing after Mbeche refused to hand over keys to the University’s main office baptised University of Nairobi Towers.  Edited by R.Wamochie