Parents are making last-minute preparations for schools reopening on Monday as their budgets take a beating — as much as Sh50,000 — to satisfy numerous requirements for their children. All learners will be taking a leap to another class, so there is new content, a new syllabus and a new approach. In Westlands Primary, for example, parents whose children are proceeding to Grade 4 will be required to purchase 17 exercise books, kamusi, Bible, dictionary, hymn book, geometrical set, ruler, pencil, pen, and three rolls of tissue. Njonjo Girls, a national school in Nyandarua county, has asked Form 3 parents to pay an extra Sh4,000 for the replacement of uniforms. In Naivasha Girls, parents of those to be admitted to Form 1 this year will have to part with Sh13,000 on top of the school fees to buy two sets of uniforms. Uniforms include shirt, tie, sweater, skirt, socks and a blazer. Jane Mwangi, whose daughter sat KCPE and secured admission to Naivasha Girls, told the Star on Thursday she had to spend Sh50,000 for the requirements. FIRST-TERM CALENDAR Primary schools will open their doors to over a million learners in Grade 1. Secondary schools too will be opening their doors for admission of Form 1 from January 13, as required by the 100 per cent admission policy. The transition policy enters its third year and mandates all learners who sat the KCPE exam to join secondary school. The policy has caused the number of students to surge, swamping limited classrooms and straining boarding and other resources. Indimuli Kahi, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman, said on Thursday school heads are hoping the government will swiftly fulfil its promise to improve the infrastructure of secondary schools to help accommodate increased student population. Principals will also be banking on the proposal by Education CS George Magoha to have parents contribute to infrastructure development of their children’s schools. “Each school will have its individual arrangement of how they want to go about the contribution of funds. This will include scouting the most vital infrastructure required and involving parents and boards of management before settling on the way forward,” Kahi told the Star on the phone. Other activities characterising the term include registration of learners for KCPE and KCSE exams, rolling out of the new curriculum to Grade 4 and a spate of co-curricular activities. Primary school heads also will face a tough balancing act as they oversee simultaneous execution of two parallel curriculums. The officially abandoned 8-4-4 system will continue to be used for Classes 5, 6, 7 and 8. The new 2-6-6-3 system will be implemented in pre-primary and Grades 1,2,3 and 4. Nicholas Gathemia, the Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association chairman, said on Thursday efforts by the government for the rollout are commendable but warned that better cooperation is needed for implementation. “Advancing the new curriculum to Grade 4 is the centre of focus. School heads are prepared despite some challenges and we are asking for parental and stakeholder support in the implementation,” Gathemia said. SCHOOL FEES Further, parents of those headed to national, extra-county and county schools will incur extra expenses for school fees. Government data shows that 406,686 learners will proceed to these three categories of schools, accounting for 37 per cent of those proceeding to Form 1. The bulk of the admissions, 669,145, will go to day schools. With the school fees set at Sh22,244, similar to the capitation for every learner in secondary school, this means they will pursue secondary studies for free. The government has capped national school fees at Sh53,544 and that of county and extra-county schools at Sh40,555. CS Magoha has warned principals against turning away learners who lack fees. “Do not turn away any child from school for lack of school fees. Does that money belong to you?” he asked. The government funds primary schools depending on the number of students. Each student is allocated Sh1,420. In secondary schools, each student is allocated Sh22,244 to cater for essentials. Disbursement of capitation to schools is done in three tranches in line with the number of terms in the school calendar. The ratio for distribution is 50:30:20. Nicholas Maiyo, chairman of the Kenya Parents Association, called on the government to crack down on school heads who have defied the stipulated school fees guidelines. "The association has been receiving complaints that principals in some primary schools are asking for funds before a parent secures admission for their learners. The situation is similar in some secondary schools and we ask the government to intervene," Maiyo said. Speaking during the release of the KCSE exam results, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the government has set aside Sh54 billion for the 2020 capitation. “We are working with our colleagues from the Treasury to ensure the capitation funds are released within the first two weeks of January to ensure schools are up and running upon opening,” Kipsang said. However, school heads who spoke to the Star on Thursday expressed anxiety about the surge in student numbers as well as limited resources. Kessha chairman Kahi says he is hopeful the government will disburse funds on time before the Monday opening.