Champions Gor Mahia have raised concerns over the Kenya Premier League's seven-month-long delay in disbursing the 2018-2019 season prize money. Gor toasted their 18th league title in May last year after their final match against Posta Rangers at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos but are yet to receive the four million cash incentive from the league body. The coronation ceremony which was skipped by federation officials saw Gor claim their third title in a row and as a result, they were given the green-light to keep the diadem in their cabinet. The club has now trained their guns on KPL for failing to wire the prize money despite the firm enjoying sponsorship from betting firm SportPesa by the time of the coronation. SportPesa who were the title sponsors for the league withdrew their support in August citing unfavourable business environment thanks to the new betting laws introduced to regulate the activity. "We are not asking for a favour from KPL but what we want is our prize money. We won the league and the policies dictate that the champion should be handed the trophy and money. We are yet to receive the cash and neither is the body keen to update us on when they shall pay," said Gor Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda. He added: "By the time we won the league they were still bankrolled by SportPesa and cannot claim that they did not have money. Much as we understand they are in a financial conundrum at the moment what is rightfully ours should be handed to us," With the 2019-2020 season approaching the midway mark, Aduda challenged the firm to reveal their plans of decorating the new champion. The cash-strapped KPL whose mandate to run the league is set to expire in September are yet to come out clear on their plans to purchase a new trophy. " What are we playing for if KPL has not assured us at the end of the season the winner will get a trophy? posed Aduda."We are almost to the mid-season mark and they are yet to roll out their plan to fete the winner," added Aduda. Efforts to reach KPL CEO Jack Oguda were futile. Aduda added: "FKF, who are mandated by law to oversee all football activities in the country, have decided to keep off. The current administration is part of the challenge we are facing as they are more focused on cheap publicity. What was the essence of getting sponsorship for county leagues while the elite league has no money? What are they doing to salvage the situation in the top league?