Some 300 candidates who excelled in last year’s KCPE exam in Kasipul constituency have been rewarded with Sh10,000 each. The students include 150 girls and 150 boys from both public and private primary schools. Each top girl and top boy in all schools in the constituency benefited from the funds. Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were said they are preparing cheques worth Sh3 million from the Constituency Development Fund to help in educating the students in national and extra county schools. The MP presented the pupils with commitment letters at NGCDF offices in Oyugis town on Friday. The letters indicate that the money will be paid the respective schools' bank accounts. The MP said the programme is aimed at motivating pupils to work hard in their studies. “We’re giving each pupil Sh10,000, a special bursary as an award for the excellent academic performance they demonstrated in the KCPE examination. This initiative will enhance competition among pupils and this will improve academic performance in this constituency,” Were said. The legislator clarified that the distribution of the special bursary will not affect the normal bursary for needy students in the constituency. The MP said arrangements were already in place to distribute bursary cheques to 3,000 needy students before the end of this month. The students include those in both boarding and day secondary schools. Were said his aim is to promote education in the area to ensure the constituency has more learned people in future. “I want us to have doctors, engineers, journalists and other professionals in this constituency in future. This can only be achieved through supporting the education of the current students,” Were said. The legislator also stopped fundraisers in schools saying the NGCDF had put modalities in place to improve infrastructure. Parents, led by John Obunga, expressed optimism that the initiative will reduce their burden of paying school fees. “As a parent, I feel relieved because Sh10,000 is not easy to get. I urge pupils to work hard in their studies to enable become successful in life,” Obunga said. Student Laruen Achieng who scored 409 marks said the reward had motivated them. “I feel my efforts have been rewarded and this has motivated me,” she said.