Governors and MPs with graft cases will soon have their security detail withdrawn following a directive from IG Hillary Mutyambai. Mutyambai on Monday said security detail will be withdrawn from government officials involved in crime until they are cleared by the courts. These are the governors and MPs who have been mentioned adversely in criminal activities: BABU OWINO The Embakasi East MP was charged with the attempted murder of Felix Odhiambo, commonly known as DJ Evolve, at B-club on Friday last week. He has also been charged with behaving in a disorderly manner while carrying a firearm. The MP is said to have become disorderly while carrying a pistol and firing one round of ammunition while intending to shoot at the DJ. The legislator spent the weekend in police custody after his arrest last Friday. Nine bullets, a spent cartridge, and a CZ P-10 C gun were confiscated. On Saturday the MP was moved to Gigiri from Kilimani police station. MIKE SONKO The Nairobi governor has been charged with misappropriation of Sh357 million county funds. He is also accused of 'kicking' Coast Regional Commander Rashid Yakubu on the thigh during his arrest at Ikanga strip last month. The charge sheet has covered three counts that the governor faces. In the first count, the governor is charged with ‘unlawfully assaulting the Yakubu, by kicking him on the thigh, in the due execution of his duties on December 6.’ The second count reads that he ‘willfully resisted arrest by Yakubu y violently refusing to be handcuffed and to board a police chopper in the due execution of his duties.’ On the third count, he is accused of ‘using abusive words namely “shenzi nyie, taka taka, ondoka hapa” which translates to 'you stupid rubbish move away'. OKOTH OBADO Migori Governor Okoth Obado has not shied away from controversy. His first term in office spelled out a tough battle, with graft allegations levelled against him and his county administration. In 2015, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission list of shame implicated Obado in cases of corruption. The county chief was in the list over impropriety concerning Sh600 million through an alleged flawed tender process. But the governor said the reports that he was involved in corruption were false. Obado has also been charged with the murder of a Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. The governor denied killing Sharon. The county chief also faces the charge of aiding, abetting, and financing the murder. MOSES KURIA Gatundu South MP  has been accused of assaulting a woman at the Royal Media Services premises during a talk show to discuss BBI. Joyce Wanja confronted Kuria, accusing him of abusing women in Kiambu during an event. She accused Kuria of commenting about their underwear. She said she hit back at the MP and her comments irked Kuria, making him rise up from his seat and slapped her on her left arm. Also, in November 25, 2015, Kuria was charged at the Nairobi court for uttering words which indicated it was desirable to bring death and physical injury to persons in Kenya. He is said to have said the words in Kikuyu language. His security detail has so far been withdrawn. FERDINAND WAITITU The Kiambu governor has been charged and linked to a Sh588 million tender scam. The governor has been barred from accessing his county workplace and the case against him is yet to be determined. In a statement, DPP said the award of the Sh588 million contract was done irregularly. The contract was awarded to Testimony Enterprises during the 2017-18 financial year. It was for the upgrade of gravel roads to bituminous surface in Thika, Limuru, Gatundu North, Juja and Ruiru subcounties. Testimony Enterprise directors are also implicated. They are Charles Mbuthia and Beth Mburu. EACC forwarded an inquiry file to the DPP's office on July 9 and evidence showed the tender award was skewed in favour of Testimony Enterprises. The directors of Testimony are close associates of Waititu's. AISHA JUMWA The Malindi MP was on the hot seat after one person was shot dead on October 2019. The man was shot dead during a fracas that erupted at the home of ODM candidate Reuben Katana in Ganda ward. Trouble allegedly started after Jumwa stormed the home to disrupt the meeting between Katana and ODM agents for by elections, saying the campaign period was over. It's not clear who fired the killer bullet. Jumwa has also been  questioned by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations  over embezzlement of over Sh57 million CDF cash. Her lawyers, Danstan Omari and Cliff Ombeta, said she was called into the DCI to shed light on the matter. MOSES LENOLKULAL The Samburu Governor was charged with four counts of abuse of office and conflict of interest leading to the loss of Sh84.6 million public funds. The county boss is accused of using his company - Oryx service station - to supply petrol and diesel to the county. He has denied all the charges.