Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has accused the BBI brigade of having a clandestine committee with an underground draft report. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Murkomen said during the recent public rallies in Kisii and Kakamega, leaders resorted to 'callous tactics' rejected by the BBI report. "We are concerned with reports of existence of a clandestine BBI steering committee. We demand that the entire BBI process be driven in an open and transparent manner," he said. Murkomen was speaking alongside Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South MP) Alice Wahome (Kandara MP) and other lawmakers. "Instead of focusing on issues affecting the people, the two rallies focused more on discussing and demonising one individual," he said. Murkomen said the approach has caused 'immense confusion and anxiety' in the public. "It creates the unfortunate impression that there is a sinister and clandestine plan to deny other regions of the country proper representation," he said. "We are opposed to the use of public funds in the organised BBI rallies unless appropriated by Parliament or county assemblies." Politicians have been accused of hijacking the process as wananchi are denied the opportunity to air their voices on the BBI report during forums held so far. During the forums in Kisii and Kakamega, the majority of speakers were governors and legislators. Members of civil society under the National Civil Society Congress said they were concerned over how the BBI forums are being conducted, cautioning that politicians were taking over the process. The chair of National Civil Society Congress, Morris Odhiambo, said the voices of ordinary Kenyans should be given a fair chance in the constitutional amendment debate. WE ARE READY Murkomen further announced that they will organise rallies across the country starting with Mombasa this weekend. "After consultations as leaders... we will participate and, where necessary, take charge of these public rallies beginning with Mombasa this weekend.," Murkomen said they will support existing efforts and complement the already scheduled rallies. "We are organising rallies in other parts of the country. We shall soon announce the calendar of complimentary rallies to reinforce those already published," he said. "That we fully support the BBI report as launched and intend to fully participate in related engagements in good faith." Murkomen said they will mobilise constituents to present their views in all the 290 constituencies as soon as the task force gazetted by the government announces its full schedule.