Are some MPs from Central region planning an exodus from the Jubilee Party? This is the view of the members of the Kieleweke faction, who hold that the legislators' recent comments about President Uhuru Kenyatta were just to "test the waters and set the pace for their exit".  An MP in the know told Corridors that their colleagues have been planning to leave the party and are just bidding for public sympathies. Its whispered that the Jubilee takeover bid by Deputy President William Ruto might be a hard nut to crack. The Kieleweke camp, which is allied to the President, has promised to retaliate should the attacks on Uhuru persist. A party boss now busy putting up systems for the next general election seems to be unaware of the goings-on in his outfit. Members of the party, some of whom have been key players, say they are just in the outfit to complete their terms in office. Their plan is to keep the boss busy while working ways of joining other political movements ahead of the 2022 polls. An elected member of the party told Corridors that their boss has an unquenchable appetite for plum government jobs. This, they complain, is at the expense of working with party members to help define a clear political path. Fingers are pointed at a former aspiring MP from Nyanza following the death of one of his supporters after he was clobbered by his handlers on New Year's eve. The man, who has a huge appetite for the bottle, treated his inner team to drinks at a local pub on New Year’s eve and left his phone with one of the barmaids. When he woke up, the man ordered his handlers to go ransack the houses of all the youths he shared the table with. It is this search that turned physical, leading to the death of one of the youths. The barmaid later handed over the phone, but the damage had been done. The cost of youth bulge and the struggling economy? A Western region governor seems unworried even as 2022 fast approaches. The county boss was recently overheard bragging to his allies that he will be voted in unopposed if he decides to contest for the MP's seat in his constituency. The said governor has been castigated by locals for his poor development record. It remains to be seen if indeed nobody will give the governor a run for his money should he contest the parliamentary seat, which he once held before he decided to go for the higher post.  