President Uhuru Kenyatta has assured the Kenya national women volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, of full state support as they prepare for the Tokyo Olympic games. The President congratulated the team for bagging the only African slot at the summer games and reaffirmed his administration's commitment to continue investing in sports through the national sports fund. “We have a fund now, a dedicated fund to promote our sports and culture. I want to make sure that money goes to these people who win the Olympics. We want money invested in our people, we want to see it used in these people who win gold medals for Kenya,” he said. The Head of State gave the assurance on Friday, when he met the team at Mama Ngina Waterfront in Mombasa county. To ensure that Kenyan sportsmen and women continue lifting the country's profile on the international stage, the President said the government will continue to ensure Kenyan athletes earn decent incomes from their talents. “We must come up with a policy that allows our sportsmen to focus only on sports. Those are the talents God gave them. I want them to know that one can focus on sports and earn a living through their talents,” the President said. Malkia Strikers qualified unbeaten for the Tokyo Olympic games held in Cameroon, ending Kenya's 16-year absence at the summer games. Noting that sportsmen and women are the foremost brand ambassadors of Kenya abroad, the President said athletes play a role in national unity and therefore state support. “A lot of people know Kenya because of our gallant Kenyan sportsmen and women. Undisputedly, there’s one thing that makes us Kenyans, and that is our sports. When our sportsmen and women are out there, all Kenyans come together forgetting their petty differences,” he said. The President, who was accompanied by Cabinet Secretaries Amina Mohamed (Sports) and Najib Balala (Tourism), witnessed a display match staged by the team. Other leaders accompanying the President were Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Lamu County MP Ruweida Mohamed.