@Alicewangechi  Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has lauded government plans to rehabilitate the Nairobi-Nanyuki railway saying it will revitalise trade in Mt Kenya region. He said many towns lying along the line fizzled out when railway services stopped with most never recovering. Wa Iria cited towns such as Maragua in Murang’a county and Sagana in Kirinyaga which have suffered low economic activity following the collapse of the railway. “Most of the trading nodes died a slow and agonising death following the death of the railway line. Traders suffered, businesses shut down and poverty set in due to unemployment,” Wa Iria told the Star on the phone on Thursday. He said rehabilitation will help the towns regain their lost glory and boost their economy. "The railway will re-open a major trading corridor for Mt Kenya region and bring rise to new business opportunities especially in the hospitality sector," he said. It will also provide affordable transport for local farmers ferrying their commodities to the market while enabling the establishment of Special Economic Zones in areas near railway stations, the governor said. The railway will also revive the real estate sector besides opening up rural areas for trade. “The railway will cater for our bulk agricultural produce. This is a big score for the agriculture sector. It will also complement the road transport and help reduce accidents,” Wa Iria said. The government has launched the rehabilitating the 240-kilometer railway at a cost of Sh3 billion. Kenya Railways Corporation said the rehabilitation works which have commenced in Nanyuki, Laikipia county will be completed in five months. The corporation has released Sh1 billion for the project while the remainder will be paid by the national government. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi recently announced that the rehabilitation works will be done in three concurrent phases to hasten its completion. The first phase starts at Nanyuki to Marua, the second phase from Marua to Sagana and the final form Sagana to Thika. The railway line will benefit eight counties including Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Laikipia, Nyandarua and Isiolo and will also connect the region to the Lamu Port and Southern Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor. Wa Iria also hailed the construction of the 54km Mau Mau road that will connect Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyeri and Nyandarua counties. “These projects will immortalise the President’s legacy and serve as a launching pad for the region’s economic take-off,” he said.  edited by peter obuya