The decision by the government to allow lawyer Miguna Miguna unrestricted return to the country was in compliance with a final judgment by Justice Chaacha Mwita. The judgment said Miguna Miguna never lost his Kenyan citizenship and directed that his passport, which had been cancelled, be restored. It further said Miguna should be paid millions of shillings as damages for the violation of his rights and that all that is required to enable his return home be done by the government. During this time, Miguna’s Kenyan passport had been put under the custody of the Registrar of the High Court Before he started his journey, Miguna indicated that he was due to fly back home. However, a red alert that barred airlines from transporting him to Kenya or any other African country had not been withdrawn. An airline said it was ready to transport Miguna to Kenya when the alert has been formally cancelled or withdrawn. This was even as government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna issued a press statement saying that the lawyer was free to return to Kenya. The government even went further and said that any problems Miguna would encounter outside the country will be handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The red alert was definitely given by the government of the Republic of Kenya. It is therefore very clear that despite its representation to the contrary, the government has prevented Miguna from coming back home. Miguna even indicated that the red alert referred to him as a Canadian and not a Kenyan citizen. That compounds the disobedience of the court order. It demonstrates the decision of the government to continue jettisoning the rule of law, constitutionalism and the obligation to comply with court orders. It is not lost on us that before Miguna embarked on his journey, Justice Weldon Korir had given a further restraining order prohibiting the government from interfering with his return. With that in mind, it is quite clear that we are living in an environment not only of impunity, but anarchy, which can only be consistent with a medieval brutish society. It therefore leaves so much to be desired as to whether there is commitment on the part of the government to uphold the rule of law and to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of any Kenyan in the manner in which President Uhuru Kenyatta indicated during the funeral service of the late second liberation hero Charles Rubia.