Embattled Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal on Thursday got his first win after a court dismissed the DPP's application to cancel his bail. The Director of Public Prosecutions had sought to cancel his bail and commit him to remand prison because he had reshuffled his executives. Lenolkulal was charged with four counts of abuse of office and conflict of interest leading to the loss of Sh84.6 million public funds. The county boss was also accused of using his company, Oryx Service Station, to supply petrol and diesel to the county. Senior principal magistrate Thomas Nzioka dismissed the application, saying it had not demonstrated any compelling reasons to warrant a review or a cancellation of bail terms. “On careful evaluation of the supporting affidavit by the prosecution, this court is not persuaded by the circumstances of this case that there is evidence of interference in any manner with the prosecution witnesses,” the court ruled. Nzioka ruled that the governor was barred from physically accessing his office and the county government accounts until the case is heard and determined. Nzioka further ruled the Court of Appeal upheld Justice Mumbi Ngugi’s and Magistrate Douglas Ogoti’s ruling, saying they properly exercised their discretion when they issued the ruling on bail against the governor. “The Court of Appeal further said the bail terms do not remove the governor from office but merely required compliance with the constitutionally sanctioned terms, that of necessity limiting his access to county offices,” the court ruled. The court further ruled that interpretation of 'access to office' cannot be stretched to include suspension of duties except in express instances where the governor is prohibited by the bail terms. The DPP intends to appeal the ruling at the high court as soon as possible before the trial commences on February 11. In the case, the prosecution had argued that the governor’s repeated acts of reshuffling and re-assigning officers of the Samburu County Executive Committee amount to interference with witnesses, contrary to the clear terms of bail barring him access to the Samburu county offices and interfering with witnesses. Further, the prosecution argued that the purported reshuffle and or re-assignment of officers of the Samburu County Executive Committee by Lenolkulal, if not stopped, will lead to interference with the crime scene and prospective witnesses. Lenolkulal had argued that he is still the governor of Samburu. The county boss was released on bail terms of Sh10 million, reduced from the initial Sh100 million which he successfully challenged. The court also barred him from accessing the county offices until his case is fully determined. It froze his accounts. The criminal trial begins on February 11. (Edited by V. Graham)