Securex Agencies (K) Ltd has unveiled this year's eight beneficiaries of its annual scholarship programme. The scholarship, which was started seven years ago as employee recognition initiative, has so far seen Securex invest more than Sh7 million. The beneficiaries are children of security guards hired by Securex. Securex CEO Tony Sahni said the beneficiaries will have their tuition fees catered for throughout their four-year secondary education. The bright but financially disadvantaged children who secured the scholarship were selected from more than 50 applicants from the Securex Guard Force. The eight students, awarded in a colorful ceremony at the Securex head office, on Riverside Drive last Friday, is the seventh cohort since inception of the scholarship in 2014, bringing the total number of awardees to 38. Some of the beneficiaries shared their ambitions during the ceremony. John Valentino Wangila who scored 385 marks said he aims to become a neurosurgeon in order to save lives. An excited Caleb Wanjala Namisi who scored 368 marks hopes to become a journalist so that he tells stories and educates Kenyans. Other beneficiaries this year are Matandi Musa (399 marks), Danson Juma (394), Faith Nyokabi (371), Mechi Griffins (368) and Gregory Ochieng (388 marks). Securex CEO Sahni lauded the students for their hard work and urged them to maintain the same hunger for success throughout their high school education. He assured them of the company’s commitment to ensure they have every chance to achieve their ambitions. “You have all told us of your hopes and dreams, and in that I see desire and ambition unbound. Thank you for allowing us to share this warm moment with you. Now that you have all promised to keep shining in high school, here is my promise to you: Securex will do whatever it takes, whatever we can, to see your dreams come to pass.“ Sahni said. Their parents, security guards, who were present at the ceremony expressed their happiness and gratitude to the company. Gregory Ochieng's father, Jacob Ojijo, said the scholarship was a relief to him as he will no longer need to struggle to pay for his son’s education. His son got admission to Tenwek High School. Moses Okiro who has been an employee of Securex for 25 years expressed his appreciation to the company for its continued efforts to run the worthy course.