Three suspects linked to the murder of Kisiiki Dispensary nurse Paul Kyoko in Machakos County will be subjected to a mental examination before taking plea at Machakos High Court, Machakos deputy registrar Nelly Kenei has ordered. Appearing before a Machakos court on Friday, Franklin Mbithi Muyanga, Samson Kitaka Otaalo and Benard Maore Mang'ong'o urged the court to hasten the process to pave way for bond application. Lawyers CK Nzili, Lawrence Wambui and Robert Muthama, representing the first, second and third suspects respectively, told the court their clients needed urgent medical attention. "The private parts of my client have been subjected to undue and excessive pressure and he is in doubt if he will ever function like man anymore. The veracity of injuries should be urgently ascertained, said lawyer Wambui. The defence team also piled pressure on the prosecution to hasten mental assessment for the accused persons. "We want to make bail application so as to secure liberty of the accused persons, they have been in custody for 30 days up to now and they've never taken plea," said Wambui. But the prosecution counsel, Mwakio claimed the accused persons are physically fit and the court should not succumb to such demands to hasten the legal process. Mwakio instead urged the court to allow more time for mental assessment before the accused persons take plea. Deputy Registrar Kenei directed that the trio be medically examined and treated within three days. She further ordered a mental examination undertaken at Machakos Hospital before taking plea on February 16, 2020. The three were arrested on on December 3, 2019 and after interrogation by detectives, they allegedly confessed and led the detectives to the scene of crime where the body of slain nurse was found on River Athi. On December 4, 2019, the suspects were arraigned before a magistrate court in Kithimani where detectives secured 28 days to finalise the investigation. Sources from investigation claimed the accused were attempting to scuttle the confession.