The government will enlist the help of East and Horn of African countries to address the plight of Kenyan migrant workers exploited abroad. Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui on Monday said a lack of regional collaboration has hampered efforts to stop the exploitation and enslavement of Kenyans abroad, including in the Middle East. Chelugui said a collective approach by regional governments would be a solution to the problem. The CS spoke when he opened a ministerial forum on harmonising labour migration policies in East and Horn of African region in Nairobi. The gathering is co-convened by the government and the International Organization for Migration. Chelugui said the lack of the collegiate approach is the cause of inconsistent steps taken by governments to address the problem. Recruitment cartels in the region exploit loopholes created to perpetuate the abuse of workers looking for a better life abroad. "In most cases, you find that the Kenyan government makes stringent laws that drive these recruitment cartels out of business, but they find a safe landing in the neighbouring countries where they continue their trade," he said. The region should, he said, harmonise labour migration rules with a view to reducing chances of migrant worker exploitation. Chelugui told the meeting attended by labour ministers and top officials from the region that there was a need to research on and develop a common stand on a standard labour and welfare issues of migrant workers from the region who are abroad. This will enable a collective negotiation with European and Middle East regions as a bloc to safeguard the welfare of the region's citizens working there, he said. Multiple media reports have in past indicated that Kenyans travelling abroad, especially to Middle East, including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman among others tend to have their travel documents confiscated and then abused. The reports have also indicated that they are subjected to slavery-like conditions that include rape, beating and even murder. The National Assembly's Labour and social welfare committee chair Ali Wario told the gathering that the situation was dire for Kenyan migrant workers. "The state has completely neglected them by not putting enough effort to protect them from exploitation," he said. I was in Riyadh recently and the government has posted only one labour attache at the Kenyan Embassy there, the vastness of the country notwithstanding, he said. "Besides, the attache told me he is severely underfunded, making their response to a distress call from our people extremely difficult," he said. Wario called for the enactment of proactive legal mechanisms, posting enough labour attaches abroad and their adequate funding to help monitor and respond to the needs of Kenyans working outside the country. Last year, the then Labor CS Ukur Yatani said the state had established negotiations with some of the Middle East countries to address the concern. Yatani said that the agreements — focusing on salaries, general welfare and living conditions — had already been concluded with Saudi Arabia and Qatar and that talks with Jordan and the United Arab Emirates were underway. The state also announced that it would require emigrant workers to register with Kenyan embassies or consulates and give details of employers and addresses for easy tracing. Chelugui said countries from the region should establish a common framework for vetting of the recruiting agencies afresh to ensure the loopholes exploited are sealed. East and Horn of African region is perceived to be a source, transit point and destination for persons being trafficked and smuggled.