Samuel Onyango grabbed a brace as defending champions Gor Mahia drubbed Chemelil Sugar 4-0 yesterday at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu to move to two points within the reach of the Kenya Premier League leaders Tusker. Onyango found the back of the net in the 20th and 47th minutes of the game to inspire the redemption seeking Gor to the massive win. The result left Gor Mahia's assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo elated. Boniface Omondi and Nicholas Kipkirui netted the extras. “I am pleased with the performance of the boys as they dominated throughout the match. It was important for us to get back to our winning ways after succumbing to Kakamega Homeboyz last weekend.We shift our focus to our Betway Shield Cup tie this weekend and the subsequent league matches,” he said. Odhiambo further clarified that the club’s midfielder Tobias Otieno who landed a deal with United States third tier outfit Union Omaha will leave next week. “Tobias will jet out next week. It's an opportunity for Ernest Wendo to get back to the starting team. We may also look for another defensive midfielder,” he said. Harambee Stars' holding midfielder Anthony Akumu yesterday penned a three-year long deal with Premier League Soccer (PLS) giants Kaizer Chiefs. Akumu was poached to replace former Simba and Ghanaian midfielder James Kotei who had failed to adapt to the league. The former Gor Mahia ma, who featured for Zambian champions Zesco United, left the club early this month as a free agent after his contract expired. Efforts by the Ndola-based club to extend Akumu’s stay were futile as he was keen to move to the South African League. Akumu, a league winning player with Gor, left the club in 2014 for Sudan’s Al Khartoum where he stayed for two years under the tutelage of former Ghana national team head coach Kwesi Appiah. He later joined Zesco in 2016, uniting with his former teammate at Gor David ‘Calabar’ Owino and former Tusker forward Jesse Were. Chiefs, who are christened as Amakhosi, currently top the South African top flight with 41 points—nine ahead of Mamelodi Sundowns. High profile players whom Akumu will rub shoulders with at the club are Zimbabwean star Khama Billiat, Nigeria’s first choice goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi, former Bafana Bafana skipper Itumeleng Khune, veteran striker Bernard Parker and his former teammate at Zesco Lazarus Kambole. At the same time, former Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars playmaker Duke Abuya made his debut in Nkana Red Devils shirt yesterday when the club confronted Zanaco who signed Stars goalkeeper Ian Otieno on Monday. Abuya, who joined the Zambian club last week became the fourth Kenyan to pen a contract with the Kitwe-based club after former Gor Mahia duo of Musa Mohammed and Harun Shakava. Former AFC Leopards captain Duncan Otieno joined the club last year.