The US Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman, Sen. Jim Risch has hinted that a number of Kenyans were killed alongside three Americans in the Manda Bay, Lamu attack on Sunday Morning. This comes after the government of Kenya failed to provide the details of casualties more than 24 hours after the al Shabaab attack. “I am saddened to learn that American and Kenyan lives were lost during a heinous terrorist attack on a Kenya-US operating base early this morning,” Republican Senator from Idaho tweeted. The statement follows a press statement from the US Africa Command on Monday that said that confirmed one United States service member and two contractors were killed in the morning Al-Shabaab attack on the Kenya Defence Force and US military camp in Lamu. “The wounded Americans are currently in stable condition and being evacuated," General Stephen Townsend, commander of US Africa Command, said in the statement. The United States on Monday stood with Kenya saying that the US-Kenya partnership remains strong in the fight against al-Shabaab and global terrorism. An exclusive report obtained by the Star showed that the attack entered from the Manda bay airstrip. They destroyed two fixed aircraft wings, two aircraft and a number of Vehicles at the airstrip used by American soldiers. Insiders told the Star that KDF managed to kill eight Al Shabaab terrorists and captured four alive. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of our teammates who lost their lives today,"  Townsend added. "As we honour their sacrifice, let's also harden our resolve. Alongside our African and international partners, we will pursue those responsible for this attack and al-Shabab, who seek to harm Americans and US interests." KDF is set to issue a press briefing on the attack later on Monday. Manda is used by the US and Kenya military forces as a Forward Operating Location. It also used for training Kenya's naval special forces and acts as a base for Special Operations Forces in Somalia, Yemen, and other countries.