Laikipia county leaders have called for a new political party with Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri as its leader. But Kieni MP Kanini Kega differed with them, sad Jubilee was enough, politicking was premature, especially distasteful at funerals. Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru said Kiunjuri is the senior-most political leader in Central Kenya and served as MP for 15 years, as an assistant Minister and now a Cabinet Secretary. Mariru said the CS was best suited to unite the region saying there have been divisions among area people. Laikipia Deputy Governor Peter Mwaniki also supported the move saying people in other regions have their own political parties which they are popularizing and wondered why Central should not follow suit. The same opinion was shared by Laikipia Senator John Kinyua who said the new party will help to unite the region so it can move forward together. Laikipia majority leader Peter Thomi said the region will use the new party to negotiate with other parties after the retirement of President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. “We shall go on the bargaining table with our bargaining power, party and demands. We shall support people with a condition that we must have something on the table for us to offer our support,” he said. He said Kiunjuri is best suited as he has the experience of running a political party. However Kieni MP Kanini Kega criticised the leaders for engaging in too much politics including in funerals which, violates tradition. "People have been speaking a lot of politics including in funerals which was not our tradition. We are not used to politics in funerals because some people are mourning for having lost their loved ones. We should be considerate,” he said. He wondered why there was all the politicking in the country yet the next election will be on August 8,2022 which is over 940 days away. He said it was sad that Mt. Kenya region was dominated by politics such that people even know better than God who will become what in future. It is also sad, he said, that some politicians from the region have even gone to the extent of disrespecting the president, referring to Kandara MP Alice Wahome’s recent sentiments that he was unqualified. People from the region have forgotten that they have the presidency and have gone ahead to campaign for other people for the same seat, Kanini added. “That is why some of us have been silent because we cannot comprehend that it is our people doing this. How can we forget that we have the presidency and start campaigning for other people,” he posed. There is no way people can politick and be expected to do development at the same. They will have to choose one, he said. He called on area people to respect the institution of the presidency even if they do not respect the president himself. Kanini asked why people should talk about succession when Uhuru is still in power. He said he did not see the rationale why people should leave the Jubilee party which is already established to form another small party saying he was in Jubilee to stay. They spoke at Gituamba area in Kieni East Sub-County, Nyeri County, during the burial of Pharis Gitahi, 96, who is the father of Ngobit MCA Robert Maina. Kiunjuri was also present. (Edited by V. Gaham)O