More than 170 Homa Bay youths who pursued different courses at the National Industrial Training Authority have graduated from the programme. The youths acquired their technical skills at Nita centres in Nairobi, Athi River and Kisumu courtesy of the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF). They are expected to set up their own businesses and employ others. Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga presided over the graduation ceremony on Friday. Also present at the ceremony were Gender CAS Rachael Shebesh, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi, Homa Bay county commissioner Yatich Kipkemei and Nita Kisumu centre manager Mary Wamoko. The graduands undertook courses such as welding, masonry, tailoring, motorcycle and motor vehicle repair, solar PVC installation, textile making, carpentry among others. Wanga bought all the graduands toolboxes and equipment to help them start their business. “You have the skills and the tools to start. Apply what you were taught during training for economic transformation,” Wanga said. She expressed happiness that self-reliance among the youths has been enhanced. “You also have an opportunity to employ your friends in your workshops and train them as well,” she added. She promised that her office will help some beneficiaries get internship opportunities in different organisations to nurture their skills further. “We’ve engaged some industries to absorb some of the youths. Sukari industry in Ndhiwa constituency has agreed to absorb five youths,” she said. Shebesh and Kipkemei said the training is in line with the government's Big Four Agenda on manufacturing and eradication of poverty. “We want the trained youths to use the acquired skills to improve their livelihoods by engaging in building the society,” Shebesh said. They also flagged off another 240 youths for Phase 2 of the training at different Nita centres. The second group, like the first group, will also be under a full scholarship programme funded by NGAAF. Wamoko urged the youths not to drop out of the Nita training programmes. “Some youths fail to write exams and this makes them not to graduate. I want you to take your training with a lot of seriousness to ensure you better your future,” Wamoko said.