Kenya has cited the Big Four agenda and the Building Bridges Initiative as steps it has taken to promote human rights. Kenya also listed protection of civil liberties and strengthening constitutionalism, downgrading the death penalty, recognition of transgender rights to defend its human rights record the UN Human Rights Council. In addition, Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba highlighted protection of the child, promotion of women and youth, war on negative cultural practices such as FGM and child marriages, protection of the right to life and expansion of space for civil society and media as Kenya's progress in protecting human rights. Ababu said this in his address to the plenary of the council when he presented Kenya's human rights status report to the Universal Periodic Review at E40 Palais de Nations in Geneva on Friday. He is leading the Kenyan delegation drawn from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, State Department of Justice and the National Police Service. UPR is a UN peer review mechanism mooted in 2003 and involves a review of the human rights records of all UN member states. Held under the auspices of the Human Rights Council, UPR provides the opportunity for each state to declare what actions they have taken to improve the human rights situations in their countries and to fulfil their human rights obligations. Ababu said the Big Four agenda has enhanced the enjoyment of socio-economic rights of all Kenyans in regards to universal healthcare, affordable housing, food security and manufacturing to grow the economy and expand job opportunities for youths. The CAS briefed the UN Council on the Building Bridges Initiative, which he said seeks to “place Kenya on a trajectory of peace, unity, stability and shared prosperity for all 47 million people of Kenya”. “We assure you that we will pay very keen attention to all the meaningful recommendations we’ve had today in the implementation and promotion of human rights,” Ababu said. The preliminary review report on Kenya's human rights status will be released by the council on Tuesday, January 28. 