Over 3000 tourists have flocked Kilifi County for the annual New Year Festival that ends today. The three- day festival that is in its fourth edition seeks to market the County as the tourist destination of choice. The festival is the first in Africa to host a Carbon Neutral Festival, to minimise emissions through comprehensive environmental efforts. About 64 tonnes of CO2 offset will go towards Kasigau Wildlife Corridor Project. The organizers have collaborated with  Wildlife Works to offset emissions through the project "Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation". According to Kilifi County Tourism director Hassan Sumba, tourists get to enjoy what Kilifi has to offer including heritage sites, beaches, culture, and art. "Every year, thousands of visitors and tourist arrivals from all over the world to attend the Kilifi New Year Festival. This has improved Kilifi County's image as the tourist destination of choice in Kenya, " Sumba said. He added that the Country is proud to have partnered with Kilifi New Year 2020, adding that his department has collaborated with the festival in creating an Application, 'ThisIsKilifi' to aid visitors. ‘’For all the visitors attending this festival, ThisIsKilifi app can easily be downloaded on their smartphones as a guide on where to visit, stay, eat or have fun, " Sumba said. On her part, Kilifi Festival marketing manager Chia Kayanda said the festival has boosted local businesses by ten times their regular income, making the economy flourish. "Apart from the music, the attendees will also experience multicultural, with discussions of exchanging ideas, at the Kilifi New Year University,’’ Kayanda said. She added that the University has a hub facilitating round table discussions touching on current issues such as climate emergency, LGBTQ Rights, racism, feminism among others. Over 50 artists are expected to Grace three stages. Some of the headlining local Art's include Blinky Bill, Karun, Barak Jacuzzi, Vallerie Muthoni and Ochungulo Family among others.