After resuming his head coach roles at National Super League side Kenya Police,Charles 'Korea' Omondi is seeking to guide the misfiring outfit to a top ten finish this season. Korea had relinquished his roles in October last year on medical grounds but returned to the club last week after the medics gave him a clean bill of health. Police, who have been under the tutelage of Gregory Mutinda since then and had began the season as promotion favourites, have fallen to a unfamiliar 13th with 24 points to their name. Mutinda's last assignment saw the law enforcers shoot down their Administration Police counterparts drawn from Bomet 2-1 in the opening second leg match played over the weekend. Korea missed the match on what he termed as other work related commitments in Mombasa but he is hopeful of commanding his troops from the dugout when they confront Nairobi Stima tomorrow. Korea, who was cagey on his bid to clinch the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Nairobi West chairmanship,  said he is keen to arrest the first leg results which were heavily linked to lack of motivation from the employer and finish within the top ten bracket. "The first leg results were a big worry to me and I am hoping to inspire the boys to a top ten finish at the end of the season. The doctors cleared me to resume my duties and I hope I will be available on Wednesday. I have been in charge of the training sessions in the last one week and the boys are fired up to redeem the image of the club from the first leg's bad run. We had issues here and there and we are glad that they have been sorted out," he said. He added: "I am satisfied with the progress the team has made while I was away and I am looking forward to fine-tuning them  into a dreaded club in the league. While I was away I had the opportunity to try my hands in administration and I am yet to make a decision of whether i will run in the repeat polls." Korea in the meantime said the exit of National U-20 Rising Stars trialist Abraham Dawo will not be felt as the club had proven goal poachers in the duo of Clinton Kinanga and David Oluoch. Dawo, who was the 2018 Koth Biro's top scorer, decamped to Kibera Black Stars in a move which Korea said was engineered by the youngster's search for playing time. "It's not a big blow to let him join Kibera. He left with my blessings to get more playing time as Kinanga and Oluoch had reduced him to a bench warmer here. We are however open to reuniting with him once he comes of age," he noted.