Betty Kyallo seems to have taken shots at social media users after she and her baby daddy Dennis Okari trended on Twitter over a co-parenting feud. Betty shared a video of DJ Khaled on social media and wrote “Mumesikia? Msiniletee negative energy hapa na ma-expert opinion. Use it yourself. I do what I want.” It all started when Betty took to social media to thank all who were there for her when her daughter Ivanna was admitted to ICU for four months. Betty thanked the doctors, friends and family, but it didn’t go well with Okari’s best friend Ken Mijungu, who shared screenshots of a conversation between him and Betty. “Okari only came to work when he could and our boss understood for all those months. To deliberately paint him as irresponsible is immoral, my friend. You don’t have to correct the impression you have created because the Somali guy is by your side but at least be honest. We were friends before and one day we shall be friends again," he wrote. "Even though the relationship did not work, Ivanna remains part of us and we thank God she is ok. As a friend, I followed up the progress of Ivanna, occasionally texting Betty and sneaking in at the ward to see her. Anyone who has been to the ICU knows it’s a huge glass cubicle. You don’t need to thank Okari and Ivanna’s grandparents, who visited and prayed with her, but at least be honest about it. Ivanna opened her eyes on the 9th of April and we thank God for the miracle.” Mijungu’s revelation also didn’t go well with Mercy Kyallo, Betty’s sister, who through a long message said, "Ken, It is distasteful that you would take the responsibility to lay public our hospital bill & allude that you (& team) contributed the heavier chunk, which nothing is further from the truth." Adding "Dennis, I could see your handwriting everywhere. Last time we met, you took over my night shift & offered to sleep over with the baby. We thought to ourselves as a family that – you are a stranger – you & Naomi were both strangers to us, but it was your right as a father, a kind gesture & we respected that. But after that you left, not a phone call or a message. Yes, you gave your contribution to our 9m+ bill but never turned back to know if & how we left the hospital. We were in the hospital for 4 months, you came around for 4 weeks then disappeared."