Busia county will employ more 400 ECDE teachers on a permanent basis beginning February. The 439 instructors were hired in 2017 and offered a two-year contract that ended in December 2019. After their absorption into the system, another 559 will be employed on contract. The latter will also work for two years before being offered permanent terms. ECDE chief officer Lydia Nabwire told the Star the move aims at stabilising early learning and setting a strong base for children's education. On May 29, 2019, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong launched the distribution of ECDE instructional material across the county, saying his administration was dedicated to employing a sufficient number of ECDE educators. The Council of Governors’ summit is expected to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta this year to discuss prospects of the national government taking over the payment of ECDE teachers on permanent and pensionable terms. In January, Nabwire said her department’s motive is to support young learners so they build a solid education foundation, which is needed for their lifelong learning experience. “This is going to enable us to have at least two teachers who are employed by the county government in every public ECDE centre,” she said. Nabwire said the process of hiring the new ECD instructors will be open, fair and transparent. She encouraged qualified residents to apply. The ECDE subsector of education is guided by the ECDE Policy, which seeks to ensure children enrolled for the programme get education geared towards the development of their mental and physical capabilities. It also envisages at making sure early learners enjoy living and learning through play, besides uplifting their self-esteem and self-confidence. In May last year, county assembly speaker Bernard Wamalwa told ECDE teachers to work hard in nurturing young learners to guarantee a better future for them. “The county assembly will play its role in ensuring effective legislation on ECDE programmes is put in place,” he said.