Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has opened up on what transpired on Saturday during the BBI meeting in Mombasa. Kuria spoke on Sunday after attending the installation ceremony of presiding Bishop Abraham Mulwa at AIC Milimani. He said it was mandatory for everyone present in Mombasa rally to refer ODM party leader Raila Odinga as 'baba'. "It was a Constitutional requirement yesterday to call Raila baba", Kuria said. He added his seat was almost taken away because he did not stand when Raila arrived. The MP said that some people are using the BBI report to drum support for Raila before 2022 general elections, saying that he is not part of the team. "If supporting Raila is the ticket to heaven let me go to hell," Kuria said. He added that he is supporting the BBI report but he is not supporting ODM party leader Raila. "Yes to BBI, no to Raila," Kuria added. Kuria was among a section of leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto who attended the BBI meeting in Mombasa. In Mombasa, Kuria was roughed up as orderlies tried to take his seat away but resisted all attempts as he 'defended his seat'. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali also had to fight for his seat saying he was an elected MP and had a right to be at the dais. He accused Suna East MP Junet Mohammed of picking on him, before pushing back Junet's hands that had reached out for him. Mombasa governor Ali Hassan Joho and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir had to intervene and calm was restored. Murkomen is the only leader from the Tangatanga group that was allowed to speak. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy attended the installation service. Uhuru urged the church to ensure Kenya remains united and peaceful. "We seek your support to bring peace, unity among our people," Uhuru said. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and a host of Cabinet Secretaries and MPs were also present. The President urged all leaders to ask themselves why they have been called to the positions they have. "There are some who ask: How did so and so get to that position? It's only by God's grace. We can say all we want to, but it's God alone who decides. We are put in leadership to serve others," Uhuru said.