Controversial blogger Cyprian Nyakundi is in for more trouble after a local bank in defamation row secured services of a top UK law firm in the case. Victoria Bank CEO Yogesh Pattni in a statement on Wednesday said the move came after Nyakundi blatantly defied a court order barring him from posting defamatory material against the bank. The law firm by the name Schillings, is a renowned law firm known for handling defamation cases. The firm is representing Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle in a suit against a British Tabloid newspaper - Mail on Sunday - after it published a private letter Meghan wrote to her father last year. Nyakundi was on Monday arrested alongside his partner Emmanuel Nyamweya at Westgate Mall by detectives from the DCI over allegations of extortion, blackmail and false accusations. The two allegedly demanded Sh17.5 million to pull down defamatory statements against the bank and had just received Sh1 million from their victims when they were arrested in a sting operation. The blogger was released on Tuesday on free police bond, but will appear in court on Friday for a mention of the matter. Pattni said the bank has over the last few months been a victim of a sustained campaign of 'untrue and highly defamatory blog posts' by Nyakundi. He said the allegations contained in this posts are entirely false, lack evidence and include personal and malicious attacks on its leadership. "We have a solid reputation built consistently over the last three decades that we have been in business and therefore do not take these wholly unwarranted and malicious attacks on the bank's reputation lightly," read part of the statement. Pattni said on September 2019, the court issued an injunction requiring Nyakundi to remove the blogs and restraining him from publishing further defamatory statements. Unfortunately, Nyakundi has since ignored the court orders by failing to remove the posts and instead published more. According to Pattni, Nyakundi demanded that they be paid the money in exchange for pulling down the posts. "We chose not to pay money to have the blogs removed but instead took the necessary legal steps to defend the bank's reputation through our counsel, Schillings, a highly reputable British law firm," he said. According to Pattni, the firm has already commenced defamation proceedings against Nyakundi in the High Court. This includes contempt of court proceedings issued against him. "A part from engaging with third party websites, on which the blogs have been republished to seek removal, we have also reported this matter to the local authorities who recently apprehended the suspect," the statement read in part.