A police officer from Kisumu county alleged to have defiled a 16-year-old girl on Monday failed to take plea at the Maseno law court. This is after the investigative officer Franko Kazungu requested more time to carry out investigations into the matter. Sergeant Stanley Kisang, 32, attached to Ratta police station in Seme subcounty was arrested last week after being identified as having allegedly defiled the Form 1 student on January 1. While appearing before senior resident magistrate Christine Oruo, Kazungu urged the court to allow the suspect to be remanded at Maseno police station until the probe is completed. Oruo granted the request and directed the matter to come up on January 8 for mention. The girl's mother had taken her to the police post for counselling after she attended a night disco on New Year's eve against her mother's advice. According to the mother, she was locked up at the police post awaiting counselling the next day. “When I went back to where my daughter was being detained, I found her in pain and could not easily close her legs. She told me that the police officer raped her more than four times before returning her to the cell,” she alleged. The officer's house is within the police post. She said the girl was taken to Coptic Hospital before her mother insisted on her referral to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. At the hospital on Thursday, the girl's mother identified as the suspect one of the officers who accompanied her. This created commotion as the hospital gates had to be closed to detain the police vehicle within the compound until the suspect was apprehended. The officer was part of the team of officers in a Toyota Land Cruiser that took the girl for examination at the facility. The girl had stated that a police officer known as Kipsang from Ratta police post had removed her from the cells and took her to his house. “My daughter had told me that the officer raped her more than four times in his house which is within the police post before returning her to the cells,” she yelled. Hospital CEO Peter Okoth told the media that the suspect and the girl will both undergo tests as required by the law. The minor later underwent an examination at the facility gender-based violence recovery centre as the suspect was whisked away and taken to Kondele police station. Activist Dennis Ouma, who was informed by the girl's mother, called on Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to ensure action against the officer for "turning on the girl instead of protecting her". Edited by R.Wamochie