Gor Mahia have quelled rumours suggesting that their skipper Kenneth Muguna is on the verge of signing for Zambian outfit Nkana Red Devils. Muguna was heavily linked with a move to the former Zambian champions who have successfully raided the club in the past for the services of former captains and decorated centre half duo of Musa Mohammed and Harun Shakava. The club argued that the play-maker, who was handed the armband at the start of the season, had a running contract and were further not afraid of losing him as a free agent by virtue of going for months without pay. The record champions also insisted that Nkana who also roped in former AFC Leopards skipper Duncan Otieno last year, had not approached them formally to secure Muguna's signature. However, the club through the Chief Executive Officer Lordvick Aduda,  acknowledged being privy to the reports which he termed as rumours and presence of football agents who are apparently negotiating with Nkana on behalf of the player. "We have read reports linking him to Nkana but no one has approached us to secure his services. Some football agents have taken advantage of the club's financial constraints to lure our best players for greener pastures but with Muguna, they will not succeed as he has a running contract.We are not afraid of losing him for free either. I spoke to Muguna and he hasn't told me anything," said Aduda. The administrator further hinted of declining to take an offer of any kind from Nkana for the former Western Stima man whose sublime assist inspired K'ogalo to a 1-0 win over Wazito last weekend to consolidate their stay at the top of the KPL log. He said they had learnt a lesson after a handful of players left the club recently as free agents and vowed to block the sale of Muguna to Nkana. Muguna controversially left Gor in 2017 to pursue his Europe dream with FK Tirana of Albania but returned home after a rather a unsuccessful brief stint. "For a young player like Muguna to move to Nkana, there is no progression career wise. What offer can Nkana whom I rank  below Gor offer us? They signed Musa and Shakava as free agents but we will not accept their offer for the player. Those who wanted to leave the club due to lack of pay have already left but we learnt something," he said. Meanwhile, Aduda revealed that the club was keen to build on Muguna's experience. Efforts to reach Muguna for a comment were futile. However, the midfielder had earlier declined to comment on his rumoured move South. "We want to build a strong team around him. We have plans to all the financial hitches this year and to get the club back to normalcy," he noted 