Police in Kandara, Murang'a county are interrogating a group of youth arrested over suspicions of planning to disrupt a meeting organised by area MP Alice Wahome. The 22 were arrested after they looked suspicious and could not speak in the local dialect. The residents further claimed that the youth confessed to having traveled from as far as Nairobi and were at pains to explain why they attended the meeting. The meeting held outside the CDF offices in Kandara town was to issue bursary cheques amounting to Sh8.7 million. The residents then handed the youth over to the police where they were detained for interrogations. Sub-county police commander Paul Wambugu said the youth had not been arrested and were merely being interrogated. Wambugu said the youth had not committed any crime and police were only trying to establish whether they had any ill motives for attending the meeting. He however lauded members of the public saying their actions may have forestalled chaos. Wahome accused nominated MP Maina Kamanda and Murang'a woman rep Sabina Chege of plotting to have her meetings disrupted. She said the MPs organised a meeting two days ago in which they met over 50 youth to plan the attacks. Three local MCAs were also in attendance. Wahome said she had evidence of the leaders addressing the youth and has recorded a statement with the police She said it is unfortunate for some people to plan to disrupt the function yet the venue is surrounded by offices held by members of the security team. "I knew about their plans and had informed the police because my people and I deserve to be protected," she said. Wahome vowed not to bow to intimidation saying she is fighting for the rights of her constituents. She pointed out that even after receiving a bashing following her statement earlier this month that blamed President Uhuru Kenyatta for the dwindling economy, the President had listened to her. She said this in regard provoked the head of state top give  directives aimed at boosting the economy. Wahome said she does not need lectures on respecting the President as it is not her intention to disrespect him. "The President heard what we said. Do they want us not to tell him when things go wrong and is telling him disrespecting him? Aren't we the same people who voted for him?" She posed. The legislator said Jubilee party does not have a prefect and asked the government to ensure its officials do not misuse their offices to play politics. In a quick rejoinder, Woman rep Sabina Chege refuted the claims by Wahome saying they are baseless. Chege said she has no any reason to hire youth to disrupt any meeting. Chege instead said Wahome had stage-managed the disruption and then blamed it on them. "She posted the same thing in the morning on Facebook claiming some people were planning to disrupt her function and I did not reply," she said. The MP said she would visit the police station to understand who the youth were and where they had come from. "She cannot stage-manage an arrest and then say we are the ones who sent the youth. The youth were arrested by Wahome's people and then it was said they were arrested by the public. I have asked whether they have recorded statements and the police say they have refused to," Chege said. Efforts to get a comment from Maina Kamanda were unfruitful as he did not answer calls or respond to text messages.