Danish coach Lasse Holmgaards is impressed with the level of technical ability of Kenyan footballers and is hoping to sign three female players for his upcoming Danish women fourth tier side, BK Barnolm 2020. The Dane, who is in the country on a working holiday, said  with a little more of tactical know how, Kenyan football was bound to go places. “I have watched the MYSA women team train as well as Sharks (Kariobangi) and all that I can say is that the players have raw talent and good physical attributes. What needs to be polished and that is up to the coaches is their tactical awareness,”he said on the sidelines of the Kenya Premier League match pitting Sharks against Bandari on Wednesday. Holmgaards, who played as an a defensive midfielder for Danish top tier side AC Horsens before venturing into coaching after retirement, said that in his observation and conversation, Kenyan players were willing to learn and the possibility of some women players joining him for his project in his home island of Bornholm was a big opportunity. “This is personal project for me and my island. The similarities between Bornhom and Kenya were the reason I chose Kenya. We are both behind in terms of development of the women’s game but we have the potential to develop. This made me choose Kenya for possibility of getting players,”he explained. Lasse has struck a rapport with Sharks coach William Muluya and former women national team captain Anne Aluoch. “William is a good coach with proper tactical knowledge. I was impressed with the way he was training his team and the eventual output in the game (against Bandari). I shared my observations with him and also learnt something from the way he was working,”said Lasse. He revealed that in his scouting mission, he had spotted two women players while at the MYSA training in Komarock and said  with he Danish women football league starting in August, the earliest he can recruit them after consultation with the board of the BK Bornholm 2020 club is two months prior.