The wait to have Nyayo National Stadium reopen will soon be over after Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed revealed that President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed the renovation works be completed by March. The facility was closed in 2017 for renovations in readiness for the 2018 Africa Nations Championships but three years down the line, the 30,000-seater venue remains shut and far from completion. Yesterday, Amina alongside the Ministry’s new Principal Secretary Joe Okudo and his Public Works counterpart Gordon Kihalangwa toured the facility, where she assured the stalled works will resume from next week. Amina admitted that the works had taken way too long to complete but remains confident of meeting the March deadline issued by State House. “We have no reason to delay the renovations anymore. The contractors will be on site from next week to work day and night in order to meet the deadline. The two PSs have pledged that they will meet the March deadline set by His Excellency President Uhuru. I have no doubt about our capability to push the project because we have to adhere to the President’s directive,” She said. Amina also disclosed that her team will inspect the Moi Stadium, Kasarani before rolling off the renovations in readiness for the World Under-20 Championships set for July. “We will be sending a team to Kasarani to see what is supposed to be done and how long it will take to complete the works. Hopefully, in the near future, we will have the two stadia ready and functioning. If we can do the two in two months then we can focus on the other facilities we have,” Amina noted. Meanwhile, Okudo who according to Amina, began his duties yesterday pledged to roll his sleeves in a bid to deliver the stadium. “We are going back to the drawing board to put a new team together. We are not saying our predecessors performed dismally but we will do our best to meet the directive given on the stadium,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by Kihalangwa who said, “This project is going to be completed within the set deadline. The technical officers from the Ministry are already on the ground and I am sure it will be completed in time. There is a lot to be done but we also hope to meet the standards set too,” he said.