The Building Bridges Initiative taskforce is yet to commence the second phase of its work as it awaits a gazette notice from President Uhuru Kenyatta stating its terms of reference. It’s also through the legal instrument that Uhuru will officially extend the term of the 14-man team headed by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. BBI Joint Secretary Paul Mwangi on Thursday told the Star he was unable to comment on the team’s roadmap before they see the gazette notice. “That would be pre-mature and presumptuous. The gazette notice is the guiding document,” he said. The gazette notice, first appointed the team in 2018 was signed by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga extended the BBI taskforce term on December 12. Among the taskforce fresh mandate, State House announced, would involve “guiding public participation, and structuring recommendations by Kenyans into implementable action plans”. It remains unclear whether the BBI report, which is largely acceptable across the political divide, will be opened for amendments. Deputy President William Ruto’s allies have threatened to oppose any changes to the current report. Some political leaders have suggested that the BBI process should be expedited to ensure that it does not coincide with the 2022 electioneering period. Siaya Senator James Orengo said the BBI team should ensure that they are ready with bills that can be translated into law in the next six months. “We can’t drag this process beyond October because it will be compromised by the election cycle,” Orengo said last week. But as the process moves to the next stage, some Kenyans, especially in the civil society, have rejected any attempts to amend the Constitution, terming it “a backdoor political ploy of sharing political positions”. Executive Director of International Policy and Conflict Ndung’u Wainaina said Thursday that BBI is a serious indictment on the Jubilee government's complete failure to fully and faithfully implement reforms stipulated in the Constitution. “The country cannot afford a costly political project that is not informed by coherent reasons and justification rather than a desire by few individual political leaders to have public offices created for themselves without considering the serious economic consequences of their actions to the wider good of the country. Kenya is not facing a constitutional moment that warrants sweeping changes to the Constitution,” he said.