Itierio Boys High School in Kisii is on the mend after an inferno nearly brought it to its knees. At least 10 of the school's 12 dormitories were razed in 2016 by unruly students for being denied a chance to watch football by the administration. The dormitories went up in smoke in June 2016. There were no fatalities but the students lost all their belongings. Principal Isaac Okeyo describes the progress made in the last three years as amazing and miraculous. Okeyo says the journey has been steady but a painful one. “We are still not where we want yet, but the gains we have made so far cannot be wished away,” Okeyo says. The fire incident was among the most gruesome in the Kenyan schools' history. Okeyo, who was a deputy principal at Maseno School then, says school fire incidents were traumatic moments for all schools across the country. “Here it was as sickening as it was horrifying. You can't imagine the staggering loss experienced,” Okeyo says. Across Kisii and Nyamira counties more than 30 secondary schools and two primary schools experienced arson incidents. Speaking to the Star at his office on Friday, the six-foot-tall Okeyo said only a combination of efforts from the stakeholders has made the school climb back to glory. He also attributes it to the hand of God. “It hasn't been easy putting the school back in good shape after that disaster. It has clearly put a dent on the school expenditure,” he said. He is thankful for the dedicated efforts of teachers, parents and school sponsor, the Evangelical Lutheran of Church of Kenya for helping bring the institution back to its feet. An accomplished mathematics teacher, Okeyo says by 2025 he is optimistic the school will have wriggled out of the county school category and been upgraded to national status. “Rome wasn't built in a single day and so not here at Itierio. There had been lows but we are slowly weathering many of them if our performance record is anything to go by," Okeyo says. He said they have to dig  their way up through a pessimistic society to pull the school from the ashes. Since taking charge, the school has to improve its KCSE exam mean scores over the years. “A year after the fire which was 2017 we recorded 4.01 from the previous 3.6 during the fire incident. In  2019 we scored 5.2, not a mean feat taking account of where the school was, " Okeyo said. The school has set a target of a mean score of 7. 5 which Okeyo says should be achieved by all means. Itierio first stole the limelight in 1987 when they won the national secondary schools' football title. The school often dominated the sport at the provincial and national levels. Mike Okoth Origi, one of Kenya’s most successful footballers who studied at the school, scored a goal for the school's team during their successful campaign in 1987. Okeyo said the school has a rich sports history which they are trying to nurture. “The spirit is there, we are doing some catch up from where those legends left,” Okeyo says. He said through the help of teachers and chaplain, they are changing the school, erasing the rogue status it had acquired to transform it into a centre of excellence. He also praised his predecessors for laying a strong foundation on which he is building his success legacy. “It is something we can't take for granted,” he says.