Greg Snow posted a 2-under par 70 score on the final day of the Sigona Golf Club Safari Tour Golf Series to clinch his fourth title of the season. It was his third consecutive win in the series, having won at home in Muthaiga and Thika earlier this month, to add onto the opening win at Nyali in August last year. Snow had a total of 8-under par 280; four shots clear of his nearest challenger, Zimbabwean Robson Chinhoi. He carded a first nine total of 35, having holed a birdie at the par-4 second and an eagle three at the ninth, enough to cancel out bogeys at the par-5 fourth and the par-4 eighth. On the back nine, he got off to a birdie at the challenging par-5 10th before picking a bogey at the par-3 14th. He followed it up with a birdie at the par-5 15th to card a back nine total of 35. Snow now leads the Road to the 2020 Kenya Open ranking with 350 points, having dislodged fellow Johnnie-Walker-sponsored golfer, Dismas Indiza (347 points), and says that he has no intention of letting go of the top spot. “My goal is to win the order of merit like I did last year. There are still two more events to go. Being at the top feels good, staying up there is a different story altogether. I am pleased, though.  That’s where I intend to stay. I am therefore looking forward to the next two events. I have got to keep doing what I am doing by staying focused,” said Snow. “I am satisfied with my performance this week. My game is heading in the right direction. My length off the tee in the wet conditions gave me an advantage as I knew if I drove the ball well off the tee, scoring was not going to be an issue,” he said. With this victory, Snow banks Sh150,000 in prize money. Chinhoi posted an impressive 2-under par 70 score to take his total for the tournament to 4-under par 284. Sigona was the Zimbabwean’s best outing in four outings, with his previous best a fourth-place at the Great Rift Valley outing. He had a tricky first nine, carding a total of 37, courtesy of a double-bogey at the par-5 fourth and having only made a lone birdie at the par-4 seventh. The back nine proved more responsive, where he played blemish-free and picked up birdies at the 10th, 14th and 15th to card a total of 33. For his stellar outing, he took home Sh100,000. Royal Nairobi Golf Club’s Erick Ooko completed the podium places with a 2-over par 74 round to take his total for the event to 1-over par 289 — taking home Sh56,000. Windsor’s Riz Charania finished fourth while John Karicu and Simon Ngige were joint fifth. Mutahi Kibugu, who was the only amateur to make the cut at the event, took home the Silver Salver, having finished tied in ninth alongside Tony Omuli. After nine events this season, Snow, Indiza, Ngige, Ooko, Charania, David Wakhu, Kopan Timbe and Tony Omuli occupy the eight Kenya Open qualification slots reserved for local players. The Safari Tour is back in action at the Kitante Open in Uganda from between February 12 and 15 for the penultimate event.