Activist Boniface Mwangi has once again blocked government vehicles that were being driven on the wrong side of the road. In a viral video seen by the Star, a government vehicle, one with a siren and registration number- GK 970R-is seen on the wrong side of the road. Mwangi dared the driver of the vehicle. "Why are these driving on the wrong side, no I am not moving," Mwangi is heard saying in the video. After some seconds, a bodyguard jumps out of the first car before trying to wave him to move to the other lane. "I am not moving, why are you driving in the wrong lane," the adamant Mwangi tells the bodyguard who repeatedly knocks at the door of the vehicle. Sensing that Mwangi will not purge, the driver of the car decides to swerve the car to the side of the road. Two Landcruiser Prados, one with a blue siren and another one with a national flag could be seen following the first car. Another chase car for the police followed shortly. "One person, an employee of the taxpayers in a convoy of four cars decided to use the wrong side of the road. It's arrogance, endangering lives and breaking the law," Mwangi tweeted on Tuesday. "I block anyone on the wrong side, the law is clear on the use of sirens, it doesn't say 'clearing traffic' emergency only! If the officer is breaking the law, l have a moral and legal right to defy him. The police aren't the law, the law is the law." His post was received with applause from Kenyans online. "No Kenyan is above the Law kama angetaka kufika mapema angerauka. @bonifacemwangi thank you and continue doing the good work. We will police these arrogant elements ourselves," James Mwadhegu said. User Wahiuri Kelvin urged the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to withdraw the security of the VIP. @carlmwania wrote, "Whoever this is withdraw his security. And have those damn sirens removed from those Civilian registered vehicles." @ItsMJ254 tweeted, "Lakini usiogope Sana Boni, you should have said this while your window was down. And yes, I agree with you. Tabia mbaya Sana." @makobu "Well done @bonifacemwangi One day sanity and the rule of law shall reign in this country." On Monday, the IG said security detail will be withdrawn from government officials involved in crime. Mutyambai said that they will not be accorded security until they are cleared by the courts. Mwangi was in June last year in the news after a similar incident. During the incident, he told off government officials saying he only give way to ambulances and fire engines.