Msambweni Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary Bashiri Kilalo has faulted the transfer of school heads conducted by the Teacher Service Commission. Kilalo said the exercise was unfairly done because it didn’t meet the requisite standards. “The massive teacher transfers you have seen around are biased,” he said on Saturday. He spoke at Chigombero Primary School in the award-giving event for best-performing students and improved schools in the 2019 KCPE exams in Lunga Lunga subcounty. Kilalo said they are going to respect TSC's decision for the sake of serving residents and to complete their duties. “Even though we are dissatisfied with the transfers, we are going to respond to the directives as quickly as possible because we have obligations to fulfil." He said they will take the situation as a challenge and urged the affected teachers to deliver their best services in their new areas. According to media reports, TSC last year instructed county directors to file data for school administrators ahead of the transfers. Meanwhile, Kilalo has assured teachers that the union is stable and will continue to support them. He applauded the education officers for hard work saying it translated to the improvement of school performances in Kwale. He urged both the TSC and Education board to establish a strong bond and work together saying any misunderstanding should be addressed in a civilised manner. The union official warned that students would be the most affected when education stakeholders engage in a permanent disagreement. “Please let’s handle things with caution because when we start using force, the innocent child who needs us is going to suffer." He advised parents to take advantage of existing school bursaries to transition children to secondary and further studies to university levels. “Our work is to teach; other problems like poor roads, learning facilities, indiscipline and many more are things we must all tackle,” he said adding that parents should develop a routine of visiting children to inquire more about their wellbeing. The event involved awarding pupils and institutions from Msambweni and Lunga Lunga subcounties under the sponsorship of the Australian Mining Firm Base Titanium. Edited by R.Wamochie