The government is set to build a rapid deployment unit base at the boarder of Kisumu and Nandi counties to ensure maximum security in the region. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said the unit will strengthen the security on the boarder and ensure that everybody is secured. The RDU camp, Matiangi said, will be established at Songhor area in Muhoroni sub county which boarders Tinderet sub county. Already, he said there is a 10 acre piece of land donated by the family of retired Judge justice Effie Owour for the establishment of the RDU to address cases of insecurity in the region. Noting that security is a collective responsibility, Matiangi assured Kenyans that the government is committed to protect them and their property. “We are putting up a huge RDU camp here and will double of personnel and increase the resource”, he said. For years, the region has been faced with cases of conflicts largely blamed on cattle rustling , land boundary disputes and Land encroachment. In November 2o18, a squatter allegedly killed retired judge Effie Owuor's farm manager and injured her son in an attack in Muhoroni. Currently, the RDU officers deployed in the area are staying in camping tents at Songhor. The government will also set up another anti stock-theft unit in the area. “We don't want citizens both in Muhoroni and Nandi to suffer because of cattle rustling. They should live in peace and harmony to grow and spur economic development in the region,” Matiang'i said. He commended Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo and his Tinderet counterpart Julius Melly for their effort towards uniting the neighboring communities. The two leaders, her said , are committed and means well to their people in development and uniting them. “I have engaged with them on various occasions on matters affecting our people and they have proved to be practical and sincere in serving their constituents. They mean hat they speak as a true patriotic,”Matiang'i said. Further, he said that every criminal should be treated as a criminal as they have no tribe, noting that when you commit a crime, you do it as an individual and not the community you come from. “A thief is a thief irrespective of his tribe and should be dealt with as the law requires. Nobody should say that they are being targeted. When you steal a cow from this side or the other region, or when you are a cattle rustlers, we must deal with you as a criminal not your tribe,”the CS said. The CS noted that they want those living at the boarder to be peaceful and do their businesses without fear. His sentiments ere supported by Koyoo and Melly who assured Matiang'i of their support o ensure that there communities are united and intermarry.