A Meru MCA has denied charges of inciting members of the public and obstructing a police officer from executing his duties. Municipality Ward Rep Elius Murega appeared before Meru Senior Resident Magistrate Evans Mbicha where he denied the two counts. State prosecutor Adams Chelule told the court that on January 23, 2020, at Kaithe area, Makutano Township in Imenti North Subcounty within Meru County, willfully and unlawfully obstructed police officers who were allegedly acting in due of executing their duties. Murega also denied that on January 23, 2020, at Kaithe area Makutano Township in Imenti North Sub County within Meru county without lawful excuse uttered words, “You can’t arrest and escort my people to the police station under my watch". These words indicated that it was desirable to prevent by violence enforcement of law leading to the damage of motor vehicle property of Kiama. Despite Murega’s Lawyer Calvin Otieno pleading with the magistrate to release his client on a lenient bail, the court slapped the MCA with a bond of Sh7million without an alternative. Otieno said the offense is not capital and so, it did not warrant such exorbitant and unreasonable bond terms adding that he will appeal for review of the bond at the high court on Monday. Otieno alleged that his client was told by police on Thursday evening that they had 'orders from above' to deny him police bail. Otieno said Murega being an MCA is not a flight risk and thus he will attend court whenever needed. Chelule did not oppose the bail application but urged the court to ensure the bond terms were commensurate to the offence he was accused of. He urged the court to issue a warning to the Kenya Patriots Party MCA not to incite members of public failure to which his bond will be cancelled. The case will be heard on March 9, 2020. Otieno was granted his request to be handed copies of the charge sheet and all relevant evidence that the prosecution intends to use during the trial. Murega had gone to the Meru police station to know why three of his electorates were arrested at Makutano when police turned against him. The three, Peter Kihonge, Solomon Rotich and Charles Mweteri were charged that on January 23 at Kaithe area jointly with others who are still at large, were found in a place to which persons resort for purpose of using narcotics. The trio who were also represented by Otieno denied the charges.