Kenyan-Finland based artiste Rawbeen says she ended her friendship with KTN presenter Chero over "Madharau" Rawbeena claimed that she was financing the fancy and highflying lifestyle of Carolyn Chero Oywa (Chero) – before things went haywire. She told Word Is on Thursday "People who knew me, know that I was close to her. It reached a point there was so much madharau and I despised them and decide to move on with my life especially when I realized I was losing a lot of stuff and a lot of property" "I really work so hard so when someone takes me for granted I do not like it. I don’t do promiscuity, I have kids who look up to me" On whether it is true she has blocked Chero on all her social media platforms, Rawbeena said "Yes, she is blocked from all my social media pages. I feel like if it’s not respectful forget about it if it’s making you lose yourself forget about it." Rawbeena added that she was not trying to tarnish Chero’s name "it’s not about speaking badly about her. Contrary to what people believe she was not my manager rather I was managing her brand, cleaning her up. There was a time the lies and the disrespect became too much. After two years of being friends, there was no development." "There was a time I was here for six months and I intentionally said I did not have enough cash to use while here and that is when madharau started.Her sister even started abusing me. The last time I spoke to her I told her she was forgiven" Adding "Chero tried to evict me from a house I paid for.One of her friends told me to leave that I was being negative energy. Luckily for me, I had payment slips to prove that I was the owner." "It’s not that I hate her but the friendship was toxic.On what she learned from that friendship. what I learnt is that people will use you and they won’t care." Rawbeena has released a new song titled "Kiboko" "The song is all about telling people not to listen to critics when it comes to matters of love.It’s very easy to write about love songs because I know how to love .Every one loves so it’s easy for me to write such songs.’ Responding to claims of being funded, promiscuity and calling cops on Rawbeena to have her thrown out of the house, the ktn showbiz tv star said “I don’t want to be part of that story. So, no comment.”