Embattled Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu had his day at the Senate on Wednesday, as he fought for his job. The governor, through his lawyers, said the impeachment process was flawed and pleaded with the Senate to throw out the case. Waititu said the MCAs did not follow procedure as stipulated in the County Government Act and Standing Orders in impeaching him. There were varied reactions during the impeachment trial. Here is what senators said: Siaya Senator James Orengo: "There was no rebuttal on the allegations and evidence on the side of the Executive." Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr: "It is extremely serious that a matter of such magnitude has been handled casually by the governor's people. It is very casual that the lawyers of the governor did not find it fit to file an application with the speaker's office." Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot: "It is politically convenient to make the flowery statements you've made here. My colleagues, let us not do what is politically convenient but let us be logical." Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala "We have deputy governors who have been plotting against their governors through impeachment because they see it as a shortcut to ascend to power. The vote we are going to make is not based on the evidence, but on political inclinations because we have been whipped to support." Wajir Senator Ali Abdullahi: "How do we criticise our own Standing Orders? These gentlemen of the governor's team, this impeachment was done on December 19, last year. Why didn't they file their appeal. They had one-and-a-half months and they did not do anything. If the Ombudsman said the governor should return land of a widow which was grabbed, if it is not an offence, what is it?" Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei: "Waititu is being impeached because of politics." Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja: "The governors' lawyers misled him. This case has been proved beyond reasonable doubt." Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri: "What can constitute gross misconduct apart from depriving a widow of her property?" Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika: "The Senate should not rubber stamp the ouster bid. There was no evidence that the threshold of two-thirds was met in the county assembly. It is our job and duty to ensure the process was proper. Claims of a widow being defrauded of her land weres not substantiated. There was no affidavit and the lady did not testify."