The government has gazetted a 14-member steering committee which will be tasked to oversee the implementation of the Building Bridges Initiative Report to a United Kenya Taskforce Report. The members are Garissa Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshomo, James Matundura and Rose Moseu. Others are Agnes Kavindu Muthama, Saeed Mwaguni, Bishop Peter Njenga, Archbishop Emeritus Zaccheaus Okoth, Adams Oloo, Busia Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Morompi ole Ronkei and John Seii. The joint secretaries are Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. The committee has been directed to submit its comprehensive advice to the government by June 30, 2020. The Steering Committee shall appoint its chairperson and vice-chairperson from among its members. It will also regulate its own procedure within confines of the law and the Constitution, privilege bipartisan and non-partisan groupings, forums and experts. The Steering Committee will form technical working groups as may be required in the achievement of its terms of reference. The meetings should be held in places and at such times as the it shall consider necessary for the proper discharge of its functions. The Steering Committee shall also solicit, receive and consider written memoranda or information from the public and may carry out or cause to be carried out such assessments, studies or research as may inform its mandate The Joint Secretaries shall be responsible for all official communication on behalf of the Steering Committee. The Joint Secretaries may co-opt any other persons as may be required to assist in the achievement of the terms of reference of the Steering Committee. Uhuru met the BBI taskforce at State House Nairobi on December last year where he requested the team to continue leading the process. The President who was in the company of ODM leader Raila Odinga, thanked the team for putting together a report that 'captured the aspirations of Kenyans'. According to the statement from State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena, the Taskforce will now be mandated to steer the next phase of the process. "This will largely involve expanding and guiding public participation and structuring recommendations by Kenyans into implementable action plans," the statement read. However, the communication from State House did not indicate the exact time period of the extended term.