President Uhuru Kenyatta's latest reshuffle in his cabinet will see former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe make a grand return to the Executive if approved by Parliament. In the changes announced at State House, Mombasa, Uhuru nominated Kagwe to head the Health docket that was previously held by Sicily Kariuki. Kariuki is now the Water, Sanitation and Irrigation CS. From 2002 – 2007, Kagwe served as the fifth MP for Mukurweini Constituency. As MP, he was the Chair of Parliamentary Committee on Finance, Trade, Tourism and Planning, before his appointment as a Cabinet Minister under former President Mwai Kibaki's Government. Kagwe later went on to become the first-ever Senator of Nyeri County. In the 11th parliament, he chaired the Senate Committee on Information and Technology and served on the Senate Committee of Finance and Budget; and the Liaison Committee. He also served as Chairman of the Senate Education Committee. As Cabinet Minister, he spearheaded the construction of the transformational East African Marine System – The first Fibre Optic Project for Eastern Africa. It was during his term as Cabinet Minister that Kenya launched ‘Mpesa,’ the world's first-ever money transfer system. As Senator, his credits include the championing of “The Best Classroom,” an Early Childhood Education program that aspires to promote the quality provision of ECDE nationwide. He also sponsored the Cyber Security and Protection Bill in the Senate. Kagwe was appointed by Energy CS Charles Keter last year to the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Commission (EPRA). He holds the Elder of the Golden Heart (EGH) awards in recognition of his distinguished service to the nation. Also nominated to the cabinet is Betty Maina who has been the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. She has been nominated to be the next CS for Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development Maina had also held the position of Principal Secretary, State Department of Investment and Industry Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives. Maina has also served as the Chief Executive of Kenya’s Association of Manufacturers. She has also held positions at the Institute of Economic Affairs, the Center for International Private Enterprise, and the Kenya Leadership Institute, among others. Ms Maina has also served on Denmark’s Africa Commission and currently sits on various boards in the public sector.