Supporters of the Building Bridges Initiative will triumph in the March 2020 Jubilee elections, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu predicts. He said those fully aligned to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s policies of fighting corruption and unity are already aggressively building support. “Those of us who want to unite Kenyans across the political divide will be more active, determined and aggressive in pushing our message of unity, while those dividing Kenyans for individual 2022 political advantage will get pushed back at, so much harder than in 2019,” stated the MP on his facebook page. He expressed hope that those who will be elected as officials of Jubilee Party during the party’s elections will be fully aligned to President  Uhuru Kenyatta’s policies. “Anyone who is not aligned to this - whoever they are - will have a bad year in 2020 as far as the Jubilee Party is concerned. And this is something we can take to the bank.” He also expressed hope that Jubilee Party will get more disciplined, predicting that the President will be more forceful and involved in putting his house in order. This will prompt some people to shape up or ship out, he added. The Jubilee party has witnessed divisions in 2019 with the emergence of the pro-Ruto Tangatanga faction and the anti-Ruto camp known as Kieleweke. The vocal MP has been accused by his colleagues of being at the center of political chaos that have been witnessed severally in Nyeri town between the two Jubilee political factions. But Wambugu has consistently denied the claims saying his opponents have been hiring goons to undermine him in his constituency. He said he will not cow in telling early campaigners the truth. “We will speak truth. We will speak it forcefully. We will speak it well. And we will speak it wide.” He said the ‘nonsense’ witnessed in 2019 will not be entertained anymore, adding that his team will especially be brutal in telling off those who think Kenyans are idiots. The MP also vowed to step up his effort in ensuring that stalled national government projects in his constituency are completed. He named them as the Ruring’u Stadium, Nyaribo Airstrip, Science Technology Park at the Dedan Kimathi Universty, Nyeri – Nyandarua road through the Aberedare forest and community Irrigation projects among others. “We will upscale our local development agenda. So far we have 120 security, school and environmental projects ongoing. We expect to raise that number to at least 200, with most complete by December 2020,” he noted. On education, the MP said he expect to have at least 70 per cent of national primary and secondary schools in the constituency covered under the school infrastructure rehabilitation programme.