Two MPs — one from North Rift and another from Nyanza — are reported to have been bashed by their colleagues during the pro-Deputy President William Ruto legislators' retreat in Naivasha. A source in the meeting said the two legislators were accused of being moles because of their flip-flopping nature. At one point, the MPs wanted them kicked out of the meeting, some threatening to walk out if they were not kicked out. It took a call from the DP to save them as he urged MPs to tolerate divergent views and accommodate everyone. Just why is KPLC punishing residents of Baba Dogo in Nairobi? The power supplier disconnected electricity to the area last Thursday over what it termed illegal connections. The officers claim the company has not been receiving money meant for tokens from the area yet nearly everyone is connected to power. The question the residents are asking themselves is why the company is punishing all of them yet most are genuine and have been paying their bills faithfully. The company maintains it will not reconnect the electricity until they "sort out the matter".  Meanwhile, residents, including business people, continue to suffer from the troubles likely to take a toll on the ailing economy. A former MP eyeing a top seat in a Nyanza county has set tongues wagging in political circles for his approach to funerals. The elderly politician, who wants to succeed his high school student, is said to have set a maximum contribution of Sh500 for every funeral he attends. Organisers and bereaved families claim the ex-legislator always goes mute in most WhatsApp groups and social harambees, only to turn up at funerals to get airtime to lecture them on politics. His political detractors plan to shut off the microphone and force him to cough up enough contributions to fuel a generator or just retire from politics and give space to youths. A storm is simmering in a Mt Kenya county assembly over what some MCAs say is the speaker’s preferred list of members attending BBI rallies. The ward reps lamented the speaker has been approving facilitation, including the purchase of air tickets from the country’s coffers, for a select group since the rallies began in Kisii three weeks ago. Some have been camping in the speaker’s office attempting to persuade him to give facilitation, but their appeals have fallen on deaf ears. The frustrated MCAs are now planning to impeach the speaker for favouritism and have already raised the issue with their majority leader. They say it is just a matter of time before the motion is introduced.