Ulinzi Stars coach Benjamin Nyangweso is a worried man ahead of their weekend clash against 11-time Kenyan champions Tusker following the unavailability of hitman Oscar Wamalwa. Wamalwa, the 2019 Cecafa Senior Challenge top scorer will sit out of the match through suspension after accumulating five yellow cards thus far in the season. Wamalwa has found the back of the net seven times this season and is touted as one of the candidates for the ‘golden boot’. Nywangweso has termed his absence as a massive blow to his plans to shoot down the brewers, who sit top of the league with 37 points, one ahead of  Kakamega Homeboyz. The match promises to be epic as the soldiers, who are fourth with 34 points are unbeaten in the last 14 matches, while the brewers have not lost in their last 11. Tusker's last defeat was inflicted by the soldiers in October last year at the Afraha Stadium with Daniel Waweru the hero. Nyagweso, a league-winning coach with the club in 2010, said that he will look up to last season’s top scorer, Enosh Ochieng, to shoulder the responsibilities. He also hinted of pairing Ochieng with former Nzoia Sugar striker Masita Masuta, who has been deprived of playing time since completing his military studies. “It is a big blow to miss Wamalwa’s services against the league leaders. I would have wished to have him for he has been reliable upfront but we will think of how best we will play without him," said Nyangweso. "I may deploy Ochieng as the centre forward or pair him with Masuta, who is slowly hitting top form after returning from military college.” Nyangweso further revealed that new signing, Festus Okiring, will have to wait longer for his debut as he will have to undergo military training. Ulinzi raided Homeboyz for the defender but his bid to break to the starting team will be delayed for more than six months. He also confirmed that award-winning goalkeeper and Kenyan international Timothy Odhiambo will resume training in three weeks time “Okiring will have to proceed for military training first. Besides offering outstanding players the opportunity to showcase their talents, we also endeavour to give them jobs in the military. We are expecting Odhiambo to resume training in three weeks time,” added Nyangweso.