Is a CS working day and night to influence MPs from Northeastern region to abandon Deputy President William Ruto’s camp ahead of 2022? Corridors has learnt that the voting pattern witnessed in Senate where lawmakers from the region voted to a man in support of the impeachment of Governor Ferdinand Waititu was the work of the Cabinet secretary. A mole who is familiar with the manoeuvres intimated that the CS has been meeting the MPs and senators to back the President and his handshake with Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Corridors also understands that he has whipped the legislators to back the changes expected to be made in the leadership of the two Houses of Parliament. A legislator aiming to unseat his governor in the 2022 General Election recently left fellow lawmakers shellshocked over his questionable orientation. The MPs were dumbfounded when a deeply inebriated legislator began cosying up to, smooching and frolicking with a sissy personal assistant while on a retreat in a European country. The House leadership and the stunned colleagues who were on the trip were left in disbelief when the pair sauntered to their room while tightly holding each other’s backsides. A source who was on the trip has told Corridors of how his fellow lawmakers quickly whispered to the House leadership that his meteoric political rise is largely linked to his knack to playing for the other team. Some county executives in Western Kenya are unhappy with their boss. Reason? They say the governor has turned a blind eye to non-performing staff from his subtribe. They said any disciplinary action seems to be targeting employees who are not from the county chief’s subtribe. They told Corridors some senior staff have made huge blunders in the course of their jobs, some even costing the county money, but they have continued to work as if nothing happened. They said this group of employees has continued to oversee the rot in their departments knowing that there would be no consequences for their inaction. A vocal MP who is a close ally of ODM leader Raila Odinga was heard by our little bird bragging how happy their party was with the ongoing acrimony in the Jubilee Party. The lawmaker said he and his colleagues in the outfit cannot hide their joy with the impending breakdown of the ruling party. He said Jubilee’s unity was a threat to Raila’s chances of capturing power. The emphatic lawmaker who heads one of the powerful committees in the National Assembly said the disintegration of the party will be a relief to Kenyans and one step in ensuring the Third Liberation is achieved.