Some Mombasa MCAs have claimed their wards are being sidelined in resource distribution as punishment for being vocal in demanding accountability. According to two MCAs, five county assembly members are being reprimanded by the executive for exercising their oversight role in questioning how monies allocated for various projects have been utilised. Speaking at a public meeting, Jomvu Kuu Ward Representative Shebe Athman says that himself, alongside MCAs for Likoni ward, Freretown ward, Junda ward and Kongowea ward make up the five county assembly members being unfairly targeted. Athman, who is also the chair of the assembly’s committee on environment, energy and waste management, claimed that their actions in the assembly have resulted in their wards being sidelined in development activities. “It is our responsibility to ensure that monies allocated by the national government together with revenue collected by the county is accounted for,” said the Jomvu Kuu MCA. “But every time we want to know how funds allocated for various projects were utilized, we are told not to pursue such queries. This is not fair both for us as representatives and for the people who elected us,” he said. He says his stand on such issues has caused his ward not to receive bursaries, welfare funds and other development projects despite the fact that the assembly approves development budgets for the entire county. “The other 25 elected representatives are benefiting because they have been cowed into submission by the executive. However, I have to acknowledge that our county Speaker Aharub has continued to be neutral and balanced,” he said. County director of communications Richard Chaacha refuted allegations that the executive was interfering with the activities of the assembly. “The assembly is independent because remember there was a time when it even impeached a county executive member,” said Chaacha. “Every ward is being served equally. The issues raised by the MCAs are best addressed by the assembly speaker and the clerk,” he added. In March, 2019, the Jomvu Kuu ward leader had tabled a motion in the county assembly seeking to remove Transport executive Tawfiq Balala from office on account of alleged incompetence and gross violation of the constitution. The motion had been supported by a majority of MCAs and Balala was impeached, but was later saved from the sack following a truce between Governor Hassan Joho and the county assembly. However, before the amicable solution was found, Joho had accused the assembly of blackmailing his executive cabinet members and vowed to protect them. The governor had also threatened to call for the dissolution of Mombasa county government if the MCAs continued pushing the removal of some executive members. Citing the events of March, 2019, the Jomvu Kuu ward representative said that his record of seeking accountability does not augur well with the executive. The Likoni ward MCA Athman Mwamiri confirmed to The Star that he is among five assembly members allegedly facing frustrations by the executive. “Last year I had tabled a motion around the issue of youth empowerment so that various training and skills opportunities would be facilitated from the ward level. It was approved but this year the other 25 elected members received funds to facilitate young people to join driving schools while the five of us were left out,” he said.