Kenyan champions Gor Mahia yesterday signed a three-year long deal with global kit manufacturer Umbro. The deal will see Umbro supply K’Ogalo’s squad with high performance competition, training and off the field apparel. The technical and management staff will be supplied with branded apparel, equipment and luggage. Gor Mahia products will also be available for fans to purchase. Umbro replaces Italian kit manufacturer Macron who have been supplying shirts to the club since August 2018. Macron contract terminated on mutual consent. Gor Mahia's chairman Ambrose Rachier said the new deal is a sign of new things to come. Gor are rumoured to be on the verge of getting a new shirt sponsor although their officials, who acknowledged the advanced negotiations, were tight lipped on the possible day of the unveiling. The deal saw Gor become the third club in KPL to get partner with Umbro after their traditional arc-rivals AFC Leopards and Kariobangi Sharks. "Gor Mahia are about to open a new chapter in the quest to begin dining with elite clubs of African football at the continental table. We are glad and excited that Umbro has agreed to partner with the club towards opening this new chapter. We guarantee to you (Umbro) that we will never let you down, we are the mighty K’Ogalo. We share the same values and we would like to grow the brands together,” said Rachier. David Ricketts, Umbro South Africa Chief Executive Officer,  said: “ We are delighted that Gor Mahia will be wearing the famous double diamond. They are a club with history and tradition looking to build towards the future, which goes hand in hand with our brand values. We look forward to partnering with Gor Mahia as they open the next chapter,” he said Meanwhile, in a bid to avert the sale of fake Umbro products, Gor are planning to partner and authorise retail outlets within the Central Business District. The club has in the past lamented over individuals who deprive the club of profits by purchasing and selling replica shirts without obtaining consent from the office. “The biggest challenge we have had with such deals are ‘cartels’ who manufacture or buy fake kits and sell them cheaply to our fans without a letter to the office. The money never reaches the club but this time round, we will partner with shops in town who will authorised to sell the products for the benefit of the club,” said club treasury, Sally Bolo She added: “We will determine the price per shirt once the first batch arrives in March. The pricing will be done depending on cost of manufacture,shipping and taxation. We ended our marriage with Macron on mutual consent and we are looking forward to the new deal.”  