Parts of Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Mbeere in Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties are at risk of the locust invasion, an expert says. Dr Kasina Muo, chairman Entomology Society of Kenya, said yesterday that counties bordering or near Kitui county are at risk because the county is currently heavily infested. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, the locusts have so far invaded the 11 counties of Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Isiolo, Meru, Baringo, Turkana, Kitui, Laikipia and Machakos. On Monday, Agriculture CS Peter Munya said the government has run out of the pesticides to kill locusts because the swarms have bred and spread to more counties. He said the shortage was caused by the long procurement procedures and the rapid spread of the pests. "However, we have moved to resolve this so more chemicals should be on the way," Munya said. The United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund last week released Sh1.3 trillion to buy more chemicals and scale up locust control operations. The funds would be shared among Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia. This follows an appeal for Sh7 billion by FAO to assist with immediate needs in the three countries. This is the worst invasion reported in Kenya in 70 years and 25 years in Somalia and Ethiopia. FAO Locust Watch on January 28 indicated that locusts will increase further as a new generation of breeding starts in the Horn of Africa. “The current desert locust situation remains extremely alarming and represents an unprecedented threat to food security and livelihoods in the Horn of Africa. This will be further exacerbated by new breeding that has commenced, which will cause more locust infestations,” the report stated. FAO further showed that immature swarms continue to arrive in the northeast and move throughout northern and central areas. “Some swarms have started to lay eggs that will hatch in early February and new swarms could start to form by early April in northern counties. Although a few swarms have reached the Rift Valley, they are likely to remain in northern areas. Aerial and ground control operations are in progress but need upscaling. Further movements are expected in Turkana and central counties,” the UN report said.