Teacher Daizy Mbaluka was walking home from school on Monday when she was set upon by at least two men, slashed fatally with pangas and set ablaze. Earlier in the day a group of parents had stormed the school and closed it for undisclosed reasons. Parents sometimes storm schools and blame teachers and principals when their children perform poorly in exams. It was not immediately known if that was the case here or how the school performed. Later that day Daisy was killed. Her body was unrecognizable when it was discovered on Monday evening. The motive was not immediately established. The school has been closed indefinitely. Two men have been arrested in connection with the murder in Kitui East subcounty near Ndooni Primary School where Daisy worked. On Thursday, Wambua Mwangangi, 33, and  Christopher Muli, 25, were arraigned in connection with the murder. They did not enter pleas as the CID requested given 21 days to hold them for investigations. They will appear before Kitui resident magistrate Felstus  Nekesa after 21 days. Police said three other men were being sought. It was not a case of mob justice, as earlier believed, they said. The Mutitu CID office through prosecutor  Kevin Gesture applied for the remand, supported by an affidavit by CID officer Bernard Jeffer. Earlier, the Kitui East police commander Consaga Malasi said investigations would take some time because the two were among five people believed to have taken part in the killing. Kitui county Knut executive secretary Simon Nding’o  thanked state officers for moving swiftly to arrest suspects. He said killing teachers was intolerable. “There is no justification whatsoever, to kill the teacher and burn her body. Teachers must be allowed to do their work in peace,”  he told reporters outside the Kitui law courts. Nding’o said teachers at the school must remain at home until their security can be guaranteed. In a statement on Thursday, the Teachers Service Commission condemned the attack, saying it has withdrawn six teachers from the school. The commission also said it will not post teachers to the school until the safety of educators is assured. It also said it will not hesitate to petition for closure of the schools where the security of teachers is at risk. (Edited by V. Graham)