A magistrate has ordered the dissolution of the marriage between Uasin Gishu Woman Rep Gladys Boss Shollei and Sam Shollei following irreconcilable differences. The two have been married since 1994, but have been separated since 2016. The magistrate in his decision said, “I have carefully considered the petition. It is clear the marriage has experienced serious turbulence in the past few years. The parties herein have serious disagreements that led to their separation. Efforts to reconcile them have borne no fruit.” “It is my considered view it’s highly unlikely that they will get back together and perform spousal duties as envisaged by law and vows they took when they got married. It is only fair that their relationship be terminated and parties allowed to move on with their lives. I allow the petition and order the marriage be dissolved forthwith." The magistrate further issued an order stopping Sam from accessing their homes in Kitisuru and Plateau Estate in Eldoret after Gladys sought orders saying he was being violent. The two got married at St Francis Church in Karen on December 10, 1994. According to suit papers filed by Sam, the marriage irretrievably broke down and there was no chance of salvaging it, hence the need to file for divorce. He said that they have lived separately since 2016. Gladys opted not to appear in the divorce case and the court proceeded with the case without any objection on record. The legislator had informed the court that her former husband had been threatening to publicise the details of the case in a sensational manner calculated to harm her. The court was told that such action would amount to a breach of her right to privacy and dignity. She also noted that Sam has resorted to erratic behaviour, including emotional ranting that call into question his mental stability and unless he is restricted, he poses a great danger to her and their 10-yer-old son. On the other hand, Sam denies being violent and told the court he had been supportive of her.