Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has ordered the beautification of Busia town in 100 days. He spoke on Monday when he presided over the opening of an induction course for the Busia Municipality Board, whose responsibility it is to oversee the transformation. Busia was upgraded to municipality status in 2017. Ojaamong said last week the county had received Sh100 million from the World Bank to modernise the town. The money was channelled through the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Busia municipality will receive Sh100 million annually for five consecutive years, 2020’s allocation being the first. “You should confront problems as they come and implement what people want. It is not my role to receive complaints from residents concerning the dirt and sewerage within the municipality," Ojaamong said. "I am ready to join residents in cleaning the town and planting trees in front of shops like Rwandan President Paul Kagame.” The governor is serving his final term and is working round the clock to deliver on campaign pledges and secure his legacy before 2022. “Officers should bite the bullet and monitor problems affecting residents before they reach me. That way they will appreciate your quick response,” the former Amagoro MP said. “I hereby direct the CECM to be giving me briefs on what is happening in the department every two days. My administration will allocate a grader for use within the municipality.” Last Thursday, during an interview on Mulembe FM, the governor said his administration aims to transform the border town to a 24-hour economy. Ojaamong directed Lands and Housing executive Grephas Opata and chief officer Maurice Odundo to utilise the available resources to change the status of the town, which residents say is neglected. Busia hosts one of Kenya’s entry and exit points to East and Central Africa. The board was unveiled last September. “We must just work. There is no shortcut. The department should not be taking two years to pay cleaners’ wages until they dump garbage on the streets,” he said. “I will push the MCAs to approve an allocation of Sh500 million to Sh1 billion to the municipality every financial year.” Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya