Malkia Strikers head coach Paul Bitok wants Kenyan volleyball clubs to embrace professionalism like their North African counterparts. Bitok, who doubles up as the Kenya Commercial Bank women's tactician, told the girls to heed President Uhuru Kenyatta's advise to take the sport as a career and make good use of their talent. Bitok, who guided Malkia to book the sole continental ticket to the Tokyo Olympic Games during the African qualifiers in Cameroon earlier this month, said the nation must strive to reach international standards. "Local clubs should emulate their North Africa counterparts who have taken the sport a notch higher," noted Bitok, a former Rwanda national team coach. "KCB are now a professional club which seek to achieve international status. The best route to take is to ensure players' welfare is well catered for with good salaries and allowances and that is my vision with the bankers." " President Uhuru treated the team like the real Queens of Africa on their arrival from the Olympic qualifiers and even directed the Ministry of Sports to pay the players some allowances. This is very motivating and improves the life of the players. We need to follow the standards set in football and other sports, who offer good salary packages to the players," said Bitok. Bitok, a former professional player in Europe and North Africa, is keen to revive Kenya's glory as manifested in the latest achievement. He said he won't listen to the enemies of change who criticised KCB  for poaching the best players from other clubs. He told them to stop panicking as his aim is to see the bankers conquer the continent. He also gave his preference of having local professional players rather than signing outsiders. "I want to see KCB rule Africa. Those accusing the club of killing other teams are panicking for nothing. We have already signed two players and one is on the way. Change is inevitable and no one can stop me. I have never seen people complaining about the good offers we give to our players," he observed. KCB have implemented a full-time 18 hours a week training regime at Kasarani and are chasing friendly matches in Europe ahead of the Africa Club Championships.