Defending champions Gor Mahia dropped further to fourth place on the log after suffering their second loss of the season against hosts Kakamega Homeboyz at the Bukhungu Stadium. The Western side registered a deserved 2-1 win against the 18-time Kenya Premier League champions. Gor, under Steve Polack's guidance, started brightly and enjoyed ball possession but Homeboyz looked more creative with midfielders Mwinyi Shami and David Okoth proving to be a thorn in Gor defence. Homeboyz talisman Allan Wanga rued a golden chance four minutes into the match after he failed to connect a whipped cross from Okoth who had beaten Charles Momanyi on the right side. Gor responded after hard-working Bonface Omondi raced on the left side and darted inside the box to spot Kenneth Muguna whose goal-bound shot was blocked. The home side, however, could not be denied the lead in the 20th minute after former Thika United Mwinyi hit the bottom corner of the net after being teed by Wanga to silence hundreds of Gor Mahia fans. Ten minutes later, Nicholas Kipkurui leveled for Gor with a free header after being put through by Bonface Omondi as both teams went to half-time tied 1-1. Ali Bhai sealed Homeboyz win after coach Nicholas Muyoti rested Wanga for Peter Thiong’o. “I believe we have proved to everyone we are ready to challenge for the title and I urge the players to maintain the spirit as we aim to finish the league on high,” said Myoti. Elsewhere, Tusker consolidated their stay at the top of the log after beating Bandari 2-1 at the Mbaraki Stadium. Goals from new signing Brian Marita and Hashim Sempala rendered Wycliffe Ochomo’s effort null and void. Ulinzi Stars kept close tabs after gunning down Western Stima 3-2 at Afraha Stadium while Sofapaka redeemed themselves from a midweek 2-1 loss to KCB, clawing Nzoia Sugar 4-1 at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos in a match which later paved way for AFC Leopards who humiliated Wazito 2-0. KCB pilled more miseries to Chemelil Sugar after thrashing them 3-0 at the Muhoroni Stadium. Meanwhile, Mathare United bounced back to their winning ways after beating Kariobangi Sharks 2-1 to claim the ‘Slum Derby’ bragging rights in a match staged at the Moi Stadium Kasarani yesterday. The win saw Mathare take their wins in the derby to two out of the eight times the two outfits have locked horns, an outcome which coach Salim Ali attributed to hard work and pouncing on scoring chances. “The 2-1 win over Sharks is a great result considering it was a derby and we have not been doing well against them.We created chances and I am glad we converted two which turned out to be the difference,” he said. His Sharks counterpart William Muluya regretted their below par first half display. “We lost it in the first half when we allowed them to  settle in the match.By the time we realized the mistake the damage had already been done.” Having won their last match against Shield Cup holders Bandari, Sharks were expected to pick from where they left but Mathare who were seeking redemption from a 2-1 fall to Western Stima came out guns blazing from onset. The 2008 league champions went ahead in the 32nd minute riffling from the box past the hands of Brian Bwire after James Kinyajui had found him with a well weighted minus. 