 The Labour Court has given Education CS George Magoha 30 days to negotiate with Stephen Kiama and resolve the leadership crisis at the University of Nairobi. Prof Kiama was last month appointed UoN vice-chancellor but Magoha revoked the appointment forcing him to move to court. The court set aside Magoha's revocation of the appointment pending the hearing of Kiama's case. On Thursday, Magoha asked the Employment and Labour Relations Court for 30 days to negotiate and resolve the stalemate. Through lawyers Evans Monari and Mahat Somane, the CS told Justice Maureen Onyango that he was willing to negotiate with Kiama if given the 30 days. “Further consultations are required to settle this matter. We request 30 days to have the matter settled. We seek 30 days with a view to engage and file a consent. If the contestants are willing and have agreed to try to resolve this matter amicably, it should be only fair they board that train,” Mahat said. Lawyer Paul Nyamodi representing the Public Service Commission agreed to the negotiations saying he was open to any opportunity to settle the matter by negotiation or conversation. However, Ahmed Nassir acting for the University Council said it was not only the CS and Kiama who are parties in the case hence the negotiations should include all of them. “The 30 days are too long. My client wants the issue settled as soon as possible. I would suggest 14 days. If there is no settlement, we can come to court, give us a date and ventilate the issues,” Nassir said. Kiama's lawyer Fred Ngatia welcomed the move and said that it is not negotiations but it should be time to allow the CS to reflect on his earlier decision to revoke his client's appointment. “What my client thinks is that the respondent (CS Magoha) wants to reflect on his decision. In that reflection, the solution is obvious. There was no negotiation and my client is in office through a statutory process,” Ngatia said. He proposed the matter comes up for hearing on March 5 and not mention as earlier scheduled if parties don't agree. "If the reflection leads the CS to the right decision, then we will not need a hearing." Justice Onyango said the case will proceed for hearing on March 27 if the parties don't agree.  She extended the interim orders allowing Kiama to perform the duties of the VC and adjourned the matter. Parties were directed to file all their documents before the hearing.  edited by peter obuya