Tusker have the opportunity to open up a two-point gap at the top of Kenyan Premier League standings when they host Kisumu All Stars at the Ruaraka grounds this afternoon. The in-form brewers trail league leaders Gor Mahia by a point and a win against the struggling debutants will see them regain their place at the apex. Gor are not in action today. While Tusker will be eyeing the top spot, Kisumu will draw inspiration from the hiring of  German-based  Arthur Opiyo as the new head coach. Opiyo has been tasked with turning around All-Stars' poor run. Opiyo, who will be deputised by Francis Oduor, was handed the touchline duties following the sacking of veteran coach Henry Omino. Oduor will take charge today as Opiyo was by yesterday evening yet to jet in. " I will be in charge today as the new coach is yet to arrive. We know Tusker are in good form but our focus is getting the three points," said Oduor. Ahead of the match, Tusker head coach Robert Matano is anticipating for a tough encounter. "We are not looking at the form. We know they will come with an intention of frustrating us but we are prepared to face them," he said. While Tusker will be plotting to topple Gor, Kakamega Homeboyz, who are third, will be hoping to beat Zoo Kericho and keep close tabs with the front two. Meanwhile, KCB will play Sofapaka at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos hoping to bounce back to their winning ways following a one-all draw with Mathare United in their last match. The match will later pave way for a high-flying AFC Leopards who are scheduled to tackle a high spending Posta Rangers who beefed their squad on Monday with the acquisition of three experienced players. Ulinzi Stars, who are unbeaten in their last 12 matches, host moneybags Wazito at the Afraha Stadium while Mathare travel to accost Western Stima at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. The struggling pair of Nzoia Sugar anf Chemelil Sugar will lock horns at the Sudi Stadium while Kariobangi Sharks will be gunning for their second win of the season when they play Bandari at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani.