Kandara Member of Parliament Alice Wahome wants legislative wing of government to stand out firm to defend and guard the independence of judiciary instead of attacking the independence of the institution. Wahome is particularly concerned by the statements made by Murang' a senator Irungu Kang'ata at the burial of former Cabinet Minister Charles Rubia that the Judiciary had failed the deceased family in his compensation case despite the fact that the matter was pending in court. Speaking in Malindi she accused the senator who is also the Rubia Family lawyer of criticizing a judge outside the court on matters which are pending in court outside the courts. ''I do not associate myself with the statement made by the honourable Kang'ata at the burial of Charles Rubia, you cannot criticize a judge who is handling your case outside court when the judgement is pending,'' she said. She said as a lawyer a litigant has an opportunity to ask the judge to recuse themselves if they think they are biased because the independence of the judiciary is one of the fundamental rights that Kenyans must defend vigorously. ''Yes we have criticised the judiciary and our judiciary must accept positive criticism in the manner of strengthening the institution,'' she said. Wahome said there is need to fight corruption within the judiciary and guarding the independence of the judiciary. She said so far the judiciary could find itself in an area where it is being punished for standing firm against the executive in some of the cases . The Kandara MP said the judiciary need to be encouraged to dispense justice without fear or favour, fear of intimidation and reprisal from the executive. ''It's for us Kenyans to speak on their behalf because they may not be able to defend themselves and especially the legislators,'' she said. The legislator also called on the president to appoint the judges who were nominated by the Judiciary service commission instead of sitting with the names. ''Having said that I think the appointment of judges that is pending before the court His Excellency Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta has not been given any option by the law, once the Judiciary service Commission finishes the process the president's work is literally ceremonial,'' she said. Currently, she said the constitution gives the president the privilege of the president to make the appointment while the processing of the people is by the JSC. She said at the point of processing the executive with the JSC can do consultations because even in the appointment of members of JSC  the executive is represented and is involved. ''So once they finish the nomination of the judges then the president cannot sit on those names he must appoint them, and I would like to call upon him to make the appointment,'' she said. Wahome said there was no need to wait for the matters to go to court as it will become untidy. Wahome asked the president to agree that the Judiciary was an independent institution just like the executive and should give them their due and appoint the judges. She said once they are appointed if there are issues that were omitted by the JSC then a constitutional process can be used to send them immediately to the tribunal. At the same time, she called on the leaders to respect the devolved system of government to build stronger devolution as a co-driver of economic prosperity and equity. ''Devolution is not only about center regions and relations but also physical devolution and autonomy at the lowest level of government where most services affecting the ordinary lives of citizens are provided,'' she said. Wahome said physical devolution should begin at the ward level since the devolution structure was made and should have an impact from the wards. She said up to date some counties have not taken devolution structures to the ward level though there is no audit done. The MP said there are questioned to be answered if the wards have capacity or personnel at the ward level under the devolved system. ''I have in mind even my own particular ward where I come from Muruka Ward  I have not seen any effective devolution structure that is supposed to facilitate and even have meaningful engagement by the people at that level,'' she said. Wahome said devolution should come up with an achievement of the higher state of economic development that is per capita income growth together with administrative capacity improvement in the implementation skills.