Wu Lei rescued a late point for Espanyol in their derby with La Liga champions Barcelona. The hosts — who are bottom of the table — took a surprise first-half lead through David Lopez’s header. Barca looked in control thanks to Luis Suarez’s first-time finish and Arturo Vidal’s header — but they had Frenkie de Jong sent off for two bookings. Substitute Wu became the first Chinese player to score against Barca when he slotted home from Matias Vargas’ pass. The point takes Barcelona back to the top of the table above Real Madrid — who beat Getafe 3-0 earlier on Saturday — on goal difference. Espanyol, who have now failed to win a La Liga derby against Barcelona in their past 21 attempts, were much improved from recent weeks in their first game under Abelardo, who is their third manager of the season. They deservedly led at the break but Barcelona appeared to be cruising towards victory when Suarez poked home Jordi Alba’s cross and then crossed for Vidal to head home. Suarez, who turns 33 this month, has been involved in Barcelona’s past 10 La Liga goals. But a De Jong mistake ultimately cost Barcelona. The Dutch youngster gave away possession to Jonathan Calleri and fouled him while trying to win the ball back, getting a second booking and a first career red card. And substitute Wu made them pay when he finished with two minutes to go. Barcelona were hanging on after that but saw out the draw to ensure they have not lost a derby in the league since 2009. Meanwhile, Getafe midfielder Marc Cucurella has denied using racist language towards Real Madrid’s Eder Militao during Saturday’s match. Cucurella released a statement on Twitter in response to reports he had used the word ‘mico’, Spanish for monkey, during an altercation with the Brazilian defender, saying he had used the word ‘pico’, Spanish slang for mouth. The Spaniard, 21, wrote: “I would like clarify that at no point did I insult or belittle Militao. My words were ‘Shut your mouth’. I wish to apologise if anyone felt offended by that.” “These are the only declarations I have made or will make on this matter.” Militao, who joined Real from Porto last year for a reported 40 million euros, did not make any comment on the incident. Real declined to comment.