The position of chairman of the Council of Governors is an influential post that has elevated the political profile of officeholders. Seen as the link between 47 governors and the national government, the post has given its occupants a lot of national leverage and often unfettered access to the top leadership of the national Executive. Enjoying an array of privileges including a standby chopper for official functions, the officeholders have been able to build formidable national influence. The CoG chair is also the vice-chair of the Summit, the apex body for intergovernmental relations between counties and the national government that is chaired by the President. With elections coming up on Monday, the battle lines are drawn as heavyweights seek the position. Isaac Rutto, former Bomet governor Rutto was the first governor of Bomet county and the pioneer chairman of the Council of Governors. Regarded as one of the greatest defenders of devolution, he was elected  CoG chairman in April 2013 and served for two terms until 2015. Rutto's defence of devolution often caused clashes with the government. His run-ins caused him to fall out with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto after he formed his own Chama Cha Mashinani party. He lost the Bomet gubernatorial seat in the 2017 polls to Jubilee's Joyce Laboso. Rutto is, however, considered a key political figure within Rift Valley. Peter Munya, former Meru governor Munya was elected, by consensus, as the Council of Governors chairman in May 2015 to take over from Rutto. Munya served for two terms until 2017 when he lost his Meru seat to Kiraitu Murungi. The just-named Agriculture minister, previously the Trade minister, exploited the office to position himself within national politics but his fierce criticism of government finally led to his ejection from Jubilee. He joined the Party of Nationa Unity under which he ran unsuccessfully for reelection. During his tenure, the governor became a thorn in Jubilee's flesh and often clashed with DP Ruto. Josphat Nanok, Turkana governor Nanok, an ODM member, was elected the Council of Governors chairman in May 2017 to succeed Munya. Nanok served the office until the general election was held in August 2017. After the polls, there was a plot by the Jubilee Party to install Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya to take over from Nanok. However, the move did not materialise, as a deal was brokered amongst governors to have Nanok serve for a final term. Wycliffe Oparanya, Kakamega governor The influential governor is the deputy party leader of the ODM and a key member of party leader Raila Odinga's inner circle. The governor was elected last year January to take over from Nanok who had completed his mandatory two terms. During last year's election, Oparanya trounced Jubilee's Mvurya to take over the reins at Delta House. He is defending his seat and banks on his cordial ties with governors across the political divide to retain his position. Edited by R.Wamochie