National women's volleyball head coach Paul Bitok has warned Malkia Striker of complacency ahead of Africa 2020 Tokyo Olympic Qualifiers qualifiers set for between January 4 and 9 in Yaoundé, Cameroon. Bitok named the traveling 14 players yesterday included one newbie Jemimah Siangu. Kenya Prisons duo of Joy Lusenaka and Joan Chelagat make their return to the Malkia Strikers after over a year of absence."I urge my team to avoid complacency as our opponents have been heavily preparing for this sole ticket to Tokyo. I further urge players to fully cooperate as a team and with the technical bench," Bitok implored the team. This is the last chance for Kenya garner the sole continental ticket to the quardriannial sports carnival in Japan. The lineup will be hunting for the berth that will see Kenya make a return to the Olympics after missing the last three editions in Beijing, London and Rio."Teamwork and hard work shall see us through," added Bitok urging the Kenyans to rally behind the girls. From the provisional squad of 20 players, six have been axed. They include Olympian and veteran setter Janet Wanja of Kenya Pipeline who never showed up in camp citing personal commitments and club-mate in the same department new blood Esther Mutinda. Others are international middle blocker Carolyn Sirengo of DCI, KCB's libero player Lincy Jeruto and Kenya Prisons Pamela Masaisai who picked a shoulder injury in training. Middle blocker Loraine Chebet too, did not turn up in training after failing to secure a release from Kenya Prisons Training School. "Each player displayed great improvement in their respective roles. For the dropped players, I urge them to keep their heads high and to continue working hard as they stand a great chance in future competitions like the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games," noted the tactician. Kenya will open their campaign against Egypt and will also face Nigeria, Botswana and hosts Cameroon in the round-robin competition. Bitok will work with Japheth Munala and Josp Barasa as assistant coaches. Japanese volunteer Shots Katagiri is the team statistician while Sarah Karongo is the doctor. Kenya Volleyball Federation's second vice president will travel as the team manager. Final team: Jane Wacu, Joy Lusenaka (setters), Edith Mukuvilani, Gladys Ekaru, Joan Chelagat, Violet Makuto (middle blockers), Sharon Chepchumba, Emmaculate Chemtai (right attackers), Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Jemimah Siangu, captain Mercy Moim, Agripina Kundu and Elizabeth Wanyama (libero players).