Volleyball stakeholders have decried of lack of exposure for the men’s national team in continental events. Coaches, fans and players alike point an accusing finger at the Kenya Volleyball Federation for not having the faith in, and goodwill for the outfit. Former men’s national team head coach Geoffrey Omondi (2015) intimated that Kenya must have a plan to grow the outfit. Joseph Korir of the defunct Kenya Airways team backed Omondi’s statement, saying faith and goodwill will complement the growth and development of the men’s squad. “Growing the men’s team includes entering them in several Confederation of African Volleyball (CAVB) tournaments. Kenya cannot be playing against Uganda and Rwanda in the zonals only and expect to beat the likes of Tunisia, Cameroon, Egypt and Algeria one day,” said Omondi. He cited the 2019 All Africa Games champions Cameroon who have lost several times to North African giants in the past until their recent breakthrough. “Success is not bought in a shop. In a four-year Olympic cycle (Olympiad), we cannot be waiting for last minutes to make decisions. That is time lost,” added the former Kenya Commercial Bank player and Co-operative Bank coach. He was reacting to a comment made by KVF first vice president Charles Nyaberi in a volleyball forum. Nyaberi wrote: “Once the Tokyo trip for the girls is assured, we will put in place an elaborate plan for the Boy Child.” “Does that really make any sense? The men’s qualifiers start today (Tuesday) and he says the federation is going to address the plight of the men’s team after Malkia Strikers return… Surely, the opportunity has already gone!” exclaimed Omondi. During his time at the helm of the men’s side, Omondi remembers KVF president Waithaka Kioni citing lack of  sponsorship as the main undoing for the men's team. On his part, Korir said the federation has been the biggest stumbling block for the men's team. "Each of the two times Kenya has featured in continental sshow, both the playing unit and the technical bench had new faces. “ You cannot be shuffling players and coaches for each assignment. The team needs to have a system. There must be transition channels. We have seen the same faces in the women’s team for close to a decade, under the same coach for the duration and they have delivered,” said Korir who believes the men's team can bloom well if given the chance. Weighing in on Nyaberi’s comment, Korir noted: “This is the umpteenth time we are raising this issue and they (KVF) always come up with promises which they don’t really fulfil.” The ongoing Men’s Olympic qualifiers in Cairo, has drawn Cameroon, reigning Africa champions Tunisia, Algeria, Ghana and hosts Egypt.