SHABAN OMAR/ Girls as young as 14 years old are taking birth control pills and injections in Kwale county, research shows. Samba Sports Youth Agenda coordinator Mohammed Mwachausa said 80 per cent of girls at the coast have engaged in transactional sex, while 24 per cent have quit school because of early pregnancies. He accused parents in the county of neglecting their role, leading to a rise in teen pregnancies and gender-based violence. Mwachausa said a recent research on the Status of Adolescent Sexual Reproductive Health (ASRH) indicates that a huge percentage of parents have introduced teenage girls as young as 14 years to birth control pills and injections. The coordinator said it is an action that has prompted teenagers to practice more sexual activities, endangering their lives. “The oral and implant contraceptives prevent pregnancies but what about diseases like HIV-Aids and sexually transmitted diseases and psychological effects,” said Mwachausa. He spoke on Saturday when he presented the report on ASRH, girl power and trauma healing sessions at the Kenya Red Cross Hall in Ukunda, Msambweni subcounty. Mwachausa said parents have detached themselves from their children’s affairs, making them vulnerable to malicious people. “If you can’t buy sanitary towels, pants and cater for all the needs of your daughters, then the girls fall for boda boda operators allures,” he said. The organisation’s project officer, Mwanaisha Kuwania, said parents have concentrated much on earning a living forgetting the biggest investment they have is their young ones. She said adolescents lack mentoring, parental guidance and proper information on their body changes. Kuwania said teenagers seek advice from friends on their body changes, not their close relatives, since there is poor communication between them. Bongwe Primary School headmaster Mbaji Munga said inappropriate nurturing of children affect their performances in schools. He said they can also be easily recruited to gangs at a young age without parents’ knowledge.  The NGO has launched a one-year campaign to promote personal competence, attitude and values to teens in Ramisi, Pongwe, Kinondo, Ukunda and Ngombeni-Waa ward in Msambweni and Matuga constituencies.