The three per cent 'patriotism tax' won't be scrapped as it will ensure the rich and poor alike pay taxes, the KRA has said. KRA deputy commissioners for policy Maurice Orei told the Star the tax was necessitated by the need to widen the tax base in a bid to generate more revenue for the government. Orei said that for a long time, the country's taxation system have seen the rich and those with income pay more and those not in the earning bracket and the poor left out, paying little or zero. The turnover tax aims at ensuring everyone pays up, he said. "It is a form of inequality, in a sense. Everybody benefiting from government services must pay up to sustain the service," he said. The taxman crafted the turnover tax or patriotism tax to take effect from January 1, targeting business entities that make sales below Sh5 million. A total of 2.5 million small and middle sized enterprises are targeted. The tax means that for every Sh1,000 sale made by small enterprises like salon, kiosk, grocery store or any other small businesses, they will have to set a side Sh30 for the taxman regardless of whether they make loses or profit. Many people had hopped that President Kenyatta-just after ordering a scrapping of the new NHIF rules-would order that the patriotism tax be halted given the struggling economy. But so on track the implementation of the new tax is that the authority expects first submissions to be done between February 1 and 20. "We expect the first submission to the completed by CoB of February 20," he said, failure to which punitive mechanisms will kick in. Late filing and defaulting will attract a five per cent and one per cent monthly interest respectively, he said. Orei said the taxman has made elaborate plans to track businesses that do not have adequate records, as the records kept by their suppliers will be tracked. "While we understand that most of the SMEs do not have proper documentation, KRA has adequate capacity to tail the flow of goods in the country right from the suppliers to the vendors. So default at your own peril," he explained. Orei said KRA will involve third parties such as MPesa, banks and suppliers to ensure compliance of the turnover tax. For example, he said, the commission's agent will trail sales record from various suppliers to determine the vendors who buy from them to determine the turnovers of the SMEs. Asked about the outcry the new tax has generated, Orei said that while the authority is aware of what the public thinks about the new tax regime, the condition was bad for the rich also and that no one will be exempt. "Everyone is struggling but the government services must be provided. Tax is a necessary burden for civilisation," he said. The authority has enough agents that it has deployed all over the country to monitor the initiative, he added. But the TOT tax is not new, he said, explaining that it was first introduced in 2007 but did not achieve the necessary penetration intended. The authority then transformed it into a presumptive tax in 2018. The patriotism tax is an amalgamation of both the turnover and the presumptive tax, he said.