Murang’a farmers have been urged wait for the rains to subside before they can harvest their maize. The move is meant to minimise post-harvest losses. County director of meteorological services Paul Murage said the continuous rains have made it hard for maize to dry, hence the grains risk getting aflatoxins if harvested. He said the county government has bought a few grain driers but more still needed to cover eight subcounties. “I’ve been in consultation with the county Agriculture department and I’ve been informed that the available driers will be rotated among the subcounties,” he said. Murage said farmers can cut off the upper parts of the maize stalks and feed them to their livestock while leaving the main stalks that hold the maize combs on their farms. This will keep the maize fresh as they await the end of downpours to ease drying. “Harvesting now will cause the maize to develop mould, which will then lead to the formation of aflatoxins,” he said. Murage urged those who have harvested their maize to avoid shelling it and instead store it in cotton sacks away from the floor and walls. He noted that the rains that started in October last year and have not ceased. He said beans farmers have suffered massive losses due to the rains. “We should not allow the maize crop to also go to waste and should ensure we preserve it in the best way possible to avoid contamination,” he said. For maize to be stored, it should have a moisture content of 13.5 per cent, but most maize combs have more than 30 per cent, he said. “The main challenge is farmers no longer build produce stores. Most store it in their houses in nylon sacks which increases the risk,” the director added. Murage said the rains have interfered with the cropping cycle and eaten into the time that farmers should use to prepare their land for planting in March. He pointed out that there will be no space between the current rains and the long rains expected to start in March. Farmers have, therefore, been encouraged to slash the weed in between the maize rows, dig their planting holes and use the weed as mulch. The weather officer appealed to agricultural extension officers and public health officers to educate farmers on the appropriate ways of harvesting and storing their produce. He said moisture-metres purchased by the county government will help farmers establish the level of moisture in their maize before storage. The persistent rains spell a higher risk to those living in landslide-prone areas as the soil’s moisture is still very high. Murage called upon the county disaster management committee to seek long-term solutions to the floods and earth movements that are experienced in the county every season, recommending the construction of dykes along rivers that regularly burst their banks.