One US service member and two contractors were killed in the Sunday morning Al-Shabaab attack on a Kenya Defence Force military base in Lamu. In addition, the US Africa Command on Monday confirmed that two Department of Defence members were wounded in the attack. "The wounded Americans are currently in stable condition and being evacuated," a statement on the Manda Bay attack stated. The statement also said that the names of those killed as well as those wounded were being withheld until their next of kin are notified. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of our teammates who lost their lives today," said  Army General Stephen Townsend, commander, U.S. Africa Command. He added; "As we honor their sacrifice, let’s also harden our resolve. Alongside our African and international partners, we will pursue those responsible for this attack and al-Shabaab who seeks to harm Americans and U.S. interests." Townsend also said that the US remains committed to preventing al-Shabaab from maintaining a safe haven to plan deadly attacks against the U.S. homeland, East African, and international partners. Al-Shabaab senior leaders pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda and are believed to have trained and fought in Afghanistan. In 2008, the U.S. Government designated al-Shabaab as a Foreign Terrorist Organization. The terrorist group has expressed the intent to attack the United States homeland and target Americans, but US persistent pressure placed on them constrains their ability to carry out those desires. The statement said that the attack on the Manda Bay compound on Sunday morning at around 5.30am involved indirect and small arms fire. "After an initial penetration of the perimeter, Kenya Defense Forces and U.S. Africa Command repelled the al-Shabaab attack," the statement said. It adds that reports indicate that six contractor-operated civilian aircraft were damaged to some degree. Manda Bay Airfield is utilized by US forces whose missions include providing training to our African partners, responding to crises, and protecting American interests in this strategically important area. “The work that our U.S. forces are doing in East Africa bolsters partnerships, counters malign influence, and maintains critical pressure on terrorist networks,” said Townsend. He added; "Our efforts directly contribute to counterterrorism, maritime surveillance, and intelligence sharing missions with our Kenyan partners. This activity enables enhanced security and stability in the region and for America."