Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo on Tuesday reshuffled his cabinet to weed out cartels and ghost workers from his administration. The move will also enable the county government to improve services. The governor transferred Pamela Kimwele from the Agriculture department to the Public Service Administration and Coordination docket. Justus Mwanje has been transferred to Transport and Infrastructure from the Environment department. Paul Mbuni has been transferred to Land, Physical Planning and Housing from Public Service. Henry Lumbasio was transferred to the Education docket from the Transport department. Elvuna Keseko will now serve in the Trade, Industry, Tourism and Entrepreneurship executive. He was the Planning executive. Marita Agufana is the new Environment, Energy, Water and Natural Resources executive. He was the Education executive. Godfrey Vukaya will serve as Agriculture executive. He was moved from the trade docket. Governor Ottichilo retained Amos Kutwa as Health executive and Alfred Indeche in the Finance department. Ottichilo also nominated Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi to run the Youth, Gender, Sports, Culture and Social Services department. Saisi has been running the office for the past few months after Ottichilo fired executive Felistus Barasa. The governor says the changes will take effect immediately after the handover. Ottichillo also reshuffled his chief officers. Gilbert Vidija moved from Public Service to Trade, Industry, and Entrepreneurship. Richard Boiyo was named acting chief officer for Medical Services, with Mary Anyienda serving as Public Health chief officer. This comes after the suspension of two chief officers – Arnold Mamadi (Medical Services and Clement Manyulu (Public Health). "The two were suspended over the mess we encountered at the health department. The entire mess happened under their watch, and we want them to pave the way for investigations," Ottichilo said. The governor was referring to last year's hiring of health workers in which over 500 were employed instead of the 149 budgeted for. The county chief said his government will adopt the use of the biometric system. "The system will help us identify those who fail to come to work. It will also help us identify ghost workers who are the biggest problem for the government of the day," Ottichilo said. Ottichilo also directed that all county staff meetings and seminars be held within the county apart from those funded by donors. He said most hotels in Vihiga are not benefiting from the county as most meetings are conducted outside the devolved unit.  