A State House official who was once at the centre of generating negative propaganda against the Deputy President William Ruto has become a physiologically battered man. He is now often seen in long soliloquy over the frustrations he has faced in the recent months. Corridors has learnt that the one-time power-wielding man has been pushed to the wall and locked out of key decisions which ordinary he would be part. His latest shocker came last week when he was stopped from accompanying President Uhuru Kenyatta to London. The Building Bridges Initiative task force report is turning out to be a nightmare to governors and some MPs from Mt Kenya region. Three governors and two MPs who met at a City hotel on Thursday night were overheard complaining that While they are under pressure from President Uhuru Kenyatta to work with ODM leader Raila Odinga to campaign for the report, the ground is hostile to the second push for changes to BBI report that could see shift to Parliamentary system of government. To them, they went on, their people do not support the idea and their role could have political implications in 2022. An MP from Western region has become so broke that he recently had to sell his car to repay part of Sh90 million loan. Word has it that the first time MP who could on a weekly basis call a press conference to criticize Deputy President William Ruto on one issue or another ran into financial problems when the government tightened the fight against drug trafficking and money laundering. The legislator is reported to have been in the dirty business but his partners in crime were deported rendering the MP who was acting as security provider a poor man who has now moved residential houses in Nairobi six times. Still on matters to do with MPs doing the wrong things. Corridors has been told of an MP in the eye of a storm recently sparked a lot of interest after he sought to take away clothes belonging to one of his business associates from a hospital the latter was admitted to. The lawmaker was stopped by a hospital workers who informed police of his intention. The worker thwarted the attempt. Corridors is appraised that the MP seemed to be looking for something precious he believed his business associate - then unconscious, had in one of the clothes’ pockets.