Does your intimate male partner earn less than you? This could be a recipe for trouble and violence if he's insecure. Be careful. Does your intimate female partner earn less than you? Then it's probably okay as your ego isn't threatened and you're still 'the man' of the house. Men who feel threatened by their wife or partner's higher income and greater opportunities can strike out at them. This warning is contained in the December UN Women's report on the progress of women around the world in skills training, education and the search for alternative income. It says many men report feeling threatened and insecure by their inability to provide for their families, especially if their partners or wives are more successful. "In refugee camps in Iraq, Kenya and South Sudan, men reported feeling disempowered by their inability to provide for their families as well as excluded and threatened by the increased opportunities for skills training and education that international agencies offered women and girls," the report reads. Additionally, earnings from women's non-farm activities that remain under women's control have led to conjugal conflicts. The report says this happens because social norms are challenged when men lose their traditional role as sole breadwinners. "Yet, despite women’s attempts to diversify their livelihoods away from farming, agriculture remains feminised in a wide range of countries," the report reads. "In some cases, men migrate to find work in urban areas, leaving women in charge of the family farm. The women left behind, however, may be exercising greater agency than is commonly thought ." The report estimates 70 per cent of all contributing family workers on family farms and enterprises in sub- Saharan Africa are women. This means they do not receive direct pay or remuneration for their work and are often under duress while engaging in off-farm activities. "As men's cash crop earnings have dwindled in many countries due to faltering infrastructure, rising costs and climate change, the search for alternative income sources has intensified. Thus, in addition to domestic responsibilities and farm work, women have engaged in a variety of own-account activities," the report reads. These activities include beer-brewing, tailoring and petty trade. Based on the report, these activities require little capital but offer low returns and with increasing numbers of women searching for cash income, gender and generational hierarchies have been disrupted. According to the Gender Violence Recovery Centre, an estimated 3,000 survivors of gender violence report at their centre every year. Additionally, one in three Kenyan females has experienced an episode of sexual violence before attaining 18 years and one in five males has experienced an episode of sexual violence before attaining 18 years. Data from the centre also shows 38 per cent of ever-married women have experienced physical violence compared to nine per cent of ever-married men. According to the 2014 Kenya Demographic Health Survey, 14 per cent of women who have been married have ever experienced sexual violence compared to four per cent of men who have been married. Further, 41 per cent of women who have been married have experienced physical or sexual violence from their intimate partners compared to 11 per cent of men. Edited by R.Wamochie