Two police officers from Kayole and Embakasi police divisions were treated to a New Year's party on January 1 at Nairobi West Hospital, where they are admitted. More than 30 officers from Kayole, Embakasi, Obama and Kamulu police stations visited Baurice Mureithi and Wycliffe Odhiambo, attached to Kayole and Embakasi police stations respectively, in hospital where they are recuperating after sustaining bullet wounds. The two were shot by thugs at Kayole Junction in Nairobi two weeks ago. Njiru Subcounty police boss Wilson Kosgei, who led the officers during the visit, declared Mureithi a hero in the National Police Service for killing the two thugs who injured both of them. “This officer is our hero. The two criminals who injured him, he, in turn, used the same force to bring them down. We really appreciate him together with his two other colleagues who were never injured including Odhiambo, who was innocently injured,” Kosgei said at Mureithi’s hospital bed. The officers shared a New Year cake and presented some cash and a flowers to the injured cops. Kosgei said that the flowers were donated to Mureithi by Nairobi regional police boss Philip Ndolo, who he was representing in the visit. “We came to say sorry to our colleagues. This being the beginning of the New Year, we thought it wise to come and say sorry to these officers admitted here. They were injured in the line of duty,” he told the press at the hospital during Wednesday’s visit. He added: “They have been here for the last two weeks, they are now stable. I am here on behalf of the regional police commander Philip Ndolo who sent me to deliver this flower.” Kosgei said that criminals should leave Nairobi City if they can’t reform. He said police will not be cowed by the attack on their colleagues by armed criminals. “We are warning criminals that it is now or never. They should leave this town or we deal with them properly,” he said. The police boss thanked the hospital for taking good care of the officers since they were admitted. He said their colleagues were responding well to treatment. Dr Shem Okumu said the two officers were being treated for gun wounds. “Mureithi was brought in with gunshot injuries he sustained while on duty. He had a fracture on one of the legs, the right thigh bone was broken,” Okumu said. The doctor said that they controlled the infection, washed the wound and connected the bone. “We are continuing with wound management.” Okumu said the second victim was also shot at the right thigh. He said they washed the wound and put a nail to connect the bones together. “Odhiambo is in the healing process, he is walking using scratches,” the doctor said. Kosgei said there was no space for criminals in the country. The officers were injured after they were shot at by the gangsters during a botched robbery in Kayole.