Western leaders have endorsed the BBI report and proposed amendments ahead of the start of the validation process. They want the Constitution amended to accommodate an expanded executive with a powerful prime minister and two deputies. These were some of the resolutions read out by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo during the BBI public consultative meeting at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday. They also proposed that the regional economic blocs be anchored in the Constitution and a leadership framework provided. The regional blocs are the Lake Region, North Rift, the Frontier Counties Development Council, South Eastern Kenya, Central Kenya, and Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani. The leaders also recommended that the chapter on prosperity be strengthened to address socioeconomic issues afflicting the region. Also proposed is increasing the allocation to counties from the 35 per cent proposed in the report to a minimum of 45 per cent to strengthen devolution. The leaders also suggested the establishment of a ward development fund to free MCAs from being held hostage by governors on development. County assembly should also be strengthened to take charge of all the oversight roles, including those currently performed by the Senate. Another recommendation is devolving the Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission to the counties to ease election. They also want the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission given prosecutorial powers. The adoption of the resolutions came after they were passed during a meeting at Nzoia Guest House in Bungoma county on January 11. They were handed over to Busia Senator Amos Wako for transmission to the steering committee of which he is a member. Addressing the Bukhungu meeting on Saturday, the region’s leaders were almost unanimous that the region “must be in government” after the 2022 polls. “Whatever the case, we must be in government this time round. The only way to get in government is through supporting the BBI,” Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said, adding that devolution will be the biggest gainer in the BBI report. The event was attended by 15 governors, 14 senators, 68 MPs and a host of MCAs. Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula also attended. ODM leader Raila Odinga said the BBI was not about individuals but posterity. He said he and President Uhuru Kenyatta are determined to transform Kenya and lift millions languishing in abject poverty to prosperity. He said that the BBI will involve everyone. Mudavadi said the BBI should ensure laws are anchored to protect the economy. He said that the report must address benefits to communities living along common borders with international trading partners. Though Uganda is the greatest trade partner for Kenya, the benefits from the trade do not benefit people in Western Kenya as they end up in Nairobi, he lamented. Wetang’ula said the BBI was born out electoral malpractices, injustices and lack of integrity of elections.