Nairobians have ushered  in the New Year with uncertainties over county governance following the charging of Mike Sonko. The city has operated without a deputy governor the last two years. A High Court ruling that was upheld by the Appeal court bars governors facing corruption charges from carrying out the functions of a governor. With no deputy, it remains unclear who exactly should take charge of the county's affairs as Sonko battles in court. Yesterday, Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said that the situation of Nairobi is still being looked into by the relevant authorities. She told the Star that within this first month, her office will receive the advisory opinion from both Attorney's General Office and the Supreme Court. "The Supreme Court said the matter is on their table and once they resume from the break on January 13th, they will respond to the issue and give a way forward for Nairobi," she said. On the side of the Attorney General, Elachi was positive that the response will be sooner than expected. "I know the question of what next is for Nairobi is troubling many people especially the legislator and Nairobi residents but having both the AG and the Supreme Court will definitely shed a light to the situation," Elachi said. Jubilee Secretary General Raphel Tuju, on the other hand, on said he was certain that the AG will also respond to the party as well on the issue. "I'm currently outside the country but I'm sure that the AG will give his opinion on the issue and the party will know what next," he told the Star on Monday. A section of the Nairobi MCAs have been pushing for a special sitting to discuss the status and affairs of the county, which Elachi said she will respond to next week. Last year, Sonko's executive was characterised by reshuffles and suspensions . The governor never shied away from threatening to reshuffle his cabinet for better services or send home any county official. In 2019, the governor once again run the capital as a one man show, with the second year of no Deputy Governor and one year without a substantive County Secretary. Despite the vacancies of two of most powerful offices, Sonko proved that the county can still run ad operate without hitches. In what Sonko termed as 're-alignment' of duties, the cabinet has had at least three reshuffles this year with the Finance docket being the most affected. To avoid vacancy, some of the CECs have been appointed to act in capacity to serve other dockets. It also emerged that out if the 23 chief officers who were vetted and approved by the County Assembly in 2018, only eight had their contracts renewed. This led to some chief officers being in acting capacity in more than one docket up to date. The cabinet suffered a huge blow in January after Janet Ouko resigned as the County Executive for Education. Saying that she wanted to pursue other interests, Ouko said that it was difficult working under Sonko's leadership. However, the biggest cabinet shake up was on September 25, 2019, when Sonko suspended his two of his 'loyal' CECs ( Charles Kerich and Mohammed Dagane) along side 15 other county officials following the Precious Talents School tragedy that left eight pupils dead. It was unexpected to many since suspended CEC for Finance Charles Kerich had been appointed by Governor Sonko as 'Super CEC" two month earlier to oversight responsibilities over cabinet colleagues.