A 58-year-man was on Wednesday evening seriously injured following an  altercation between farmers and herders at Pendogusani village in Mpeketoni, Lamu West. A herder is alleged to have viciously attacked and injured farmer Francis Oloo after he refused to allow the herder graze his herd on his farm. Oloo suffered a broken wrist, deep cuts on the head and had some of his fingers chopped off during the altercation. Speaking from his hospital bed at the Mpeketoni hospital, Oloo said all he wants was for justice to be rendered. “I didn't commit any crime, he found me on my farm, tried to forcefully graze his cows on it and when I said no, he attacked me with a panga and a Somali sword. It's obvious that he wanted to kill me. I pray he is caught and charged with attempted murder,” said Oloo. Locals have urged police to look seriously into the issue of conflicts between farmers and herders, with the latter being accused of forcefully trying to graze their animals on people’s farms. Previously, locals have called for non-local herders to be kicked out of the region as they are the source of conflicts. The two sides have been locked in a decade-long feud over pastures, a situation that has left tens of people dead, houses torched and property destroyed. Locals have revealed that most of the troublesome herders are from neighboring Tana River and Garissa counties. In reaction, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said he wasn't aware of the recent incident at Pendogusani village but promised to investigate. The commissioner, however, accused both sides of always taking the law into their own hands whenever issues occur instead of having the matter resolved lawfully. “I am not aware of this recent incident but will find out. I, however, want both sides to learn that taking the law into your hands whenever there is a misunderstanding will never help,” he said. The security committee, chaired by the county commissioner, is currently trying to reconcile the two sides. Macharia also appealed to livestock owners to ensure they employ individuals of integrity as herders and not just anyone. In August, 2019, 22-year-old farmer Julius Mbugua was killed during an altercation with herders who were grazing their livestock on his farm at Safirisi village in Hindi, Lamu west.