Luhya leaders must present a united front if they want to make any political impact in national politics, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. He said he was in talks with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa to agree on modalities the community will use to ensure it approaches the next general election united. “The divisions in the community leaders has made it unattractive for any alliance with other communities because we are equated to donkey dung which scatters on falling on the ground but this must end before 2022,” Oparanya said. He said the leaders have held several meetings. Oparanya spoke during the funeral service for Becton Mahagayu in Mahondo village, Lurambi subcounty, on Saturday. His remarks came as a leaders’ meeting, he announced for Bukhungu Stadium on January 18, split the Western region leadership right in the middle with some terming it an ODM affair. Earlier attempts to unite Luhya leaders have failed. Currently, Luhyas are divided among ODM, Jubilee, Ford Kenya and ANC parties. While ANC, ODM and Ford Kenya worked together in 2017 polls, ANC and Ford Kenya seemingly parted ways with those in ODM after the March 9, 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Oparanya said the Luhya community must be in the next government by all means. “It doesn’t matter which method we use as long as we are in the next government. It is only when you have one of your own at the top there that you will be able to access the resources needed for development,” he said. Oparanya asked residents in the region to use the second window provided by the extension of the term of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) to give their views before a final report is developed. Meanwhile, United Democratic Party (UDP) leader Cyrus Jirongo said there is need for extensive consultations by the Luhya leadership on national matters. “We need as a community to consult widely with all stakeholders so that when we take a stand, it is one that is reasoned and shared by the majority,” he said. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula have had heated exchanges over the Kakamega meeting. The former Lugari MP said the truth was that the government was hurting Kenyans not only in Western, but the entire country. “Some people feel that they are being left out by their leaderships and others feel they have been let down but there is a need for proper consultation to take a stand together because we don’t have another country apart from Kenya,” he told the Star on the phone. Jirongo said that absence of proper consultations could lead to the majority taking a wrong stand that they regret later. Jirongo said that the confusion about the BBI was normal in a democracy when people are jostling for space in the next dispensation in the lead up to any succession election. “It is expected but finally the leadership will emerge on the direction,” he said. 