Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has said the BBI is not intended to create another position for President Uhuru Kenyatta or extend his term limit. The Chama Cha Mashinani leader also said on Wednesday that he and like-minded leaders will hold their own BBI rallies in the South Rift to listen to residents. Speaking on Kalenjin radio station Taach FM, the Chama Cha Mashinani leader said that Deputy President William Ruto has not asked for his support in his run for president, but if he does, then he will back him. President Kenyatta, Rutto said, had reached the zenith of his political career and can no longer run for a lesser position. "A presidential seat is the highest in the country so I do not think Uhuru will start climbing down once he is done with his 10 years in 2022," Rutto said. He said the Constitution is clear on presidential term limits. He added, "In this era in time it is not possible for Uhuru to contest for any other seat...he should go home and rest." He called for amendments to the Constitution to bar presidents from serving more than two terms or vying for any other position. Voicing his concerns about BBI rallies across the country, the former governor faulted leaders for politicising the whole issue. He said BBI should be consultative and leaders from across the political divide should popularise it and let everyone air their opinions. Rutto said like-minded leaders from South Rift will be moving around, collecting suggestions from residents about the final BBI document. "We have held discussions with MPs and MCAs from Bomet, Kericho, Nakuru and Narok and soon we shall be going round the region seeking [the people's] opinions so we can submit common issues to the BBI task force," Rutto added. He said their meetings are meant to sensitise the residents on the need to amend the Constitution, noting the BBI process was the only gateway to ensure several flaws in the Constitution are corrected. Rutto said he will not be running for President in 2022, as he had earlier stated. Asked whether he will support Deputy President William Ruto for President, the CCM party leader said, "He has come out and said he is going for the seat so for now, I do not know but when the time comes and he requests support we'll back him," he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 