President Uhuru Kenyatta knows his government well and understands why he had to send former Agriculture Minister Mwangi Kiunjuri home. He knows when weaknesses are coming up and he understands how to fix the problem in line with the national agenda. Agriculture, which is the backbone of the economy, has not been doing well. Let us keep politics away from the sacking. I think Uhuru has ideas on what should be implemented. Kiunjuri said that the sacking does not affect his political ambition. Politics is about reinvention. We expect Kiunjuri to just dive into politics and reinvent himself. Kiunjuri’s plan can go, either way, to build him or destroy his political career. Never count anything out in politics. With politics comes reinvention. For Kiunjuri to become William Ruto's running mate, it will depend on how both of them play their cards. He should also be able to compete for the Mt Kenya kingpin position against former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru and Murang’a governor Mwangi Wa Iria among others. They are also reinventing themselves and engaging the masses. However, they should know that Kenyatta will play a role in who becomes the kingpin. People must play their cards well to win. Mount Kenya has its challenges despite having a President and the locals will be looking at who will deal with the challenges affecting them. People in Mount Kenya want a person who will open boundaries for regions to trade and work together. Anyone interested in taking up the mantle in Mount Kenya must explain his/her national agenda to all of us. The person who brings out a national agenda and takes care of Mt Kenya's interests has an advantage. Kenyatta has laid down a good foundation. We have loans for youths and farmers as well as other goodies for many sectors. The new kingpin must be a person who can take advantage of the good platform. We have come out of an era where regional identity dictates our politics. However, they still do. There have been talks that Murang’a says that they want to lead since Kiambu and Nyeri have run the country. Other regions might be saying that they want to hold the mantle. But we must focus on opening boundaries so that all regions trade together and live together.