Leaders from Mt Kenya have been urged to tone down political temperatures after President Uhuru Kenyatta's move to resolve challenges facing the agriculture sector. A section of leaders said the main problems facing the region are agriculture-related – an issue that was greatly addressed during Uhuru’s speech on Tuesday. Kamau Kamau, a youth leader from Kangema constituency in Murang’a, said that the President detailed how most agricultural sectors should be restructured. He cited Uhuru's move to empower tea factories to engage in value-addition and ensure local tea is packaged before it is exported. “The President also gave timelines for the disbursement of the Sh3 billion coffee cherry fund that was factored in the annual budget,” Kamau said. Kamau urged leaders to concentrate on ensuring the directives are implemented to benefit residents. He said the President’s appointment of youths in government positions should serve as an example for youths to stop being misused by leaders and engage in nation-building. “Youths need to respect leaders and the people in authority, and listen when they are advised by their seniors,” he said. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said the Tangatanga movement, allied to Deputy President William Ruto, has been basing its politics on the ailing agriculture sector. The governor said he now expects to hear Tangatanga members lauding the government’s efforts to improve the sector. “They have been leveraging on the fact that some things need to be done to uplift the sector, but now the President has gone deeper to offer solutions which means we should now see a reduction in political temperatures,” the governor said. Kigumo MP Wangari Mwaniki said the President has accomplished a lot in his tenure but requires support to achieve his agenda. Mwaniki emphasised the need for leaders to be united, saying it is the only way they will be able to brainstorm on issues that affect the region. “We cannot address topical issues affecting our community in disunity. We need sobriety among our leaders to be able to legislate and ensure that the things that affect our people are done correctly,” she said. Mwaniki said leaders have been focusing too much time on politics instead of addressing issues that affect society. Ichagaki MCA Charles Mwangi said the government should compel county governments to pay pending bills, saying that contractors have been suffering countrywide. Thuo Wokabi from Maragua praised the President for sacking former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, saying he was too busy focussing on succession politics instead of working for Kenyans. “It was irritating to see him talk about the issues facing agriculture, yet he was in charge of the docket,” he said. 