The Labour Court has issued temporary orders stopping the Auditor-General appointment selection panel from re-advertising the post. Employment and Labour Relations judge Stephen Radido said the panel and the Attorney General should not give effect to an advert published on December 17, 2019, by the state that re-advertised the post. The order was issued after activist Okiya Omtatah argued that the Selection Panel does not have the power to decline to select three candidates from those it interviewed for the position of Auditor General and forward their names to the President as required in the Public Audit Act (PAA). The first holder of the office of Auditor General was appointed in August 2011 for a non-renewable term of eight years, which ended in August 2019. Omtatah says that, since the PAA does not provide for the process of appointing a new Auditor General, where the term of an incumbent has expired, Parliament left it to the President to exercise his discretion to do so in accordance with the Constitution. According to court documents, on December 11, 2019, the chairperson of the Selection Panel announced that the selection panel had failed to find a suitable candidate after holding interviews and that it would re-advertise the vacancy. The chairperson of the Public Service Commission said, “After a thorough analysis of the performance of the applicants, the panel submitted its report to the appointing authority. In its findings, the panel determined that it was unable to pick any names for nomination for appointment as Auditor General.” But Omtatah argued that such extraneous considerations as tactfulness, diplomacy and independence that the panel imposed cannot be used to bar candidates who meet the eligibility threshold set by the law from being appointed. He said the decision to re-advertise the vacancy for the position of the Auditor General is unconstitutional and invalid. “The Selection Panel’s decision to cancel the recruitment process is completely unlawful since neither the President nor the panel has any inherent powers beyond what is stated in the law. And in refusing to recommend the appointment of the Auditor General from the successful candidates the panel and the AG acted in vain,” he said. The hearing is on 20 February