Security officers have been asked to eject tens of traders from the central landing beach in Naivasha after they defied an earlier order. Last week, the public health department ordered the beach closed on grounds of possible hazards to fishermen. The traders were told to move out after the water levels rose in the lake flooding the facilities including latrines. But the over 300 traders have defied the directive as ongoing rains submerged more structures. Naivasha subcounty public health officer Edward Kwanga said they were seeking services from the necessary government agencies to enforce the order. He termed the beach as a major source of disease due to the flooding. Kwanga said that the traders should move to the newly-renovated Banda landing site. “We issued the statutory notice last week to close down the beach but this has been ignored and we have no otherwise but to forcefully move in,” he said. Kwanga warned anyone flouting the order that they faced legal action. He said a lack of quality drinking water and waste management mechanism were further worsening the situation. “We fear that the lake water is contaminated by fecal matter from the submerged latrine and we have seen an increase in the number of flies,” he said. The public health officer said that they had banned hawking of food in the town and its suburbs. He said the majority of those involved in hawking of the food were not medically fit and posed danger to their clients. “Our job is to make sure that there are no outbreaks and we do not want to rush in the last minute and thus the need to make sure that the law is followed to the letter,” he said. However, food hawkers termed the order as unfair noting that they had complied with the law. Boniface Kinuthia who sells eggs and sausages said that he had a medical certificate from the department of public health. “The move to kick us from the street has caught many flat-footed and we are calling for a meeting with the department so that we can resolve any emerging issues,” he said.