The die is cast and Kenyans can expect a showdown between Deputy President William Ruto's camp and that of ODM leader Raila Odinga over the BBI proposals. On Wednesday, allies of the DP vowed to oppose any proposals in the Building Bridges Initiative to expand the Executive and introduce regional governments. Their stand comes days after Raila led his troops in calling for regional governments as well as an executive prime minister during a BBI rally in Mombasa. Ruto's side said Kenyans were already burdened and any expansion of political seats would defeat the country’s development plans. They, however, said they would support a BBI that seeks to empower Kenyans economically. “If it would be about the creation of more seats for politicians and governors whose two terms are coming to an end, we will oppose it,” Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said. Fortifying their narrative that the pro-Ruto troops are after finding solutions to the social-economic problems bedeviling the country, the MPs said they would firmly object to attempts to alter the structure of government. The move appears to be a major U-turn from the initial position held by the Tangatanga politicians when they rallied behind the BBI report which was launched by the President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila at Bomas. The BBI report proposes the creation of the position of prime minister appointed by the President from the majority party in Parliament. However, forces allied to the President and Raila want the BBI report amended to introduce a parliamentary system with a powerful prime minister with two deputies. Yesterday's remarks by Ruto's allies could further harden political positions over the BBI proposals, with the DP's camp appearing to retreat to their initial opposition. The MPs spoke in Lari, Kiambu county, during a funeral service in the company of  Ruto. But the DP kept off the debate about changing the structure of government. He said the BBI was aimed at bringing Kenyans together as a country and strengthening cohesion. "We want the BBI to bring the people of this great country together but not to divide them," he said. "We want people to give their views on what they want. These people include mama mboga, hustlers, casual labourers, our leaders. I mean, it is not for leaders alone, but everybody who is a Kenyan." Ruto was accompanied by MPs Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Rugathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Jonah Mburu (Lari). Governors Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua) and Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) were present. Ichung'wa, a close ally of the DP, said they will oppose any attempts to introduce more political slots and create a third-tier of government. “BBI should not be for tenure extension and the creation of regional governments,” he said. He said they will not back the BBI when "others have hidden cards under the table.” “But BBI should not be used to intimidate other leaders. It is a fact we (Mt Kenya leaders) are being threatened but we will not be cowed. We will stand for the truth,” he said. Former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, who made his first public appearance with Ruto since his sacking from the Cabinet, said that if there must be a prime minister, then the holder should be appointed by the President. “We cannot have two centres of power. If that happens, it is Kenyans who will suffer,” he said. “We cannot build one bridge and destroy the other one which we need to cross to the other end. It does not make any sense. We should not take Kenya back to the dark old days. That is what we are witnessing today." Governor Mandago said county chiefs were not for the creation of regional governments. “What we need in BBI is honesty. It should not be used to push an individual’s political interests,” he said, adding that Kenyans should be allowed to meet freely and deliberate on the BBI report. Ruto said all Kenyans would be involved and the government would ensure the BBI debate does not impede development programmes. He said the country should not lose sight that the primary focus of BBI is the empowerment of Kenyans. Meanwhile, a section of MPs allied to Ruto has alleged an elaborate plan to lock them out of the Afraha Stadium for their BBI rally on February 8. But Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui dismissed their claims saying that he was yet to receive any request for use of the venue. He said the county government was ready to honour the request once it is made through the right channel. "We shall facilitate necessary arrangements for the success of the meeting once we receive the request. A meeting of that magnitude requires adequate preparations including security and other logistics," Kunyanjui said. He added: "We, therefore, expect the request will be made in good time to allow adequate preparations and any other logistical issue that may be required on our part." The governor, however, warned that the Tangatanga team have a duty to preach harmony starting with their first rally. "Insults, name calling and character assassination will undermine the progress made so far in uniting the country," he said. The DP's allies who have unveiled their parallel Building Bridges Initiative meetings across the country, however, vowed to proceed with their rally as planned. They said Kenyans were already burdened and any expansion of political seats would defeat the country’s development plans. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri claimed that Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui was plotting to bar the pro-Ruto MPs from holding the rally by denying them a permit to Afraha stadium. “We will be in Nakuru for BBI on February 8 even with the barriers that Governor Lee Kinyanjui has erected,” he said. Ngunjiri, who was on Tuesday scolded by Uhuru for constantly abusing him, vowed to ensure that the BBI team than supports Ruto holds the rally as planned. "It is not about if, we shall be there. Nakuru is our home and does not belong to anyone," he said Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika told the Star that they would proceed to book the venue for the rally today and would not be intimidated. "We are aware of schemes by our political detractors to block us from using Afraha stadium for our BBI rally. We want to be clear that like any other Kenyans we are allowed freedom of assembly under the Constitution," Kihika said. Kihika, a close ally of the DP, alleged a scheme by some forces to influence the local government to deny them permission to use the grounds for an event she said would address issues facing Kenyans. "We have been clear that we want to redirect the BBI conversation into an issue-based debate that seeks to find a way to address the economic problems facing Kenyans," she said. The Tangatanga brigade's Nakuru rally could rekindle memories of the Mumias rally that aborted on January 18 after police sealed off the venue. Instead, the BBI proponents led by Raila stormed the nearby Bukhungu stadium for a major rally in support of the handshake. Attempts by Ruto's allies to hold the parallel rally were thwarted as police lobbed tear gas canisters on a section of political leaders who were pushing to proceed with the rally despite a police ban. Vocal Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said they would still hold the rally in Nakuru if they are blocked from Afraha. “If we will not get the stadium, we will hold the rally by the roadside. I think holding it along Nakuru- Eldoret highway will be ideal,” he said. “We are all after forging unity in this country through the BBI. This is a journey we started in 2008; we have more solid experience than those lecturing us,” he said. Soi MP Caleb Kositany said they would consider other venues should they find Afraha stadium already booked. “Nakuru is a big town. We will definitely get a venue. Our team will be applying for the venue today,” he said.