Newly-crowned world 10km record holder Rhonex Kipruto and former world junior runner Brilliant Jepkorir, as well as Beatrice Chebet, will defend their titles during this weekend's Discovery Cross country set for this Sunday at Eldoret Sports Club. Discovery, which is one of the oldest races in the country, has nurtured top runners and come Sunday, other prodigies are expected to sprout, as preparations for the Africa Cross Country Championships set for Lome, in Togo on March 1. Race organisers, led by Central Rift chairman Abraham Mutai and head coach David Letting, said Kipruto, Jepkorir and Chebet have confirmed to compete at the race that enters its 29th year. Apart from Discovery, Central Rift region that comprises of Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Baringo counties will be using the championships to select their team ahead of national trials in Nairobi. “This is the oldest cross country in the country and we have to ensure that we get it right. For the last 28 years, runners who have competed here have gone on to win in big races not only in Kenya but also abroad,” said Mutai. “I am inviting interested runner from the three counties to come and compete in this race as we look to select our team for the national championships.” “This event mostly focuses on children, who are our future. Last year, we had 3,000 athletes but this year, we have projected and budgeted for 5,000 runners,” observed Letting. Last year, Jepkorir (27:36.1) edged out Beatrice Chepkemoi (27:42.5) and Dorcas Chepchirchir (27:47.9) to claim the title. Kipruto, who went ahead to won a bronze medal in the 10,000m at the World Championships in Doha, Qatar, won the men's Discovery title in 30:40.3 ahead of World Under 20 5,000m finishing second in 30:46.9 and Josephat Kipchirchir third in 30:50.5. After winning the junior women's title last year in 20:53.9, Chebet went ahead to win the World Cross Country junior title but come Sunday, she will be competing in the senior ranks after graduating late last year.