Lamu conservationists have opposed calls for subdivision of the expansive Boni and Dodori national reserves to prevent Somali-based Shabaab militants from hiding there before executing terror attacks. The wildlife conservationists claimed that Boni and Dodori forests which border Somalia are protected areas which were gazetted 'but have been abandoned by the government'. Lamu honourary warden and member of Wildlife Conservation committee Ali Shebwana Bwana said subdividing the forests would create more human-wildlife conflicts as animals living in the forests cannot be moved. Addressing a press conference in Malindi on Monday, Bwana said the two protected areas cover 213,000 hectares–Boni covering 137,000 hectares and Dodori (76,000 ha). He was responding to a statement issued last Wednesday by a group from Mpeketoni in Lamu regarding the forest. The group dismissed claims they want the forest subdivided and given to the people to do farming. "Those forests are protected areas and we cannot accept the forest to be subdivided to create farming," he said. Bwana said their aim is to protect natural resources, wildlife and forest but instead asked the government to operationalise the area. Operationalising the forest, he said, will be easier to wipe out the militants rather than allowing the proposal by Mpeketoni residents to develop a scheme to turn it into farming grounds. The warden said Lamu was the richest in terms of wildlife resources in entire Africa and that they want to maintain that richness. Bwana said the government should initiate tourism marketing programmes for Lamu. He said the area is too idle citing it as the reason it has become a hideout for al Shabaab militants. "We don't want Lamu to be like Ukambani and other places where there is nothing but a desert." He said Boni and Dodori forests have all kinds of wildlife including elephants that migrate seasonally from Tsavo and birds which are only found in Lamu. "We want to maintain those natural resources that we have in Lamu and let the government think of utilising those resources to benefit the local mwananchi so as to make them realise the benefits of the resources the way Maasai Mara is,'' he said. Maasai Mara, Bwana said, was getting Sh4 billion annually as revenue from tourism saying Lamu could raise more. A census conducted in 2015 revealed that there were over 15,000 buffalos and thousands of other wildlife in Lamu, he said. The Boni and Dodori forests have been used by al Shabaab as hideouts since they began to stage terror attacks in 2015. Edited by R.Wamochie