Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama has expressed his commitment to his campaign to phase out all mud-walled classrooms in the constituency. The campaign dubbed Phase Out Mud-Walled Classrooms for Proper Learning in Our Schools’ kicked off early this month. Affected schools include Salama, Juhudi, Lumshi, Jericho, Poromoko, Boramoyo, Maisha Masha, Jipendeni, Amkeni and Mwangaza primary. They have each received two new permanent classrooms in the first phase of the campaign and have since been occupied. The campaign comes as a relief for parents and other stakeholders who have for years called on the government to improve the infrastructure of schools for effective learning. Parents have constantly expressed their concerns over the safety of their children, especially during heavy downpours when some classrooms collapse ending in injuries. The MP said the objective of the campaign is to provide and ensure a conducive and safe learning environment to learners. It is being fully funded by the National Government Constituency Development Fund. Muthama said his office was seeking donors to help fund the campaign and that already, they are in talks with a renowned telecommunications company that was currently undertaking the construction of eight classrooms at BoraMoyo Primary School in Witu division whose structures are all mud-walled. He said he has also been at the forefront in seeking for donors that to help rehabilitate most of the schools with poor infrastructure in the county. “Out of the 76 primary and 29 secondary schools in Lamu West, at least 40 per cent were mud-walled by the time I came into office. We have launched this campaign with the aim of changing the learning environment. We plan to reach as many schools as possible,” the lawmaker said. He has appealed to the national government to allocate more funds to help improve schools in the region. “We hope the government will extend funding because there is a lot that needs to be done on the infrastructure of such schools to guarantee a proper learning environment." Edited by R.Wamochie