President Uhuru Kenyatta has hit at activist Okiya Omtata for continuously moving to court and stopping projects. The President who spoke on Thursday at the Supreme Court during the official release of the State of the Judiciary and Administrative of Justice Report said the courts should ask themselves who the professional is working for. "Naona kuna professionals wanaingia huko kwenu na wanasema fungeni hii project na mnafunga project..so project inasimama..( I see there are professionals enter the courts and say close this project and you close it..and then the project stalls)..and we know the professionals," he said. "I ask myself that 99 cases are filed by one person and you give him injunctions the same day.. chukua hii... funga hii... funga hii (take this..close this..close this..) there is something there.. one must interrogate," he said. "I am your partner, I want to do great things. I wish we had more regular meetings.. Ukifunga huduma namba..umefungia waKenya..(If you close Huduma Namba, you are closing it for Kenyans).. ask yourself what is the purpose of this person..who is he acting for..or is he acting for selfish interests?" Uhuru said the Judiciary is giving injunctions and at the same time claim that they want more money. "I am not in any fight with anybody. I am here to congratulate you for the good work and my full support in what is possible. You need more money and your courts are the same that people use and you give injunctions?..Halafu you use the  same mouth kutaka pesa.. sasa itatoka wapi? (and then you use the same mouth to ask for money, where will it come from?)" he posed. In October 2017, Activist Okiya Omtatah went to court to stop the importation of duty-free sugar which the High Court did. However, the order was ignored by Treasury officials. Just a year before, Omtata had secured a separate order barring the National Land Commission from making any payments in the controversial Ruaraka land. Then, not even investigative agencies had realised that the taxpayer’s money could be embezzled in a complex scheme. But still, government officials ignored the order and paid Sh1.5 billion to firms owned by businessman Francis Mburu. The controversial payment still haunts then Education and NLC officials who okayed the payments. In 2018, Omtatah filed a case in court seeking to suspend the implementation of the police reforms announced by Uhuru. Omtatah argued that the President has no power under the Constitution to effect changes in the structure of National Police service. The activist last year won a court battle that had been before the court for six years. The activist had challenged the ownership of land registered under Nasewa Nucleus Estate in Busia county. The 341 ha (842 acres) of land had been set aside for the construction of Busia Sugar Company but delayed due to grabbing. Justice Samuel Mukunya ruled on July 31 that the disputed land belongs to the public. The court revoked the title deed issued to Nasewa, reverting it to the Ministry of Lands. These are among the hundreds of public interest litigations that Omtata is waging against rogue governm ent agencies and powerful public servants disobeying the law. Just last month, Omtatah spoilt the party for two NLC nominees when they were almost on the feasting table. He moved to court saying the recruitment process of the new commissioners was a sham and did not follow the due process.