Anxiety has gripped University of Nairobi staff with fears their January salaries might be delayed following leadership wrangles. An emergency meeting was called on Wednesday to discuss January salaries as a section of staff told the Star the payments have to be signed off by the vice chancellor, Deputy VC Finance, Planning and Development, and Finance Officer before being channeled to the bank for processing. Isaac Mbeche is the Deputy VC for finance and has been involved in a leadership tussle with  vice chancellor Stephen Kiama. Last Saturday, Education CS George Magoha revoked Kiama's appointment and retained Mbeche in an acting capacity. However, on Sunday, Kiama said he was in charge and the university would not be held liable for transacting with anyone else. On Monday, the court suspended Magoha's revocation of Kiama's appointment. In an interview with K24 on Tuesday, Mbeche insisted he is still the acting vice chancellor. He said. “I have a letter of appointment. Prof Kiama is refusing to accept that the minister called me back from leave. Prof Kiama is trying to install himself through the court. He should listen to the University Senate, students and other stakeholders." In a memo on Wednesday, Kiama said he was in support of an emergency meeting called to discuss January salaries and staff transfers. He said, "As your vice chancellor, I want to encourage such discourse, forums and meeting of minds to discuss challenges to and matters of interest to the university and her constituents." Kiama was forced to move into the old vice chancellor’s office in Gandhi Wing after Mbeche refused to hand over the keys to the University’s main office. “As some of you may be aware, the administration has severally requested Prof. Mbeche to provide the keys to the Vice Chancellor’s Office but he is yet to do so,” he said. “As an interim measure, and to respect and safeguard university property from wanton destruction, the Vice-Chancellor will operate from the old Vice Chancellor’s Office in Gandhi Wing as a solution that upholds the image of the University (corporate) as an upstanding and law-abiding citizen of this republic is pursued.”