Kenya Lionesses will face Colombia or Brazil in Rugby World Cup qualifier at home in April. The two South American sides clash next month with the winner meeting the Lionesses at the RFUEA ground. The winner of the clash will head to the Repechage to be played in June at a venue to be decided by World Rugby. The Rugby World Cup will be played in 2021 in New Zealand. Kenya Lionesses coach Felix Oloo said the team  started  training last week for the clash and expressed confidence that they will qualify for the repechage.  “We have started our training for the qualifier and I believe the girls will do the country proud ," dded Oloo. Kenya lost to South Africa 39-0 in the Africa qualifiers final in Johannesburg, South Africa in August, having thrashed Madagascar and Uganda 37-5 and 35-5 respectively in the preliminary fixtures. Oloo said the team has improved tremendously in the past two years and will have nothing to fear  while facing the South American teams. "It doesn't matter who we are facing. We know they have big forwards and will want to keep the ball in the tight. We will play to our strengths including playing the game at pace and developing our skill set,” he added. Oloo said playing at home will be a big advantage for the national side.  “It will be big and we will be asking our fans to turn up in large numbers and cheer us to victory,” added Oloo. Elsewhere, Blak Blad kept their hopes of staying in the Kenya Cup alive with a crushing 44-0 victory over Western Bulls at the Kenyatta University ground. It was only the second win for the Varsity side and this catapulted them to 13 points same as the Kakamega-based side, who now drop to the relegation zone. Try scorers for Blak Blad were winger Archadius Kwesa, who scored a hat-trick   with Dennis Opiyo, Brian Wahinya Dennis Opiyo and Ian Obukwa scoring a try each. Lionel Ajeliti converted three  tries and had a drop goal. In other results, the top three teams all bagged victories with Kabras beating Quins 34-3, champions KCB thrashing Kisumu 55-7 and Homeboyz dismantling Nondies 37-11. Impala edged Menengai Oilers 37-29 and Nakuru beat Mwamba 18-13.