Activist Okiya Omtatah has sought court orders quashing the appointment of Prof Louis Mumeria as chairperson of Karatina University Council. Education CS George Magoha, in a Gazette notice dated November 8, 2019, appointed Mumeria for a three-year term. The CS also revoked the appointment of Dr Kobia Ataya who had held the position since March 10, 2017. Omtatah also wants the second decision annulled. He claims the actions of the CS should be reversed to protect the public interest, in line with the rule of law. The activist says Mumeria’s appointment violates the Constitution. He claims it was done for improper and corrupt purposes, adding that Dr Ataya was removed from office for instituting investigations into abuse of office allegations. “It cannot be disputed that the Education CS acted against both the Constitution and the Universities Act of 2012 by purporting to remove Dr Ataya from office and to replace him with Prof Mumeria," Omtatah says in court documents. He adds that in a judicial review case, the court found and held that the Education CS has no powers to arbitrarily revoke the appointment of a chairperson of a university council. “The impugned purported change of guard of office of the chairperson of Karatina University Council was done in bad faith to the extent that it was influenced by improper motive and corrupt object stopping investigations, which Dr Ataya had ordered into claims of abuse of office, malpractice in tendering, and financial misappropriation, among others," the documents read. He says that during a special council meeting on September 30 last year, Ataya instituted investigations into the grave allegations by signing a letter asking vice chancellor Mucai Muchiri to formally respond to the accusations within a period of 21 days. He alleges that at the lapse of the 21 days, Prof Muchiri had not responded. Hence, he suspects the purported removal of Dr Ataya and the purported appointment of Prof Mumeria was a deliberate move by the CS and his co-conspirators to thwart the investigations. “I reasonably suspect that Prof Mumeria was purportedly appointed to take over at the helm of the university so he can compromise the investigations that were being undertaken by the council," Omtatah says. In the circumstances, Prof Mumeria is too conflicted to be appointed as the chairperson of the council, he adds, alleging Mumeria has been a personal friend of VC Muchai for more than 20 years.