The new Agriculture CS Peter Munya took little time to start working in his new ministry as he announced the new measures the government will employ to control the locust menace facing several counties. A day after he was moved from the Industrialisation docket, Munya announced three more spray aircraft will on Thursday be deployed in the control operation across the affected areas. The two aircraft from the private sector and one from the military are currently being equipped with the chemicals needed. He said four more aircraft will also be used for surveillance of the swamp movement. "Two aircraft from Kenya Pipeline Company, one from Kenya Wildlife Service and one from Kenya Forest Service are going through logistics to aid in surveillance," Munya said. An additional 20,000 litres of pesticides has been distributed to affected areas. Munya confirmed that locust invasion has affected eight counties which include Mandera Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Isiolo, Meru, Samburu and Laikipia. "Two spray aircraft from the Desert Locusts Control Organisation of Eastern Africa have undertaken aerial control of seven locust swamps in Wajir, Abaswen, Lakdima, ARAMU," he said. 4,700 litres of control pesticides has been distributed to Isiolo, Marsabit, Wajir and Mandera to spray Munya said the government has allocated Sh30 million to buy chemicals to enhance containment of the locusts. "We don't have challenges of resources right now as we speak. Aircraft from private sectors have come in handy in Isiolo, Laikipia counties," he said. The CS noted that so far, there has been effective control of the locusts contrary to reports. On January 9, an entomologist said the more it rains, the faster the desert locusts will spread across the country. Entomological Society of Kenya chairman Muo Kasina warned that the locusts which have invaded Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Isiolo, Garissa and Meru could move to other counties. “As they fly, chances are that they are mating and they will breed locally. These insects are likely to identify suitable habitats where the populations are likely to multiply,” he said.