Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has said she is ready to record a statement over allegations she planned to disrupt Kandara MP Alice Wahome’s bursary meeting. Chege said she had no reason to disrupt Wahome’s meeting and asked why the MP blamed her. She was speaking at Kandara police station where 22 youths were being detained for interrogations over suspicions they planned to disrupt Wahome’s bursary issuance event. Chege asked why  Wahome had not recorded a statement with the police over the allegations. “I came to the police station to establish whether a report had been filed in relation to the issue because when you are mentioned in criminal a case you don’t understand, it's important to establish the details from the police,” she said. Earlier, members of the public detained the youths saying they acted suspiciously and handed them over to the police. But subcounty police commander Paul Wambugu emphasised the youths were only being interrogated to establish whether they harboured ill motives, saying they were all university students from Nairobi. Wambugu praised the public for being alert. Wahome accused Chege and nominated MP Maina Kamanda of plotting disrupt her meeting. She claimed the two lawmakers met more than 50 youths few days ago to facilitate the disruption of her meeting. Wahome had posted on social media that the two leaders and several MCAs were planning to disrupt her bursary issuance. He said once she found out the two MPs’ plans, she informed the police. Chege claimed the MP stage-managed the youth's t to make it look as though they sent the youths to disrupt her meeting. “I saw her posts on social media where she mentioned me in relations to the planned attack but I did not want to reply to her,” she said. “I also heard that some youths were arrested but its Wahome’s people who arrested them and handed them over to the police. Chege asked Wahome to "stop playing ancient politics where politicians smeared goat’s blood on themselves and claimed they had been attacked." “I have asked the police to follow up and take the arrested youths to court once Wahome records a statement so they can give clear testimony on what they had gone to the meeting to do and who had sent them,” she said. Kamanda who said he’d not stop as low as disrupting a bursary meeting. “When I saw Wahome's posts on social media, I knew she was planning to blame it on someone,” Kamanda told The Star. (Edited by V. Graham)