An ally of Deputy President William Ruto from Western is on a reaping mission. The politician and his brigade are said to be scheming to harvest big from the DP ahead of the Luhya leaders' planned meeting. Corridors of Power understands that the politician wants the DP to release some funds to mobilise against the meeting. The aim is to whip as many political leaders from the region as possible to snub the rally being convened by influential Cotu boss Francis Atwoli. A budget has allegedly been determined, with some of the DP's allies plotting to counter the rally. Are two unsuccessful applicants for the position of vice chancellor of the University of Nairobi contemplating suing to challenge the council's appointment of Stephen Kiama? The two, who are said to have met on Friday evening at a five-star hotel in Nairobi, are questioning the council's verdict and want the recruitment process scrutinised by the Labour and Employment Court. They insist that the process was mired in political intrigues that saw a front-runner rated poorly to deny him an opportunity. It is not clear what details the duo have but a small bird claims the hiring process was skewed to lock out a certain professor. A female politician angling for a big office in 2022 is in trouble. An initiative she set up to help empower her would-be constituents has reportedly backfired. The initiative that involved saving and lending money is said to have become a source of misery in the village. Many have been auctioned for failing to repay their loans. The biggest casualties are widows who do not have any meaningful sources of income; some are said to have been forced to forfeit their cows. Some of her competitors have now lurched onto the fallout to bring her down. Two senior Machakos askaris are on the spot for allegedly harassing motorists and demanding bribes. The officials are said to be demanding up to Sh20,000 when they clamp vehicles. An insider has intimated that Governor Alfred Mutua has been briefed about the two officers and a dragnet could be in the offing to catch them red-handed. There are reports the officers could be denying the county daily revenue amounting to Sh200,000. Just a few days ago, the two fought in public over bribes they had received for the day as they wound down at a popular club in Mlolongo town.