The Wajir county administration has signed an agreement with the national government to implement the Universal Health Coverage programme. The agreement will ensure 100 per cent coverage of community health units in the county. The county will set up the complement community units, recruit community health extension workers (CHEWs) and pay community health volunteers (CHVs) a stipend. The ministry will provide community units, CHV kits and technical support in the establishment of efficient primary health care (PHC) services in the county. Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said that universal health care will only be fully realised when the two governments cooperate and support each other. “Universal Health Coverage is based on the principle that all individuals and communities should have access to quality essential health services without suffering financial hardships. As we move forward we should make sure that this happens,” he said. Abdi said his government is spending Sh95 million on health, especially the procurement and supply of medical equipment for all facilities in the county. He said these efforts will go along way in further improving healthcare in the area. The county chief spoke in Nairobi on Tuesday when he signed the Intergovernmental Participation Agreement alongside Health CS Sicily Kariuki. “My administration will continue to work with the national government in a progressive manner to ensure no one is left behind, more so poor and vulnerable,” he said. The government budgeted Sh41.9 billion for UHC in the current financial year. The funds are meant to help in rolling out UHC across all the counties in Kenya. The IPAs will be signed on an annual basis and will give the national and county governments a quick appraisal on UHC. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week said the country cannot realise UHC without the requisite health personnel, equipment, medicines and other commodities. Abdi said that in line with the ambition of providing specialised services at the Wajir County Referral Hospital, a modern CT scan will be operationalised soon. President Uhuru Kenyatta has identified Universal Health Coverage as one of the Big Four Agenda towards economic development. (edited by O. Owino)