After securing the ticket to the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympic Games, national women’s volleyball team coach Paul Bitok wants the team to engage top side around the globe in build-up matches. Kenya confirmed their ticket to Tokyo after beating Nigeria 3-0 (25-15, 25-21, 25-12) in their final match of the Olympic qualifier. The renown coach said the only way Kenya can make an impact at the Olympic Games is by being accorded at least three months’ training camp abroad. He cited Turkey, Brazil and Japan as his preferred training locations. "I would like Kenya to play friendly matches with either clubs or national teams in the three countries," he said. “If we are to make an impact at the Olympics, we must sent  the team for training camp abroad and play many international friendly matches. "If we can start our build-up in Turkey then  Brazil and finish off  in Japan a few days or weeks before the Tokyo competition, It would be awesome and we will all witness improvement. The camp must be more than three months,” Bitok insisted. He hinted at having more young players in the team for the Summer Games. The tactician, who joined Malkia Strikers in August 2019, also challenged youthful players to up their game as the task ahead is huge. He said: “We need to start using young players more. Kenya still has a number of older players and we need to turn this around by having a higher percentage of younger players.” “It’s possible to have an almost 100 per cent composition of the team to be young players but only if they can improve in the next few months or upcoming competition like (Africa) Club Championship,” added the tactician. Captain Mercy Moim also acknowledged the need to have young players in the  team. She cited setter Joy Lusenaka, middle blocker Gladys Ekaru and outside hitter Jemimah Siangu who changed the matrix whenever they were introduced in the game against hosts Cameroon. Malkia Strikers opened their account in the qualification showpiece by racing from a set down to defeat long-time nemesis Egypt 3-1 (23-25, 25-15, 25-21, 25-22) last Sunday. Egypt, the only North African side in the tournament, lined up new and youthful players and without a clue or their video clips, Bitok admitted it was hard to plan his approach. The following day Bitok’s charges hammered Botswana in straight sets of 25-17, 25-19 and 25-18 before facing their ultimate equals Cameroon in a five-set thriller on Tuesday, where they humbled the hosts 3-2 (25-16, 23-25, 25-21, 23-25, 15-11) to maintain unbeaten run.