Terrorism thrives in corrupt environments, European Union ambassador to Kenya Simon Mordue said on Thursday at Integrity House. Mordue, who led a team of EU officials on a visit to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak, said graft-related activities allowed criminals to operate freely, endangering millions of lives. He and Mbarak said that Sh14 billion stolen from taxpayers has been recovered in the recent past. “We want all those involved in graft activities not allowed to hold public offices or move around freely,” Mordue said at a press briefing. He said that fighting corruption and terrorism so that people can live peacefully was a top priority for the EU. “EACC said that they have had 51 convictions and Sh14 billion saved. 2020 should be the year we should see an increase in the tempo of high profile convictions and seizures,” he said, adding: “We are happy to see that 130 high profile graft cases are in court. We expect more.” An EACC report obtained by the Star shows that the agency recovered a  total of Sh22.5 billion between 2002 and 2019. Land worth Sh700 million was recovered from Jaction Mbute and another worth Sh75 million from Davy Koech. “Land worth Sh6.9 billion was recovered from Prigal Ltd, Bigot Flower, Kingoni River Farm, Plantech K Limited, Riverbank Limited, Mwanzo and others,” the report shows. “Recovered public assets made by the commission from the financial year 2002-2019. This report is updated until 5 December 2019.” The commission recovered Sh2.9 billion in the 2018-2019 financial year. The recovered items include Sh7 million from Lorgis Logistics Limited director Bernard Kibet “being illicit benefit out of compensation paid in respect of LR number MN/VI/3801 compulsorily acquired by the National Land Commission on behalf of Kenya National Highways Authority for road construction.” Mbarak said that the partnership with other stakeholders significantly supported the recovery of stolen assets and properties. "We recognise that success in investigation and prosecution of corruption is of mutual benefit to the social and economic wellbeing of Kenya and the EU," he said.    