The Health Ministry is in the process of ensuring that in the next three years we can set up a local anti-venom manufacturing company in the country. We want to partner with Costa Rica, which is a well-established anti-venom manufacturer. In the recent past, we have had reports of anti-venom not working, but first, it is because when we did our research, we found out that some of what was being sold in the market was not even anti-snake venom. Currently, we have just two licensed brands that are acceptable for use in the Kenyan market. We are in the process of licensing the third brand, but as per now, we have enough anti-venom in hospitals countrywide. Producing the vaccines locally will not only push the costs down based on the fact that most of the people who get the bites are poor and can’t afford Sh15,000 for treatment.  If you use anti-venom meant to treat, let’s say a black mamba, and it was extracted from a snake in say India, that vaccine will definitely not work because the kind of snakes we have in Kenya is different from the ones we have in other countries. That’s why it is important to make anti-venom using venom extracted from local snakes. Currently, the highest number of bites that we have ever recorded in the country through the District Health Information system (the official data management system for the ministry) is about 35,000 cases across the country. Actually, every single county has registered a bite. So, it is not something we can say is confined in one particular county. However, we know some counties register much higher cases than others. Baringo, Kitui and Kilifi, for instance, register high cases. Of course, others are ASAL areas such as Tana River and Turkana, which usually register quite a lot of bites. In actual sense, not very many people report when bitten by a snake. They go to traditional healers and only go to hospital when their condition has worsened. We have estimated 50,000 to 55,000 bites a year. That is our projection as a programme. Out of these 55,000, we are projecting that about 25,000 end up getting envenomation. Not all bites lead to envenomation. Some bites are just dry bites because sometimes when you step on a snake, it bites you but doesn’t release a venom. Those are what we call dry bites. Envenomation can range from just a small swelling or pain or some bleeding through disability to death. We are thinking out of these 20,000, about 3,000 of them will end up getting permanent disability. They are likely to lose an arm or a leg or develop a disability. Out of the 20,000, our projection estimates that 800 lose their lives yearly from snakebites. Now, this is the tragedy: Out of these 55,000 that we project are being bitten, only about 15,000 seek treatment in hospital. Of the 15,000, less than 5,000 come on time. Most of them will go to a witch doctor first, then come when it is too late and the poison has circulated in the body and it is impossible to treat. That is why we have a high number of people getting disability and dying. The Head of Vector-Borne and Neglected Tropical Diseases at the Health Ministry, Dr Sultani Matendechero, spoke to the Star