Nairobi County Assembly Beatrice Elachi has gazetted a special sitting of MCAs  which  will take place on Thursday. However, the gazette notice indicates that the MCAs will be free to debate on other matters that are not part of the leadership crisis facing the county. The sitting will be held in the assembly chambers at City Hall from 2.30pm. "It is notified for the information of the Members of the Nairobi County Assembly and the general public that there shall be a special sitting of the Nairobi City County Assembly to deliberate on County matters which are not limited to the leadership crisis," reads the notice. Speaker Elachi had earlier in the day said that that one of the key items in the sitting will be to establish the ad hoc committee that will oversee resumption of county services. "More details of the committee will be revealed in the sitting and also other items will be up for discussion," she said. Embattled Governor Mike Sonko had nominated Anne Mwenda to the deputy governor position on Monday. However, DPP Noordin Haji said the nomination was null and void, adding that Sonko was in violation of his bail terms. Sonko was charged alongside other county officials over the misappropriation of Sh357 million. Majority Whip June Ndegwa said the members' expectations are high for the special sitting, and they are looking forward to solutions to get county business back on track. "As the whip, my expectation is that the House will strategise on how we can bring sanity to the county. Yes Nairobi has had its troubles and we need to see how we can put everything in place inclusive of projects. We need to deliver the promises we owe to Nairobi residents," she said. Ndegwa confirmed that Jubilee members will be attending the sitting and she was optimistic that members would contribute and debate in the sitting. She further said that there is a possibility members may ask for two or three more kamkunji's to deliberate. Minority leader David Mberia said that the ODM affiliated MCAs will give their suggestions on how Nairobi related issues can be tackled. "This is a start to show how the assembly is serious about restoring Nairobi back to its lost glory. We have pressing issues that have hindered the county from moving forward and as members we need to carry out our mandate fully and keep the county in progress," he said. He also confirmed that ODM members will attend the sitting. The County Assembly Standing Order 30, states the Speaker may, on the request of the Leader of the Majority or Minority Party appoint a day for a special sitting of the County Assembly. It further states that the Speaker may allow a request under paragraph if the Speaker is satisfied that the business proposed to be transacted relates to any urgent and exceptional business as the Speaker may allow. The last time a special sitting was convened - on September 6 - Elachi was impeached.