Ulinzi Stars head caoch Benjamin Nyangweso has expressed content with the performance of the club's right back Byron Odiaga who made his first start of the season in their 2-0 win over Posta Rangers last weekend. Odiaga was thrown into the fray after regular starter Brian Birgen was sidelined with an ankle injury and his defensive prowess against the mailmen earned him a pat on the back from Nyangweso. The league-winning coach noted that Odiaga was solid despite facing experienced wingers and was elated with his overall performance and that of his teammates. Ulinzi scored in either halves through Enosh Ochieng and Oscar Wamalwa to move to four points within the reach of league leaders Gor Mahia "I think it was a perfect debut for him, although he committed a few mistakes. I was impressed with his display and that of the entire team," said Nyangweso. With the four-time champions set to host returnees Wazito today at the Afraha Stadium,Nyangweso observed that moneybags had stepped up after bringing in new players and he is anticipating for a tough match. Wazito will be seeking their third win of the season when they confront the soldiers and their bid will be boosted by the arrival of Whyvonne Isuza from AFC Leopards. Nyangweso, who will be without left back Haroun Mwale after the defender collected his fifth yellow card last weekend, said he has an able replacement.The club will also have to do without their first choice left back and Harambee Stars trialist Omar Mbongi who was redeployed. "I watched them play Gor last Saturday and they have improved. They have brought in good players but we will plot their fall before we face them. We would have wished to have Mwale but we have a replacement who is equal to the task," he noted. Meanwhile, Tusker management have reiterated their commitment to sign the players recommended to them by the technical bench. The league chasing brewers who are second,  trail Gor by a point. "We are supposed to convene a meeting with the technical bench to discuss several issues among them the transfers. We will try our best to sign the players in their wish-list to achieve our objective for the season."