A 78-year-old German tourist was found slashed to death with a panga on Tuesday in his hotel room in Malindi town, Kilifi county. Deterring Herman had reportedly gone to sleep with his girlfriend on Monday night after drinks and miraa at the Moriema Cottages near Malindi town. He was found dead the following evening. Malindi OCPD Vitalis Otieno confirmed he was murdered, saying he had injuries to the head and torso. He said they are treating the girlfriend as a key suspect in the murder as she disappeared and is still on the run. She was not identified. The door was locked from the outside and the staff had to use a spare key to enter. "We suspect the mzungu was murdered and there must have been a scuffle at the scene because he had injuries to the stomach and head, there was also blood all over," Otieno said. Hotel staff said they went to check in his room after he failed to come out in the morning. They saw blood through the window. The manager of the Moriema Cottages Kelly Kazungu said the body had severe cuts all over. Kazungu said the deceased rented the cottage for two months from December 4, paid monthly and used his own keys. He said on the night of his death, Herman was drinking with his girlfriend until about 1am when they retired. Upon returning the hotel on Tuesday evening, Kazungu was told by staff that Herman had not been seen and his door was locked. "I used a binding wire to peep through the window and saw bloodstains, I went to the police station and reported the matter. Police officers accompanied me back to the hotel" he said. He said the German and his girlfriends never showed any signs of disagreement. A police officer seeking anonymity said the murderer had used a machete as knives in the room showed no sign of blood. Alphonce Kazungu, a pool attendant, said the two lovers were always in a good mood and used to drink a lot. A night guard at the hotel said he did not hear any distress noise that night and he did not see the girl leaving the hotel. The OCPD said the German national lived in Kenya for many years and operated businesses in Malindi before he relocated to South Coast. Otieno said his wife died but he has one child n Kenya. He said he used to travel to and from Germany 'all the time 'but decided to come to Malindi for two months.  (Edited by V. Graham)