It is official, a new decade has begun. Despite the harsh economic times, Kenyans ushered in 2020 with the hope that the year and the decade will take a turn for the better. A study by Trends and Insights Africa shows only 17 per cent of Kenyans thought 2019 was a good year. On Wednesday, Uhuru Park attracted a few Kenyans who wanted to enjoy fun such as boat rides with their families and friends. Nairobi was jumping on New Year's Eve. Streets were crowded at night, with Kenyans eagerly anticipating the start of 2020. Entertainment joints, social events and churches were also filled. Others, however, chose a quiet indoor evening with family and friends, watching fireworks in Nairobi and fireworks in other capitals as the world ushered in the new decade. Those in the capital enjoyed a fireworks displays as soon as the clock struck midnight from iconic buildings such as KICC. Kenyan celebrities welcomed their fans to join them in ushering in the next decade. Fans were in for a night of music, food and laughter as Daniel Ndambuki, aka Churchill, hosted a New Year’s Eve experience show at Garden City. “We are crossing over to 2020 here at Garden City Mall. We just got started, head over to Thika Road... this will be exciting,” Churchill said in a tweet. Rapper King Kaka, whose latest song attracted both controversy and compliments, performed at an all-white event in Nyali Sun Africa Beach Hotel. Country music legend Sir Elvis performed at the Country Crossover music concert at Ngong Racecourse. Nakuru town came alive as thousands of residents flocked to the ASK showground for the Pamoja Concert, which was headlined by gospel artist Emmy Kosgei. Politicians too joined supporters to welcome the new year. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and his deputy Eric Korir joined residents at the showgrounds while Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga attended overnight prayers at Kamukunji grounds. "Joined the congregation of Abundant Newlife Church Nyeri at Kamukunji grounds in 2019-20 for a crossover kesha (vigil) in ushering in 2020," he wrote in a tweet. "I take this opportunity to wish everyone a happy and prosperous 2020. God bless Nyeri, God bless Kenya." Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho ushered in the new year with residents and visitors at the Kibarani recreational park. Those at the Coast also enjoyed fireworks displays and beach parties from popular establishments in the town. Edited by R.Wamochie