 The Employment and Labour Relations Court has suspended the appointment of Louis Mumeria as Karatina University Council chairperson and reinstated John Kobia Ataya to the position. Justice John Mativo on Thursday quashed the appointment made by Education CS George Magoha on November 8, 2019. Magoha simultaneously revoked the appointment of Ataya who had held the position since March 10, 2017. Activist Okiya Omtatah challenged the appointment of Prof Mumeria and sought orders to quash the minister's gazette notice. “Leave is granted to exparte applicant to seek by way of judicial review and to be quashed the Education CS Magoha’s gazette notice dated November 8, 2019 appointing Prof Louis Mumeria to be the chairperson of the university,” Mativo's order says. The court ordered that Dr Ataya continues serving as university council chairman pending the hearing and determination of the case. Omtatah said Magoha's actions should be reversed to protect public interest, in line with the rule of law. The activist said Mumeria’s appointment violates the Constitution. He said it was done for improper and corrupt purposes, saying Ataya was removed from office for instituting investigations into abuse of office allegations. “It cannot be disputed that the Education CS acted against both the Constitution and the Universities Act of 2012 by purporting to remove Dr Ataya from office and to replace him with Prof Mumeria," Omtatah said. He said a judicial review found and held the CS has no powers to arbitrarily revoke the appointment of a chairperson of a university council. “The impugned purported change of guard of office of the chairperson of Karatina University Council was done in bad faith to the extent that it was influenced by improper motive and corrupt object stopping investigations, which Dr Ataya had ordered into claims of abuse of office, malpractice in tendering, and financial misappropriation, among others." The activist said during a special council meeting on September 30 last year, Ataya instituted investigations into the allegations by signing a letter asking vice-chancellor Mucai Muchiri to formally respond to the accusations within a period of 21 days. By the lapse of the deadline, Muchiri had not responded, hence, he suspects the purported removal of Dr Ataya and subsequent appointment of Prof Mumeria was a deliberate move by the CS and his co-conspirators to thwart the investigations. “I reasonably suspect that Prof Mumeria was purportedly appointed to take over at the helm of the university so he can compromise the investigations that were being undertaken by the council," Omtatah said. In the circumstances, Prof Mumeria is too conflicted to be appointed as the chairperson of the council, the activist says. He said Mumeria has been a personal friend of Muchiri for more than 20 years.  edited by p. obuya