The quarry ban in Mandera will remain until adequate security measures are put in place, county commissioner Onsesmus Kiathya has said Speaking in Mandera town, he said the county security committee was under strict instruction not to allow any quarrying. “Non-locals who are in those mines should be told to immediately leave until stringent measures are put in place to secure them. That is the government's position, which must be respected by all. We don’t to lose a single life there again,” Kiathya said. The government closed the quarries on May 4, 2018, following the killing of non-local miners by al Shabaab. The closure was widely condemned by local leaders, led by Governor Ali Roba, who said the move would slow down the county's economy. Quarrying is the county's major economic activity and the closure has hurt most businesses. The High Court in Garissa last May ordered the quarries reopened and security provided. Tawakal Quarry Producers Cooperative Limited had sued, challenging the closure. The government, however, seemed uninterested in implementing the order. Deputy President William Ruto, speaking during a pastoralists leadership summit in Garissa last year, promised to "personally intervene" and see to it that the quarries are reopened. He said it was not in the government's interest to hurt the local economy. Kiathya's order is likely to cause an uproar among local leaders, business people and quarry operators since activities had started picking up in the mines. During his Jamhuri Day speech last year, Roba banned hillside quarrying saying it was degrading the environment and is disastrous. “It is no longer tenable to continue in this same trajectory. Our beautiful hills are all gone and replaced by dangerous craters left behind by miners. I take this opportunity to ban quarrying on our hills with immediate effect. No hill should be touched for stone excavation," he said. Roba said he could not "just sit back and watch as a few individuals ruin the environment, which should be jealously protected". He ordered the Environment executive to ensure mining only takes place in approved areas. Operators must also have comprehensive land rehabilitation plans. "Miners who flout the rules will have their licences revoked. Going forward, I direct the Ministry of Environment to come up with proper stakeholder-driven policies and law-enforcement mechanisms for the same," Roba said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya