ODM has noted that, alarmingly, the main newspapers and media houses in the country have been sucked into the anti-BBI propaganda and are now at the forefront of confusing Kenyans and sowing mistrust in the process. For the past few days, the media has been awash with regurgitated talking points and propaganda of the main opponents of the Handshake and the BBI, in particular, the false narrative that the party and its leader are using the BBI to achieve their 2022 ends. It is public knowledge that Hon Raila Odinga and HE President Uhuru Kenyatta came together on March 9, 2018 to restore sanity and order in a nation that was threatened by sharp political and social divisions. The nation’s social fabric had been eroded and people were talking ‘at’ and not ‘to’ each other. ODM, by virtue of the Handshake between the two great leaders, chose the path to peace and the unity of the nation as opposed to confrontational style of politics. As a party, we wish to set the record straight that we are not, presently, concerned with the politics of 2022. Our foremost brief now is to join right-minded Kenyans in forging a united front, heal the nation from the past and build a prosperous future for generations to come and leave Kenya better. Our party leader has not declared interest to run for any seat in the 2022 general election. If and when he intends to, he will do it in broad daylight just like he has done previously. The media is apparently on a mission to divert the attention of Kenyans from the BBI which is fast gaining momentum to the chagrin of some people who prefer that the old ethnic and political divisions are retained. The media should be conveyors of positive news and not negative/sponsored narratives. ODM has no interest in the internal goings-on in the Jubilee party or its ultimate fate. We have our own house to build. Just like other stakeholders, ODM is focused on building bridges for a stronger nation, a corruption-free country, a country where the will of the people will not be subverted and rule of law respected by all. Finally, ODM is a bold party that does not need to hide behind any facade to advance its causes. When the whistle is sounded, we shall come out to boldly state our plan for the nation for purposes of the 2022 election. 