Sofapaka coach John Baraza has rued the numerous chances his side failed to put away in their clash with relegation-bound Chemelil over the weekend. The 2009 champions were held to a surprise 1-1 draw against a beleaguered Chemelil side who are yet to win a match halfway through the season. "We created many chances but did not convert and that is disappointing and something we will have to work on. Chemelil are fighting for their lives and played really well," said Baraza. "Some of my players probably did not anticipate that level of commitment from them and maybe lacked the will to win under such circumstances.  We  are  unhappy not to have taken three points from  a game we expected to win,"said Baraza. While Chemelil remained rooted at the foot of the table, Sofapaka jumped up to 9th in the standings with 26 points from 17 games. KCB, meanwhile, thrashed Western Stima 3-1 thanks to first-half goals from  Enock Agwanda, Simon Abuko and Reagan Otieno. Orumchan Villa grabbed the consolation for the Kisumu-based side five minutes after the restart. The victory enhanced the title credentials of Zedekiah Otieno's bankers as the season edged towards that halfway stage while the loss, Stima’s second on the trot, sees them drop one place to seventh with 30 points. Kakamega Homeboyz remained on the front foot in their charge towards an unlikely first league title as they came from behind to beat Kariobangi Sharks 2-1. William Muluya's charges took the lead from a  corner that was converted by Boniface Onyango. However, Homeboyz struck back when  Kennedy Otieno hit a bullet header that left Brian Bwire rooted to the ground. Veteran Ali Bai sprung the offside trap ten minutes from time to net the winner. A rare goal from goalkeeper David Mapigano courtesy of Justin Ndikumana's mistake in Bandari's goal led Gor Mahia to victory. Further goals from new signing Mike  Apudo and Kennedy Agogo were enough to hand Bandari yet another defeat with Wilberforce Lugogo missing a penalty in the stoppage time which could have seen the visitors get a consolation goal.