Five days after a woman jumped from a speeding county ambulance after her son died on the way to the hospital, Kajiado police are still investigating. The ambulance nurse and the driver have been suspended but are not detained. The woman identified as Naiso Leslie, 26, jumped from the ambulance after her on, Solomon Leslie, died as he was being rushed to the Kajiado Referral Hospital. It happened on the night of January 24 when the two, and the woman’s mother-in-law had boarded the ambulance at a private clinic in Bissil Shopping Centre. After Leslie jumped out of the van, she was left with the dead boy. She told the police in a statement she recorded on January 27 that she made several attempts to alert the driver by banging from the back of the ambulance but it continued to speed. “My daughter-in-law jumped out of the vehicles at Bull's Eye shopping centre and stopped some 12 km at Kumpa town,” after other vehicles coming from behind stopped the driver,” the woman said. She said the nurse and the driver sat together in front of the ambulance when the incident occurred. “They were not even aware the child had succumbed to an ailment,” she added. Kajiado Central subcounty police commander Daudi Lornyokwe said on Tuesday, “It is a complex incident that requires time for our officers to investigate.” Lornyokwe confirmed the driver of the ambulance and the nurse who was with him recorded statements on Monday. “We have not arrested anyone because we need to do thorough investigations and understand what happened,” Lornyokwe said. The County Health Minister, Esther Somoire, had confirmed on Sunday the woman succumbed to injuries at Kajiado County referral hospital later on Saturday. Somoire declined to comment further but denied claims the ambulance had no door when the woman, her sick child, and another relative boarded it at Bissil’s private clinic. “I do not want to comment on this unfortunate incident because the police are investigating it. What I can only say is the ambulance has serviceable doors,” Somoire said. “The victim was pregnant and her relative in the car attempted to stop the ambulance by banging it but the nurse, who was seated at the front could not hear her,” he said. Meanwhile, the driver and the nurse, who were in the ambulance have been suspended following the incident. CEC member Esther Somoire confirmed the suspension of the ambulance driver and the nurse who was on duty on Friday night as family members of the deceased demanded swift justice. (Edited by V. Graham)  