Kenyan tennis sensation Ryan Randiek is seeking to win the elusive International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior circuit after sailing to the first leg’s third round yesterday at Nairobi Club. Randiek capitalised on home comfort to see off Lous Vanhuyse of France 6-2, 6-1 in the second round to book a place in today's pre-quarters. Randiek, who is in his final year in the junior tournament, has come close in the past two years but he is keen on the title this time round. The tournament, which served off on Monday, has attracted 28 players from 78 countries who will be hunting for points to improve their global ranking. Randiek, who is based at the ITF Centre on  Masaba Road in Nairobi, said he will put his best foot forward to clinch the title this year before joining the seniors' league next year. He termed yesterday’s match against the France nationale a relatively easy one but is anticipating a close one against Samir Banerjee of India in the third round. “I have played in the junior circuits for quite some time but I have never won a title. I am in my final year and it is my wish to sign off with at least one from the tournaments lined up this year. I had an easy opening against Lous where I controlled the match from the first leg and gathered as many points as possible. I have never played Banerjee before and I am expecting a tough match,” said the youngster Randiek further revealed his plan of joining a tertiary institution in the country or beyond with tennis facilities which he believes will perfectly usher him to the senior level. “I will no longer be in the U-18 from next year and it is my dream to join a university with a bias in tennis. I hope the challenge at the university level will shape me in readiness for the senior level,” added Randiek Randiek was joined in the third round by his left-handed compatriot Derrick Ominde who beat Nikita Petrusenko of Lithuania 6-2 in the first set before he retired in the second while trailing Ominde 1-0. Ominde will play Alid Ahoua of Morocco today. While it was a joy for Randiek and Ominde, the duo of Kennedy Musembi and Wycliffe Okenye bade the tournament farewell after going down fighting. Musembi fell to Ainius Sabaliauskas of Lithuania 6-1 and 6-0 while Okenye succumbed 6-2 and 6-3 to Maximillan Homberg of Germany. The two will look to redeem themselves in the second leg set for next week. In the girls category, Roselida Asumwa’s bid to advance to the quarter finals hit a snag after losing 6-3, 6-1 to Wel Ning of Chinese Taipei. Kenyan-based Madagascan Narindra Ranaivo booked a place in the semis after thumping Abhilasha Bista 7-5 and 6-2.