Huge swarms of desert locusts have invaded parts of Kitui county through Mwingi North subcounty which borders Tana River and Garissa counties. Residents from Kaningo and Kavou of Tseikuru ward were first to see the locusts on Tuesday morning when they reported their farms to have been invaded. According to locals of Kyuso sub county, locusts invaded the area on Wednesday,  and have caused massive destruction of plantations. Josphat Kyalo Musyoka , a farmer in Ngengi area of Kyuso, said that they have been in their shambas overnight chasing the desert locusts manually. “We have not slept and are still at the farms chasing locusts not to eat our farm produce,” said Josphat Kyalo, who termed the exercise tiresome, pleaded with the government to quickly step in and help them for they are only using manual methods to do away with the stubborn desert insects. “Our shambas have been invaded and plants destroyed,” he said. Lenah Muthengi, another resident, said, “When a swarm invades an area, they do not leave until the tree is left leafless, posing a threat to our animal feeds." Emanuel Kisangau, the Agriculture CEC, confirmed that the insects first invaded Kitui through Kora Game Reserve on Tuesday into Tseikuru ward, into Kyuso ward and now Ngomeni ward of Mwingi North. According to the minister, aerial spraying was done on Tuesday morning at Ngomeni area which was granted by the state for crop protection. “Ngomeni area was sprayed and the chemical was effective for the locusts were first confused and started moving in all directions, showing effectiveness of the chemical,” Kisangau said. Kisangau stated that the insects will soon be dead. John Makau, an Environment and Natural Resources County Executive Committee Member, lauded residents for not felling trees. “Let’s not cut down trees for the tall trees have saved most invasion at the farms,” he said. Kitui Deputy Governor Wathe Nzau stated that the other remaining areas where the insects are will be sprayed on Thursday. “The aircraft can only spray the chemical in the morning before they start gaining energy to fly so the aerial spray will be conducted early tomorrow morning,” said the DG. 