Isiolo deputy county commissioner Mohamed Maow has directed chiefs and security officers to keep a close watch on miraa retail kiosks that operate at night accusing the operators of selling hard drugs. Maow said cases of hard drugs in Isiolo are on the rise and directed chiefs and police officers to monitor miraa selling points and take action to stop the menace. Speaking while flagging off 185 students who received government bursaries on Monday, the administrator urged parents to be more responsible in their parenting and accused some men of neglecting their families and leaving the burden to women. He said men are indulging in alcoholism and chewing miraa, absconding their responsibilities. On early marriages, Maow said the government policy on education must be followed and 100 per cent transition would be implemented. He said parents who do not take their children to school would be prosecuted. Elimu Scholarship Pilot Programme will cater for the beneficiaries' secondary education. Maow also warned headteachers and principals forcing learners to repeat classes because of poor performance before proceeding to examination classes, saying they risked arrest. County director of Education Hussein Koriyow said primary and secondary schools had improved their mean scores in last year’s examination. Over 60 students from various secondary schools will join public universities. Koriyow said KCPE mean score increased from 239 to 241, while KCSE's shot from 2.7 to 3.1 last year. He added that three more secondary schools would be opened this week and the Teachers Service Commission has posted teachers to ensure quality education. About 9,000 students countrywide will this year benefit from the government bursary and the programme would go on for the next six years. He commended Equity Bank staff led by regional general manager Alfred Mwangi and branch manager James Godana for selecting the needy by visiting their homes. An orphan boy, Doctor Lomiwo, from Ngaremara Primary School who scored 363 and admitted to Chogoria High School said he would not have gone to secondary school if the government had not sponsored him. Lomiwo who wants to be a medical doctor just as he is named said his father passed away when he was 10 years. He was brought up by his unemployed mother who still takes care of four other children.