Good morning, The disgruntled camp of Jubilee politicians who are reportedly tired of waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta to convene a parliamentary group meeting has decided to do it themselves. The politicians, largely allied to Deputy President William Ruto's wing of the divided Jubilee Party, held the meeting yesternight in Naivasha. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga is both admired and loathed for his record in the bench of the Supreme court and his public life. However, a section of the society remembers him mainly for presiding over the 2013 presidential election petition pitting ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The bench upheld Uhuru's win. Politicians have claimed that the ruling was too be brief to be genuine. Several measures have been put in place to counter the outbreak of coronavirus in China, Health CS Sicily Kariuki has said. “I can confirm we are safe and there has been no case of coronavirus. Our hospitals are well equipped and ready to handle this virus,” Kariuki said  Thursday.   A teacher at Kamuthe Primary school in Garissa who narrowly escaped death vowed never to go back to Garissa. In a suspected Alshabaab attack that took place on January 13th at around 1am, three teachers were killed.  Moments after checking in to our bus, my seatmate immediately put his phone-charging cable to a USB port at his seat. Mohammed Mustafa wanted to do a WhatsApp video call and his phone was running out of power. The bus tablets switched on after we had left the stage. He picked his earphone and plugged it in one of the tablets fixed at the back of a chair in front of him. Importers paid Sh3.22 billion in cargo storage charges at Kenya Ports Authority(KPA) facilities in 2017-18,data by the Shippers Council of Eastern Africa(SCEA) shows. This is despite the much publicized 'improved cost of doing business' pegged on investments in infrastructure, automation of systems and digitization of government services, improved cargo handling and speedy evacuation of cargo from Mombasa.