Close to 100 families in parts of Naivasha have been forced to relocate to higher grounds due to floods occasioned by the ongoing rains. The most affected is Moi Ndabi where tens of residents have moved to the nearby school after their homes flooded. The families, through their MCA Gathariki Kamanu, appealed for help as details emerged women and children were the most affected. Crops that were near harvesting have also been destroyed by the rains. Roads were not spared either. Kamanu said heavy rains pounding the higher areas of Maella and Sakutiek caused flooding on the lower areas leaving a trail of destruction. “Our appeal is to people of goodwill to come and assist these families who are undergoing untold suffering due to this weather”. He said the floods also rendered Kongoni-Moi Ndabi-Maella Road impassable with businessmen incurring heavy losses. “The road has been cut off completely and we are now using motorcycles to transport people and produce from one side to the other,” he said. He said though the government has promised a contractor to work on minor rehabilitation of the agricultural rich road, nothing had happened owing to the ongoing rains. “We remain hopeful that once the rains subside, the contractor will be back and help in alleviating the pain the residents are going through." The sentiments came as Nakuru county government donated foodstuffs and blankets to the affected families as part of disaster response initiatives. Disaster Management Chief Officer Ann Njenga, who led officials from the county in distributing the goods, said the devolved unit had set aside Sh25 million for disaster management. During the visit, she said 11 wards had been affected by flooding adding that majority of the victims had been assisted. She asked the victims to vacate the affected houses and move to the nearby school as the situation was being addressed. The hardest-hit areas are Molo and Kuresoi subcounties with farms and homes flooded leaving tens of families homeless, she said. “Since the rains began, more than 2,000 families in the county have been displaced and we are putting in place mitigation measures to stop further losses." Edited by R.Wamochie