The estate of the late minister Njenga Karume has been ordered to pay Sh4.5 million by Friday towards the settlement of a Sh122 million debt owed to a bank. Judge Winfrida Okwany gave the direction even as she allowed parties to negotiate on how to settle the debt owed by Jacaranda Hotel. She further stopped any placement of auction advertisement in newspapers pending negotiations that are meant to come up with a solution by January 20th. The hotel faces auction come January 22 if the family does not settle the debt. Karume's anchor property, Jacaranda Hotel, is the latest to face possible auction, a move likely to further cripple the business empire. This is the second time in less than six months the lender is raising a hammer on the prime four-star hotel located in Nairobi’s Westlands business district. In a fresh notice placed on Sunday in a local daily, the auctioneer gave a detailed description of the property without revealing the value claimed. The defaulted loan is far below the estimated valuation of the Jacaranda Hotel that is located in one of the most prime areas of Nairobi. The latest land rate report by Hass Consult puts an acre piece of land in Westlands at close to Sh200 million. This means the land that accommodates the hotel alone is in the upwards of Sh600 million. In early 2018, the late minister’s hotel was also in the limelight after Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) sent auctioneers to recover tax arrears worth Sh197 million. The standoff was however settled in court after KRA agreed to a repayment plan of Sh50 million monthly instalments and a payoff of Sh7.9 million to auctioneers who had already secured the hotel’s property to recover the tax. The pending auction is likely to be the final blow to Karume’s empire that cuts across three sectors: hospitality, real estate, and distribution. The late entrepreneur who built his business empire from charcoal as detailed in his book Beyond Expectations: From Charcoal to Gold had 25 businesses in total.