Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi has said his life is in danger. His sin, Maangi' said, was his unwavering support for the Deputy President William Ruto. For close to four days, the deputy governor has been doing without his security detail and official cars. The cars were withdrawn shortly after he left his house in Kisii. By  yesterday word was rife that his support staff have also been redeployed to offices in the subcounties Speaking to Star, Maangi said the move was being orchestrated by forces that are anti-Ruto. A senior government official said Maangi's cars have since been taken to Kisumu for "repairs'. The official said it was normal for security officers to be recalled and that there was nothing sinister. “It is government routine to recall aides and re-assign others to him," the officer told the Star. A furious Maangi, however, told journalists of a sinister motive in the scheme. “Malice is afoot, this is impunity fighting back viciously. We are in a war against sleaze and will triumph,” Maangi said on the phone. He said someone was out to compromise his security. In a press conference in Kisii yesterday, a section of MCAs strongly defended the deputy governor terming the withdrawal of his security politically motivated. Samuel Apoko (Kiogoro), James Ondari (Tendere) and Ibrahim Imbuya (Sengera) said they will go to court if the aides and vehicles will not be returned to Maangi by Wednesday. “The DG has all the constitutional privileges to have them, they are his right. Whichever power fighting him, we are ready to fight to the bitter end for him,”  Apoko said. They said Maangi's troubles appear to have begun when he started querying fishy expenditures in the county. “He has chosen to side with those who want purity in the fiscal matters at the county and there is nothing wrong. We are not going to draw back an inch from supporting him,” Minority leader Ondari said. More than 30 ward reps, Ondari said, will be standing with the deputy governor. “As things evolve I am sensing that all is not well, my life is in danger,”  Maangi said on the phone. It is still not clear who  ordered the confiscation  Maangi's chase cars from his Kisii town residence. Maangi is leading an onslaught against the BBI leaders meeting taking place in the Nyanza region. During a press conference in Kisii town on Tuesday, Maangi opposed last Friday's BBI meeting in the county. He said Kenyans have already taken a collective positive decision on the report and there is no need to spend public funds in the conference. “If you ask me about it, your guess is clear as mine. It is all a waste of funds, people are missing priorities,” Maangi said. He said all that is needed now was for Kenyans to be given copies of the report to read and make an informed decision about it.