There is disquiet among the junior prison officers. Reason? The officers are protesting what they term mistreatment by their seniors. They say that since President Uhuru Kenyatta gave a directive that all police officers move out of staff quarters, senior officers formed a cartel that has taken over the houses despite earning higher in house allowances. Junior officers who receive peanuts have been forced to rent houses in slums. The officers are expected to report to their work stations as early as 5.30am to take prisoners to court or hospitals. A mole who spoke to Corridors of Power said junior officers who dare complain are transferred to hardship areas. The officers feel mistreated and now want the Commissioner-General of Prisons Wycliffe Ogalo to intervene. A governor who recently clashed with a section of MCAs leading to the overhaul of the leadership of the county assembly seems to be regretting his actions. The flashy county boss, according to insiders, has learnt bitter lessons since he instigated the changes and installed his point men. Now he is regretting it that his chosen point men have failed to advance his interests in the chamber. The governor is now reaching out to the old leadership with a view to convincing the ward reps to sign a petition to overhaul the current house leadership. He wants to use the signatures to convince Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju to reinstate the former leadership. A Nyanza governor is between a rock and hard place on how to help his stingy county secretary who has expressed interest in replacing him in 2022. The man [county secretary] has been so infamous for his stinginess to the point that the governor has been avoiding him for political errands for which oiling and greasing of palms are needed. A small bird has whispered to Corridors of Power and availed screenshots. The leaks show that the county secretary's stinginess has extended to his numerous girlfriends where after a heavy love dose, he only parts with Sh1,000. They say that if you want to kill a dog, give it a bad name. This could be the case of the fresh onslaught against the CJ David Maraga-led judiciary. The institution, as has been common heading into a transition of government, is on the receiving end, yet again. Corridors of Power is appraised that the banners that dotted Nairobi roads with messages against the Judiciary could be the work of those keen on controlling the courts. Some quarters intimated they could be state operatives seeking to fire a warning shot across the bow of the judicial community.