A reassuring result against Zoo FC on Saturday should ease the angst among AFC Leopards fans, according to the acting coach Anthony Kimani. In his first game in charge of the team, Kimani masterminded a 4-1 rout of the visiting Zoo at the Bukhungu Stadium, a result that went a long way to soothe the pain that Ingwe have been feeling recently in the wake of the departure of key players. The 36-year-old coach has come out to assure fans that good days are ahead through positive performance from the players despite all the financial challenges the team is going through. Leopards recently saw former coach Casa Mbungo and a score of players including Whyvone Isuza, Denis Sikhayi, Brian Marita, Tressor Ndikumana walk out of the den in search of greener pasture. “Challenges will always be there but it’s all about the future of the players and we know the office is working hard to ensure a good and enabling environment for the players and also the technical bench for smooth running,” said Kimani,a former Leopards defender. He added: “This is a good start for the year and the boys are committed. They want to play for the club despite everything that is going on around them. They know this is their career and so they will always put their best foot forward. We are going to try and give the best account of ourselves in every match.’ “Playing for AFC Leopards is a privilege that offers an opportunity and platform to the players to showcase their skills and talents that will see them attract attention from other big clubs from this region and also good clubs in Europe which is good for their individual careers and the club’s progress,” he added. Kimani while commenting on Mbungo’s exit,reiterated that it’s normal for humanity to move from one place to another but the club will remain bigger than any individual. Hat-trick hero John Makwata said Ingwe has what it takes to compete for the title going by the good results they are churning out at this moment when everything seems not to be working well for the team in terms of sponsorship. The former Ulinzi Stars striker urged Leopards management to do all they can to maintain the majority of the players by seeking sponsors who can chip in and support the players. Leopards are preparing for two crucial matches against Posta Rangers and Wazito this week and if they will maintain the current form remains to be seen.