Embakasi East MP Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino has been charged with the attempted murder of Felix Odhiambo commonly known as DJ Evolve at B-club on Friday last week. He has also been charged with behaving disorderly while carrying a firearm. The MP is said to have become disorderly while carrying a pistol and firing one round of ammunition while intending to shoot at the DJ. While appearing before chief magistrate Francis Andayi on Monday, Babu has denied all the charges preferred against him. Babu is represented by lawyers Dunstan Omari, Cliff Ombeta and five others. The prosecution has opposed his release on bail or bond as he is likely to interfere with witnesses since he is an influential man in society. "He is well known to the victim of the crime and he has made attempts to reach witnesses especially the victim's father," the prosecution said. The prosecution also alleges that the MP is facing another charge at Kibera law courts, a case Ombeta says does not exist. The legislator spent the weekend in police custody after his arrest last Friday following the shooting incident. Nine bullets, a spent cartridge, and a CZ P-10 C gun were confiscated. On Saturday the MP was moved to Gigiri Police Station from Kilimani Police Station. Ombeta said his client was transferred to avoid interference with investigations because people were crowding at Kilimani station insisting they want to talk to Babu Owino. Around midday on Saturday, Babu in the company of detectives went to the MP's home in Kileleshwa, where a search was conducted and some ammunition were confiscated. Ombeta said after the search, they went to the Government Chemist for a DNA test then went back to Kilimani Police Station to record another statement on the fresh findings of the search. DJ Evolve is currently recuperating at the Nairobi Hospital after undergoing surgery to remove a bullet that was lodged in his neck. Ombeta told the press said his client was the one who took the victim to the hospital and paid the Sh600,000 bill.