When former Appeal Court judge Daniel Aganyanya took over the murder trial of British tourist Julie Ward— more than 11 years after her sensational death — he knew he was in dangerous territory but he persisted. So controversial was the case that when the news of the disappearance and death of Ward, 28, broke, the Moi government suggested that the Briton had been struck by lightning or killed herself by setting herself ablaze and then was eaten by lions. The Briton had travelled to Kenya as a tourist in September 1988. She went missing during a safari in the Masai Mara Game Park. Parts of her body — the lower part of one leg, pieces of her jaw and hair, were found in the park. In the initial trial, two junior game warders, Peter Kipeen and Jonah Magiroi, were acquitted in 1922. Ward's father jetted into the country and launched a campaign to secure justice for Julie. But in 1999 when then High Court judge Aganyanya rendered his verdict in another trial of the same case, he released suspect Simon Makallah. Aganyanya had found the evidence against Makallah to be "purely circumstantial". "We give the benefit of the doubt and find the accused not guilty," he told a packed Nairobi High Court. His verdict fuelled the mystery, doubts and suspicion that powerful forces were involved and wanted Makallah convicted and the case put to rest. Ward's father claimed there was a cover-up. To this day, no one has been convicted of one of the famous unsolved murders of the Moi era. Speculation continues to swirl around it. Court of Appeal President William Ouko on Tuesday revived memories of the case to mourners at CITAM Valley Road at a memorial service for the retired judge. He recounted how Aganyangya presided over the case and the bravery and honour with which he handled it. "This was a high-profile case and the judge dispensed justice with admirable confidence and with integrity," Ouko said. Aganyanya, who died on January 15 at age 82, was described by his colleagues in the Judiciary as a brave judge who abhorred corruption and the get-rich-quick mentality. "This man never denigrated colleagues or advocates before him, even when he differed with them sharply," Ouko said. Retired Court of Appeal judge Riaga Omollo, who served with Aganyanya for decades, said that so brave was his former colleague that when Aganyanya was axed in the famous Radical Judicial Surgery of 2003, he applied to face his accusers. "He even applied to have the Ringera-led team administer a Tiriki cultural oath to his accusers so that they confess the truth. Even though the board rejected his application, he was eventually cleared," Omollo said. Court of Appeal judge Roselyne Nambuye, whom Aganyanya married after his first wife died in a road accident in 1990, said life had taken a devastating turn for her, given that her husband was the only company she had. "He is also the son I never had, given that God did not give me a child. With him gone, I'm like a chicken left out in the rain without cover. I don't know what I will do," she told a sympathetic congregation. Besides his widow, Justice Nambuye, Aganyanya has left behind eight children and 17 grandchildren. He will be buried on Saturday in his home in Busia. (Edited by V. Graham)