 Tension is building up at Gacibine in Tigania East after Tharaka residents threatened to stop the ongoing construction of the local chief’s office. People of Tigania are now appealing to the Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders to speedily resolve the longstanding border differences between the neighbouring communities. Police, including the dreaded GSU officers, have been deployed at Gacibine to ensure that nobody interferes with the construction of the Sh850,000 chief’s office. This follows unconfirmed reports that the Tharaka neighbours planned to block the Kunati-Gacibine road to enforce their threat on the construction spearheaded by area MP Gichunge Kabeabea. Both Meru and Tharaka-Nithi leaders claim the disputed area, which is administered by Chief Musyoki Mwenga. Tharaka MP Gitonga Murugara and Mukothima MCA Mwenda Gataya are said to be rallying residents against the construction of the chief's office. Kabeabea and Thangatha Ward representative King’ori Gituma say nobody will be allowed to stop the construction. Tigania Central deputy county commissioner Obed Mosee warned that the police have been put on the alert while Meru county commissioner Allan Machari has asked politicians with opposing views to follow the legal process. CDF manager Lawrence Mutwiri said at the site that the construction must go on as the site is in Tigania East. MCA King’ori said the site is several kilometres from the border with Tharaka. Mutwiri accused Tharaka leaders of wanting to seize several schools among them Ngage, Kioru, Thangatha and Gacibene. “We want DCI George Kinoti to investigate Tharaka leaders for incitement. We want them arrested,” he said. Gacibine resident Susan Murithi called on leaders to respect boundaries so that residents can live in peace. Another resident,  Patrick Kiriinya, acknowledged that they pay various rates to Tharaka Nithi county, but this should not be the case. He accused Tharaka people of hindering the development of the area. "We used to pay cess to Meru county government but this stopped after the Meru revenue staff were stoned and left. Our patience should not be misinterpreted as cowardice," he said and asked: "Are we people of a lesser God?" There have been skirmishes for decades in which several people have died and others seriously injured. In 2007, Agriculture CS Peter Munya’s car was torched near Thangatha Primary School. In September 2018,  two cars were burnt down at  Kathangachwe over a land dispute. In April last year, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his Tharaka Nithi counterpart Muthomi Njuki agreed to facilitate the fast-tracking of the issuance of title deeds. The leaders, who met at the Kenya School of Government in Embu, complained about the decades-old violence. The meeting was attended by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi,  members of Parliament from Central Imenti (Moses Kirima), Imenti North (Rahim Dawood),  John Mutunga (Tigania West),  Kubeabea (Tigania East) and John Mwirigi (Igembe South). "The people of Meru and Tharaka Nithi are children of the same mother. There is no good reason why we cannot solve small problems," Linturi said. Njuki said," We agreed that the boundary issue and the title deeds should not be mixed.  We have decided to separate the two issues. The national government will handle the border dispute." Kiraitu noted: “Clan differences and political disputes have stalled the process of issuing title deeds.  As leaders have agreed to put all those things behind us and support the national government to speed up the process."    