Administrators at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital have warned of a job scam orchestrated by a cartel in the county. Hospital boss Enock Ondari said they have not advertised any jobs. He said the scammers operated from the streets and may have fleeced many unsuspecting youths of thousands of shillings in exchange for nonexistent jobs. In a statement, Dr Ondari said some job seekers reported to the facility with fake letters asking for deployment. “As hospital management, we have not advertised any vacant positions and those purporting to recruit for us are out to fleece unsuspecting members of the public. This is a scam and we urge for caution,” he said. Ondari said the fraudsters had been traversing the county purporting they were in a position to influence the employment of nursing graduates. Some of those who were conned out of their money told the Star that applicants paid between Sh100,000 and Sh300,000 after being assured that the jobs were theirs for the taking.  The money was to be used to influence recruitment in their favour, they were told. But Ondari said the hospital does not advertise jobs directly, informing residents that every position is advertised by the County Public Service Board, which also interviews and appoints successful candidates. “If there is no job advertised through the board, it is automatic you are falling for a scam. You have not heard of any recent job adverts regarding Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital or any other department of health. These people who masquerade as job agents should be ignored and, if possible, reported to the police for action," he said. Meanwhile, Nduru Subcounty Hospital in Nyamarambe, South Mugirango, is set for a major upgrade following the launch of construction of a new theatre wing. Officiating the ceremony yesterday, Kisii Governor James Ongwae reiterated the county government’s commitment to providing services closer to the people in line with the Universal Health Coverage programme as envisaged in the Big 4 agenda, hence the drive to revamp health facilities. The new 100-bed capacity hospital wing at Nduru has theatres, consultation rooms, laboratories and other amenities. The project will take nine months. It includes a three-floor theatre block, with both private wards wing and general wards wing of 16- and 84-bed capacity respectively. Other facilities will include a dental unit, three consultation rooms, pharmacy and physiotherapy rooms, among other speciality areas. Ongwae said the hospital will offer more services to the people of South Mogirango and its environs in a move aimed at reducing referral cases and the resultant congestion at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. "Construction of the facility will be completed in less than a year and the hospital will be functional to assist those who travel all the way to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital to seek services that are not offered here,” the governor said. More health personnel will be deployed to the facility in the coming months, he added.