Nakuru residents will continue grappling with the cemetery crises following the county government's admission that getting land for the project is becoming impossible. The county government said landowners are unwilling to sell. Already, Naivasha, Molo, Bahati and Nakuru towns are bearing the brunt of the crisis. Their cemeteries are full. The county has been seeking land in the towns and placed adverts in the local dailies. Five years on, it has yet to get any offer. According to Public Health chief officer Samuel King'ori, they have also been pursuing alternative means to acquire cemetery parcels. He, however, said the process has been frustrating. "In this financial year, we have been forced to reallocate Sh15 million that was meant for buying cemetery land to other demanding issues," he said. Kingori noted that they would in the coming year seek land in far-flung areas as getting plots close to the towns has been a major challenge. “In our adverts, we sought land near the major towns and this has turned out to be a challenge, hence the need to seek land far away,” he said. The officer was, however, quick to downplay the crisis, saying the current cemeteries still have ample space. "The Naivasha cemetery got filled up some couple of years back but area residents are using the one in Longonot as we seek alternative land," he said. Kingori added that plans are underway dispose of 20 bodies at the Nakuru county mortuary following the court procedures. "We have engaged on the process of disposing of bodies that have surpassed the mandatory 30 days in the mortuary," he said. This came as residents of Longonot in Naivasha called on the county government to fence the area cemetery and construct a public toilet. Local leader James Kuria said the cemetery had become a public nuisance with wild animals from the nearby Mt Longonot National Park accessing it daily. He said this had been worsened by lack of sanitation services in the cemetery, forcing mourners to use bushes to relieve themselves. "We've seen an increase in the number of people and families seeking services in this cemetery, which is not fenced and does not have a washroom," he said.