The Steering Committee on the implementation of the Building Bridges to a United Kenya Taskforce Report will begin its formal validation hearings on February 5th, 2020 in Nairobi at the KICC. This will be followed by further public validation forums in the North Rift, Northeastern, South Rift and Central by the end of February. In a statement signed by joint secretaries, Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi on Friday, the meetings will welcome a diverse representation of citizens, civil society, the faith-based organisations, cultural leaders, the private sector, and experts. They will be invited to respond to the administrative, policy, statutory or constitutional changes that may be necessary for the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Task Force Report. "The views and solutions the Steering Committee gains in these meetings will be combined with those drawn from the diverse BBI delegates meetings being undertaken by leaders, civil society and other citizen-owned groupings," the statement read. The committee also stated that it welcome invitations for its technical experts and members to attend forums or Town Hall meetings by groups wishing to constructively present their views on the BBI Taskforce Report. "The Steering Committee will give due consideration to all invitations that adhere to the criteria that will be given to the organisation by the Committee," the statement added. In making their invitations, the Steering Committee urges organisers to ensure that they organise bipartisan and non-partisan groupings, forums and experts to maximise inputs to benefit all. The committee said these forums should respect the freedom of expression of all and submissions are careful to ensure equality and non-discrimination. The committee added that the tone should be respectful of all Kenyans, inclusive and focused on how to build national unity and cohesion. The joint secretaries urged Kenyans with online access to read or reread the report which can be downloaded from www.bbi.go.ke and anyone seeking to be heard may present written memoranda by sending an email to BBI@citizensupport.go.ke. On January, the government gazetted a 14-member steering committee which will be tasked to oversee the implementation of the Building Bridges Initiative Report to a United Kenya Taskforce Report. The members of the steering committee are Garissa Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Maison Leshomo, James Matundura and Rose Moseu. Others are Agnes Kavindu Muthama, Saeed Mwaguni, Bishop Peter Njenga, Archbishop Emeritus Zaccheaus Okoth, Adams Oloo, Busia Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Morompi ole Ronkei and John Seii. The committee has been directed to submit its comprehensive advice to the government by June 30, 2020.