Strathmore University’s Mathias Kemboi is being linked with a move to Kenya Ports Authority to fill  the void left by axed setter Dennis Korir. However, Dockers’ team manager, Joel Kosgei did not confirm or deny Kemboi’s supposed move to KPA. “We have approached several players but until we come to an agreement and sign contracts, I cannot talk much about the subject. Given his age (20), he can only join the team as a reserve setter. For now, we want a setter who will give Bosire competition, a role which will be tough for Kemboi.” The Mombasa outfit has hit the market in a bid to bolster their squad ahead of their maiden appearance at the 2020 Africa men’s Club Championships set for April. Kosgei, intimated that the club is scouting for five players- two middle blockers, an equal number of setters and one outside hitter. Experienced Elijah ‘Lilo’ Bosire was the team’s main operative in the setting department during the 2019 playoffs. His contribution seemed to have complicated Korir's tenure, leading to his sacking. “We have to strengthen the team for the season and most importantly the Africa Club championships. At the end of last season, we did an evaluation and we must drop some players then beef up the squad again. This time we are looking to add five players,” said Kosgei. Captain Sammy Ng’eny, Julius Lelei and Dalmas Sifuna still hold their positions as middle blockers. Left attacker James Mwaniki is set to be transferred to the right to combine forces with the fast-rising opposite hitter Enock Mogeni as veteran James Ontere exits the stage. Mogeni also turns out for Strathmore University side on scholarship terms. In the outside hitting department, David Thuita and Dennis Omollo will retain their status and sop will liberos Sam Juma and Fredrick Muiruri. However, the administrator said more changes in the club are expected. Currently training in Mbaraki and Changamwe, the team’s preparations are being hampered by the Kenya Volleyball Federation’s delay to give the club necessary documentations for the continental Championships.