 Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi has accused Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga of leading clan meetings to malign his leadership. Both leaders come from Alego Usonga. Atandi said Rasanga has been meeting people with no development agenda with the aim of smearing his name. “Nowadays, the governor is busy holding clan meetings. The governor is bigger than clan meetings. Let him hold county and constituency meetings,” Atandi said. Rasanga has denied wrongdoing. "It is unwise and foolish for an elected governor to hold clan meetings. What do you want to do with a clan when you have the mandate of the entire county?" Atandi said. The MP said the governor's focus should be delivering on the pledges he made to the electorate. He said it would be unfortunate for Rasanga to fail to deliver because of his clan members. "If that happens, he should not blame anybody because instead of holding cabinet meetings, he is busy holding clan meetings." But the governor has told Atandi to seek prayers saying meeting members of his clan who voted for him was not a crime. Rasanga said people like Atandi need prayers because "they have no clue about leadership." Rasanga wondered why meeting his clan has become Atandi’s concern, saying he does not need permission from anyone to do so. The governor reminded Atandi that it’s God who chooses leaders and if one is chosen by God one serves until his term ends. “The hand of God has to do with my leadership in Siaya and the people like Atandi who are trying to bring me down will always perish,” Rasanga said. Rasanga said as governor, he should be given time to deliver on his pledges and not be dragged in cheap politics. “I’m above political adolescents like Atandi. Let him deliver and stop dragging me into his failures as an MP,” Rasanga said. The governor said it was not yet time for succession politics and urged leaders to focus on their mandate. He promised to deal with Atandi head-on when the time for politics comes. “Even president Uhuru Kenyatta is complaining of succession politics and so do I. Let those who have a high affinity towards failure do politics but for me, I’m busy working,” Rasanga said.  edited by p. obuya