On January 1, 2008, more than 35 people were burnt to death while seeking refuge in KAG Church, Kiambaa, at the height of the 2007-08 post-election violence. More than a decade later, a bush covers the graves of the victims at the deserted ground. The Kiambaa story was slowly being forgotten. Most of the survivors fled to other regions. For those who remained behind, attempts to rebuild the church had borne no fruit. In the recent past, however, they have intensified their efforts to achieve that goal and improve relations between the Kalenjin and Kikuyu communities — the warring sides in the region during the violence. Pastor Paul Karanja, who lived nearby, has restarted the church with a few members. He has put up a makeshift iron sheet structure just next to the graveyard. And for the first time in 12 years, residents from all communities kept vigil at the church to usher in the new year. Karanja, using his own resources and contributions from a few members, bought the iron sheets to build the structure that now acts as the only reminder of the tragedy. His zeal for reconstruction offers a story of hope, away from the doom and gloom that had become synonymous with the place. The pastor and other residents have appealed for support to build a new church. “It has been difficult for residents, but God has brought us this far and all I want is to see life in this area, despite what happened. The church is a better foundation to a better life and that’s why we are moving on,” the cleric told the Star on the phone. His vision is supported by many residents. “We would have wished to have a better church where we can thank God for sustaining us, but this makeshift structure is what Pastor Karanja and the few of us can afford,” said 38-year-old Joseph Njuguna, who lives a few metres from the graveyard. Interethnic marriage Njuguna says many people still visit the site but a plan to maintain and fence it off was abandoned a few years ago. He remembers vividly what happened. “What happened here will never be forgotten and, as a country, we learned a lot from the incident. But even if we want to forget those who died paying the ultimate price, those of us who are alive can help to reconstruct the church just to thank God for the peace and unity he has given us,” he said. Resident Joseph Mungai, a member of the Kikuyu community, three years ago married Sylvia Cherono, a Kalenjin, and they live in the church compound as caretakers. “We work with Pastor Karanja to take care of the church,” Cherono said. They have lived at the site for more than three years and appreciate that the communities now coexist peacefully. “Despite what happened, no one told me not to get married to a man from the Kikuyu community and we are living well,” Cherono said. Every week, she uses cow dung to line the mud floors in preparation for the Sunday service.  Cherono and Njuguna have asked local leaders not to forget the Kiambaa community. They want the church rebuilt to foster peace and unity. “Those people buried here died because of politics. But we are not interested in politics. We need a  new church and other projects that can help us move on with life regardless of our tribes,” Njuguna said. Local politicians never visit the church, he said, asking them to change their attitude and get along with the community. Some of the peace and reconstruction advocates have died but the community is not ready to give up. They included Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir, Pastor Sammy Mbugua, peace worker Rose Kisama and survivor Rahab Wangu. Korir died two years ago while the others died last year. A police station was put up near the church and residents say they feel secure. Edited by R.Wamochie