Jubilee coalition is dead, it was never a party, Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura has claimed. Speaking to Citizen TV on Monday, Mwaura said that it was clear that Jubilee is divided. "It is clear that Jubilee is divided into two parts and the party is over, we are just hanging by bootstraps," he said. "They have been some challenges in Jubilee. Jubilee was never a party; it was some name, some song and two or three colors." Mwaura said lack of communication has increased the animosity in the party. "It is very awkward. It is clear enough that there are people who support President Uhuru Kenyatta and another side supporting his deputy William Ruto," he said. "We have been in denial for a long time. It is the end of Jubilee. If we go to elections the way we are it can be worse. " For the past couple of months, the country has been presented with an amusing spectacle of the camps that have emerged in Jubilee, nicknamed Tangatanga and Kieleweke. Political observers say power wielders within the government have taken advantage of President Kenyatta's silence to undermine and frustrate the DP. It comes clearer in Ruto's desperate calls around the renewed Building Bridges Initiative campaigns and calls to the government - which he is second in command, to respect court orders. Power struggles, including physical clashes, between Kieleweke and Tangatanga factions, have divide Nyeri county, Uhuru's backyard. Political leaders are being profiled as followers of either one or the other. The UhuRuto marriage that blossomed in 2013 started plummeting at the beginning of their second term in office in 2018. It would worsen with the Handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga in March of the same year. Tangatanga supports Ruto’s 2022 State House bid while Kieleweke opposes it. On Sunday, Ruto and his allies blamed the Handshake for the confusion in government. Ruto was of the view the BBI was after all not about unifying Kenyans but to help Raila build his 2022 line up. “We accept that BBI/Handshake has been hijacked to craft ODM's 2022 political line up. Unity/inclusivity pretence and associated squander of public resources should stop. Unity? The opposition (Nasa) is already dismembered/dead; now dividing Jubilee. Big4 roll out the only way to go,” he tweeted.