The 2019 men's Premier League top scorer Chris Wokila could be set for the Hockey-KE Player of the Year award after making it to the final three-man list. The Greensharks Maverick forward won the Magharibi Michezo Player of the Year Award last month in Bungoma and starts favourite during the awards. He could bag a second individual accolade in the space of three months should he win the inaugural event. The winners in all the five league categories will be announced on February 1, 2020 at Hill Crest International School, Karen. The 13-goal striker helped the Ben Owaga-tutored side finish fourth and faces stiff competition from Strathmore captain Festus Onyango and Sutcliffe Usagi who turns up for Wazalendo. Onyango helped the Gladiators evade relegation as the three-time champions had a less productive season. Usagi was instrumental in Wazalendo's second-place finish. Wokila reckons that awarding top performers will increase competition and visibility of the league. "I think it's a good step by Hockey-KE to try and acknowledge the best performers in all the league categories. In my view, it will increase competition this season. It will also improve the visibility of hockey as a sport and it's growth. I hope more sponsors will see this initiative and come on board both in the league and at club level." Amira Sailors' Pauline Naise headlines the women's category. The multi-talented forward has also played for Harambee Starlets previously. The 25-year-old scored four goals last season. Her team-mate Leah Omwandho and Beatrice Mbugua of USIU also made the cut. Naise said her nomination is a motivation that shows her efforts are recognised but will harbour no hard feelings should any of the other nominees win. "I feel honoured to be part of the finalists. However my win  will be a win for all of us." Former Butali coach Denis Owoka alongside Daystar's Ian Murunga and Thomas Mucheni of Amira will battle it out in the Coach of the Year category. The aim of HockeyKE awards is to ensure that success and achievement in Kenyan hockey is celebrated globally, acting as an impartial entity across all leagues and tournament. Sponsors include BetterBy limited, Tauro Systems and Pete's Cottage.