Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has announced he will vie for the presidency in 2022. Speaking at Ihura Stadium on Monday, the governor said he has all the qualifications required to vie for the seat, adding he will campaign for the seat against Deputy President William Ruto and other contestants. The governor, who registered his own political party known as the Civic Renewal Party, has said he will rally his supporters, especially Murang’a farmers. He said those engaging in political supremacy battles, especially in the Mt Kenya region should know that he has also joined the fight. “It is time for the seat to come to Murang’a,” the governor said amid cheers by parents who had thronged the stadium to receive bursaries from the county government. He said he was the only governor in the Mt. Kenya region to be re-elected in the last elections. “I have been a governor for 10 years, a quality that the others do not have. I will be there in 2022 and I will fight for the seat as they fight. If I am defeated then I will concede and If I win then they will concede,” he said. Two weeks ago, the governor made similar statements in a private function in Mugoiri village, Kiharu constituency, from where he hails. He said he will not retire from politics, noting that his party, whose slogan is ‘Usawa kwa wote’ will field candidates across the country. “Those asking where I will go after 2022 should know that I am going nowhere. I want to say this early in the year because I know we are headed for succession politics. We are also capable of playing a part in the country,” he said. “In 2022 God willing, we will also be in the fight, demanding for the portion of Mt Kenya people in the government,” he added. Being in the national politics, he said, will make it possible for him to follow up on his projects and ensure they are sustained through the subsequent county governments. Wa Iria is mainly known for the multimillion-shilling dairy project that his county government has established which has seen local farmers receive a constant Sh35 per litre as other counties grapple with milk glut. 