Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko on Monday told Governor Joseph Lenku to watch out because she will unseat him in 2022. Tobiko, who spoke in Kitengela town before distributing bursary cheques to needy students from her constituency, said she has a “calling” to be the next governor. She said the office of the governor requires a trusted and charismatic leader who has the interest of the people at heart. Tobiko told Lenku that 2022 is not far away and the people of Kajiado are watching him keenly. “If you cannot use county resources as they are supposed to be used, kindly step aside, so we can show you how it is done. Go and tell Lenku all these things I have said because I am telling him the truth,” she said. The MP said women in Kitengela are still carrying water on their backs due to a scarcity of the commodity. “How do you expect a woman to carry water on her back to her house on the seventh floor? This cannot happen. It is not right,” Tobiko said. Last year, she said, leaders from the area agreed with Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko that Kitengela town and its environs should get their water from Ndakaini Dam. “Lenku said he would provide the water to the people, but many months down the line, the people of Kitengela have not received the water,” Tobiko said. The MP also revisited the deal that never came to pass after appealing to Lenku to provide a plot for the construction of Kyang’ombe Primary School in Kitengela. “If he refused to bring you the Ndakaini water, do you think he will provide this plot we are talking about?” Tobiko asked. Lenku’s personal assistant Daniel Kanchori said his boss has no business with “busybodies”. Kanchori said the governor understands his mandate well and progress is being made for the county government to take over the management of water from the Export and Processing Zone Authority in Athi River. “As for the case of Kyang’ombe Primary School, we have set aside Sh32 million this financial year for construction of classes,” he said. Tobiko also denied claims attributed to Lenku, that she is an “inciter”. “I have not incited anyone anywhere. The people of Kitengela are demanding that the county completes the town market. The court ordered the county government to complete the market by January, but it has done nothing,” she said. Kanchori told the MP that Lenku has never claimed that he owns the governor’s seat, and therefore it will be free for all in 2022 just like that of Kajiado East constituency. Tobiko said that before she became MP in 2013, some local elders had asked her to grow a beard before seeking an elective seat. “I never grew any beard because I am a woman and still went ahead to win the seat twice. Even this seat of the governor, I will take it without a beard,” Tobiko said.