A section of senators has expressed their support on the ongoing public forums on BBI initiative but asked the taskforce to ensure it campaigns for inclusivity. The more than 10 senators converging at Kabaa Mwala subcounty in Machakos on Friday said the BBI report should include every Kenyan even those who are campaigning against it and be a champion for unity. Led by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, the senators said BBI should be used to draw Kenyans closer and not to divide them. The legislators said they support the BBI and confirmed their attendance at Saturday's BBI rally in Mombasa. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula urged leaders to unite Kenyans through the Initiative to ensure they maintain peace among Kenyans during their BBI rallies. "I urge leaders not to exclude anybody even those whore are against BBI, to unite our country so we may walk together. It doesn't matter what formation they are using because the most important thing is uniting our people of Kenya," Wetangula said. His Busia counterpart Amos Wako who doubles up as a member of the taskforce said inclusivity is key in BBI and no Kenyan has been left behind. "Anyone who wishes to go to Mombasa is allowed because inclusivity is the Key. So let us all feel included in the initiative," Wako said. He said the BBI first meeting will be on 3rd February in Nairobi adding that the task force had been given more time to obtain views from the public. Wako further said the BBI previous rallies were meant to popularise the initiative. "BBI steering committee will hold meetings all over the country and they will remain low key because we want to obtain views on our recommendations from the public so we can convert them into constitutional amendments for a referendum," he said. Nyamira Senator Okongo Omongeni urged Ukambani residents to support Wiper Leader Stephen Kalonzo to become the next president come the 2022 general elections. His sentiments were echoed by Kalonzo who seemed to have liked the idea adding that he was "born to build bridges" and make sure the BBI accommodates every Kenyan. Kalonzo said he will lead Kenyans into choosing a suitable leader to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. "We shall be there on the negotiating table and we shall negotiate not for self-gain but the welfare of every Kenyan. I believe we have something to contribute to the future and wellbeing of this wonderful Nation," Kalonzo said. Transport Chief Administrative Secretary Hon Wavinya Ndeti said BBI is meant to empower Kenyans and urged locals to support and rally behind Kalonzo in negotiating for the region under the BBi debate. The senators had attended the burial ceremony of Anzelemi Kabaka who is the father of the Machakos senator Boniface Kabaka at their Kabaa home.