The locust invasion is likely to spread to Isiolo and Garissa, the government has said. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur said due to the favourable weather conditions, including the prevailing winds, the locusts are likely to spread. “The desert locusts can fly 150km a night and we want to be able to control them in the coming one or two weeks to ensure they do not cross to the neighbouring counties of Isiolo and Garissa,” he told the Star yesterday. A recent report by the Desert Locust Information Services of the Food and Agricultural Organisation indicates that mature low flying desert locust swarms were cited in the Ogaden region of eastern Ethiopia and parts of Somalia. The report further states that the locust swarms started crossing to the Kenyan border from Ethiopia and Somalia on December 28 last year. Reports from Mandera, Wajir and Marsabit have confirmed invasion of the locusts in several areas of the counties. The CAS said the government has requested for support of another aircraft and chemicals to control the desert locusts invasion in North Eastern Kenya. Tuimur said Kenya was in discussions with the UN food agency to partner to help eradicate the locust menace. "The objective is to control the desert locusts in order to minimise damage to livestock, pasture and crops, minimise migration of local communities in search of pasture, and promote national and county governments and other stakeholders collaboration in achieving food security,” he said. He said so far, the ministry hadavailed 3, 000 litres of pesticides and handle sprays, 105 protective kits, one vehicle with a sprayer, and have trained ground control support teams in the affected counties. “We have requested the Department of Defense to allow aerial spray operations to be conducted using the airstrips in Madera, Wajir, Garissa and Moyale. We are however facing security challenges due to the fear of Al-Shabab attacks that have been happening in some of the areas,” Tuimur said. The government has been working with the Desert Locust Organisation and the counties that are affected.