Wazito head coach Stewart Hall has exuded confidence that their new  21-year-old  striker Augustine Otu will improve their forward line. Otu became money bags Wazito's latest signing as he was brought in from Liberian top tier side, Liberia Petroleum Refining Company (LPRC) FC. The striker has been training with the team for the last few weeks and impressed the coaching staff with his work ethic and goal-scoring abilities. He is a Liberian international  regular. “Otu is a good striker. He is a young and hungry forward who we believe will improve our attack by getting us goals. He has been training with the team for the last couple of weeks and we are impressed with his abilities. He will bring good competition to our attack which is healthy for the team,” Hall stated on the clubs official website. Wazito have been struggling for goals in the Kenya Premier League, managing a measly return of  16 goals from 17 outings. Otu on his part, expressed his delight at joining Wazito and is looking forward to making his debut for the club against Posta Rangers this weekend. “I am delighted to be joining such an ambitious team like Wazito. I have been training with the team for a while now and I already feel at home. Everyone at the club has been supportive and I am looking forward to making my debut. I want to play my part in helping the team by scoring goals and I can’t wait to get started," he said. Otu joins seven  other new faces at the club. They are Dennis Ng’ang’a, Dennis Sikhayi, Kennedy Owino, Issafou Bourhana, Whyvonne Isuza, Alvin Ochieng and Ronald Ashimoto. The club also revealed that veteran Dan Owino has officially announced his retirement from professional football after a career that lasted  14 years—10` of which were with Wazito. Primarily a right-back, Apuoyo played in several other positions when called upon. He featured across all positions at the back, played in midfield and also as a winger an indicator of his versatility which made him an asset to the team. “I have decided to call it a day.  It’s hard to say goodbye to my biggest dream (football) but I have to due to a niggling knee injury. I feel it’s time to move on to other things,” the 33-year old stated. Owino started out at the defunct Kangemi United in 2006. He then took a short break from football before moving to Ushuru FC and later Wazito.