 There were celebrations at a Watamu resort as workers welcomed the eviction of a landlady who had forcefully ejected their employer from the premises. Eleonora Cozzi had two weeks ago evicted directors of Afrikan Kivulini Limited from the Sun Palm Resort which they were managing. The resort belongs to Cozii but she rented it out to Afrikan Kivulini Limited who were to manage it for 12 years. The company, a subsidiary of VR Club that manages resorts worldwide, has been running the hotel for the last four years. Cozzi said the directors had breached contract terms and failed to maintain infrastructure to required standards. She stormed the facility with police officers who ordered the foreign directors to leave. At the time, there were 80 foreign tourists at the resort. Cozzi directed that the workers at the resort remain to continue serving the customers as she took over the management. But the workers left on solidarity with the evicted directors, saying Cozzi was not their employer. The Afrikan Kivulini Limited directors then obtained orders quashing the eviction and it was implemented when Cozzi was ordered out of the premises and the management of the resort taken back by the company. Workers who had been reporting to the premises daily but were often locked out broke into celebrations and police forced Cozzi out of the Sh2 billion Sun Palm resort. The more than 100 workers joined their managers and directors in celebrations after the landlady and her group were forced out of the gates. The security guards who had previously barred them from accessing the gates were withdrawn as new ones were deployed. Paolo Bo, the managing director of VR Club, hugged every worker at the reception and assured them that the problem had been resolved. He thanked the authorities for helping them get back to the resort, saying the two-week fight had not been easy. "After some days of fear, everything is now okay. We are really happy for our employees that are all back to the hotel and are already running up and down as they are aware of how to set the place in the right way and offer the required services for our guests," Paolo said. He said he hoped everything would resume as normal despite the turbulence of the past two weeks. "We really apologise for what happened to the tourists especially for those who were there when the eviction was done because it was not normal. It was an attack. I know they were scared and some even sought compensation for damages," he said. Resident manager Johnson Kalisho convened a meeting with the staff and asked them to immediately resume duties. "You can even work without uniforms today everybody should go to their respective sections. Let the rest be handled legally because we want peace," he said. Lawyer Maurice Kilonzo who pushed for the execution of the orders said it was a great day as justice had prevailed. "It was not possible to get the directors inside these premises because of obstruction caused by some government agencies and the landlord. Today after seeing the light, those same government agencies were able to cooperate, obeyed the court orders and ensured the management of the hotel is restored," he said. The Afrikan Kivulini Limited rented the resort for 12 years and claimed to have spent over Sh100 million to upgrade the hotel.  edited by p. obuya