The national government is set to build a Sh54 million girls secondary school in Mpeketoni, Lamu West, to enhance their education in the region. The project is fully funded by the Lamu West National Government Constituency Development Fund. Lamu has only three public girls secondary schools, including Shella Bright Girls Secondary School, Pate Girls Secondary School which was launched by DP William Ruto in December 2018 and Lamu Girls High School. Lamu High School is the only girls' national school in the county. Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama said the construction of what will be Mpeketoni Girls' Boarding Secondary School will add to the few handful girls’ secondary schools in the region. The school will have a capacity of 800 students. Muthama said the low number of girls' secondary schools in the region has played a very big role in the poor performance of their education. Temporary structures have since been put up to cater to Form 1 and 2 students as they wait for the completion of the school. A principal has already been posted. “The fact that Lamu has very few girls’ schools has equally contributed to the poor education of the girl child here. We are introducing this state-of-the-art school to boost the education of the girl child. The construction is underway but even then, we have put up temporary structures to accommodate learners in the meantime," Muthama said. Lamu West Constituency Fund Account manager Javan Mwandawiro said the new school will be ready for use in six months. Lamu County Education director Joshua Kaaga said the new school will contribute to the betterment of the girl's education. He said it will also reduce the burden of girls having to seek secondary school education in other counties as it has a huge capacity than any other school in the region. “We are going to say goodbye to situations where a parent has to take their girls to schools in other counties just because our own schools have limited capacity. This particular facility will address all that,” said Kaaga.