A bodaboda rider was swept away by raging floodwaters on Wednesday night as he crossed Madiaba Bridge in Awendo, Migori. River Kuja burst its banks and the bridge was submerged. Heavy rains continue to pound the region. Several homesteads and schools have been affected by flash floods. Nyatike's Angugo, Modi, Nyora and Sere villages in Nyatike and Uriri's Oria village are the worst hit. Yesterday, Madiaba Boda Boda Association chairperson Fred Mule said the rider had two passengers. "The two passengers swam to safety while the rider and his bike were swept away, search to retrieve his body is on,” he said. Many families have been rendered homeless, with some camping in churches. "What we are experiencing currently is worse than what we went through last year. Several people are camping at my office and neighbouring churches while the larger majority are stranded with nowhere to go,"  Kakelo Kakoth chief Sospeter Odege told Star on the phone. Residents have urged the county disaster team to come to their rescue. Transport has been disrupted. "Three bridges serving the area were swept away after Kuja and Ongito rivers burst their banks. Our children cannot cross over to schools and we are forced to stay with them at homes. We are calling on the Migori government to come to our rescue," said Polycarp Alego of Nyora village. In Uriri, some residents camped at Oria Primary School. Learning has been disrupted at Sere, Angugo, Nyora and Modi primary schools and St. Joseph Modi Mixed Secondary School in North Kadem Ward. "We've transferred the boys to teachers’ staff room while the girls have been relocated to the laboratory after their dormitories were submerged in floods after one of the dykes at Lower Kuja irrigation scheme burst its banks,” said Tabu Oyoo, who is the principal of St Joseph Modi Secondary School. He said schools have made several attempts to get help from the education officers but they had yet to visit them. North Kadem ward administrator Serock Acholla appealed to the county disaster management to act fast and fix the situation. "We are disappointed that no emergency response from the county has reached the affected families. Pupils cannot access schools because of poor roads. Transport has generally been paralysed," Acholla said.