A boy from Sikujua Estate in Voi, Taita Taveta county, is appealing for help from well-wishers to support him join Form 1 at Kangema High School. Alfred Shuma,14, scored 369 marks in last year’s KCPE at Mwamunga Primary School in Voi. Shuma, who aspires to become a medical doctor, says his family lives in abject poverty, thus unable to raise his school fees. “I have filled bursaries and scholarship forms but I have not succeeded. My mother is in a dilemma because my sister has also dropped from school. She is almost giving up on taking us to school,” Shuma told the Star in an interview on Tuesday. He said her sister who was in Form 2 at Coast Girls' Secondary School has also dropped out for lack of fees. “I have not even bought other materials required for reporting,” he added. His mother, Mary Shali, a single parent, said she earns her living by washing clothes in town She said her daughter and son had completed KCPE in 2017 but due to financial constraints, she could only manage to take the daughter to Form 1 while the son forced to repeat Class 8. “My son was supposed to join Voi Boys' Secondary School last year but I convinced him to repeat Class 8. I had hopes that I will get financial support from the county government this year but all attempts have been futile,” the mother of four said. Jeremiah Mmbagha, a neighbour, said the family has very bright children who can be of great help to their mother and entire society if assisted to pursue their education. He appealed to well-wishers to support them. Taita Taveta director of Education Simon Wanjohi says the county is yet to achieve the 100 per cent transition. he, however, said cases of students not being able to afford school fees had not been reported to his office. Data seen by the Star indicates that only 5,413 Form 1 students had reported in the entire county as at Monday, January 20, translating to 71.1 per cent. More than 848 students are thus yet to report to school. “The county commissioner has launched a door-to-door search to ensure that all students are enrolled. We hope that the number will go higher,” Wanjohi said.