Nairobi County witnessed an increase in transmission of HIV mother to child transmission from 8.5 per cent in 2015 to 11.3 per cent last year. Latest data from the Health Ministry, however, show the number of women who had access to prevention of Mother to Child Transmission services in 2019 was 9,200 against a target of 7,709. On the other hand, the number of people put on life-long anti-retroviral therapy in the county increased from 118,022 in 2015 to 137,761 in 2019. “Nairobi’s unique characteristics contribute to communicable diseases, including HIV, among young people and mothers,” outgoing Health CS Sicily Kariuki said. Kariuki spoke during the official opening of a free medical camp at Uhuru Park. The medical camp, which is the fifth to be held as part of the medical safaris organised by Beyond Zero Initiative, was opened by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. “It is for this reason that the Ministry has provided technical and financial support to the county government to develop an elimination of mother-to-child transmission plan,” Kariuki added. The First Lady led the county in launching eMTCT plan as part of the ongoing efforts to achieve her World Health Organisation target of eliminating mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis. The previous four Beyond Zero Medical Safaris saw more than 25,000 Kenyans receive healthcare services in the safari. “I wish to encourage Nairobi county to commit to and invest resources towards our shared goal of zero new mother-to-child HIV infections. Beyond Zero Medical Safaris have helped lessen the health burden of thousands of households across the country,” Kenyatta said. The initiative is part of the government’s journey towards Universal Health Coverage, where Kenyans have access to affordable quality health services. Under the initiative, those who turn up during the camps receive various services, including the enrolment of women into Linda Mama, screening of breast, cervical and prostate cancer, among others. “We have already been to Narok, West Pokot, Kisumu and Nyandarua and now we are in Nairobi to serve the large population that needs medical services,” the First Lady added. The Medical Safaris strategy is anchored on the principle of “leaving no one behind” executed through a lifecycle approach targeting pregnant women and newborns, infants and children, adolescents and young people, men, older persons and persons with disabilities. The launch of the medical safari will be preceded by a visit to Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital where the First Lady will open the kangaroo mother care wing. This is the wing in which pre-term babies are nursed. The First Lady further announced there are plans to start a programme known as “Tulinde Kizazi Jijini” to guide the county government in the delivery of health services.