Clivius Omondi, a victim of the Lamu bus attack, had spent the Christmas holiday with his family in Masendembale village, Butula, Busia. Omondi, 24, was among the three men who died on a Mombasa Raha bus after being shot at close range by al Shabaab militants at 12.30pm in Nyongoro, Lamu. He was travelling back to Lamu where he worked from 2019 as a casual in the Lapsset project. On his way back on January 1, he stopped off his father’s house in Mombasa, spent the night and left for Lamu the following morning. “We discussed a lot with my son when he arrived back from the village. He promised me he was going to work hard this year and help raise his four other siblings,” his father Charles Oduor told the Star. Omondi was the firstborn in a family of five children. His mother died in 2019. Oduor said the son insisted on spending the Christmas holiday with his family in the village oblivious that this would be his last trip to the place. His dreams were shattered by the militia as he travelled back to work. “I left my son very jovial in the house while I reported for work for a night shift. He informed me he was going to travel early in the morning before I come back because he was supposed to report back to work on Thursday, January 2, at 7pm the same day he was killed,” Oduor said. When he came back home in the morning, his son had left for Lamu. “I felt something was amiss and at about 11am, I called him but it went unanswered several times.” At about 4.15 pm, Omondi’s cousin who stays in Lamu called Oduor on the phone to find out whether Omondi had travelled. He informed Oduor that all was not well as he had received a phone call over the attack. He requested him to remain calm and wait for a phone call and immediately hang up on him. “I tried again to call my son at that time and it was received by a police officer who asked how I related to the owner of the mobile phone.  He informed me of the attack and that some passengers were killed while others were injured,” Oduor recounted. On Friday morning, he went to Malindi Subcounty Hospital mortuary where he identified the body. “I want to transfer my son’s body to Mombasa but I have been asked to wait for the postmortem, which I'm supposed to pay for, then clear the mortuary bill before the transfer,” he said. He wants the government to help him financially so the postmortem is conducted and the bill cleared as his family continues with burial plans. According to a police report, bullets landed on the right front wheel of the bus, damaging it while other bullets landed on both sides of the bus. Another two passengers were injured and taken to Garsen dispensary. Coast regional coordinator John Elungata said KDF soldiers killed four suspected al Shabaab fighters and captured one after the attack.