Education CS George Magoha on Monday said the rollout of the new curriculum to Grade 4 is taking shape as schools reopen. Magoha said that the government has purchased and distributed teaching and learning materials to support the competence-based curriculum. He spoke in Nyeri where he inspected the Grade 4 launch in Kimunyu, Mutomo and Gatundu primary schools. Magoha, however, noted that a few schools have yet to receive the books but sought to assure that they will receive them in the course of the week. He blamed the delay in the distribution of books to far-flung areas such as Turkana on downpours. The implementation of CBC began last year and targeted pre-primary one and two, and grades 1, 2 and 3. Magoha said the training of teachers in the delivery of the curriculum will ensure smooth implementation. "The distribution of the textbooks has been a success and every child in Grade 4 has a book. In fact, we have witnessed test lessons in the schools I have visited,” he said. The cabinet secretary noted the timely delivery of the books is key to successful rollout. On incoming Grade-1 pupils, Magoha said that although the government may have produced books, more could be produced if more than the expected pupils enrol. The Cabinet Secretary admitted that the ministry is facing some hiccups in the implementation in Grade 4, pointing out infrastructural issues. “Currently, we are facing infrastructural setbacks, including shortage of chairs and desks in most schools as a result of the high number of pupils joining the grade. But I want to assure parents that the government is already in plans to address the problem as soon as possible,” he said. Magoha was accompanied by subcounty education officers and local administration. The Education Ministry is working closely with the Interior Ministry to ensure a 100 per cent transition. “We are working with the local administration, including the chiefs and sub-chiefs, to ensure all kids join schools. Again, we don’t want to hear cases of teachers sending students home for lunch fees, especially in day secondary schools,” he said. He warned school heads against increasing fees, saying the ministry has set guidelines that should be strictly observed. “Failure to observe the set guidelines will lead to dire consequences,” Magoha said. He said the release of capitation funds will be delayed by three days to first ascertain the actual number of pupils in every class in all schools for the purpose of enhancing prudent use of resources.