Will President Uhuru Kenyatta consider views of Kenyans and set up an additional ministry to tackle mental health issues in the country? A section of Kenyans now feels the government should constitute a full-fledged Ministry of Family Affairs and Social Protection to deal with the wellbeing and happiness of Kenyans. Health professionals from different fields of mental health yesterday said Kenya has a worrying happiness index, ranking position 124 out of 156 countries globally. The UN World Happiness Report 2018 based its ranking on countries’ income, freedom, trust, healthy life expectancy, social support and generosity. The professionals included clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, medical psychologists and counsellors. In their presentations to the Frank Njenga-led mental health taskforce, they noted that neglecting this important aspect of society has led to many people going into depression, hence causing mental illness that could have been prevented. This, they said, has led to numerous suicide cases. Catherine Gachutha, a counselling psychologist, said things such as the inability of some people to handle or take care of their marriages has compounded the mental health problem. “We should think about prevention and treatment, we should include all health workers at different levels to ensure the problem is detected from an early stage,” she said. According to the UN World Happiness Report 2018, factors making Africans unhappy include lack of jobs, minimal access to healthcare, and high corruption levels. Kenya was ranked 112 out of 155 countries in 2017 and 122 in 2016. “Increasing funding for mental health would increase access to quality care,” said Boniface Ndirangu, who is the Rehabilitation and Addicts Association of Kenya chairman. They noted that psychiatrists and psychologists' training heavily relies on foreign content and curriculum that does not resonate with the Kenyan context. “There is a need to have local evidence-based research that will help produce mental health workers who can address the Kenyan problems.” The taskforce was constituted on November 21 and inaugurated on December 11 by outgoing Health CS Sicily Kariuki. The team is expected to formulate policies to address growing concerns about mental health among Kenyans. The taskforce has a responsibility to assess the causes of the increase in mental ill-health occurrences and recommend transformative solutions. In addition, the team was urged to consider the changing societal dynamics and associated threats to mental wellbeing such as substance abuse, gambling, sexual and gender-based violence, cyberbullying, child abuse and neglect.