Presidential aspirant Lordvick Aduda has petitioned the government through the Ministry of Sports to crack its whip and coerce Football Kenya Federation to conduct the repeat polls in line with the provisions of the Sports Act and the constitution. This comes after the much-publicised trip to Zurich to unlock the election stalemate failed to materialise. A strong Kenyan delegation including Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed, Sports Registrar Rose Wasike,  Sports Disputes Tribunal chairman John Ohaga and FKF officials was scheduled to jet out last night. Aduda claimed the trip was called off after the federation had enticed the government and the other two bodies into signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to have the repeat elections held by end of March and later comply with the Sports Act. Sources within the federation, however, indicated that after the Special General Meeting held on Tuesday, Amina, FKF president Nick Mwendwa, Ohaga and Wasike were locked in a meeting at the ministry offices, where they unanimously agreed to tone down and solve the impasse locally. The incumbent FKF officials at the national level were headed for another four -year tenure but the SDT cancelled the exercise earlier planned for last December citing lack of public participation. SDT further faulted the federation’s electoral code and its board members, stating that they were in violation of the Sports Act. Aduda has challenged the government not to cede ground in their quest to have  free and fair elections, by quashing any attempts by the incumbent to cling on to power. He also asked the two parties to divulge the details of the MoU and what they discussed before electing to have a word with Fifa. “The government should come out clean and explain what they discussed with the federation as it the right of Kenyans to be informed. "I am reliably informed that the government and the federation entered into an MoU to have the former conduct elections and later comply with the rules. "Football is part of the national heritage and such discussions should be divulged to the public. "The government should ensure that the rule of law is upheld and the elections are conducted in accordance with the law,” he said The Gor Mahia chief executive officer laughed off last Tuesday's SGM, claiming  the delegates who attended and adopted the Electoral Code and endorsed a new electoral board were not recognised by the law. Aduda argued that the delegates ceased to have a say after their tenure ended on January 26. The former federation CEO alleged that the current office bearers had manipulated the register to rig elections. “How did they endorse a new Electoral Code and board yet their mandate had expired? "What business did they have  in the meeting yet their tenure had long elapsed? "We are aware that they have a fictitious register, ghost clubs and delegates with an aim of rigging elections. " For us to have credible elections, we must start at the grass root then then proceed to sub-branches,branches and then the national,” he added.           