A section of legislatures supporting the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative consultation forum have welcomed the change of tune from the Tangatanga team. Led by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and his Kieni counterpart Kanini Kega, they said the meeting is open to every Kenyan Junet questioned the sudden change of tune from the leaders allied to the Deputy President William Ruto to attend the BBI meeting in Mombasa on Saturday. "You cannot keep saying one thing today and you say a different thing tomorrow. Its really confusing Kenyans," Junet said. "Tunakaribisha wale wenzetu ambao roho mtakatifu ameingia kwa roho zao, wanakaribshwa kwa roho safi lakini mkuje na adabu. The hypocrisy of planning parallel meetings yet still attending BBI meetings is what we are tired of." (We welcome our colleagues with a good heart but they should come here respectfully) Sakaja said BBI is a Jubilee and ODM position and that the team should not come to the meeting with their conditions. "We have to thank them for seeing the light and for choosing to join Kenyans in pursuit of peace in the country," Sakaja said. Kanini Kega said the meeting will not be about politics but rather an opportunity for Mombasa residents to air their opinions concerning the BBI report. He said more of such meetings have been planned across the country for Kenyans to give their views. “Hii mambo si ya siasa. Sana sana ni kusikiza wananchi vile ambavyo wanasema.Kama hao watu kutoka mringo mwingine wamesema watakuja Mombasa, kujeni msikize lakini usikuje na masharti( it is not about politics, its an opportunity to Mombasa residents to give their views about the report. If the other group from the other side will come to Mombasa, let them come but they should not come with their conditions),” Kanini said. Junet added that Ruto's team is alleged to be arranging parallel meetings in the country to counter them. Ruto and his allies have devised a scheme to hijack the Building Bridges Initiative rallies and take charge of the debate. They have decided to attend and address BBI rallies which they have opposed previously. The decision to join the Raila Odinga-led BBI rallies is aimed at ensuring that they are part of the process and control its narrative. “After consultation as leaders, we have decided [that] in order to pursue the original spirit of the BBI irrespective of our concerns against the use of public resources in a process that has been blessed with full nationwide consensus, we will participate and where necessary take charge of these public rallies,” Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen announced.