The Health Ministry has refuted claims in a section of the media that antiretroviral drugs meant for Kenya were diverted to an unknown country in West Africa. In a statement issued on Monday, Health CS Sicily Kariuki said all health products procured under the President's Emergency Plan For Aids Relief and the Global Fund are tax-exempt. “Our attention has been drawn to media reports on alleged diversion of ARVs stocks meant for Kenya,” Kariuki said. "The Ministry wishes to clarify that no single dose of ARV procured by the Pepfar through USAid for Kenya, has been diverted to any other country due to non-payment of taxes imposed by the government.” In an article published last week, it was alleged that the US, a major partner of Kenya through USAid, declined to pay tax on an ARV shipment but instead directed the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to pay. The article alleged that the US government donated ARVs worth Sh3.3 billion to the Kemsa in October last year. Kemsa is the agency mandated by the ministry to procure, store and distribute medical products including the Pepfar-funded commodities. The US partners with Kemsa to supply drugs in Kenya in their financial year which runs from October to September. Procurement under the Pepfar funding stream is ongoing with shipments from the various vendors expected in the country beginning this month. “We also wish to state antiretroviral drugs, medicines for opportunistic infections (OIs) for adult and pediatric patients, laboratory and nutrition commodities are procured by the government of Kenya, with support from the Global Fund (GF) and the United States,” the CS added. These commodities, according to the CS, once procured are then distributed by the ministry through its Division of National Aids and STI Control Programme. Kariuki further noted that the ministry regularly monitors the stocks of ARVs in the country by holding monthly meetings with the procurement planning committee comprising Pepfar and other key stakeholders to ensure adequate quantities of ARVs are available to meet requirements. This caused a social media storm with Twitter users accusing the Kenya Revenue Authority of negligence. KRA has however dismissed the claims as fake. “KRA would like to inform the public that the story running on social media titled 'ARVs meant for Kenyans shipped to West Africa after KRA demanded taxes on them' is not factual. KRA wishes to clarify that it has not declined to clear any ARV supplies,” the authority posted on their Facebook page. This is not the first time such reports are coming to the limelight. In 2014, a consignment of donated diabetes drugs held at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport went bad awaiting clearance arising from a tax tussle. The insulin worth Sh3 million meant for the treatment of about 250 diabetic children at Kenyatta National Hospital had been lying at JKIA for months after KRA confiscated them over tax. The 4,500 vials of insulin had been donated by the International Diabetes Federation to KNH, which was struggling with a shortage. The target beneficiaries for the donation were children with diabetes and who could not afford the cost of insulin. This critical drug retails at Sh550 per vial. Edited by R.Wamochie