  Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has been asked to hasten the formulation of regional economic blocs policy as they are the engines of the devolved units' growth. The call came from the chairman of Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) Wycliffe Oparanya Oparanya said lack of policy had inhibited LREB from negotiating with interested donors and partners. “We plead with Devolution CS to fast-track the regional bloc policy to allow the bloc to negotiate with donors on projects that will transform the bloc into an economic hub,” the Kakamega governor said as he closed the fifth regional economic bloc meeting at KMTC Siaya campus. The stalled policy had blocked the transfer of funds from counties to the bloc, thus derailing the implementation of flagship projects. “The policy will enhance our engagement with national government and other agencies,” Oparanya said. LREB members have agreed to pay Sh200 million each toward this initiative. Oparaya urged the four out of 14 counties that have not institutionalised the bloc to do so before the end of March. “As governors, we are satisfied with processes of institutionalisation of the bloc especially the passage of the bloc's bill which has seen 10 counties do it with the other four promising to approve it in March.” Agriculture CS Peter Munya was asked to present the sugar task force report to the President for approval and revival of the sugar sector. "The sugar task force finalised and forwarded report to the CS nine months ago but no action has been taken and so we appeal to Munya to save the languishing farmers by acting on it,” he said Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o echoed the chairman's statements, saying that the telemedicine technology they had negotiated for may not be installed in the counties unless the policy is in place. "We have also negotiated with the Cuban government to give capacity and technology to spray the atmosphere and kill mosquitoes to reduce incidences of malaria," Nyongo said. The summit was attended by governors Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyangarama(Nyamira), Wycliffe Wafula Wangamati (Bungoma), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Hillary Barchock (Bomet).    