Political and religious leaders in Naivasha have thrown their weight behind the Building Bridges Initiative but warned against entertaining 2022 politics in the process. This emerged at a press conference at Kenvash Hotel in Naivasha, where the group said they would join other leaders in popularising the document. “We are ready to champion the report to the grassroots level and as the President said during its launch, everybody ought to read it and make an informed decision,” Former Lake View MCA Simon Wanyoike said. Wanyoike said Kenyans are undergoing a difficult and the initiative should address their concerns. Wanyoike also called for the quick enactment of the BBI, which he said is the best fit for a country that has experienced violence after almost every general election. Wanyoike, who chairs the Naivasha Leaders Caucus, urged Kenyans to carefully read the document once the task force finalises its preparation since "it would bring harmony in the country". He at the same time welcomed the decision by Jubilee leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto to join the sensitisation meetings, adding that the BBI was meant to unite all Kenyans. Women’s leader Virginia Wamaitha, however, called on leaders to stop early campaigns and give the President and his deputy time to work for Kenyans. “The President and his deputy were elected as one and we should pray for them so that they work for us before we start thinking of other things such as 2022 politics,” she noted. Wanyoike's sentiments were echoed by former nominated MCA Esther Njeri, who said the task force drafting the final BBI report should focus on projects that will uplift the living standards for the poor. Njeri said many companies have closed shop due to the harsh economic times, and the report should thus take into consideration the plight of Kenyans who depended on them for survival. “We welcome the report in its entirety and we should stop political bickering so that we let our people study it in peace,” she said. Former Viwandani MCA Eunice Mureithi said Kenyans had a right to study the document without being coerced by anybody as its recommendations will affect them directly.