Coastal counties are putting their hopes in BBI to bring an end to historical land injustices. In a resolution presented during the Mombasa BBI rally, the coastal counties said addressing the historical land injustices in the region is a priority to the region. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who read the joint resolution on Saturday, said the second report of the BBI should settle the land issue once and for all. “The government should comprehensively address matters of land ownership, titling, transfer and management, acquisition and productivity,” Kingi said. The leaders want the government to buy all land being held by the absentee landlords and reallocate it to Coast residents. "Goverment should either buy land from absentee landlords and allocate to locals or come up with laws to revoke all title deeds from the absentee landlords," Kingi said. “We tell the BBI steering committee that Coast region is waiting to see their issues reflected in the second report and they will be very disappointed if their views are disregarded." A 16-point resolution was arrived at on Friday, when 3,000 delegates from the Coastal region met to highlight issues to be considered in the final report. The region also demanded the introduction of regional governments while at the same time retaining the current 47 counties. They also called for a federal system of government. The politicians also demanded a law change to have an Executive Prime Minister with two deputies as opposed to the ceremonial one proposed in the current report. "We want expansion of the Executive. A President, his deputy, a Prime Minister and two deputies," the resolution read. This, they noted, is the only way to ensure that all Kenyans get a space on the decision making table of the country. The two levels according to the resolutions presented to ODM leader Raila Odinga should receive 70 per cent of the total national revenue. Kingi said Coast leaders decided all port operations should be centred at the Port of Mombasa. The leaders also called for the formation of a regional tourism board to improve the sector. They also want the Coast region to be divided into two - Lower Coast that will include Mombasa, Taita Taveta and Lamu and the Upper Coast to include Lamu, Kilifi, and Tana River. Other resolutions were - support for a total war on corruption, equity in education, revival of defunct Coast industries, improved security and exploitation of the Blue economy.