It is a wish of any political party to have a majority in both houses- the Senate and the National Assembly. The first advantage is that in a situation where the same party makes the government, then transacting government business will be easy. If the government does not have a majority, the minority-the opposition- will frustrate it during the passage of government bills or motions. A classical example is what is happening in the impeachment process of US President Donald Trump. The Congress was able to pass the impeachment motion because Democrats are a majority in the House of Representatives-the Lower House. But the impeachment trial is now going to the Senate. In the Senate, the government (Republicans) has the majority. Trump is a Republican and therefore it will be very difficult for the impeachment trial to sail through unless Republicans side with the Democrats. Another example is South Africa where the ruling ANC party has enjoyed a majority for a long time. So the importance of a majority in a house cannot be underestimated. It is critical. With the handshake, where President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga agreed to work together, it cannot be difficult to pass any business that the President wants. In a true party system, you cannot have people like Kipchumba Murkomen (Senate Majority Leader) criticising Jubilee party policies. Murkomen is the Leader of Majority by virtue of being nominated by the party. Even the speakers are holding the positions because the party endorsed their candidatures and the party members elected them because of enjoying a majority. So in a normal party system, if Murkomen feels he can stand and talk against Jubilee or the national government and its public duty, then the best thing for him to do is to resign. He cannot have his cake and eat it. If it was in the Kanu days, he would have been removed a long time ago because you cannot lead the government business in the house. The freedom to criticise the government can only enjoy at party Parliamentary Group meetings. That is where they can say all they want. When a leader who has been given a responsibility by the party is criticising the same government, then something is wrong. The decent thing they can do is to resign. The Jubilee Party should take the necessary steps and make the changes. The former Senate Deputy Speaker spoke to the Star