Kisumu leaders have told the IEBC team to prepare to leave office as they will not oversee the 2022 General Election. Governor Anyang Nyong’o, his deputy Mathews Owili, MPs Aduma Owuor (Nyakach), Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West), James Nyikal (Seme) and nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga said the team must be disbanded. During a press briefing on Thursday in Kisumu, the leaders supported the recommendation for the overhaul of the agency in the Building Bridges Initiative report. Kisumu acting Speaker Elisha Oraro and a host of MCAs were present. Olago said the commission must be restructured to be more credible as well as restore the confidence of Kenyans before the next election. “We have seen IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati dismissing the agency's overhaul. Let him be reminded that his predecessors who vowed not to vacate all went home,” he said. Olago said Chebukati and his team will go home like former Electoral Commission of Kenya chairman late Samuel Kivuitu and former IEBC chair Isaac Hassan. But Chebukati has recently dismissed recommendations contained in the BBI report. He said the current team will oversee the next polls. He noted the contracts of the three remaining commissioners run until 2023. “We took office in 2017 and our term will end in January 2023. I am not worried about anything,” he said. The commission has been working with the minimum number of three commissioners, one year after commissioners Connie Maina, Margaret Mwachanya, Paul Kurgat, and Roselyn Akombe resigned. Only Chebukati, Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu are in office. Olago also called on political parties to restructure their primaries regulation in a manner that promotes democracy in the country. He said the move to reform the electoral system should also put into consideration change of the Political Parties Act in order to correct instances of bungled party primaries. “Even as we reconcile the problems we have had in our elections, we must think of reconstituting the IEBC, but also giving reconsideration to the Political Parties Act in such a way party primaries are conducted in a way that losers feel that they have lost fairly in the competition,” he said. The leaders asked Kenyans to support President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to spearhead the conversation on BBI to the people at the grassroots. Nyong’o said they have come together to give direction towards the mobilisation of the agenda. “We unreservedly support the handshake and the harmony that it has brought in the country,” he said. He said they support a referendum as the only means of effecting the recommendations touching on the Constitution particularly the governance structure. "Kenyans expect the BBI proposals to bring inclusivity in governance and strengthen devolution through the allocation of more funds to the devolved units," Nyong'o said. “We shall focus our energy towards ensuring that people at grassroots are mobilised to actively participate in these BBI consultations,” Nyikal said.