About 487 companies and individuals risk losing their uncleared cargo at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport(JKIA), as KRA moves to auction uncollected goods. Telkom Kenya, Airtel , East Africa Breweries Limited, Airbus Helicopters, Jambojet and Liquid Telecom are among leading companies with uncollected goods at the airport, which include telecommunication equipment,aircraft parts and validation packages. Other entities which could be affected are Toyota Kenya , Microsoft Kenya, Muthaiga Golf Club, Aga Khan Hospital, Kenya School of Monetary Studies and Coast General Hospital. Kempinski, Movenpick and Radisson Blu hotels and the Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) also risk having their goods - which comprise of  textile, office equipment, promotional material and electronics auctioned if not collected within the next thirty days. The customs and border control department also intends to auction assorted bags containing personal effects–clothes, shoes and household items,which have remained uncollected. “Notice is given that unless the goods are entered and removed from the customs warehouse within thirty days from the date of this notice, they will be sold by public auction on February 4, 2020,” commissioner Jane Ombui says in the latest gazette notice dated January 3. “Interested buyers may view the goods at the customs warehouse, JKIA, on January 30 and 31, , during office hours,” the authority notes. More than a hundred individuals and small businesses who have been sent gifts ,personal effects, goods and office equipment by relatives and business partners abroad are also possible victims if they fail to clear with the taxman. In Kisumu, KRA has issued a notice on 1,125 bags of sugar, meant for one Bulle Diis Adan. The consignment, according to customs and border control department western region chief manager Adan Ibrahim, will be sold subject to court order dated the September 30, 2019. “The sale of the goods will be subject to approval from Kebs and or other relevant government agencies,” KRA notes. A customs warehouse is a warehouse area dedicated to the fundamental service of temporary storage of goods not yet taxed. It is authorized and supervised by a customs agency. The East African Community Act, 2004, allows disposal of goods which have been deposited in a customs warehouse and not lawfully removed within thirty days after deposit. The commissioner is required to give notice by publication in the gazette that unless such goods are removed within thirty days from the date of notice, they shall be deemed to have been abandoned to customs for sale by public auction.