Is the fallout between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto getting out of hand? The two leaders have not appeared together in public since December 12 during Jamhuri Day celebrations. Some lawmakers on Thursday took issue with their decision to attend different meetings a few kilometers from each other within Nairobi. While Uhuru was presiding over the State of the Judiciary launch at the Supreme Court, Ruto was in Embakasi West, crisscrossing the constituency. The MPs were heard complaining that the programmes of the two leaders were disjointed, pointing to a badly damaged relationship. A Principal Secretary is plotting to clip the influence a new Cabinet Secretary posted to his ministry in recent changes by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Sources whispered to Corridors that the PS is keen to control all departmental bosses and the technical people in the ministry. The PS was heard mapping out a strategy to have a grip on the docket that attracts huge funding for mega projects across the country. Fearing that the new CS would turn the tables on him, the PS has already engaged departmental heads on pep talk in the bid to win their hearts and possibly sabotage the incoming boss. It is understood the PS was at loggerheads with the outgoing CS and often carried himself with puffed-up attitude and unbridled braggadocio. Some political leaders from Vihiga county are secretly plotting how to contain a youthful MP whose political star has been on the rise so as to avoid a situation of being eclipsed politically ahead of the 2022 elections. A mole has told Corridors that seasoned politicians from the county are not very happy with the aggressiveness of the lawmaker to the extent of projecting himself as the face of the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) in the region. The MP who is having on-and-off problems with his party and party leader is said to be keeping his dangerous cards closer to his chest and no one knows about his 2022 plans. A senator has curved a reputation of being ravenous and a scavenger following his desperate attempts to ascend to a powerful seat without breaking a sweat. The senator who has been riding on other people’s backs has lately been salivating at a seemingly vacant county top position and was seen posturing and struggling to appear as the voice of reason to the woes bedeviling the county. The youthful lawmaker appears to have thrown his estranged buddy under the rails, capitalising on the man's fledgling political fortunes and endear himself to the power brokers. Corridors have been monitoring his preposterous outbursts in the rallies and desperate attempts to forge alliances from previous adversaries. 