There was a standoff at the late Dutchman Tob Cohen's house after his wife was allowed to pick personal effects in Kitusuru, Nairobi. The standoff persisted on who to get in and who to do the recording as Sarah Cohen picked her personal belongings. Last week, Sarah, the widow of Tob Cohen, was given access to her bedroom to pick her personal effects including clothes, shoes, handbags and grooming tools. Judge Daniel Ogembo denied her access to foods and alcohol, her car, her daughter’s belongings, two dogs Major and Snow, electronics, files from her office and paintings. But on Monday there was a push and pull after Sarah's lawyer Philip Murgor wanted to do a video recording but DCI agents strongly objected. "You're junior here. We can only take such restrictive instructions from your seniors. Better DCI Director George Kinoti be here," Murgor told the DCI detective agent. Addressing the media after the small standoff, Murgor said there was a disagreement but they have so far solved the issue. "Kulikuwa na hali kidogo ya kutoelewana... we wanted to be part of this process to see that she has only taken what the court ordered her to," Murgor said. "But we have entered into an agreement and decided that they will record a video, write an inventory on the same." Family lawyer Cliff Ombeta told the media that they were not allowed anywhere in the premise. "By extension, the DPP is on the same side with the victim's lawyer. We have agreed that the family enters and picks only her shoes, handbag, clothes and beauty products," he said. "That is why we are insisting that a video must be recorded and two officers accompany her step by step." Ombeta said they have also insisted that two lady officers should follow her in each room. "So that nothing happens, nothing changes, nobody moves even a table form one corner to another. Only the investigating team and the DPP." Sarah who was accused of murdering Tob Cohen has denied the charges before the court. It is alleged that between July 19 and 20, 2019 she murdered Cohen. Murgor has asked the court to hear their bail application