Lecturers in public universities have announced a strike after the next 10 days to protest against a delayed pay deal. The University Academic Staff Union on Thursday gave a seven-day strike notice that begins on January 13. In contention is delayed implementation of the five-year Collective Bargaining Agreement 2017-2021. In the deal, academic staff were to get a 5.4 per cent increment on their basic salary and an extra Sh1.8 billion to cover their pension. The new pay deal was signed on October 28 and implementation was to commence on November 30, according to Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga. The CBA covers five years from 2017, which means means the lecturers are left with only 18 months before its expiry yet they have not benefitted from it. “In order to realise, among other things, our constitutional right we have no option but to give a notice of intention to withdraw our labour in seven days if the CBA will not have been honoured by January 20 and will not resume until the deal is implemented,” Wasonga said on Thursday. The union represents 90 per cent of the academic workforce in public universities. Unless there is an eleventh-hour resolution of the dispute, Uasu members at the 35 public universities will paralyse studies and affect some one million students. Students face disruption of their studies that could result in delayed completion and graduation. The strike notice comes at a time when universities are struggling to balance their finances against the backdrop of funding uncertainty. “We are seeing blame games from university bosses, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Ministry of Education. We arrived at Sh13.8 billion excluding the pension component,” Wasonga said. The union said it was puzzled by the decision to revise the implementation cost down to Sh8.8 billion. Uasu has demanded that university bosses step up and meet their side of the bargain. “What is the problem in this country? Must we go to the streets for CBAs to be honoured? You signed a document and now you are reluctant to respect it,” Wasonga said. The union further alleges that money to implement the pay deal could have been diverted to other uses. “We condemn the government’s decision to dishonour the Collective Bargaining Agreement signed between the government and the union on October 28 last year,” Uasu chairman Muga K'Olale said.