 Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri on Wednesday said he was disappointed with President Uhuru Kenyatta for reprimanding him before his constituents. Ngunjiri said he was shocked that the President chose to rebuke him “just outside” his homestead. “He (the President) did not come to launch any project in Bahati. He came just to insult me and to bully me. Nothing else,” Ngujiri said. Uhuru on Tuesday launched the Simba Cement Factory in Rongai constituency before making a stop-over at Maili Tisa in Bahati where he lashed out at Ngunjiri for hurling insults at him and ignoring to serve his constituents. He addressed the MP, who was present and told him to let him (Uhuru) do his job. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui also bashed the MP. On Wednesday, Ngunjiri said he was shocked that the President told his constituents that their representative in Parliament always insults the head of state. "I think we just differ on opinions when we talk about maize, milk and other national issues. I am just a leader like him. We had six ballot papers in the last election. He was elected like me. He was not elected for him to talk and us just to listen,” Ngunjiri said. “I thought he was coming to talk about the roads he promised during campaigns. He also did not talk about four dams in the area he had promised to expand. He just pointed fingers at me.” Kinyanjui told the crowd that it had become difficult to seek the support of the President to address some of the challenges facing the region because of the behaviour of their legislator. He even asked the crowd whether they are the ones who ask their MP to insult the President. Ngunjiri said the two leaders should have said the words he uses when hurling insults. “They were doing it exactly the same way we did it when attacking Raila during the campaigns,” Ngujiri said. The MP claimed his constituents were not thrilled by the remarks the President. “That is why he kept asking people to raise their hands every time he asked a question.”  edited by peter obuya