Home player Greg Snow returned an impressive score of 4-under par, 67 to claim a third Safari Tour series title of the season with a 2-over par, 286 gross score at Muthaiga Golf Club yesterday. Snow, who came into the final round four strokes behind overnight leader, Justus Madoya, made a slow start in the first nine, hitting two birdies at the par-5 fourth and par-4 eighth, coupled with two bogeys at the par-3 second and par-3 fifth for a turning score of par, 36. It was at the back nine that Snow started narrowing the gap, starting off with back-to-back birdies on the 10th and 11th, before hitting another two at the 14th and 18th, while managing to go through the other holes without dropping a shot to hand him his sixth Safari Tour title. Snow noted that his confidence and form coming into the tournament were the main ingredients to his remarkable feat. “I came into this leg fresh from the win at Thika Greens so I was in great form and confident too that I would win, even when I didn’t play well, in the third round.” “I came into today’s round knowing that I had to bring my best game. I had my work already cut out and I am glad that I fought for the win. I will rest tomorrow before I start training for the next leg in Sigona,” he added. “I want to thank Johnnie Walker for their continued support and I look forward to another great tournament at Sigona.” Snow finished three strokes ahead of the trio of Golf Park’s David Wakhu, Great Rift Valley’s Madoya and Thika’s Simon Ngige in second place on 5-over par, 289. Wakhu and Ngige returned identical round scores of par, with Madoya returning a score of 2-over par, 73. The trio finished one stroke ahead of current series leader Dismas Indiza in fifth on 6-over par, 290. Snow took home Sh105,000 with the trio in second bagging Sh59,500 each. The leg saw a season-high of eight amateur entries, with three of those going on to make the ‘cut’. Nyali Golf Club’s Daniel Nduva edged Mutahi Kibugu to the amateur salver, in a three-hole playoff, after the two had finished tied on 11-over par, 295. Indiza still leads the Road to the 2020 Magical Kenya Open standings on 330.6 points. Ngige moves into second on 307.9 points ahead of Snow, who has 300 points. Action moves to the Sigona Golf Club for the ninth leg from January 25-29.