 Phineas Kimathi has described his presence in the roll of honour of the Kenya Motor Sports Federation best Personality as a milestone for his motorsport career. The KMSF chairman and WRC Safari Project CEO was over the weekend named the Motor Sports Personality of the Year, 2019 at the annual awards ceremony at Nairobi’s Carnivore celebrated a strong year of sporting achievement. Kimathi spearheaded the campaign which won back Kenya’s World Rally Championship status after an 18-year hiatus. “This is by far my biggest achievement in my motorsprt career. It couldn’t have come at a better time when Kenya is in the middle of delivering another world class event. I am humbled by the award. It has come as a pleasant surprise and I wish to dedicate it to my family, the WRC Safari Project and the Kenya Motor Sports Federation Board for their support to ensure we got the Safari back. I have travelled to more than 30 countries trying to lobby for the event and I’m glad that the effort has come to fruition,” Kimathi said. Courtesy of the WRC Safari Project, a joint venture between the Kenyan Government through the Ministry Of Sports and KMSF  evolved to fit the modern-day WRC requirements. The ocassion also fêted all champions in respective categories of the sport. Baldev Chager was crowned the 2019 Kenya National Rally Champions while Ravi Soni won the 2019 KNRC Navigators’ Award. Isa Amwari bagged Division Two crown while Jasmeet Chana won the 2019 Group ‘N’ Award. Sahib Omar was crowned the 2019 KCB autocross champion while Kunal Patel won the 2WD Turbo category.. CAS Hassan Noor Hassan on behalf of Sports CS Ambassador Amina Mohammed said: “The Government will continue supporting the man and machine game to ensure the sport ‘races ahead’ with global requirements.” Ugandan rally legend Emmanuel Katto was the special guest of the event courtesy of  KMSF. Katto lauded the country for its efforts towards regaining WRC status, terming it a major milestone for the East African region. KCB Bank Kenya who are title sponsors of the Kenya National Rally Championship and Autocross Championship were represented by marketing and communications director Angela Mwirigi who confirmed that the lender will renew it’s sponsorship package for 2020. KCB will sponsor the 10 legs of autocross, the WRC Safari and indeed the eight round of the Kenya National Rally Championship.  KNRC CHAMPIONSHIP  Main Class Drive Baldev Chager Co - Driver Ravi Soni  Division 1 Driver Amaar Haq Co - Driver Victor Okundi  Division 2 Driver Issa Amwari Co - Driver Shameer Yusuf  Division 3 Driver Geoff Mayes Co - Driver Suzanne Zwager  Group N Driver Jasmeet Chana Co - Driver Ravi Chana  Group S Driver Sohanjeet Puee Co - Driver Adnan Din  SPV Driver Nikhil Sachania Co - Driver Deep Patel  2WD Driver Daren Miranda Co - Driver Wayne Fernandes  KNRC RAID  Prototype car Driver Ross Field Co - Driver Robbie Calder  Modified car  Driver Joost Zuurbier Co - Driver Rosaline Zuubier KENYA NATIONAL KARTING CHAMPIONSHIP Myles Imbayi (60cc Comer) William Kim (Junior Rotax)  Autocross  Zameer Verjee (2WD NT) Kunal Patel (2WD T) Shahib Omar (4WD T) Yuvraj Rajput (Bambino) Tsorav Soni (Per Wee) Imran Hakada (Open Wayne Fernandes (Quad)