No one likes to be kept waiting, least of all someone as busy as the Interior Cabinet secretary. Interior  CS Fred Matiag'i was not amused when security officers arrived late for a meeting at the Vihiga county commissioner's office in Mbale on Friday. He was expected at 9am but showed up at 7.45am, throwing everyone into confusion. "We are the most critical department in this country that we need to be alert 24/7," Matiang'i told the officers. "We should be able to deliver 24 hours for our people across the county and the country at large." He was speaking at the Prayer Centre in Mbale town where he met the Vihiga security team led by the regional commander. Matiang'i later proceeded to Muhoroni. The minister said 2020 is the year of implementing government programmes. "We are the people to ensure government projects are fully implemented within our jurisdiction," Matiang'i said. He said security agents will be responsible for ensuring there are no stalled projects in the counties. The CS directed them to identify stalled projects and establish why. If the problem is the contractor, they will be sent home, he said. "The President expects us to hold meetings in all 47  counties, subcounties and even to location level," Matiang'i said. "Service delivery should be of global standards as the President demands and it will be so when we come down here to meet you and the people we are serving. "So in case you meet me at your station bwana chief, don't be worried we are playing our part to ensure service delivery is at par." Matiang'i said the President acknowledges the officers' efforts of maintaining law and order. "It is due to your efforts in various areas you cover that our country is safe," he said. Since the Kilingili massacre, our team has intensified services and we have not had such an incident again, Matiang'i said. He was referring to the murder of five night guards at Kilingili market on March 3 last year. BIRTH CERTIFICATES Matiang'i said he wants the 15,000 birth certificate backlog in Vihiga cleared by end of March. "All counties have enough birth certificate so those backlogs should be cleared immediately,” he said. The birth certificates have been a thorny issue to Vihiga residents since 2018. Matiang'i congratulated Vihiga for achieving 100 per cent secondary school transition. He directed the local administrators to ensure 276 candidates who have not enrolled in secondary school are registered before the end of February. "We are going to have a headcount to find out whether the 276 pupils have enrolled. So make sure we have none in your area. If there is let the law take its course," Matiang'i said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya