It is important to remember that MPs who met in Naivasha yesterday have been trying to get a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting through the back door because they have been asking for it and it has not been forthcoming. They have also been trying to force a Jubilee party meeting which has also been fruitless. This meeting in Naivasha to discuss the Building Bridges Initiative is an act of desperation. They may be thinking that they are being tactful and are countering the other group spearheading BBI forums. Psychologists will tell them that what they are doing has all the hallmarks of a desperate person, who does not know he has been cornered. They think they are smart when in reality they are not. If you look at everything in detail, you will find that they have problems. Firstly, they think they can have their own meetings when we all know that meetings have already been scheduled. Secondly, they have said they want to drop meetings to as low as the constituency level. BBI meetings have been scheduled to end in February and at the end of that period, the taskforce will retreat to write a report. Soon after, report writing, a referendum Bill will follow. This means they are going nowhere. Further still, President Uhuru Kenyatta himself designated people to head those meetings in the regions. If Rift Valley leaders want to hold that meeting, they will have to do it under Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos. Tolgos did not appoint himself. It is Kenyatta, their party leader, who designated him to spearhead the meetings in Nakuru and Eldoret. If they want to be part of the meeting, they will have to be under Tolgos. To disrespect or disregard Tolgos will amount to disrespecting or disregarding the President. They think they can have a say on how the rally is organised, let's say in Eldoret. What if Kenyatta attends. It will then be a state function. Even Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago, who is breathing fire, and the area Women Representative Gladys Shollei, will toe the line. It is only Rift Valley where they can have the grassroots meetings but they will not succeed elsewhere. And I am saying they are desperate because if they succeed and organise these grassroots meetings in Rift Valley alone, it will portray Deputy President William Ruto as having influence only in Rift Valley. That is why I said, in the beginning, these are the kicks of a dying horse. They realised they have lost it and they are going through the stages of grief. Finally they will accept it and live with it. Herman Manyora, a political analyst, spoke to the Star 