The construction works on the road linking James Gichuru Road to Rironi Highway is 30 per cent complete, the Kenya National Highways Authority has said. The road project is located partly within Nairobi county and in Kiambu. The Sh16.4 billion six-lane highway was to be completed in 36 months after the construction started in August 2017. Yesterday, Kenha assistant corporate communication boss Charles Njogu said the 25.3-kilometre road is on course. "The length of the highway section is 25.3km, in addition to the side roads which are divided into two sections, the James Gichuru – Gitaru section and Gitaru – Rironi section," Njogu said. He said the two sections encompass the construction of approximately 38 kilometres of service roads and the construction of non-motorised traffic facility. "It also encompasses the upgrading of approximately 19 kilometres of connector roads to paved standard and the demolition of the two grade-separated junction overpass bridges at Kangemi (Kaptagat Road) and Uthiru." Other works include the widening of the seven-existing grade-separated junction underpass bridges to cater for the widened main roadway. These will be located at Muhuri Road junction, Regen junction, Zambezi, Kiambaa, Chunga Mali and Rironi (Kamandura). Njogu said other works include the demolition of the three existing railway underpass bridges and construction of new larger underpass ones to cater for the future developments. Under the project, the Gitaru - Dagoretti Road bridge will be widened to allow for the dualling of the southern bypass/Northern Bypass. China Wu Yi construction company is building the road that ends at the Mai Mahiu turnoff on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. The project is being fully being funded by the government. According to a resettlement action plan, 2,516 people are affected by the project. They either lost land, structures, businesses or tenancy. Authorities last month announced that Sh12 billion is needed to pay for land and structures. At least Sh1.2 billion has so far been paid for compensation. Last Month, Kenha was compelled to give alternative routes to those who were travelling for the festive season following the ongoing facelift of the road. The massive movement of travellers caused a serious gridlock. Kenha director general Peter Mundinia said Nairobi-Nakuru roads were set to be affected by traffic snarl-up. The DG asked travellers to used routes that bypass the Gilgil weighbridge. These were; flyover-Njambini-Engineer-Olkalou-Lanet or Naivasha-Engineer-Olkalou-Lanet. Mundinia said the route for bypassing James Gichuru-Rironi is Southern Bypass-Gikambura-Mutarakwa or Gigiri-Ndenderu-Kamandura. “We request motorists to adhere to traffic rules and regulations,” he said.