National team coach Ronny Owino thinks the combination of Denmark-based Tyler Ongwae and Robert Nyakundi will give opponents sleepless nights during the 2021 Fiba Afro-basket qualifier. The Strathmore University coach, who handled the national women side in the last continental show in Senegal late last year, believes Ongwae and France-based Nyakundi can take the team to the biggest Africa competition in Kigali next year. “Everything else considered, we have a good team that only needs to be made better by calling up few top diaspora players to beef up the playing unit and start off earlier preparations,” noted Owino. Morans booked their ticket to the next round of this competition last weekend with a close 74-68 victory over a tough South Sudan side at a packed the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium. “If you bring back Ongwae and Robert Nyakundi, who had a solid game in our matches, we will no doubt qualify,” he said. Owino said Bush was the only threat inside and urged Desmond Owili and Arial Okal to develop their killer instinct. “Bush was a constant menace in the post. He was unstoppable rebounding, rotating and blocking but needs someone to help reduce that heavy work load on his shoulders,” he observed. He went on: “Okal is a force to reckong with in the offensive and if only he could convert those chances, it would give the team a lot more balance in terms of scoring.” Owino, who is a Fiba Africa coaches instructor, noted that three players Griffin Ligare, Nyakundi and Wamukota tallied 58 of the 78 points the team picked up. “Others need to pick up,” he said. “When it is not your day, just try to do something positive as this will come in handy at the end of the game. This is what players need to know. You can’t be on top every day.” Former Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) chairman, Agina Wesonga, also lauded the team’s performance and urged the federation to plan ahead. “The bigger competition is coming later in the year. We have a good team that is on a roll and making the country proud. We need not to rest on the laurel,” he said. Kenya will face Angola and Senegal who are former Africa champions as well as Mozambique who is another power house in the next round. The matches are scheduled for November/December at a venue yet to be determined.