Top Star Casino has denied the claims that a 40-year-old man committed suicide after he lost Sh15 million to betting with them. The firm said that the reports on a section of the media connecting them to Richard Wangai’s death were ill-motivated and only meant to tarnish its name. They maintained that the deceased was never their client and didn’t visit the casino located on Adlife Plaza’s fifth floor, opposite Yaya Centre in Nairobi on Monday when he committed suicide. “We are wondering why a section of the media have erroneously reported that the deceased committed suicide after he lost Sh15 million in a bet with us,” Stephen Makari, Top Star Casino’s head of security said. He wondered where the deceased could have gotten the said Sh15 million for gambling while he looked 'too casual'. “This man according to the CCTV footage walked into the building on foot,” Makari told the Star on Tuesday. He added, “We don’t know the deceased. He wasn’t our client, this is meant to tarnish our name.” Multiple sources who spoke to the Star on the matter divulged that the deceased committed suicide from the fourth floor and not fifth where the casino is located. Investigations by the Star established that there is no Casino at Adlife Plaza’s fourth floor. The casino is on the building’s fifth floor. Kilimani police boss Lucas Ogara confirmed that the deceased never visited the casino as claimed. Ogara said that according to the CCTV footage reviewed by police officers, the man never visited any casino. He confirmed that the man committed suicide by jumping from the building’s fourth floor. Ogara divulged that the man prayed before he ended his own life on Monday evening. “Going by what we saw on CCTV, the man is seen walking around the fourth floor. There is no Casino on the fourth, but the fifth floor,” Ogara told the Star at his office on Tuesday. He said that nobody had either confirmed or reported to the police that the deceased had any money and lost it to a casino while betting. “We confirmed from the CCTV that he jumped. There is no foul play in his death.” Wangai’s body was retrieved from the building’s compound where he had dropped dead by officers from the Kilimani police station shortly after the incident. Ogara said he died on the spot. The body was removed to the City mortuary. He termed the casino claims as, “imaginary things.” “He didn’t talk to anybody, the Casino’s narrative is people’s making.” The police chief said that nobody had claimed the body by the time of going to press. He said that the deceased was not known to the locals in Kilimani area. “There is nobody who has reported to the police that he/she is the deceased’s, family member. He is not known. It could have been difficult to identify him if it were not for his national identification card that police found in his pocket,” Ogara said. Operations at the building and Top Star, the only casino in the property are going on normally.