Northeastern leaders have accused three clans of harbouring suspected terrorists. The forum was held in Mandera and brought together politicians and clerics. They sought to find solutions to terror and radicalisation in the region. Mandera Governor Ali Roba said residents are behind deadly attacks. He said al Shabaab militants are being harboured by three clans — Murulle clan in Lafey-Arabia stretch, Degodia clan in Rhamu-Banissa stretch and Gerreh clan in Wargadud-Elwak-Kutulo stretch. “One is left to wonder, how can one win against an enemy fighting in your backyard, aided by one of your own, whose targets are unknown, motives of fighting you are unknown, an enemy whose strength is unknown?” he said. His sentiment followed two separate attacks in Garissa and Wajir on Thursday and Friday respectively. In the first incident, the militants attacked a police Land Cruiser travelling from Liboi to Dadaab on Damader Road on Thursday afternoon. One police officer was critically injured on the chest as other officers battled the bandits. It was not clear if there were fatalities on either side. Hours later, another group of militants attacked a passenger bus heading to Wajir between Qarsa and Khorof Harar, Wajir county, on Friday morning. Police reports indicate the driver was flagged down by an unknown number of suspected Shabaab members but refused to stop, prompting the gunmen to spray the vehicle with bullets. Sources say two passengers were injured. Roba said that despite increased police numbers and camps, terrorists have continued to strike by changing tack. “What are we doing wrong? Where are the gaps? Why are the attacks succeeding undetected?” Roba asked. He said radicalisation, terrorism and conflict cannot be resolved through enforcement alone. Last week President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered security agents to mount operations to flush out terrorists, their sympathisers and sleeper cells, especially in the Northeastern and Coast regions. He addressed regional commanders during the annual National Security Review and Planning Conference in Mombasa. “The national government administrative officers and the police are to engage the local political, religious and opinion leaders within vulnerable communities as a proactive strategy to deny terrorists entry points into the radicalisation of our youth,” Uhuru said. Terror attacks in the North have left scores of highly trained security personnel and residents dead. In a daring surprise attack, the militants stormed a heavily guarded joint KDF-US military base in Manda, Lamu, on January 5, killing three US citizens. Investigations into the raid are still ongoing.