Deputy President William Ruto has told Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to ignore conditions from his allies and work with him ahead of 2022. Addressing the former Vice President on Saturday at the burial of Real Mbeleete Mailu–mother of Kenyan ambassador to Geneva Clepa Mailu–in Makindu, Ruto told Kalonzo to choose independently on his presidential ambitions. He was responding to Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua who had said earlier that they had no problem with Kalonzo working with other leaders as long as they back his presidential bid. "The instructions given to Kalonzo by the Kamba community are very clear that he should not come here to tell us he will be someone's running mate, 2022, he will be a presidential candidate," Wambua said. But the DP told Wambua to let Kalonzo choose his way independently and stop issuing conditions. "You know the conditions you are giving to Kalonzo are the same conditions am given by my supporters, let him come we negotiate at the table, he could be the lucky one you never know," Ruto said. He aspires to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto warned Kalonzo to be careful not to be misled by his allies "as some would want to use him to win their seats". "You know these people sometimes are not genuine, they know when you are vying for president they are in a strategic position to win their seats without caring whether you can win." Ruto said the BBI had opened doors for negotiations across the political divide and asked Kalonzo not to be afraid of talking to him. Senate Majority leader Murkomen and Machakos town MP Victor Munyaka also told Kalonzo to join hands with Ruto. "I  am confident the two of you will form the next government," Munyaka said. "As you talk to Raila and Uhuru, talk also with Ruto, because you never know, and let no one threaten you for being close to the DP." However, Kalonzo turned down the DP's offer saying he will be in the ballot. The Wiper leader who spoke before the DP said the perception he is in talks with him was a media creation. "We (Wiper) are in agreement to support President Kenyatta's administration. I ask the media to free me," he said. Kalonzo revealed how he turned down Ruto's request to fly on his plane from Khartoum to Juba last week when they met after Ruto found him stranded at the airport. "That is why I chose to sit away from you today brother Ruto because had I agreed to fly on your plane and today be seen with you in Kibwezi, the story would be different." Others who attended the burial were Nark party leader Martha Karua, businesswoman Mary Wambui and city tycoon Jimmy Wajigi.