On March 9, 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga met with the intention to end the impasse that had followed the 2017 disputed presidential elections and the tension that came with it. At the time, there was anxiety in the country as Raila had boycotted the October 26 repeat election and instead called for public defiance through resistance. The opposition mobilised its supporters across the country to resist items associated with those pro- the Jubilee government. The resistance climaxed at tje mock swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the "People's President" at Uhuru Park, a move that disrupted business in many parts of the country. Raila's move to meet Uhuru at the Harambee House caught many by surprise, including his Nasa co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC)and Moses Wetang'ula of Ford Kenya. It is after this meeting that the handshake was born, on the footsteps of Harambee House. A nine-point communique was read with the aim of healing the country past and current problems. Consequently, in March 2018, Uhuru gazetted a 14-member Building Bridges Initiative to work on the issues highlighted by the two leaders. Th task force comprised of Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura, Major John Seii, and Bishop Lawi Imathiu. Others were Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Prof Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu and Archbishop Zecheus Okot. The joint secretaries were Ambassador Martin Kimani and lawyer Paul Mwangi. After the gazettement, the team started engaging Kenyans across the country, collecting their views on what should be included in the final report towards the making of the Kenyan nation. After the countrywide tours and collecting Kenyans views, the taskforce completed filing its report in October. And after waiting for more than a month, the team handed in the report to Uhuru, who launched in on November 27 at Bomas of Kenya. According to the task force, the views presented to the President were the views of Kenyans from the 47 counties, including testimonies and petitions from the professional institutions. The views were also collected from the constitutional commissions, civil society organisations, religious leaders and associations, business associations and business leaders. During the launch at Bomas, Uhuru asked politicians to allow Kenyans to read the report for their own. Since its launch, however, Kenyans are yet to get the copies of the report. On January 13, the government gazetted a 14-member steering committee tasked to oversee the implementation of the BBI Report to a United Kenya Taskforce Report. This extended the initial BBI team's tenure. The committee was directed to submit its comprehensive review by June 30, 2020. President Kenyatta and Raila have asked Kenyans to support the BBI report and participate in engagement forums before the final recommendations are proposed. The first regional forum was held in Kisii, where leaders from Nyanza endorsed the report, with some giving more views. Raila allies have proposed a powerful  Prime Minister, unlike in the report in which the PM does not have much powers. Kakamega hosted the western region meeting on January 18. Addressing residents in the meeting, Raila said he was not after posts and that his meeting with Uhuru was for a better country. Mudavadi asked leaders in Bukhungu Stadium to be careful not to cause more rifts in the country through BBI. Deputy President and his allies have not attended the two BBI meetings and but have now vowed to be part of the team on Saturday in Mombasa. Led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, they say said they will attend the Mombasa meeting since BBI is about unity. ODM leaders have asked them to attend the meeting but with the condition that they will not cause any disruption. Led by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and his Kieni counterpart Kanini Kega, they said the meeting is open to every Kenyan Junet, however, questioned the sudden change of tune from the leaders. "You cannot keep saying one thing today and you say a different thing tomorrow. It's really confusing Kenyans," Junet said.