After returning from a month-long compassionate leave, youthful KCB striker Ian Mutanda has set a target of notching at least ten goals in the remaining bit of the 2019-2020 Kenya Premier League season. Mutanda was unavailable in December following the death of his brother but the former Kisumu All Stars forward resumed training yesterday at Camp Toyoyo where he revealed his dream of scoring ten goals and registering more than twelve assists. Mutanda was among the handful of players the bankers shopped before the season began but has found it tough to break into the starting team as the technical bench has been preferring to summon the experienced trio of Enoch Agwanda, Benson Amanda and Stephen Waruru to shoulder the scoring responsibilities. The former Manyatta United striker who has a goal against his name from the two starts he has had this season attributed his goal shyness to lack of playing time as well as KPL experience. "I am targeting to be on the mark at least ten times with more than 12 assists in the remaining bit of the matches. It has been tough for me to adapt to KCB's philosophy as I played in a different club last season. It is also my first season in the top flight but I have now come of age. I now know the secrets of breaking and maintaining a place in the first team." KCB assistant coach Godfrey Oduor said the return of the former Barding High School alumnus will sparkle competition in the striking front. He tipped him to meet his target for the season should he rise above the past and double his efforts in training. "It's a motivation to have him back in the team.He responded well in his first training session of the year and his return will bring competition upfront. He is a skilful player whom i believe stands to achieve his targets for the season depending on his commitment in training." Oduor in the meantime revealed that more players will be axed in the course of the week after the duo of Dennis Ng'ang'a and Kennedy Owino left the club last week. The club had hinted of releasing close to eight players last week " We are working on the final list of the players deemed surplus to requirement.We will disclose the names in the course of the week,"