What needs to be understood under criminal justice locally or internationally is what is called the principle of double jeopardy. Double jeopardy is a procedural defence that prevents an accused person from being tried again on the same or similar charges following a valid acquittal This basically means that when an accused has gone through trial, there is a form of defence against future charges of a similar nature being preferred against the same person. That is a general rule but there could be very special circumstances where a case based on the same circumstances may be reopened. Remember the International Criminal Court case involving President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto did not go up to full trial for the court to be able to terminate or acquit the two on merit. The ICC threw out the case against the Deputy President after establishing that there was insufficient evidence, but it refused to acquit him. One judge even declared it was a mistrial. The ICC's decision was a majority decision made by two of the three judges. Presiding Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji and Judge Robert Fremr, as the majority, agreed that the charges were to be vacated and the accused was discharged. What happened is that he was discharged because of lack of witnesses or lack of credible evidence, so to speak. The then ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda acknowledged that the loss of witnesses weakened the case against the Deputy President. When criminal charges are terminated where there is insufficient evidence, the prosecution is always left with room to reopen should they gather sufficient evidence. So, if there are plans to revive the ICC case, the question that begs is: Do we now have witnesses and do we have sufficient evidence to sustain a criminal trial to secure a conviction? If that is the case, the prosecution at the ICC should be able to show that they have conducted fresh investigations or they have new witnesses that have come up or that the witnesses that had disappeared have now mysteriously reappeared or there is something that they have discovered they were unaware of at the time they instituted the initial criminal proceedings. Elias Mutuma, a Nairobi lawyer spoke to the Star