A section of Western leaders yesterday urged Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and trade unionist Francis Atwoli to stop advocating ODM leader Raila Odinga’s agenda in the region. The politicians, led by Western Kenya parliamentary group chairman John Bunyasi, said Raila is using Oparanya and Atwoli to undermine the interests of the region and its leaders. They added that they will not allow a few people to derail them from serving the region and reviving the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. They addressed the media after a two-hour meeting at a Nairobi hotel to deliberate on the BBI process. They took issue with the  January 18 rally at Bukhungu, Kakamega, which seeks to bring together all leaders from the region to deliberate on the BBI, saying it is an ODM affair, hence they will not attend. “They want to use the meeting on January 18 in Kakamega to impose leaders on us, endorse the BBI report that has not been completed and push the ODM agenda in Western,” Bunyasi said. “Going forward, we will treat the proposed meeting as an ODM affair.” Efforts to reach Atwoli and Oparanya for comment were unsuccessful. However, Lugari MP Ayub Savula defended Atwoli and Oparanya, saying the two are pushing for the BBI for the benefit of all Kenyans. “I will attend but I will walk out if they start endorsing people or pushing any ODM agenda. In fact, I will come with my people from Lugari,” Savula said. But the disgruntled politicians said they understand Atwoli was planning to read out a list of leaders — governors, senators, MPs, women reps and MCAs — to take over in 2022. “We do not understand where Atwoli derives the mandate to speak on behalf of the elected leaders. He should first campaign and get votes so he can speak on behalf of the masses,” Bunyasi said. They said they were not consulted on the rally and learned about it from the media. The cautioned that they will not allow Atwoli to bully local leaders at the time they were focused on development projects and supporting an investment culture in the region. “We know well that Atwoli and Oparanya are serving external masters. We have also seen Atwoli host Raila at his home and then start giving out instructions,” Bunyasi said. “We have to focus on important things that serve the interests of the locals, not those meant for people with selfish political goals.”