EACC boss Twalib Mbarak has urged Kenyans to stop voting in politicians accused of corruption. He said an election win makes embolden them to perpetuate graft. In his message to mark one year since assuming office on January 14 last year, Mbarak accused voters of propagating corruption. He lamented that elections are still driven by handouts, ethnicism and party waves that give voters a little chance of electing graft-free representatives. “The root cause of political corruption is the public. The most unfortunate factor in Kenya is that all county government leadership came to office through the people’s mandate,” he said. “They never dropped from heaven but the fact is our choice is not based on performance but other factors." The anti-graft chief executive warned that the war on graft may take longer as the country appears to be dealing with symptoms rather than causes. Admitting that the fight is not an easy task, he ceded ground on concerns by many Kenyans that nothing much has been done. “More on this, the country is perceived globally to be one of the most corrupt. This concern is genuine and there is more that must be done for Kenya to slay the corruption dragon.” Mbarak holds that the country is still riddled with political corruption, which he described as the most lethal and one that fuels both grand and petty corruption. “This is the foundation of corruption in any country,” he said, adding that this is the reason many citizens globally do not trust their governments. “In Africa, many citizens tend to trust the clergy and the media, rather than senior government officials." He regretted that grand corruption, usually perpetrated by the powerful individuals who may be politically connected or very wealthy and influential, still exists in the country. “Then we have the petty corruption perpetrated by junior citizens mainly from the public service. The petty corruption is openly felt by the citizens. For instance, a citizen gets harassed by Traffic police and delayed service for issuance of relevant government services, which may include medical services and national identity cards," the message read. “Grand corruption is very lethal but indirectly felt. This will include poorly constructed roads and substandard government projects that look fine in a short period but start crumbling later. “We also have ghost and stalled projects where millions of shillings of public funds are lost in implementation and end up enriching individuals." Mbarak further said many poor countries are paying heavy external debts for services that were not to the full benefit of their citizens because of grand corruption. On members of the public,  the CEO apportioned further blame, citing cases of parents who are ready to buy leaked exams for their children, motorists breaking traffic rules with full knowledge that they would bribe the police, and people using fake academic credentials to get jobs. Mbarak says his office will employ a multipronged strategy against corruption to yield better results, hence the focus on asset tracing and recovery. Describing the approach as both punitive and preventive, he said public official will no longer have room to brag in the open how they illegally amassed wealth. He hailed the EACC’s recovery of assets worth Sh22.56 billion and the prevention of the loss of Sh135 billion from several dubious state contracts or tenders that were almost being awarded.