City Hall has committed to paying Sh121 million owed to the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority, acting Health CEC Vesca Kangogo has said. “We are paying Sh 121 million now which is the reconciled amount and we will ensure we clear the balance by the end of the financial year,” Kangogo said. The amount is part of the Sh1.4 billion approved for clearance by the Pending Bills Committee and the Office of the Auditor General. Kangogo said that the county will start making orders quarterly to ensure that facilities do not run out drugs' supply. “In October last year, the county government made an order and received drugs for all the county facilities to last for the just-ended quarter in December,” she said. On January 16, data from Kemsa showed that out of Sh2.8 billion owed by seven counties, Nairobi topped the list with a debt of Sh353 million. Kilifi follows with Sh199.1 million debt, Kiambu with Sh141.6 million, Busia Sh119.08 million and Vihiga at Sh114.4 million. However, the authority noted goodwill from counties like Nairobi, which has committed to clear the bills. Kemsa boss Jonah Manjari had mentioned that the authority has a service level agreement with counties and an MOU has been signed. "We have a credit period of 45 days with them and some counties have been going beyond that period,” Manjari said. Kangogo said the four referral county hospitals — Mama Lucy Hospital, Pumwani Maternity, Mbagathi and Mutuini have been making orders for the drugs on a need basis and they have been paying for current supplies. Last month, City Hall paid Sh6 million worth of drugs for Pumwani Maternity Hospital. Kangongo said that the facilities are currently compiling their orders for request and supply for the third quarter that started this month. In October last year, Kemsa resumed drugs supply to county health facilities with drugs worth Sh66.93 million. The supplies had halted after counties including Nairobi defaulted on payment to the parastatal. In 2017, Kemsa stopped supplying medicine to Nairobi hospitals over a Sh285 million debt, forcing patients to buy drugs and other medical supplies from private hospitals and chemists. It took the intervention of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki for Kemsa to resume supplies to the county last year. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had sent a stern warning to health officials and county hospital administrators against the diversion of drugs. “Matters health must be observed with keenness and anyone caught diverting county drugs either for personal use or for sale will face the full force of the law,” he said. Kemsa currently has stock worth Sh15 billion at the Embakasi depot.