A teachers' union in Garissa has said that a 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school might not be realised because of emerging security challenges. Garissa Knut executive secretary Abdirizack Hussein said last week's killing of three non-local teachers at Kamuthe Primary School by al Shabaab militants was a big blow to the transition drive. After the attack, the Ministry of Education transferred non-local teachers from schools in four subcounties of Fafi, Ijara, Holugho and Dadaab to "safer areas" within Garissa town. Speaking to the press in Garissa town, Hussein said most parents have transferred their children to schools within Garissa Township, a situation he said would further congest the schools. He said in the event the students end up joining the schools, the quality of education in these schools will be highly compromised. “We performed dismally in last year's KCSE exam, with the main reason being lack of teachers that was largely brought by insecurity. The students are going to join schools that have very few teachers. "How do you expect these students to perform well?” Hussein asked. Hussein said the government should walk the talk by recruiting more teachers and availing funds to schools in the region. Most headteachers have a problem running schools because of lack of funding, he said. “Most of the headteachers and principals confided to me that they are admitting students not because they are able to sustain them but because they are following the directive from the ministry. Given a free hand they could not have admitted them,” the unionist said. A headteacher in a day school in Garissa subcounty said admitting students is one thing and sustaining them in a totally different story. “We have admitted day scholars. The students are supposed to carter for lunch and for some who come far from their homes transport. This is the responsibility of the parents and most of them cannot afford it. in this case who is supposed to foot the bill?” he asked. “Another challenge is low marks with most of them getting as low as 100. Surely how do you transform such a child?” Speaking on the phone, Garissa county education officer Khalif Isack said overcrowding in class is one of the biggest problems schools are facing. He said that a team from Nairobi was going around schools collecting data on the infrastructural gap. Garissa subcounty has  28 schools – boarding and day schools.      