The rise in cases of snakebites in different parts of Mwingi has proved distressing. More than 10 people have been attacked by the dreaded reptile in the past one month. Residents, especially those in rural areas, are spending sleepless nights in fear of attacks. In parts of Nguni, Nuu, Kyuso and Mui, many people have been maimed, while others have been documented to have died from venomous bites. Currently, five residents are hospitalised at Mwingi Level 4 Hospital. More than 10 cases have been handled by the facility since the beginning of December last year, according to the management. Anti-snake venoms are supplied by the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority and administered to patients for free. Judy Musyoka, a Mui resident in Mwingi Central, was hospitalised on New Year’s Eve. “I was bitten by a serpent on my left ankle as I harvested watermelons from my farm early morning on December 31 last year,” the 41-year-old said. KWS Urged to act She wants the Kenya Wildlife Service to seize all snakes that wander on their farms and homesteads and conserve them at a museum to reduce related risks. Judy expressed concern over KWS’es lengthy compensation process, amid rumours that the service is no longer remitting compensation for victims. Damaris Kavinya from Kyuso ward in Mwingi North constituency is attending to her 15-year-old daughter Anna Muasia at the hospital. She was struck by a snake on December 28, 2019, at their home. Damaris, who seemed disturbed by her daughter’s attack, said Anna had been at the facility for more than a week. Her home is more than 60 kilometres away. “Were it not for the poisonous snakebite, my daughter would be in class with the rest of her classmates,” she said. Anna’s school reopened on January 7. She will, however, stay in hospital until she recovers. In yet another case, Lilian Wanza from Nguni was bitten by a snake on January 6 on her farm. She was admitted to Mwing Level 4 Hospital where she is recuperating. She narrated from her hospital bed that most residents fear to visit their farms during this harvesting period because the venomous snakes are all over the place. “We can’t harvest our produce in peace fearing attacks from venomous snakes, which have been on the rise,” the 21-year-old farmer said. The wife of Musyoka Nzung’u from Mui in Mwingi Central was hospitalised over a snakebite. Nzung’u wants the government, through the Kenya Wildlife Service, to hasten compensation and ensure fairness. “Some of the snakebite victims die without ever being compensated because of prolonged processes at KWS, thus the government should ensure an immediate faster compensation for victims,” Musyoka said. Mwingi Level 4 surgical ward in-charge Brian Achando said a lot of snakebite cases have been reported from December. He said they have successfully handled most cases, with most patients being discharged after recovering. Dr Achando, however, pointed out that they have been having a hard time handling patients as most of them do not recognise the type of snake that bite them. “In such cases, the hospital is, therefore, forced to use a universal antivenom (Antiproliferant) to treat the patients.” He said it is more effective when a specific anti-venom is used for specific snake venom. On the common snakes attacking most people in Mwingi, the medic named black mamba, cobra and puffadder. Women most affected According to hospital statistics, most snakebite victims are women. Mwingi Level 4 consultant physician John Karanga said Kitui is one of the counties with many cases of snakebites, especially during hot and dry seasons. “Residents should be free to visit the hospital immediately they suspect to have been struck by a snake for free treatment,” Karanga advised. He urged the victims to identify the type of snakes to aid in their treatment. “Identifying the snake that has struck a patient makes the treatment process effective for the necessary antivenom is administered to them,” Karanga said. Residents were further urged to wear protective gear when visiting their farms as a precautionary measure. “While in the farm, please, ensure you are protectively dressed to avoid poisonous snakebites,” Karanga added.