Sacked Wazito team manager Bramwel Makotsi  believes the playing unit is to blame for the unending dismissal of coaches and poor run at the club. Makotsi, alongside Stewart Hall’s assistant coach Frank Ouna, were shown the door yesterday for unspecified reasons but the former believes that had the players been living up to the expectations, the reoccurring technical bench restructuring would cease. The long-serving Makotsi pleaded not guilty of any wrong doing  and called out the management for axing him without an explanation. Makotsi was earlier linked to the transfer deal saga involving Whyonne Isuza,  where Wazito unveiled the midfielder without proper documentation from his former side, AFC Leopards contrary to the law. He, however, cleared his name from the deal where he alleged he was instructed by the club’s Chief Executive Officer-cum-captain Dennis Gicheru to divulge news to their media of the transfer coup and witness the unveiling at their offices. “I do not understand why I was sacked as I did my job in line with the expectations. "I ensured all logistics were in place for training sessions and on match days. "I was not involved in Isuza’s transfer at all. I leave Wazito after seven years without hard feelings but I challenge the players to reward the hard work by the management with positive results," he said. He added: "Had the team been performing well, I am sure there would be less or no restructuring. All the coaches who have handled the club are superb but the players have let them down,” he noted. Since gaining promotion to the top flight last year, Wazito have parted ways with the duo of Fred Ambani and Melis Medo, thanks to their dismal run in the league despite enjoying financial stability. The NSL winners also fired National U-20 head coach Stanley Okumbi, who served as the technical director and would later drop the sporting director Solomom Alubala. With the firing of Ouna, who rejoined the club in November, the struggling outfit who are a place above the red line will rely on Hall to turn  around fortunes.