An assistant chief in Nyandarua uses music and dance to deliver government messages on patriotism, environmental conservation, unity and war on crime. George Thuo Mwangi alias George Winterson Thuo says that an administrator need not to use force to convince people to obey the law. The Kanjuiri sub-location assistant chief in Mirangine uses music and poetry in his administrative duties. Winterson Thuo is his stage name. “When they listen to what I sing and recite, work becomes easier. I preach positive virtues and good morals through sacred, patriotic and topical songs and poems. I encourage people to plant trees to conserve the environment, fight against drugs and guard against ailments like HIV and Aids," Mwangi says. The chief, who heads the Kanjuiri Mashinani Choir, says his approach has brought together many adults and youths to explore various ways of exploiting their talents instead of engaging in societal evils. He is grateful to the government for supporting and encouraging the development of various talents for people to achieve their potential. He urged parents to similarly encourage their children and support them to grow their talents at a tender age. The administrator has been singing since childhood. He sang other people's songs while in classes three and five but started composing his own songs in 1991 when he joined standard six. The father of three now has so far over 700 compositions in various languages. He has three albums to his name, complete with videos. His favourite compositions are Niwathinirio Yesu (Jesus you were persecuted) and Niwega Mwathani (Thank you, Lord). His favourite patriotic song is Tungane Pamoja while the topical song is Safaricom. He says that the music industry has the potential to employ millions of youths. “There are many hangers-on too, who engage in piracy, hence subject the musicians to misery.” Mwangi, 41, was born at Cheprosgei village near Eldoret but his family relocated to Kanjuiri following the 1988 tribal violence. He attended Kanjuiri Primary School and Njabini High School Ngorika Township. Between 2005 and 2013, he was a forest ranger at Ngong Road Forest Sanctuary but quit to train as a teacher at Meru Teachers College.  He was a teacher at Boma Springs Academy and Nyaituga Primary School between 2015 and 2017. He joined the administration last year after resigning as a teacher. His family is of great support to him. His wife, Lucy Nduta, is one of his dancers and accompanies him in many places. “We have formed a group and God willing, we shall empower each one of the members to achieve their potential, “Mwangi says. Pharis Wainaina, a local resident says the assistant chief’s approach has gone a long way in eradicating crime and drugs in Kanjuiri. “Before his employment, there were many challenges. But things have changed. We have quit drugs for music," Wainaina says. The Kanjuiri Mashinani Choir performs in church events, weddings, funeral, and public events.  