The World Food Programme has been urged to align its programmes to peace building. “I want to appeal to you to think along those lines of aligning your programmes so that as  you go about giving  food to the peripheral areas within the county, you should look at the most vulnerable groups especially the youth  that have become a soft target for radicalization,” Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said. He addressed a WFP team led  by Linnet Waititi who  paid him a courtesy visit on Wednesday at the end of their two-day quarterly consultation. The team assessed key strategic achievements and challenges encountered in implementation of an MOU signed on March 2019. Abdi said hunger remained one of the top reasons people engaged in crime, noting that giving opportunities to the youth who form the majority of the population will go along way in solving the problem. “ I have said before that Kenya is a very youthful country and about 80 per cent of the population is below 35 years. Unemployment amongst youth continues to rise. So both levels of government and NGOs must come up with ways to address the problem, which if not well managed, is a ticking time bomb,” he said He added: “I want to  assure WFP that my administration will undertake its commitment in terms of what we  are supposed to provide like technical manpower and everything else that is covered in the MOU,” he said. He  further appealed for collaboration in  countering the locust invasion that he said was a threat to food security. “As it stands, the national and county governments remain ill-equipped and ill-prepared, poorly resourced to undertake surveillance and control to contain the locust invasion in our country. It is for this reason that we are calling for more support,” Abdi said. The deadly pests continue to wreak havoc in many parts of the frontier counties with the latest reports indicating they are fast spreading into Tana River county. “It is important to note that the last swarm covered a width of 40-50 km and an estimated land mass of over 12,000 square kilometers has been invaded so far. We fear huge damage may be happening in remote sites far from settlements,” he said. Waititi said since 2009, WFP in partnership with the national and county governments had been engaged in projects including the school meals programme, nutrition specific supplementary feeding programme and food for work.