Tests on a Kenyan student quarantined at Kenyatta National Hospital on suspicion of being infected with coronavirus will be confirmed today. The Ministry of Health yesterday said they were still conducting tests and other investigations. However, the Star learnt the country might be lacking the proper reagents and kits to isolate the Wuhan coronavirus. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the tests would be done at the National Influenza Centre inside the Kenya Medical Research Institute in Nairobi. Kariuki said the patient, who remains in isolation at the KNH, was in stable condition with all vital signs within normal ranges. "Following admission at the KNH, appropriate specimens have been collected for investigation at the National Influenza Centre," she told journalists last evening. The Kenyan student, who has not been named, is in his early 20s. He left Wuhan City in China, the epicentre of the epidemic, on Monday last week and travelled 400km away to Zhangjiajie City in Hunan province. He stayed there and later travelled about 900km to the western city of Guangzhou. "The traveler reported he had not been in contact with a known case of novel coronavirus 2019 (2019-nCoV)," Kariuki said. Yesterday, the Ministry of Health said he flew from Guangzhou on Monday this week on a Kenya Airways flight to Nairobi through Bangkok, Thailand. He arrived at JKIA yesterday morning at 0615 hours. Kenya Airways yesterday said they noticed the passenger was unwell and isolated him on the flight to Nairobi. The crew also notified health authorities in Nairobi before the flight landed. "Decision to quarantine the passenger was reached by the Kenya Government port health authorities stationed at JKIA. The Kenyan passenger had been cleared to travel by the China port health authorities at the Guangzhou Airport," KQ said in a statement. The procedure at the airport of departure is that all passengers are required to undergo quarantine screening by the health authorities before being cleared to board any aircraft. "Upon being cleared, our staff notifies the Kenya Government port health authorities who then take precautionary measures including further screening on arrival," KQ explained. Kariuki said the student was immediately isolated in a temporary holding room at JKIA on arrival and later transferred to the Infectious Disease Unit, KNH, for investigation and admission. The student is the first person to be tested for the virus. She assured Kenyans the surveillance at the airport and all points of entry will continue. The government further requested Kenyans who travelled to China in the last two weeks to present in any hospital for tests, even if they are not feeling sick. The recommendation is a joint effort across East Africa to keep the region free of the dangerous coronavirus that has killed 107 people in China. Yesterday, Kenyan students in Wuhan city expressed displeasure with how the government was responding to their pleas for help, amidst an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus. The students took to twitter under the hashtag #KenyansInWuhan to air their frustrations, some claiming there had been no communication from the Kenyan embassy in Beijing. In Ethiopia, four students who arrived from Wuhan were also isolated in Addis Ababa for further tests. According to the World Health Organization, the virus incubation period is  10 -14 days. An infected person can spread the virus during that time before symptoms appear. There's no treatment against the virus and infected people are simply treated to relieve the symptoms. There's also no vaccine, WHO says. Acting head of the EAC secretariat’s health department Dr Michael Katende who is coordinating prevention efforts in the region noted the self-quarantine should extend to everyone who traveled to South East Asia. "Partner states should watch out for any person with a positive history of travel in the last 14 days to southeast Asian countries for screening and further management in case the need arises," he said. The coronavirus can survive or stay suspended in the air for hours or travel more than a few feet. Like influenza, coronavirus spreads through both direct and indirect contact. Indirect contact results when an infected person coughs or sneezes, spreading coronavirus droplets on nearby surfaces, including knobs, bedrails and smartphones. The Chinese embassy in Nairobi said it was monitoring the entry of Chinese into Kenya, saying it doesn't want to put the lives of Kenyans at risk. "The Chinese side always puts the lives of Chinese citizens and foreigners including Kenyans in China above everything else, and will continue to take effective and timely measures to address legitimate concerns," ambassador Wu Peng said in a statement. The embassy notified Kenyans it had closed schools in the effected region within this time. On Monday, the Kenyan Ministry of Foreign Affairs said 85 Kenyans are living in Wuhan City, where the virus originated. “The embassy is aware that there are 85 Kenyans in Wuhan who are registered with the embassy and is closely monitoring the situation,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. The ministry believes there may be other Kenyans in the city. “We encourage unregistered Kenyans to register as a matter of importance. All Kenyans in Wuhan and in China, in general, should endeavor to immediately contact the Kenya embassy in Beijing for advice and consular assistance as appropriate,” the ministry advised. The coronavirus outbreak came to prominence on January 9 following the death of a 61-year old man who had exhibited symptoms similar to the common cold and the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). Its symptoms include breathing complications, fever, kidney failure, pneumonia, severe coughing and impaired liver and kidney function. Apart from China, other countries such as Australia, France, Cambodia, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Singapore, South Korea, the United States, Vietnam, Thailand and Taiwan have confirmed cases of the virus.