Kenya Lionesses will play at the Malaysia in a  build-up match ahead of the World Sevens Series qualifier in Hong Kong in March. Head coach Felix Oloo said the build-up will be good preparation for the side as they chase the elusive ticket to the World seven series. The Lionesses lost to Brazil last year in the semifinals in Hong Kong and Oloo said they are making progress every year. "We are headed  in the right direction. The girls finished second in the Africa Cup Sevens and qualified for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. We also finished second at the Dubai Invitational  tournament in December and this is a good progress,” added Oloo. The team resumed training at the start of the year and will train for the next two and half months before flying to Asia for the warm-up tournament. Oloo said the team will have to work on its mentality especially in the  big matches. It's one area we have to work on. We have lost two tournaments and therefore we have to focus on the small details because we are losing by narrow margins against the opposition," he added. He expressed confidence that the team will win the World Sevens Series qualifiers and become a core side.  “I'm confident in the girls' abilities. Our work ethic and determination will see us through this time round," he added. Oloo said competition for a place in the squad will be intense. “We have a good crop of players coming through the ranks and I think they will fight hard for their positions and make the  environment very competitive," added Oloo. Elsewhere,  the race for the Kenya Cup playoffs will intensify tomorrow at various grounds across the country. Only four points separate the teams in sixth and eighth positions with the playoffs looming large. Seventh-placed Mwamba, last season's Kenya Cup semifinalists,  are at home to sixth-placed Nakuru RFC.  The two sides had forgettable outings last weekend with Mwamba losing 30-14 away to Menengai Oilers and Nakuru falling to a 38-0 home defeat to leaders Kabras Sugar. The battle between fourth and fifth takes place at the Impala Club, where another duo of playoff chasers—Impala Saracens and Menengai Oilers— face off while eighth placed Nondescripts host co-tenants Homeboyz  in the Jamhuri Park derby.