DPP Noordin Haji has termed a decision by Sonko to nominate a deputy unacceptable. He on Monday said the governor was in violation of his bail terms hence his action was null and void. " The court was clear on what Sonko cannot do. To purport to have power to name a deputy while his case is still on is a violation of the bail terms given to him. We will move to court," warned Haji. Sonko nominated Anne Kananu Mwenda as the deputy governor. In a letter to assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi on Monday, Sonko said the decision is in line with article 180(5) of the Constitution and the Supreme Court Advisory of March 2018. The embattled governor said the move further was motivated by the complexity of the situation in Nairobi following his arraignment in court last month. He said though he was granted bail terms in a case he is accused of misusing public resources, the court required him as the county chief to stay out of office until the determination of the matter. "Given the foregoing, and in the interest of ensuring stability at Kenya’s Capital City and largest County by economy and population, I do hereby nominate Anne Kananu Mwenda to the position of Deputy Governor,” Sonko’s letter read. Kananu is the current chief officer for disaster and acting chief officer of water. She was among the original chief officers who were vetted and approved by  the assembly in April 2018. She has survived the constant reshuffles until November last year, when she was placed as the chief officer for water in an acting capacity. Her nomination comes two years after Polycap Igathe resigned, stating he could not continue to remain in office because he had failed to "earn the trust" of Sonko. Sonko nominated self-declared general Miguna Miguna as deputy governor in May 2018, but the nomination was shot down. Elachi on Monday said she is yet to confirm with her office  concerning the letter. “I’m hearing this news from you because I’m not in the office but will confirm and get back at you,” she said. Elachi said she will consult the Attornery General  on the matter and give  a way forward on the issue. The letter comes less than 24 hours before a meeting scheduled to discuss the leadership crisis in the county.