KRU Championship leaders Strathmore Leos coach Louis Kisia believes his team can go the entire season unbeaten. “Going the entire season unbeaten is achievable. The players are set and ready. We have to return to Kenya Cup next season,” said a buoyant Kisia. Speaking after the team’s 36-7 win over Egerton Wasps at home, Kisia said his players’ experience in playing in Kenya Cup has come in handy. “This team has been in Kenya Cup for 13 straight years and most of the players have been part of the journey. The experience has helped us,” he added. Commenting on their game against Wasps, he said his side would have won by a bigger margin but his players failed to execute their chances. “It was not a bad start considering this is the first game of the year after the Christmas break. We picked up from where we left last year but my players squandered several try scoring opportunities,” said the former Mwamba assistant coach and player. He confirmed the exit of Dennis Juma, Carl Odhiambo, Albert Obura and Boutrous Masicha. He said the club did not sign any player in the mid-season window. “We shall have one week trials later this month to pick some players. Those successful will, however,  play for us during the 7’s series,” noted Kisia. Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology also continued with their winning ways, edging hosts Mombasa RFC 33-3 at Mombasa Sports Club. “Despite travel challenges, the boys were focused on the game. Our opponents were good but we showed character,” said MMUST assistant coach John Asila. He added: “We want to keep improving with every game.” In other second tier games, Mean Machine beat Eldoret RFC 33-12 in Nairobi while Northern Suburbs returned to winning ways, beating the University of Eldoret’s Trojans 25-16. United States International University (USIU)-Africa’s Martials edged hosts Catholic Monks 27-15 while South Coast Pirates were awarded a 28-0 walkover after cash-strapped Kisii RFC failed to show up for the encounter at St Joseph’s Primary School in Ukunda. In the KRU Nationwide Western region conference, Maseno University beat Bungoma RFC 35-14 while Vihiga Granites narrowly edged Citam Kisumu 21-20. Siaya were awarded a walkover after Sheywe failed to show up for the game.