The Council of Turkana University College has sent its principal, Thomas Akuja, on compulsory leave to allow investigations into claims of corruption and abuse of office. Akuja has also been directed by the Council in the meantime not to visit the Turkana University College grounds. "The Council of Turkana University led by Chair Mussolin Kithome resolved to send the current Principal of Turkana University College Principal Akuja on compulsory leave with immediate effect, to pave way for investigations by the relevant government agencies, on allegations of possible corruption and abuse of office at Turkana University College, " the statement of the Council seen by the Star read. Prof. Tom Nyamache has been appointed to act as the Principal of Turkana University College as from January 30 until February 7 since Prof Dr Fredrick Nyongesa Kassilly, the acting Principal of Turkana University College, is outside the country. It is barely a week since members of the community-led by Turkana branch of Kenya National Union of Teachers, civil society, Turkana Drivers Association cited that the Council of Turkana University to be disbanded on claims of embezzlement of funds and 'appetite' of meeting allowances. They protested that the Council has failed its mandate on oversight of the development. The Secretary General of the Turkana branch KNUT Peter Ewaat said Akuja had an acrimonious relationship with Mussolini Kithome the Council Chair of Turkana University. Ewaat claimed that the council members have accumulated a total of 85 meetings in the year 2018 something that they have never heard. "The Council Chair and section of council members behave like the chief executive officer of the institution meddling in administration and management of University College, " he said. Margaret Nabuin, a resident of Lodwar said that Turkana University College was established to help their children get knowledge and cut the cost of travelling to other counties and the council members' greediness should be not allowed. Moses Ekal, former student of Turkana University College urged the Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha to intervene. "Disband the Council, they are after allowances and individuals. The council has not helped the University and has done nothing and even their integrity is questionable, " he said.