 A group of Garissa activists has asked the government to ensure it brings to book terrorists who attacked a school two weeks ago even if it means going for the militants in Somalia. On January 13, three teachers were killed when terrorists attacked Kamuthe Primary School. Another escaped with gunshot wounds. A week earlier, four school children at Saretho were killed in a similar dawn attack. The activists on Monday held a peace procession in Garissa town to condemn the attacks and demand government action. Their leader Salah Yussuf said attackers have often targeted and killed police officers, teachers and schoolchildren yet none had been arrested either dead or alive. “We want to see our security officers going for these killers and smoking them out from their hideouts.  Failing to gun them down or arresting them means that they are still at large and they will return to carry out more attacks,” Yusuf said. He said human rights defenders support the government crackdown on extremist groups and their sympathisers across Northeastern region and urged locals to share information with security officers. “In the fight against terror, there have been extrajudicial killings, disappearances as well as the destruction of property. We urge the government to fight terror within the law,” Yusuf said. He said their procession was aimed at sensitising residents on the importance of working with security agencies in the fight against terror. “We have decided that civil societies, members of the public and the government agencies must work together in the fight against terror. We will support all initiatives aimed at getting rid of these criminals,” he said. Mohamed Adhan, a peace youth advocate, said violent extremism had become a threat to the lives of residents. He said youth are the most vulnerable for the recruitment to radicalisation by extremist groups. “Terrorism has no religion and we have come here today to pass a message to youth to help the government fight terror. We will not allow our teachers and children to be killed,” Adhan said.  edited by p. obuya