Shujaa have been pitted against in-form New Zealand, Fiji and Wales in arguably the pool of death during  this weekend's Sydney Sevens. With only the group winners advancing to semifinals as it was the case in Hamilton, Sydney promises to be a stern test for Paul Feeney and his charges at the Paramatta Stadium. Kenya will open their campaign against Olympic champions Fiji, who have blown hot and cold in the opening three legs of the circuit.  Fiji are seeking to bounce back after finishing a disappointing ninth in Hamilton last weekend. Team Kenya will then have a date with Wales in their second match before meeting a resurgent All Blacks outfit in the final Pool 'A'  match. Skipper Andrew Amonde termed the pool tough but said the boys are relishing the challenge of meeting both the Kiwis and Fijians. “It's a tall order. Only one team qualifies for the semis and we need to correct the mistakes from Hamilton to ensure  we stay on course,” he added. Amonde termed the Fijians a dangerous outfit, adding : “We know how Fiji play  with a lot of offloads and adopt a strong running game which we must counter by playing to our strengths." Commending on New Zealand, Amonde said he expects a physical contest. “They are the form  team of the circuit. They have won two tournaments and lead the standings but in Sevens, anything can happen,” noted Amonde. On Wales, the veteran player noted they will be seeking to prove a point to the three teams as none expects them to make it out of the pool. France headline Pool 'B' and take on Argentina, Samoa and South Africa. Hosts Australia have a date with USA, Scotland, and Japan in Pool C while England will battle it out with Canada, Ireland and Spain in Pool D. Shujaa bagged 10 points from the Hamilton leg after losing to England 24-19, drawing 12-12 against Japan and demolished South Africa 36-14 to finish second in their pool. In the classification match for the 7th -8th position, they lost to Argentina 19-17. Standings: New Zealand (63), South Africa (48), France (48), England (39), Australia (350, Argentina (35), Fiji 31, USA (30), Canada (26) and Kenya (25).