Once upon a time, the cowardly hyena saw a man walking and was mesmerised by the swinging of his hands. The hyena mistakenly believed that one of the arms would fall off and started to follow the man on his journey. Unfortunately, the hand never fell off. The moral of the story is that one must be wary of opportunistic people eager to benefit from perceived misfortune. At the beginning of the New Year, while Kenyans were getting ready to take their children back to school and prepare for the hustle and bustle of 2020, Kandara MP Alice Wahome issued a statement that shocked many. Like the hyena, Wahome seems eager to capitalise on the swinging hand, hoping that it will fall. I was surprised that a Mt Kenya MP would be brazenly bold to openly attack the leader of her party, who is also the President of this great republic. Incidentally, her statement came only days after she shared a platform with President Uhuru Kenyatta, where both talked about moving the country forward. Wahome said there was a need to safeguard freedom of expression and association as an honour to Second Liberation hero Charles Rubia. The President said this guarantee was assured but also asked leaders and all Kenyans, in general, to exercise this freedom responsibly. It was therefore so ironical watching Wahome's statement as she called the President a threat to the country's unity and economic well-being. She went ahead to throw in the name of opposition leader Raila Odinga, calling him the President's mercenary because of the handshake. All Kenyans know that if it were not for the handshake between Uhuru and Raila, this country would have gone to the dogs. In fact, the two have done more for the unity of the country more than anyone else in Kenya. My thinking is that Wahome's statement seems like a desperate attempt to appease her financier, and make it seem like she can openly defy her party leader. It was a clear attempt to show people that she was thinking for herself yet she appeared as the messenger. Every Kenyan is entitled to freedom of speech, but that freedom cannot be abused by infringing the rights of others through publicity seeking attacks. Politicians can surely express themselves without attacking others and inciting Kenyans against their leaders for whatever political reason. It appeared as if the MP was given a statement and asked to go and read it for the cameras without internalising what the words actually meant. As she struggled to read the statement, I wondered if she was just nervous, or just couldn’t read the handwriting of whoever drafted the statement. One can only conclude that these are just the last kicks of a dying horse, a politician who knows that she will not garner enough votes in the next election, and has resorted to radical sycophancy. Her statement was clearly delusional and one would be forgiven to think that she has not been living in Kenya. It was the most unfortunate way to start the New Year for a person who Kenyans would want to see give leadership and direction. What we would even want to ask Wahome, Oscar Sudi and other leaders who align to her thinking is, what they have done for Kenyans in the last two years? As an MP, what policies or legislation has she brought to Parliament to deal with poverty, create jobs for the youth or help the struggling farmers of Murang'a? This year, Kenyans are not ready to be treated to political shenanigans and sideshows. Leaders must not only act and speak responsibly, but also should focus on why Kenyans elected them and fulfil that mandate. Political attacks on others will not help this country move forward as we all know the result of such divisive talk from the past. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda