The BBI report should be released to people to enable them to read, understand and give their final opinion, Kaharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has said. Nyoro said on Wednesday that since the launch of the report on November 27, no copies had been made available to the public, thus raising queries on why it has taken long to have the content known by Kenyans. “It’s a month now after the BBI report was launched, but, unfortunately, Kenyans do not know the content. There is a need, without much delay, to have copies of the report given out for people to read and understand before the final decision is made,” added Nyoro. He said Kenyans should be conversant with the content to enable them to make informed decisions. The MP spoke at Kirongo Primary School in Wangu ward during a constituency football tournament. Nyoro, before the launch of the report, was against the BBI, saying it was established to create positions for some individuals. The youthful legislator is among the ardent supporters of DP William Ruto who are pushing the Mount Kenya region to support his presidency in 2022. Nyoro asked President Uhuru Kenyatta not to let some political brokers ruin his legacy, citing recent remarks by former Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe who said the President is not barred from being prime minister if the BBI report sails through. “There are some political brokers who are out to ruin the president’s legacy and I request our beloved head of state to adhere to the Constitution and not let his legacy be spoilt by people like Murathe," Nyoro said. The Jubilee administration has achieved many development projects but that did not mean the President will not retire after his term ends, he said. Meanwhile, the MP said NG-CDF last year sponsored several sports teams in effort to nurture young talent. He said about 100 football teams were sponsored by the NG-CDF and appealed for more sponsors to support the initiative. "Sports have helped to nurture young talents and have also shielded young people from engaging in alcohol and drug abuse,” Nyoro said.