The Principal Secretary for Housing and Urban Development, Charles Hinga has said that there is a housing challenge in Kenya, the student accommodation which is in a crisis and the students are not living in good conditions. “Student accommodation is something that is not talked about and is sort of in a crisis. Our students are not living in good conditions and would like to thank Arcon for identifying a niche and putting up accommodation,” he said. Qwetu have had self-contained hostels that were built for students in Ruaraka and Jogoo road which have a combined 734 rooms. These accommodations are equipped with a fridge, cooker, bed, microwave and wardrobe. They are costing about Sh22, 000 per month for students. The student’s hostel which has been inspected by the Principal Secretary for Housing and Urban development is with four different typologies and high quality living for students with recreational spaces. “This is a 728 accommodation for students and as you will see with four different typologies with recreational spaces for students with other services including transport will be part and parcel offering to our students,” he said They have had an engagement with Arcon in conjunction with the 500,000 housing plan, which will put up 50,000 rental stock not only for students but for the young professionals. “Kenya has a huge young population and we want to make sure as we talk about ownership the young generation is not left out since they are more about flexibility and the ability to move,” he said He added this development is about to be completed and students were already registering. He had visited the Parklands hostels and it was fully occupied and in a very vibrant condition. PS Hinga said that one outcome from the London trip, was the beginning of the Nairobi urban regeneration which is the Railway City and that the Ministry will partner with Arcon to put up 20,000 units. “We already have several anchors. We have anchors for an office park, railway station, affordable housing and spaces for international offices,” he said. The CEO of Arcon holdings Edward Kirathe, said that this is their fourth Qwetu properties bringing them to a total of 2300 beds across the four properties serving 65 universities and colleges and 53 nationalities. “We have a pipeline of 10, 000 additional beds and will continue to support the affordable housing program solving affordable housing for students and young professionals. That is our focus,” he said. He added that the students are enjoying to live with them and gain by staying close to universities avoiding long commutes with their studies uninterrupted.