No to big government. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago oppose a third level a government," a third tier of devolution" creating 14 regional governments atop 47 counties. More government, not less, is what some of their colleagues want under BBI. But Mandago and Sang want less not more. They said separately on Monday that devolution should be strengthened downwards with a focus on the wards instead of creating regions above counties, which they say amounts to the centralisation of resources. “Creating other layers of devolution upwards is same as centralisation of resources and power which Kenyans already rejected," Sang said in Aldai. He said BBI should not be used to please individuals seeking power yet Kenyans want more focus on resources trickling down to them. Mandago said in Kipkaren that Kenyans have been complaining about the high cost of running the government and his colleagues who are to retire in 2022 should not back the BBI just to create positions for themselves. He says aged political leaders should retire and create space for youth. “Most of our colleagues serving the second term are 65 years and above; in fact, it's me and Governor Tolgos who are quite young. I can even retire and go back to start by being an MCA. "But it's wrong that those who are supposed to go home start thinking of how to create jobs for themselves," Mandago said. Mandago said although he supports the BBI, he does not support the proposal to create regional governments. He said governors serving their second term were well aware that they would serve for two terms and retire and they should not start overburdening Kenyans with new job positions. “I am a second-term governor and very young to retire but I will go home because there are other things I can do including being the Bishop of Reformed church of East Africa which I attend," Mandago said. He asked why the BBI proposed to increase allocations to the counties in the 2020-2021 budgets bt the Treasury proposed a reduction. “My county will lose more than Sh500 million in Treasury reduction and I am wondering where will the money for the BBI proposals come from if the Treasury is currently reducing our allocations," Mandago said. He said there should be economic blocs headed by experts and not politicians. “We need to devolve more of what we have now and take resources downwards instead of creating regional governments," Mandago said. Some of the retiring Coast and Western governors have backed the proposal to create regional governments that they hope to head after retiring. Mandago said he supports a referendum to strengthen devolution and not make it a burden to Kenyans. He said the BBI should strengthen the role of the Commission on Revenue Allocation so it decides on the revenue to be given to counties. (Edited by V. Graham)