Embakasi East MP Paul Ongili, alias Babu Owino, will be arraigned on Monday, after spending the weekend in police custody. Babu Owino was arrested on Friday morning and booked at Kilimani police station over the shooting of Felix Orinda, popularly known as Dj Evolve, at B- Club in Kilimani. Nine bullets, a spent cartridge, and a CZ P-10 C gun were confiscated. However, on Saturday the legislator was 'secretly' moved to Gigiri Police Station. Lawyer Cliff Ombeta said his client was transferred to avoid interference with investigations because people were crowding at Kilimani station insisting they want to talk to Babu Owino. "He was transferred to Gigiri to avoid slowing down investigations because people were insisting on speaking to him. At Gigiri is where other formalities and his fingerprints were taken," he said. Still on Saturday, around midday Babu Owino in the company of detectives, went to the MP's home in Kileleshwa, where a search was conducted and some ammunition were taken. Ombeta said after the search, they went to the Government Chemist for a DNA test then went back to Kilimani police station to record another statement on the fresh findings of the search. DJ Evolve is recuperating at the Nairobi Hospital after undergoing surgery to remove a bullet that was lodged in his neck. Lawyer Ombeta said his client was the one who took the victim to hospital and paid Sh600,000 hospital bill. “My client sent the amount to his wife, and she paid the hospital bill and has pledged to continue paying until the patient fully recovers," he said. Ombeta said he could not speculate on the charges Babu will be facing today. But Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti DCI said the legislator will be charged with attempted murder. “It is apparent that he wanted to kill the man,” he said. A CCTV footage courtesy of K24 shows Babu and Dj Evolve in the company of some people a few seconds before the shooting. Wearing an orange T-shirt, Babu is captured whipping out his gun before the DJ, who fell to the ground. Later, two men are seen dragging the shot man outside the club. The National Gun Owners Association- Kenya (NGAO) in a statement said a firearm can only be used justifiably to protect life and property. Firearms should never be used when the owner is intoxicated or inebriated, the association said. “Firearms are not meant for use during a domestic dispute, in public places, during road-use conflicts or where danger is not imminent to the owner of the firearm,” the statement reads. In another incident preceding the shooting, a man identified as Mark Okwiri accused Babu Owino of assault. Okwiri accused the MP's security of beating him after he had an argument with the legislator.