A senior manager at the Geothermal Development Corporation could soon be summoned over Sh20 million staff mortgage. According to documents presented to DCI boss George Kinoti by a whistleblower at the firm, the official is suspected to have used his position to approve the facility, for which the staff don’t qualify, hence going against Section 46 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act. Also presented for further investigations is an internal audit report dated September 14, 2018, in which the auditor recommended that the manager “be held to account for abuse of office by accessing GDC staff mortgage scheme before it was fully operationalised". The auditor said the manager violated regulations and guidelines for a staff house mortgage scheme. To be investigated are claims that the official, who is employed on contract terms, used his position to rig internal administrative structures of GDC to irregularly acquire the facility. "We believe the information furnished herein will prompt and assist your esteemed office to initiate appropriate investigations into the subject matter according to your lawful mandate,” read a letter sent by the whistleblower to the DCI. Reached for comment, GDC communications manager Wanjiru Kangara denied any irregularities. She said that in a letter dated December 7, 2018 (reference number SRC/TS/SC/EC/3/17 Vol II), the Salary Remuneration Commission (SRC) clarified that "public servants on fixed-term contracts are eligible for car loan and mortgage scheme benefits". "All staff are entitled to the mortgage. The Board of Directors also approved the loan," she said. "There was, therefore, no breach of the law." However, the whistleblower has told the DCI that the Sh20 million was transferred in 2017, way before the SRC letter of 2018. The manager applied for the mortgage loan in December 2017 from Kenya Commercial Bank. It was approved by a junior manager after two days, despite the GDC not having mortgage facility for its employees at the time the application. According to Public Service policies and regulations, mortgage facilities, where available, are not granted to contract employees. The said manager is on a four-year contract of service that came into effect on February 1, 2017. The manager then wrote to KCB on March 1, 2019, to have the loan be converted into nonexistent staff mortgage scheme. “Further reference is made to this office letter reversing the terms of service of the loan pending further consultation from our end and your response dated September 11, 2018, reversing the original terms,” read a letter referenced GDC/HR/HPS/080/sck/mk. “This serves to notify you that our internal procedures have been finalised and therefore wish to inform you to reverse your office letter dated September 11, 2018, for the loan to assume the original status." The bank replied asking the company to indicate the loan limit approved for the manager and relevant people in the GDC sign the instructions issued to KCB. The company wrote to KCB, despite the internal auditor recommending sanctions on the said manager.