Pep Guardiola says Manchester City will ‘never give up’ after the champions beat Everton 2-1 on Wednesday night. Gabriel Jesus scored twice as City survived a nervy finish to end Carlo Ancelotti’s unbeaten start as Toffees manager. They remain third in the Premier League, one point behind second-placed Leicester, who won 3-0 at Newcastle. “When you are far away from the first position sometimes people give up, but we never give up,” Guardiola said. “We played great so I’m delighted for the guys. This period is so tough. We did really well. Three more points and closer to Leicester.” City had to wait until the second half to break down a well-drilled Everton side who defended with discipline and in numbers, but Jesus provided the spark of genius they needed. He collected an Ilkay Gundogan pass on the edge of the area to put Guardiola’s side ahead with a brilliant curling right-footed shot into the top corner that Jordan Pickford got a hand to, but could not keep out. Seven minutes later, the Brazilian made it 2-0, this time with his left foot, when he darted on to a Riyad Mahrez pass and buried a low shot past Pickford. The City fans — who had earlier seen a close-range Phil Foden strike ruled out for offside by the video assistant referee - did not celebrate either goal fully until the game had restarted. Guardiola’s side also had to wait before securing the three points, with a couple of Ancelotti tactical tweaks seeing Everton go on the attack, and soon pull a goal back. It came courtesy of a City mistake when stand-in goalkeeper Claudio Bravo, playing because Ederson was ill, tried to play out from the back but under-hit his pass. Seconds later the ball was in the back of his net when Theo Walcott’s deflected cross found Richarlison unmarked to tap in at the back post. Alarm bells were suddenly ringing for City, who had capitulated from 2-0 up to lose against Wolves last week — albeit with 10 men for most of the match — but this time they saw the game out. While Everton looked dangerous when they came forward, the only real scare for the home side came when substitute Moise Kean found space in their area to acrobatically fire wide. City will now turn their attentions to the domestic cup competitions as they begin their defence of the FA Cup against League Two Port Vale in the third round on Saturday before travelling to Manchester United in the Carabao Cup semi-final first leg on Tuesday. “We have to keep going,” added Guardiola. “We have FA Cup then the EFL Cup. Other teams dropped points for the top four so it was an important win.” Leicester’s impressive season continued with a dominant win at Newcastle - and the Foxes’ potential ‘excites’ manager Brendan Rodgers. Victory keeps the East Midlands club second and inflicts a third straight defeat on Steve Bruce’s side, who played almost the whole second half with 10 men following a string of injuries. Leicester, without the division’s leading goalscorer Jamie Vardy for the second successive game, took the lead through Ayoze Perez, who kept his cool to finish well against his former side after being gifted possession by a horror pass from Florian Lejeune. The Newcastle defender was culpable again just a few minutes later as his weak clearance was claimed by the away side and fed to James Maddison, who rifled in a thunderbolt of a second from the edge of the box. The home side, whose best effort fell to a woefully ill-equipped and confidence-shorn Joelinton to waste, were unable to respond and would have lost by much more but for an inspired display from goalkeeper Martin Dubravka. Dubravka was powerless to prevent substitute Hamza Choudhury scoring a superb third, curling in his first goal in senior football from the edge of the box. It was the final blow for the home side, whose afternoon started badly and only got worse. Both Jetro Willems and Javier Manquillo were forced off through injury at the end of the first half, before Fabian Schar followed them at the start of the second, leaving them with 10 men following the half-time substitution of the also injured captain Jonjo Shelvey. “I remember coming here before with Liverpool and we won 6-0 and played very well,” said Rodgers. “We’ve come here today with equally as good a performance, not scored the goals, but certainly with the control in the game and the quality in our game, played very, very well. But we can play better. We will improve the longer we work together — because it’s only been 10 months or so.” “The potential in the group really excites me, but we have to keep that consistency and that hunger to want to be better.” Newcastle remain in mid-table but their points cushion above the relegation zone is down to five. There are no such concerns for Leicester, though, with this win keeping them in second, ahead of Manchester City. It was also Leicester’s seventh away Premier League win of the season - only unbeaten leaders Liverpool have managed more. Back-to-back defeats by reigning champions Manchester City and runaway leaders Liverpool either side of Christmas dealt an almost certainly fatal blow to Leicester’s title aspirations. The Foxes are actually two points better off now than at this stage of their remarkable 2015-16 title win, but the imperious form of Jurgen Klopp’s side makes a repeat triumph even more improbable. However, this victory, four days after the win at West Ham, keeps the Foxes at least notionally in the hunt, restores the sense of supreme confidence that existed prior to the trip to the Etihad and sets them up for what is a crucial seven days in their season. Tomorrow they face Wigan in the FA Cup third round, followed four days later by the home first leg of their Carabao Cup semi-final with Aston Villa. Brendan Rodgers took the opportunity to rest a host of players for the game at London Stadium, correctly trusting in a talented second string to get the job done against a woefully poor Hammers side in the death rattle of Manuel Pellegrini’s managerial reign. He was further rewarded for this decision - and the one to switch to a back three, with Ben Chilwell and Ricardo Pereira as wing-backs - at St James’ Park with a display full of energy and, once they had a cast-iron grip on the encounter, sensible game management. Such was the efficiency of their display they did not miss Vardy, who recently welcomed the birth of a daughter. Perez was full of clever running and ruthless against his former side, while Maddison and his replacement Choudhury brought their shooting boots and then some. Choudhury’s strike, in particular, added insult to injury as it was his tackle in a meeting between the sides in August that resulted in the serious injury that keeps Matt Ritchie out to this day.