General Qasem Soleimani is certainly the most iconic anti-terrorist figure in the contemporary era. His experiences of resistance against Saddam Hussein’s invasion of Iran along with his efforts to eradicate ISIS make not only the Iranian nation indebted to him, but also all those who believe in humanity and freedom. Soleimani came from a humble background, born into a simple family in Iran’s southeastern Province of Kerman. He was among the most influential figures in the Middle East over the past decade. General Soleimani was full of love, sincerity and care for humanity, that made him beloved by all those who seek peace and justice in the world. His personality, combined with his skilled and strategic mind, created an outstanding front against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Soleimani, however, at least among Iranians, was not known for his knowledge of war, but his benevolent and sacrificing spirit. Humanity will always remember him, and his unforgettable legacy will be passed to the next generations who are willing to resist cruelty and oppression. Soleimani’s Quds Force, tasked with carrying out operations, shored up support for Syria when the country looked close to being defeated in the civil war that started in 2011, and helped armed groups defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, also known as ISIS. In the eyes of the people in Iran, Soleimani looms larger than almost any other figure. He is regarded as a brave commander and his role in helping defeat ISIL makes him a national hero and a martyr among the people of Iran and other Middle Eastern countries. If it were not for people like him, the Middle East would be dotted with black flags. He survived many assassination attempts against him plotted by Western, Israeli and Arab agencies over the past 20 years. Unfortunately on January 3, 2020, the man who fought and destroyed ISIS in Iraq and Syria, was martyred by the biggest ISIS supporter—the United States of America. The anti-terrorism commander was a victim of supporters of terrorism. The US claimed responsibility for the strike. In a statement, the Pentagon declared that the strike was directed by President Donald Trump. The US act of international terrorism, targeting and assassinating General Soleimani, the most effective force fighting Daesh (ISIS), al Nusrah, al Qaeda, et al, is extremely dangerous and is against international law. Observers have warned that the strike could mark a significant step toward a hot war in the region. Trump’s administration just plunged the region into a likely massive sectarian and bloody crisis. Along with that, it is hard to ignore that targeting Soleimani was an explicit act of war. The US bears responsibility for all the consequences of its rogue adventurism. The consequences of this inhumane attack will burden the Middle East for years. May the almighty God reward and bless their souls of the likes of Soleimani, Malcolm X, Patrice Lumumba and all heroes and heroines who sacrificed their lives for the sake of international peace and a world free of oppression. Afzali is the Third Secretary at the Embassy of Iran