The High Court in Thika has stopped further development on the disputed 500 acres owned by a family of former spy James Kanyotu. Justice Lucy Gacheru of Environmental and Land Court has also extended the prohibition orders against buyers of the disputed land following application filed  by the family led by Willy Kihara, a son of the late Kanyotu. At the same time, the judge warned the buyers they risk being thrown to jail if they defy the court orders. Gacheru directed the buyers to maintain a status quo orders issued on August 15,2019. The buyers have been barred from dealing IN the parcel of land belonging to Kangaita Coffee Estates Ltd. "This is valid orders, any party served with the orders and fails to comply will be  punished for disobeying a court order and shall be jailed for a period of not more than six months or his property shall be sequestrated," warned the judge. In the case, a company know as Marriot Africa International Limited, is claiming the ownership of same land allegedly sold by a company owned by Kanyotu’s family in Ruiru, Kiambu County. According to documents attached to court papers, the family has also petitioned the construction sector regulator namely National Construction Authority (NCA) to demolish multi-million shilling homes and apartments that are being built on the Sh10 billion disputed land in Ruiru. Marriot claims that in April 2012, Kangaita Ltd sold the family land to a firm known as Trendsetters Investment Limited for Sh700 million. The  former special Branch boss (now known as the National Intelligence Service) died in 2008 without leaving a will, triggering a family court fight for control of his estate estimated to be worth Sh20 billion. The family wants the NCA compelled to demolish homes that are coming up on the prime 500-acre parcel, saying that the construction is in breach of law. The family claims that NCA has continued to approve the construction of homes, business centres and apartments on the property in breach of the court order. Kihara has also attached documents to court fillings showing he has also served court orders to National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) and Kiambu county physical planning department. The family also wants the NCA to demolish all the illegal structures built on the land, saying physical planning department in Kiambu has never issued approvals for the construction of any houses on the disputed land. "Why one would like to invest in a land in dispute and proceed to build on the same without the necessary approvals for construction is still a puzzle," said Kihara. The judge directed the case to be mentioned on January 20, 2020, for further directions.