More than 7,000 flood victims within the Tana Delta have received Sh10 million food from the Kenya Red Cross. The Humanitarian organisation began with the worst-hit area in Kipini West Ward which was completely, cut off making it difficult to supply relief food. They first dispatched nonfood items such as blankets, tents, water purifiers among others before they embarked on supplying relief food on Friday. Officials were forced to use Land Cruisers, boats, and a tractor to deliver the relief food to ensure everybody affected gets enough relief for the whole month. Their intervention is the first since the disaster hit the area in the last two months which had left the residents in distress as they could not access food, water or health services. By Sunday the victims from 800 households from Handaraku, Kokomo, Mwanja, Samicha, Odhole Mbelezoni, and Chamwanamuma had received relief food. There were however many challenges during the beginning of the process of distribution as both the tractor and the Kenya Red cross land cruisers got stuck several times due to the roads which are flooded. Kenya Red Cross Society regional Manager Hassan Musa who was coordinating the relied distribution said they intend to distribute first to the 1,220 households which are cut off within the Delta then proceed to the 1,200 others in Tana North who were affected. Speaking in Handaraku village during the distribution, he said in Tanarivert 2,420 households about 15,000 people have been affected by the floods disaster but the worst-hit area was the Tana Delta which was submerged. ''Today as Kenya Red Cross we have received food items which will cost us about Sh10 million and we are targeting to distribute this food to 1,200, victims,'' he said. Musa said the food comprises rice, every household would get 41kg together with 8.5kgof beans, 2L cooking oil and salt. He said they expect the food distributed to last for one month after which they would review the accessibility of the area. ''It has been a challenge for us as Kenya Red Cross to access this area because the area was marooned, villages had formed camps,'' he said. The Red cross-regional boss and his team together with area MCA Musa Wario began distribution at Handaraku followed by Kikomo and promised to continue —until all affected victims get relief food. Wario who has been in the forefront of highlighting the plight of the flood victims thanked the Kenya Red cross for responding for the first time since the disaster struck the area. He said the relief they received ,including canvas, blankets and food, was enough to sustain the locals for this period. ''We are happy the Kenya Red Cross has come to give us hope, this food will go along way in supporting the livelihoods of the locals who were cut off,'' he said. Mohamed Salat a resident of Handaraku ,criticised the Garsen MP for failing to support the victims who voted overwhelmingly for him during the campaign period. He said it was strange that the legislator was busy holidaying in Malindi instead of visiting the locals who have been affected by the disaster. Abubakar Shora the PA of the MP who was present said the legislator had brought rice from the NG-CDF . He dismissed claims that the MP had abandoned his people saying the food was available but there was no means of ferrying the food to the affected villages. ''We ask the national government to dispatch a chopper to help in the disbursement of the relief food because the areas affected cannot be accessed by road,'' he said. (Editd by V.Graham)