Kikuyu elders have threatened action against some of their colleagues who allegedly fought over a cash handout from a Jubilee politician. The elders said their colleagues embarrassed the community during a recent visit to the top politician's home. They demanded that the disgraced elders publicly apologise to the community or face sanctions. The six calling themselves supreme elders of the Kikuyu Community Cultural Association said they will protect the community’s reputation from the rogue elders out to trade using the community’s name. The elders who spoke in Nairobi on Friday were Njathi wa Mbatia of Mucera, Boro wa Ngera (Mugaciku), Kariuki wa Kabui (Mugathigia), Thiongo wa Gitau (Mwithaga) and Waroruawa Kimani wa Murugami cultural counsellor). “We shall jealously guard our cultural attire and artefacts from misuse. Those who have misused our attires and artefacts owe us an apology,” Boro said. Boro said those who insult the community with impunity know the consequences of their actions. The leaders also demanded that politicians from the community respect President Uhuru Kenyatta because he is the undisputed leader of the community. They slammed leaders moving from churches and fundraisers discrediting the President. “They have converted funerals and fundraisers into absurd platforms for insults, name-calling and open display of disrespect to authorities including disrespect to the President,” he said. Njathi said they are not happy that politicians from Uhuru's own Central backyards are the ones undermining him. "We urge our leaders and elders to cease political war-mongering and to focus on their roles and mandate as expected of them. They must stop misleading the community. We urge all of us to respect institutions and more so the President," said Boro. We do not have two bulls in the same paddock. There is no elder or political leader who has been nominated, chosen or elected, he said. They also expressed support for the ongoing anti-graft war, saying that is the only way the country can achieve its social and economic goals.