A good number of politicians across the country have confirmed their attendance at the BBI meeting in Mombasa on Saturday. Governor Hassan Joho, one of the key figures in Coast politics, is expected to spearhead the campaign on Mama Ngina Waterfront, Mombasa. Joho and his counterparts Dhado Godana of Tana River, Amason Kingi of Kilifi and Granton Samboja of Taita Taveta have cautioned against any malicious motive during the anticipated meeting. Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan Juma will also attend. Also expected are DP William Ruto allies. They include Kipchumba Murkomen, Susan Kihika (Nakuru senator), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South MP), Alice Wahome (Kandara MP), Mohamed Ali (Nyali) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi MP). They dissociated themselves from the previous meetings in Kisii and Kakamega. Murkomen announced that they will organise rallies across the country starting with Mombasa this weekend. "After consultations as leaders... we will participate and, where necessary, take charge of these public rallies beginning with Mombasa this weekend," he said. While speaking to the media on Tuesday, Murkomen said they will support existing efforts and complement the already scheduled rallies. "We are organising rallies in other parts of the country. We shall soon announce the calendar of complimentary rallies to reinforce those already published," he said. "That we fully support the BBI report as launched and intend to fully participate in related engagements in good faith." Ruto has not made it clear whether he will be present or not. When asked if he will attend during an interview on NTV, he said it is  not a question of whether he will attend or not. However, ODM leaders, including party boss Raila Odinga, Senator James Orengo, MP Junet Mohamed, will be present. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will also lead his party members to the forum. In a statement, Kalonzo's spokesperson Onesmus Kilonzo on Thursday said, "Musyoka will be accompanied by several MPs and MCAs, mainly from his Wiper party, who have also been drumming up support for the initiative in various parts of the country." He said Kalonzo did not attend the previous BBI meetings in Kisii and Kakamega due to commitments as Kenya’s Special Envoy to South Sudan. Wiper's move comes after a change of tune by politicians allied to Ruto, who said they will attend the meeting. Earlier on Friday, a press conference by MPs Aisha Jumwa and Mohammed Ali was disrupted by youths, with the two accusing their political detractors. Ali and Jumwa have insisted that coast leaders be given the opportunity to lead the discussions. Ali said only local leaders understand the issues affecting their constituents. He wants issues touching on ports, SGR, health and employment, among interests, given priority. Tensions head been boiling ahead of the event. The venue was changed from Tokomoko to Mama Ngina Wild Waters.