 Women in Business Committee chairperson Mary Nyachae has petitioned JSC to remove Justice Msagha Mbogholi from the bench, citing gross misconduct. Here is a brief profile of Justice Mbogholi. In 1953, Justice Amraphael Mbogholi Msagha was born in Coastal Kenya. 1976: He graduated with a Bachelor of Law LL.B. Upper Second Class Honours degree from the University of Dar es salaam. 1978: He was admitted as an advocate of Kenya, and went into private practice in Mombasa. 1987: He was appointed Judge of the High Court. 2010: He was elected by the judges of the High Court to the position of principal judge, a post created by the new Constitution. The principal judge is the head of the High Court. 2016: He was the presiding judge in the Land and Environmental Law division and the chairman of the board of trustees of The Judicial Service Staff Pension Scheme. Mbogholi served as a member of the Rent Restriction Tribunal and of the Municipality of Mombasa Valuation Court. He has headed the Criminal Division, Family Division, Kenya School of Law and the University of Nairobi Faculty of Law. Landmark Rulings by Msagha 1994: Msagha chaired the Commission of Inquiry into the Mtongwe Ferry disaster, Kenya's largest marine accident in which 257 passengers aboard the MV Mtongwe drowned after it capsized in 1994. 1997: He presided over the case in an application by retired President Mwai Kibaki who had challenged the election of then-President Daniel Arap Moi to be examined as a witness regarding the service of the election petition papers. The court declined the request to call Moi for cross-examination, saying that no proper basis had been made for the application. 1980s: Justice Mbogoli decided the case by Kenya Airways, at the time running massive financial losses, to cut down its costs by laying off over 1,800 staff.  Mbogholi termed the redundancy decision not only misplaced but also illegal. At the time, Kenya Airways had 4,000 employees and its losses were attributed to the huge wage bill. 2000: Mbogholi presided over a bench of the High Court in the Gachiengo case, which led to the disbandment of the Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority (KACA). The other judges on the bench were Kassanga Mulwa and J. K. Mitey. 2003: Mbogholi was named in the list of judges and magistrates that, in the view of the Ringera committee, had been involved in corruption and who were required to resign as part of the purge on the Judiciary that was instituted by the Narc government. He declined to resign opting to face a tribunal that eventually cleared him. 2016: He was touted as a front runner in the succession battle for the post of Chief Justice following the retirement of Willy Mutunga. 2019: Shortlisted for Court of Appeal judge