Thika Golf Club’s Simon Ngige and Muthaiga Golf Club’s Greg Snow, braved difficult conditions to shoot a round of 70 apiece on the first round of the Sigona Golf Club leg of the Safari Tour Golf Series to end the day as joint leaders, one shot better than their nearest challenger going into the second round. The day got off to inclement weather with rain, fog and chilling cold welcoming players at the first tee. As the rain eased off, it gave way for strong gusts of wind that made playing conditions tricky. Ngige carded a first nine total of 35 having holed birdies at the par-3, third and the par-5, ninth; with his only dropped shot on the first nine coming at the par-4, first. On the back nine, he got off to a bogey at the majestic, but tricky, par-5, 10th hole. He dropped another shot at the par-4, 13th before holing an eagle at the par-5, 15th. He followed this with consecutive birdies at the par-4, 16th and the par-4 17th; before dropping another shot at the 18th to card a back nine total of 35. Ngige said: “I played here yesterday, and learnt that if you miss the fairway, you are in trouble as the rough is quite high due to the good rains we have been experiencing. The secret here is to keep the ball in play, avoid the rough and then you can score. Today I couldn’t putt very well, so I will hit the practice green and work on that. I am very happy with my game overall.” Meanwhile, Snow carded a first nine total of 36, having holed birdies at the par-4, second and the par-3 third; but having dropped shots at the par-5 fourth and the par-5, ninth. On the back nine, he played blemish-free, holing birdies at the par-3, 11th and the par-4 17th for a back nine total of 34.  “It was a difficult day with the conditions of wind and rain, so I had to keep patient all day. I played conservatively in the conditions as it’s one of those days you blow yourself out the event if not careful," said Snow. "Staying patient was the key today keeping to the game plan; three more good rounds of consistent golf I should get it done.” Action in the second round of the tournament tees off at 8:00 am this morning with a field of 45 player, among them six amateur golfers.