Lugari MP Ayub Savula wants ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi appointed as Treasury CS to oversee Kenya’s economic recovery. Savula said Mudavadi is the most suitable person for the job and has the capacity and experience needed to steer the economy out of the woods. “President Kenyatta should tap into Mudavadi’s financial experience that led to the recovery of the country’s economy during President Daniel Moi’s regime — which had been riddled with massive looting — by stopping fictitious Goldenberg payments,” he said. He said the former vice president should agree to lead an economic recovery initiative through another handshake similar to the one between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga that restored political calm in the country and led to the birth of the Building Bridges Initiative. The Uhuru-Mudavadi deal should, however, focus on the economy and result in the formation of an agency comprising professionals in the financial sector who should then come up with an economic recovery strategy, the lawmaker added. The Finance docket is currently headed by Ukur Yatani. He has been holding the position in an acting capacity since former CS Henry Rotich was relieved of his duties following his prosecution in relation to the Kimwarer dam scandal. Mudavadi has repeatedly said the major challenge facing Kenya is poor economic performance. On Monday night, he said on Citizen TV that Kenya’s malfunctioning economy must be fixed, dismissing claims that the BBI proposals will offer solutions to the country’s problems. Weighing in on the current and future state of the country, Savula said Kenya has a pool of economists who can craft a strategy to turn around the economy, which has been sluggish. He spoke on Saturday at Kenya Medical Training College (Lugari campus), Kakamega county. Residents attended the event. Meanwhile, the legislator declined to comment on the BBI meeting set to take place in Kakamega town, only saying, “I am aware that the president will attend the meeting.” Savula also expressed concern over low student enrolment at the medical facility. He urged poor parents and guardians to ensure their children apply for CDF bursary in an effort to support the advancement of their education. Residents should take advantage of the proximity of the college to enrol their children, instead of leaving that chance open to other Kenyans from different parts of the country, he said. He said the Lugari NG-CDF committee had allocated Sh5 million for the purchase of transformers to aid connectivity of electricity in the constituency. The committee also allocated Sh11 million for maintenance of the Makutano- Sipande and Turbo-Nzoia roads.