Willis Raburu and his wife Marya prude are mourning the loss of their unborn child. Well, nominated senator Isaac Mwaura’s wife Mukami has encouraged her in a letter titled "Dear Marya Prude" My heart aches for you and your husband, and for anybody out there who has lost a child. The pain of losing a child is unimaginable and crushing. Grief is a natural reaction to loss; it is also the last act of kindness we can show to a loved one. With grief comes a lot of sadness, anger, guilt, fear, loneliness, blame and more than I can list. The grieving process is personal and like no one’s other process. Grieving the loss of a child is lonely, isolating and terrifying. You are scared of anything and everything" "I am sorry Marya, I wish I could hold you and comfort you. Tell you that everything will be okay and life will get back to normal. But I can’t lie; child loss is a difficult thing, grief is messy, exhausting and worst of all misunderstood" "Give yourself time to mourn, be angry, bargain, repeat it all over and over again until you can finally emerge out of the darkness that has now swallowed you alive without growing afraid, anxious and impatient." "It is okay to be angry with God; it is okay to ask questions. Where were you god when I needed you? We serve a mighty God; a God who can move mountains, but sometimes he doesn’t. It is hard to have faith in these doubtful moments. I have done it before, and so have many others; it is in our nature to panic, when we panic, we question God" "But our God is loving, our God is faithful, and our god listens, so tell him, talk to him, shout if you must, he can take it. Tell him what you are feeling, the questions, the anger. He can take it. Take your fears and burdens to him. God is on your side" Read part of the message" Last week, Raburu revealed that his wife had developed complications that led to a stillbirth. The couple has been keeping a low profile away from the public and social media to grieve. A few days ago, mary, who was expecting her first child penned a heartwrenching prayer to God which read, Everyone is so quick to tell me about god. What they don’t know is that every way I knew him, he was tested and he didn’t prove himself. Adding "So as they say you should know god for yourself, I now can say, I don’t know him. And I don’t think I want to know him coz he left me when I needed him the most" Mukami and her husband lost two of their triplets after birth in 2017.