Central Alego MCA Leonard Oriaro has urged Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga to fast-track the transfer of Dominion Farm to Rai Company to boost the county’s economy. Oriaro said the transfer of the lease to Ria will be beneficial to residents. If Dominion owed anybody anything, then it’s the right time for it to pay, he said. "Before the signing of any lease or transferring, those who are owed millions of money by Dominion should use the chance to ask for their money." The ward representative said the county government, suppliers and other entities should table their claims legally to be paid before the transfer of the lease. He said Dominion stopped its association with Yala farm four years ago, hence, in legal terms, the lease transfer needs no approval by the county government as it was for 25 years and they were remaining with eight years. Oriaro accused Rasanga of failing to welcome Rai Company to put up commercial infrastructure to boost the county economy. “We want any investor interested in Yala swamp such as Rai to put up a factory that will help our people plus our economy." The MCA said it’s disheartening to learn that Rasanga has never considered the extension of Rai lease as the remaining eight years is not enough for heavy investment in the swamp. He said he tabled a motion in the county assembly, but still, the governor has not considered engaging the company. “My motion captured how the county government of Siaya was to gain and how residents of Yala swamp were to gain, among other favourable things." The MCA said the county chief has ruined his efforts and let him down. He said the administration has yet to implement the assembly report that was tabled in February last year for official engagement with the new investor. He said Alego deserves to have a factory before the end of this term and investors are better placed to build one. "I’m shocked that the governor is now playing politics with the Yala swamp issue. I want to ask the governor to embrace investors," he added. Oriaro said Rasanga should act swiftly if he cares to run for another seat in the next election.