This year's long rain season begins early – March 15 – in the southern half of the country, according to a preliminary weather forecast released yesterday. The entire country will receive heavier than average rainfall, says Zewdu Segele, a climate modelling and diagnostics expert at the Dagoretti-based Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre (ICPAC). Segele, who made a presentation during the 54th Great Horn of Africa Climate Outlook Forum in Mombasa, said temperatures will be higher than normal. "High probabilities for wetter than average conditions are indicated over western Kenya and neighbouring Uganda and parts of South Sudan," he said. The forecast shows the rainfall will begin early in most parts and progressively delay towards the north. Northeastern counties and northwestern regions next to Uganda will be the last to receive rains in the first week of April. "Except for northeastern Ethiopia along the escarpment, most regions likely will have early onset of the season," Segele said. The meteorological department is expected to scale down the forecast and produce a more accurate assessment for Kenya next month. The rains could complicate the control of locusts which have swarmed vast swathes of northern Kenya. Last week, the Food and Agriculture Organisation warned the locust population in Kenya could multiply 500 times in the next five months due to warm and wet weather. The last time Kenya faced a locust invasion of this magnitude was before 1950. FAO director-general Qu Dongyu said something must be done quickly to prevent one of the worst food crises in the country. The UN agency is seeking Sh7 billion to fight the locusts and provide food to affected people in Kenya, Somalia and Ethiopia. Last week, FAO received Sh1.3 billion assistance for the three countries. Both Ethiopia and Somalia are experiencing their worst locust invasion in 25 years. A Tuesday statement from Dongyu said the swarms might invade Uganda, South Sudan and Tanzania “if efforts to deal with the voracious pests are not scaled up across the region”. "Authorities in the region have already jump-started control activities, but in view of the scale and urgency of the threat, additional financial backing from the international donor community is needed so they can access the tools and resources required to get the job done." Locusts have swarmed Mandera, Wajir and Marsabit, Isiolo, Kitui, Meru, parts of Laikipia and Embu. On Tuesday, the Meteorological department said the wet and warm weather conditions will persist throughout this month. 