  Nairobi acting county secretary Leboo Morintat chaired a meeting of chief officers and directors as City Hall seeks to streamline its agenda for 2020. With Governor Mike Sonko barred from accessing his office and no deputy governor in place, Morintat is now the top-ranking executive official running the affairs of the executive. Thursday's meeting was attended by acting Finance executive Pauline Kahiga. It was the first meeting this year with establishing how the county can reach its revenue collection targets the main objective. City Hall set a revenue target of Sh17 billion to be achieved by June this year. Nairobi has failed to meet its revenue targets since 2014, with its performance on a downward spiral since achieving a high of Sh11.7 billion in 2016. In the 2019-20 financial year, City Hall targeted to raise Sh3.2 billion in the first quarter, but only Sh1.49 billion was realised. Last week, all chief officers and directors across different departments gave measures on how revenue collection can be increased. "The aim was to come together this new year and brainstorm on what we can do to ensure that service delivery is efficient. We did a review of 2019 and looked into the challenges and also recommended possible solutions," Morintat told the Star on Sunday. Revenue collection, waste management and improvement of roads after recent floods were among the top agenda. In the 2018-19 financial year, revenue collection stood at Sh10.17 billion against a target of Sh15. 29 billion. The shortfall was blamed to own-source revenue, which created a deficit of about Sh5.3 billion. In the previous year, collections stood at Sh10.11 billion, against a target of Sh17.23 billion. It was Sonko's first year as governor. The underperformance was blamed on the general elections. From June 7 last year, City Hall has been collecting its own revenue after cutting ties with JamboPay of Webtribe Limited which has been contracted to collecting revenue for Nairobi since 2014. The county launched its own new system, the Nairobi City County Revenue Management System, which has been in operation since then. Morintat's meeting also discussed how they can control hawking, mushrooming construction on road reserves, pending bills and the supplementary budget. Hawkers in the central business district remain a menace that has been blamed on congestion. Morintat said the executive was ready to perform its duties and ensure stalled projects are completed before new ones start. "With proper dedication and commitment from the county officers, the residents of Nairobi will continue to enjoy services from the county government,” he said. Morintat said they will prepare a supplementary budget so it is presented to the county assembly when MCAs resume sessions in February.  edited by p.o