The Iranian Embassy in Kenya has allayed fears that escalating tensions between Iran and the United States may spill over into Kenya. Tohid Afzali, Head of the Political Department at the embassy, on Wednesday said that Iran would not want to jeopardise the strong relations established with Kenya. “Kenya is a close friend to Iran and Iran wishes all Kenyans prosperity and long life. That is the message that I would want to pass across from the Iranian people,” Afzali said. He further assured that the tensions would not affect trade relations between Kenya and Iran, particularly tea exports. “We want to maintain the longstanding relations with Kenya and contribute to its prosperity,” Afzali added. With an approximate population of 80 million people, Iran is one of the key markets for Kenyan tea. Statistics from the East Africa Tea Association indicate that Kenya exported approximately 4,000 tons of tea worth an estimated Sh 1.3 billion in 2018. Speaking about General Qassem Soleimani's assassination, Afzali added that Iran’s anger is exclusively directed at the US government officials who ordered the killing of the Quds Forces commander  and not at innocent citizens. “We want to clarify that although we (Iran) have the right of retaliation, we are not focusing on civilians. The bone of contention is between Iranian and US governments and not the citizens of these countries,” Afzali emphasised. Kenya has been a key counterterrorism ally of the US in the Eastern African region. Other than sharing intelligence on security threats in the region, America has provided capacity building resources to enhance professionalism in Kenyan military, improve maritime security and border patrols. Due to this closeness, Kenya has borne the brunt of terror attacks, the latest being an assault on a joint Kenya-US military base in Manda Bay, Lamu county. Al Shabaab claimed responsibility for the Sunday morning attack at Camp Simba during which three Americans died – two contractors and a serviceman. Coming barely hours after Iran vowed to revenge General Soleimani’s assassination, speculation was rife that the attack on the camp was part of the retaliation – speculations that were later dismissed by al Shabaab.