 Rachael Muthui, the destitute girl from Mwingi in Kitui, has a reason to smile after a university academic registrar offered to sponsor her secondary education. Rachael's plight was highlighted in a moving story in the Star on Tuesday. JKUAT's Academic Affairs registrar Esther Mworia Njeru and her family have decided to give the girl from Mwangeni a full scholarship. The 17-year-old girl, who scored 325 marks in last year's KCPE examination, will be joining Vyulya Girls’ Secondary School in Machakos. She had not reported to school due to lack of school fees. Rachael led a class of 18 pupils at Kyandii Primary School. She sat the exam while sick, according to her teachers. Class teacher Samuel Moses Mwamba said they assisted the eighth born in a family of 11 while in school and occasionally donated food for her needy family. “The girl managed to complete her primary school mainly through the teachers' help,” Mwamba said. Njeru said at the girl’s home at Mwangeni that as an educationist she was moved by the story and just as the government is committed to 100% transition to high school, she will assist Rachael. “I was moved by the girl’s hard work despite the challenges she faced during her studies and decided to actualise her dream of becoming a lawyer,” she said. “Together with my family, we will see Rachael through school till she achieves her dream,” Njeru said. She also promised to erect a better house for Rachael's mother. Rachael thanked Njeru and her family for coming to her rescue. She promised not to disappoint the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology official. “I am very grateful for the kind gesture and will beat all odds to better my tomorrow and that of my family,” she said. Kyandii headteacher David Mutinda thanked Njeru for coming to the bright girl’s assistance. Mutinda said his teachers went out of their way to provide food for Rachael’s family. “As a school we appreciate the kind gesture and wish Rachael continues excelling in her studies as before,” the school head said.  