State operatives are considering prosecuting a vocal Kieleweke politician after investigations into a security incident targeting Deputy President William Ruto. A top government official told the Corridors that the file will be completed on Thursday. In an act of balancing the scales, word is that they are contemplating to sacrifice the politician to end the narrative that they were only targeting Tangatanga MPs in the crackdown against ‘lawless’ politicians. A second-term Member of Parliament from Nyanza region is playing hide and seek with electorates after failing to keep his promise to ferry some supporters to the just concluded Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) consultative meeting in Kisii. The man abandoned his supporters, who had already dressed for the day, the last minute without any explanation. Stranded, they attempted to reach the lawmaker but the latter’s phone was switched off the whole day. Some angry supporters told Corridors “the man will be reminded – at the right time, of what happens to those who fail ODM leader Raila Odinga”. A senior official at the Ministry of Environment who was fished from the helm of a leading private sector body into government has vowed to frustrate the National Assembly's environment committee report on a dispute between a distiller and a property firm. The 2018 report had indicted the distiller for water and air pollution. It recommended items the firm was to fix within six months. A little bird tells us the ministry official is on the distiller’s stemming from their ties while at the private sector, a dalliance that is touted to be grounded on the blessings of the National Environment Management Authority (Nema). A famous trade unionist has reportedly fallen out with one of his youthful friends for ‘marrying year after year’. It is said the unionist is angry at the young man whom he has been supporting since he left school. Those in the know have told Corridors that the young man - in his early 30s, has refused to listen to the unionist’s fatherly advice. The young man, who hails from Bungoma County, has within a record time married three wives, and may not stop soon as he is already shopping for yet a fourth wife. The lad has been flaunting his property, including a newly built house, on social media. This has attracted the attention of the EACC who are now moving in to question the source of his wealth, which is likely to be traced back to the unionist.