National Assembly Majority chief whip Benjamin Washiali on Monday blamed his political detractors for the release of a video in which he is captured assaulting an unknown man. He took issue with the timing, saying the incident happened in 2015. The video has gone viral on social media after surfacing on Sunday.  The Mumias East lawmaker was captured assaulting the man, who is said to have been a driver, on a road that passes through sugar plantations. He rained blows and kicks on him as those in his company demanded that the victim name the person who gave him money to supply stolen fuel. On Monday, the MP admitted that he overreacted but added that he was angered after he found the driver siphoning fuel from Mumias Sugar Company tractors. “That was when Mumias was beginning to sink and the National Treasury had just given the initial Sh500 million for its turnaround and anyone who cared about the future of the company would not allow what was happening to go on because the company was struggling to even get money for fuel,” Washiali told the Star on the phone. “If this clip was released at that time, the majority would be on my side. Why did whoever recorded the video fail to release the clip then? The timing is suspect.” Netizens condemned the attack and demanded that the MP be arrested and prosecuted for taking the law into his own hands and failing . Some said former Deputy Chief Justice Nancy Baraza lost her job for “just pinching a guard’s nose”, hence Washiali, being a state officer, should be taken the same route given that the attack was grievous. The victim remains unknown and searches at the Mumias police station shows that no complaint was lodged against the MP. But a former Mumias Sugar Company driver who did not want to be named told the Star that the victim hailed from Matayos subcounty in Busia county and had died in an accident. “What I know is that he was crushed by a tractor early last year as he siphoned fuel and he is no more but I cannot give you his name unless you find his family members,” he said.