London-based GBM Engineering Consortium has lost a lucrative tender to design, build, own, and operate, the Sh200 billion High Grand Falls Dam project in Kitui and Garissa. This follows a decision by the Milimani High Court that quashed a pronouncement by the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board (PPARB) that awarded the London-based firm the project. The High Grand Falls Dam project is the single largest undertaking by the government after the standard gauge railway, and is part of the Sh1.5 trillion Lamu Port and Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor projects. The dam, which was conceived in 2009, covers 165 square kilometres and will hold 5.6 billion cubic metres of water that will nourish the Lamu port. Daniel Nzonzo, National Irrigation Authority's head of communications, yesterday said the dam targets to store floodwater to irrigate 200,000 acres across Kitui, Tana River and Garissa counties. “The dam will also generate power to be injected into the national grid. The estimated cost of the project is Sh200 billion,” he said. The Irrigation Board will now do a fresh tender following the court's verdict, Nzonzo said. "We will do fresh tendering after undertaking a detailed design review and confirm availability of resources for the project," he said. The tendering process started on January 11, 2017, through Open International Tendering and seven firms submitted expressions of interest. Of the seven, six were prequalified to submit proposals and only one firm submitted its proposals. Upon evaluation, NIB disqualified the firm because of its failure to meet the Technical requirements of the tender. The firm petitioned this decision at the PPARB. The procurement board then ordered the irrigation board to award the tender to the British firm. This prompted the irrigation board to move to the High Court. In cancelling the award, Justice John Mativo said it was unlawful for PPARB to pass a decision awarding a tender to a bidder in circumstances where there has not been a full and complete evaluation of the bidder’s proposal and proper compliance with the bid requirements. The Judge held that the National Irrigation Board (NIB) fully demonstrated that PPARB acted unlawfully by failing to uphold the precise requirements of the tender documents and the provisions of the law. “The board’s decision was irregular and inconsistent with the tender documents and where a decision is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, the Act, and the tender documents, such a decision is invalid,” he said. In March 21, 2019, the board had directed NIB to proceed and complete the procurement process, including making the award within 14 days. The board in arriving at that decision said it considered the tender documents, evaluation reports and all the documents supplied to it in arriving at the said decision. But NIB declined to award the contract to a consortium of British and Turkish firms on grounds that the board’s decision was tainted with illegality. It subsequently filed the case in court and sued PPARB seeking to overturn its March 21 decision. The consortium was among six prequalified international construction firms, five of them Chinese, which participated in the bidding process. According to the court documents, NIB found the British firm unsuccessful after a technical score of 68 per cent which was below the set minimum after attaining a technical score of 70 per cent. This was a result of the firm’s failure to show proof of ownership or capacity to hire equipment in the form of logbooks and also a commitment letter to fund all components of the project fully. NIB stated that PPARB’s impugned decision to still insist the tender be awarded to the firm was tainted with bias, illegality and lack of logic. It said PPARB exhibited bias in favor of the firm and against it because the instant dispute has been heard and determined four times with board still ruling in favor of the British firm. It also claimed that in all its findings, the Board appeared to have a preferred outcome of the tendering process and the evaluation of the instant tender. NIB also argued that the decision to substitute the criteria for proof of ownership of equipment, plant and machinery being copies of logbooks with other documents which are not listed in the information to bidders was a violation of the act. But PPARB said in each of the four reviews, NIB showed defiance and cunning conduct in the directions and guidance it issued. It accused NIB of breaching the procurement law. The judge in arriving at his findings questioned what was difficult in availing copies of logbooks as proof of ownership as provided in the bid documents. He said failure to prove ownership was in conflict with the act, the tender documents and the constitution “In this case, the simple question before the PPARB was whether the firm demonstrated proof of ownership or capacity to hire in the form of logbooks or signed documents accompanied by copies of logbooks”. Mativo said the winning bidder did not pass the post-qualification evaluation which was a mandatory requirement as it never provided evidence of ownership as required and neither did the tender meet all the requirements of the tender. 