Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has called on the Coffee Subsector Implementation committee to increase funding to revive the sector. Kiraitu said solving farmers' problems of low prices will ensure the crop is revived to give farmers value for their investment and hard work. The governor said the sector does not need to be demystified "because money is the key interest of farmers". “Coffee farmers should be paid like any other crop farmer after delivering their coffee to the market. Whatever happens in the international market, what the buyers do with the coffee and other intricacies and politics should not be the farmer's business,” he said. He spoke when he met members of the committee led by Prof Joseph Kieyah who paid him a courtesy call at his office. The committee which was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to look into reviving the ailing sector was conducting public participation on the coffee policy which is under development. Kiraitu appreciated the President for giving out Sh3 billion to the sector and tasked responsible officials to use some of the money to seek and link farmers directly to external market players. He urged the committee to allocate funds to the Meru Coffee Millers Union to be used as a revolving fund for farmers. The county, Kiraitu said, is implementing the new cash model in which farmers are paid Sh20 per kilogramme of delivered berries. Kiraitu urged the committee to fast-track payment to Sh60 per kilo. Kieyah praised Kiraitu and his administration government for facilitating inclusive public participation. Meru Coffee Union chairman Ephantus Majau was present. The Sh3 billion coffee cherry revolving fund was announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year in April during the State of the Nation address and was later incorporated into the budget. It was developed by the Coffee Subsector Reforms Implementation committee and put in place in 2016. Kieyah, however, recently announced the fund will not be channelled through co-operative societies and that the government is still working on structures to make it sustainable. He said to qualify, farmers applying for the funds will have to prove how many kilos they have previously delivered to their cooperative society. Edited by R.Wamochie