A section of leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto have said the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) should not be turned into a political contest. They said the Initiative should take everyone’s view if it is to be inclusive. Speaking during the burial of Rael Mbeleete, mother to the former Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Kilonzo Mailu in Makindu, Makueni County on Saturday, the leaders said they were not opposed to BBI. They noted that there was an opportunity for the Initiative to take the country to the next level of development , “If it is not hijacked by politicians." Leaders present included former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, Kitui Senator Enock Wambua, Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka and Kenya Ambassador to Uganda Kiema Kilonzo. Others were former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama, Narc-Kenya party leader Martha Karua and former Othaya MP Mary Wambui. While explaining that the Eastern region would soon be deliberating on BBI, Kalonzo asked the BBI taskforce to depoliticise the process. “The taskforce needs to come up with its own programmes that would make BBI a success,” Kalonzo said. Muthama questioned the rush in the collection of the views on BBI for the second time. “We first need to know what is contained in the current report and what its shortcomings are to warrant its return to the public,” Muthama said. He said BBI should not be about the creation of additional seats and positions for politicians but rather focus on making the lives of Kenyans better. “The interest of the people should be paramount. But importantly, as we review the constitution, we also need to cultivate the culture of respecting the laws of the land. That way, we would move forward as a country,” he added. Kitui Senator Enock Wambua observed that the unity of the country was important even as the push for the change of the Constitution is pursued. He explained that the process should bring everyone on board for it to be of use to the country. “Any division now would defeat the transformation journey that we have been pursuing,” the Kitui Senator said. His sentiments were echoed by Martha Karua who said Kenya needed progressive and dedicated leadership for it to eliminate poverty and unemployment. Murkomen said once the politics of hypocrisy is gotten rid of, Kenya would be on the right path to development. “Let us do away with the ‘us versus them’ kind of leadership,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said. He said no one was opposed to the BBI “but the process should not be selective." On his part, Munyaka called on Ruto and Kalonzo to forge a working relationship that would usher in a new era in Kenya. The former Vice-President said there was no harm in leaders working together for the betterment of Kenya. He said he had no problem with Ruto and would continue supporting the current leadership, assuring the country that come 2022, he would be at the centre of the formation of the next Government. Ruto asked leaders to stop the politics of hate and division and focus on the needs of Kenyans. “I invite all those leaders who would want to work with our Jubilee leader Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said.