 The DPP has asked the court to cancel Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's bail terms, saying he violated the orders when he nominated a deputy governor. Sonko has been barred from accessing his office following charges of corruption. Sonko on January 6 named county disaster management and coordination chief officer Anne Mwenda to become his deputy. DPP Nordin Haji says Sonko violated terms set by the anti-corruption court when he was granted bail after being charged in a Sh357 million graft case. On Friday, the DPP, through his assistant Joseph Riungu, asked the court to cancel the bail terms granted to Sonko and commit him to detention pending the hearing and determination of his case. The DPP also wants orders to bar county officials from permitting or facilitating the governor's access to his office. He says that on January 6, "in blatant disregard of the court's orders barring him access to his office, Sonko nominated a deputy governor. "There is a real danger that Sonko will interfere, intimidate and coerce the witnesses who are under his executive control, which will undermine the integrity of this court," the DPP said. Nominating a deputy governor is a clear indication Sonko continues to access his office directly or indirectly, Haji argued. Sonko was on December 9, last year charged before Milimani Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. The bond terms were imposed by Ogoti who also directed the governor to stay out of his office until the hearing and determination of the case. "The acts of governor Sonko are tantamount to a breach of the bail terms warranting review and setting aside of the orders admitted him," the DPP said. He said Sonko's nomination of a deputy governor amounts to interference with the crime scene and prospective witnesses and will ultimately compromise the integrity of the trial. "It is evident from the conduct of the respondent that he has no respect for the orders of this court and has disregarded the directive given by the court." Sonko and his 16 co-accused persons have denied the corruption and money laundering charges. edited by p. obuya