Good morning, The future of the Jubilee government is on shaky ground after Cabinet Secretaries and some senior civil servants divided their loyalties between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto While some CSs are openly showing their allegiance to the two, others are quietly taking sides as the road to 2022 takes shape. Here are the other stories making headlines in the Star this morning. Form 1 students began reporting to schools yesterday, in an exercise that will run for the next five days. The Education ministry is banking on the National Education Management Information System to track the admission of 1,052,364 candidates who sat last year’s KCPE exam.  Kenya’s Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) expects the removal of a cap on commercial lending rates to spur stocks trading, lifting valuations and attracting new listings, its chief executive said on Monday. The government removed the cap last November, fuelling a rally in bank shares that helped the market finish the year as one of the best performers on the continent. Broke retailer Uchumi Supermarket could escape liquidation after rallying majority of the creditors to back the Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA). Speaking to the Star on phone yesterday, the retailer's CEO Mohamed Mohamed said the firm is awaiting the government's response before presenting the agreement in court next month.  Nine years after Kenya went to Somalia, al Shabaab is still taking the fight to Kenyan soil, despite multiple operations and airstrikes to cripple them. While it has become routine to hear of the attacks, the frequency and audacity with which they are occurring lately has raised eyebrows.  The husband of Kitui lynch mob victim Daisy Mbaluka is one of the six suspects detained on Monday for 21 days as the police investigate the teacher's murder. The detention of Lawrence Ndolo (husband), Mutiso Mulwa, his mother Nzangi Mulwa and wife Rachael Nzangi, Amos Kithiku and Martha Kisilu brought to eight the number of people being questioned in connection with the killing of the Ndooni Primary School Kiswahili and mathematics teacher on January 6.