All the speculation, gossip and protests surrounding Ole Gunner Soslkjaer’s tortured tenure at the helm of Manchester United leads me to explain something. When I was at Old Trafford last week, I heard some fans talking about sacking Solskjaer and appointing ex-Tottenham Hotspur boss Mauricio Pochettino. There is something they either don’t know or have forgotten. If the Argentine coach secures another Premier League managerial post this season, his previous club Spurs stand to receive £10million in compensation! Solskjaer has been promised until at least the end of this season to turn United around but it is accepted that such a short time for this great club is not nearly long enough. Solskjaer pointed out to his bosses this week that Jurgen Klopp took four years to build Liverpool into a title winning force and it will take at least that long for United to regain past glories. One indication as to how the board of directors and owners are thinking is that United have not made that expected big spend in January. This points to Solskjaer having just four months left to save his job. I can tell you from my conversations with United’s inside staff that Pochettino has a lot of support in the director’s boardroom and many of them wanted him to take over when Mourinho was sacked. When I met Solskjaer recently, I was reminded of the big smile displaying a set of teeth which would be well suited to a toothpaste advert. Unfortunately, there isn’t much to smile about these days. Solskjaer is the kind of guy who holds the weather forecast in his hand, which says it is going to snow tomorrow but he advises you to bring your swimming shorts just in case the sun bursts through. In other words, he truly believes he can turn this mighty club around against all the odds. Regrettably, those who agree with his assessment are dwindling in number. The Norwegian has now lost more games as United’s manager than he has won. David Moyes was sacked for doing much better than Solskjaer but then he isn’t a playing legend for the Reds, who won them the Champions League. At each match, there are toxic areas of the ground protesting for the removal of the owners and their club spokesperson Ed Woodward but still the fans sing songs of praise for Solskjaer, their hero. Arteta gradually getting his house in order at Emirates Arsenal have followed South American club Flamengo’s Pablo Mari for several weeks and after two weeks of tense negotiations, they  have finally signed a loan deal for their man. Manager Mikel Arteta knows the Spaniard from their time together at Manchester City though neither Pep Guardiola nor Arteta ever played him during his three seasons. Left-footed Mari will ease Arsenal’s centre back problem. Arsenal’s technical director Edu carried out the negotiations and I have been told the club have the option to buy him permanently at the end of the season if the move is successful. Mari is the perfect back up for Hector Bellerin. Mikel Arteta revealed this week that he was worried about his defence in the immediate future because Shkodran Mustafi sustained an injury when winning at Bournemouth. The club doctors were assessing hospital scans this week but it does look hopeful that the German centre back will be okay to carry on after a couple of weeks. Mustafi is currently wearing a protective boot but I noticed he is not walking on crutches which is a good sign. Arteta is already without Calum Chambers after he received a knee injury and is out for the rest of the season. That left Sokratis Papastathopoulos and Rob Holding as Gunners’ only fit central defenders and Arteta has identified this as one of the club’s weaknesses. Edu also wanted to bring in Paris St-Germain’s out of favour left back Layvin Kurzawa. However, he was overruled by Arteta who does not think he would fit into his plans. Next week, after talking to Arsenal, I will explain how this all affects Ainsley Maitland-Niles and Arteta’s overall defence plan. Sanchez heading back to Old Trafford I am rather shocked to report this but I am hearing from Manchester United insiders that Alexis Sanchez might be recalled to the club at the end of the season. The Reds’ can’t have him back during the season because there is a “no break” clause in the current loan agreement. Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward has told the Chilean’s agents that the loan deal which has taken Alexis to inter Milan will not be made permanent. United were glad to see the back of the flop striker at the end of last August because he was doing nothing for the club and being paid £500k a week! United now split equally his wages with Inter but so far he has done nothing much for them either. He has made seven appearances and scored just one goal. I am told that Sanchez will go on United’s pre-season tour this coming summer and Inter Milan have been told that neither they nor any other club can buy him. Ceballos looking for way out of Arsenal The word from Arsenal is that Dani Ceballos’s agent is talking to Valencia about ending his loan with the Gunners. Since moving from Real Madrid temporarily, the 23 year-old has started only nine games and he fears he will be left out of Spain’s national squad for the Euro 2020 competition. He wants an assurance from Mikel Arteta that he will get more playing time in the second half of the season but the manager said since Ceballos suffered a hamstring injury in November, he hasn’t seen enough of the Spaniard to play him. He said: “I haven’t seen much of him because he only trained with us for a week or 10 days. I heard about him returning to Real Madrid but I have nothing to comment.” However, Arteta is on record as saying that Ceballos “needs to make steps forward and make my selections more difficult.”  Liverpool’s owner delighted with their new training ground Currently, the most satisfied club owner in the Premier League, Liverpool’s John Henry and his wife Linda Pizzuti, dropped in to see the club’s new £50million training ground complex. John Henry was delighted to see the progress being made at the 9,200 sq metres centre in Kirkby near Liverpool. It will house both the first-team and the club’s Academy players. The facility has its own TV studio, press conference area and offices for the manager and staff. State-of-the-art equipment areas consist of two gyms, a sports hall, pool, hydrotherapy complex and a specialist medical rehabilitation suite for injuries. The current training ground at Melwood, also near to Liverpool, has been home to the senior teams since the 1950s. Winks plays on in pain Tottenham’s Harry Winks told his teammates this week that his persistent ankle injury is not worrying him. I can tell you, however, that it is more a case of him learning to live with the pain so he can play on. Winks, still only 23, was likely to have time on the sidelines after he limped off the pitch at Norwich but declared himself fit for duty in the FA Cup draw at Southampton. Winks has a history of ankle problems and had surgery in 2018 which stopped him being considered for England’s World Cup squad. After I questioned how the ankle was holding up, he said: “I’ve had pain in my ankle for the last year and I can’t get over it because I keep rolling it and having more problems. I’m learning to deal with the pain and getting through it. I’m in good form at the moment and don’t want to stop that so I play on.” Tottenham still have BIG problems I have heard a whisper that Jose Mourinho has a clause in his contract that guarantees him an extra £2million in his pay packet if he gets Tottenham into the Champions League for next season. After watching his side recently at Watford I would advise him not to spend it before he earns it because Spurs are currently a lacklustre, uninspiring and underperforming team. Admittedly Watford are currently the most improved team over the last couple of months but Tottenham should have made more of the game in which they surrendered the ball for long periods. Spurs supporters sang: “It’s not football anymore and you could see that the old Mourinho frustrations coming back into his matches. Dele Ali was substituted by Mourinho and he went into a rage, thumping one of the dug-out seats and engaging in a heated argument with the manager at the end of the match. Spurs miss Harry Kane—his goals, his leadership on the field and his captain’s arm badge leave a huge hole in the north London club’s armoury. Christian Eriksen finally signed for Milan this week but he departed the club mentally some time ago. His creative ability and spirit is gone and he performs like an employee watching the clock before it is time to go home. Mourinho has to instill some flair into this Tottenham team and this week, he has spoken at length to each member of the first team squad during training. Sergio Romero is a superb professional One footballer who amazes me with his patience and commitment is Manchester United’s reserve goalkeeper Sergio Romero. It is amazing that in four and a half seasons, he has started only seven times! Just imagine that…a first class goalkeeper who has made 96 appearances between the posts for Argentina! It seems that he is content to collect an admittedly healthy wage cheque each week which was negotiated by his agent Mino Raiola. Sergio is a very popular player in the dressing room and is always in a good mood. Being second choice behind David de Gea, who earns £350k a week but has recently made continual mistakes, must be frustrating. However, Sergio shows no sign of being difficult or even complaining. He just sits in the dugout week in and week out being available for anything the manager asks of him and when he has been called upon to play, rarely underperforms. He is a total professional and many clubs would be lucky to have his services.