The Office of Registrar of Political Parties has dispatched teams to verify details of 12 parties that have applied for full registration. Registrar Ann Nderitu sent eight teams to various parts of the country for a “verification exercise”. The parties are required to provide verifiable evidence of their established infrastructure across the country, as required by the Political Parties Act 2011. The teams were sent to the Coast, Lower Eastern, Upper Eastern, Western, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Central and Nairobi regions. “The verification is part of our commitment to ensure political parties are established for posterity and are capable of actualising their set out ideologies,”  Nderitu said. Parties that have applied for full registration are Unified Change Party, Party of Economic Democracy, National Reconstruction Alliance, Umoja Summit Party, Transformation National Alliance Party and Pambazuko Alliance Party. The others are Democratic Action Party, Sauti Ya Mwananchi Party, National Ordinary People Empowerment Union, Green Thinking Action Party, Ideal Democratic and Economic Party and The Service Party. The verification drive seeks to confirm the physical presence of party offices in at least 24 counties with headquarters in one more county, party leadership, personnel, mechanisms for recruitment of members, membership registers, party constitutions, party activities, policy frameworks and administrative structures, among other requirements. To be fully registered, parties are expected to recruit at least 1,000 members in at least 24 counties, open offices in the devolved units and have its headquarters in one more county. Parties are supposed to meet these requirements 180 days after getting the interim certificate. They are also expected to propose governing bodies within the same period. The requirements are a complement to Constitutional requirements of the formation of political parties with a national outlook. Nderitu said her office will strive to ensure that the registration of political parties is geared towards institutionalising political parties as “citadels for democracy” There are 68 fully registered political parties in the country. ORPP has already established seven regional offices in Kisumu, Eldoret, Nyeri, Isiolo, Mombasa, Nakuru and Kitui. Nderitu said the branches are not just for monitoring parties for compliance, but taking services closer to the people as well as provide an opportunity for political parties and their members to seek guidance from them. “The office will endeavour to expand to other regions and progressively to all the counties,” the registrar said. On conclusion of the exercise, she said, consolidated reports will be thoroughly scrutinised to ascertain the compliance status of the political parties in question. “They will further be guided accordingly in case there are gaps to ensure full compliance prior to registration,” Nderitu said. The Service Party is the latest to be issued with an interim registration certificate and is the newest entrant in Central Kenya as leaders reposition themselves in readiness for the 2022 elections. The new political vehicle was formed by a group of youths. It was issued with an interim certificate early this year. Last year, leaders from Central Kenya formed two other parties – the Civic Renewal Party (CRP) and Transformation National Alliance Party (TNAP). The new parties were formed despite the dominance of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee Party. 