Two people were on Monday charged in a Mombasa court with stealing a pistol at Deputy President William Ruto's official residence in Mombasa. Elsia Kazungu and Joshua Owiti are accused of stealing a Ceska pistol loaded with 15 bullets on December 19 last year. The suspects are also accused of stealing a mobile phone worth Sh1,200 belonging to Francis Kariuki, a police officer attached at the DP's residence in Mombasa. According to police reports, Kariuki a police office based at Central police station, went to Moi Avenue in Mombasa at 1am and met a woman who introduced herself as Stella. She was reportedly a commercial sex worker and Kariuki agreed to pay for her services. They boarded a tuk tuk to the officer's quarters at the DP's residence and on arrival, he introduced himself to the GSU officer manning the gate before he was allowed in with the woman. Once inside, she requested Kariuki to allow her to take a shower. He took his pistol and placed it under a pillow. The woman came back and sealed the deal as agreed. According to the police report, when the officer woke up after some hours, he realised his pistol, mobile phone and Sh700 were missing Kariuki went to his neighbour and tried to ring his mobile phone, but it was off. He then travelled to Nakuru, and was admitted at Nairobi Women's Hospital. Kariuki was discharged four days later. He reported what had happened upon his return to Mombasa and investigations were launched. Kariuki was advised to print his M-Pesa statement and he realised a transaction he did not authorise was made to one Jackson Muthangya. Upon his arrest, Muthangya said he was a boda boda operator. The operator said he didn't know Stella and only picked her in town and ferried her to Nyali. Muthangya said Stella tried to withdraw money from the phone through an M-Pesa agent, but the attendant declined to do so, stating she needed to produce an ID card. Stella then proceeded to ask Muthangya to allow her to send money to his phone, and he would then withdraw the cash for her, since he had his ID card. He agreed. Stella sent Muthangya Sh1,450, which he withdrew and gave her Sh150 and dropped her in Kisauni and they went separate ways. Further investigations led police to Owiti, who sold Kariuki's phone. He confirmed selling the phone, and led officers to Stella, and told them she had confessed to stealing a pistol. It was revealled that Owiti is Stella's husband. Further investigations led officers to Shimo la Tewa remand, where Stella was found and her real name was revealed to be Gladys Wanjala. She admitted to stealing the pistol to one Ali Star, who was the conveyor, although the firearm was to reach one Joseph Karisa Charo. The transaction was witnessed by Bakari Mohammed, alias Tboy. The suspects denied the charges before Mombasa chief magistrate Edina Nyaloti and were released on Sh200,000 bond. Nyaloti, however, questioned prosecution on how the accused accessed the DP's residence, which is heavily guarded. The case will be mentioned on February 10.