Leaders in Nyanza and Western are planning meetings to discuss the Building Bridges Initiative report and speak in one voice. Nyanza leaders are headed to Kisii county on Friday for a conference where they are expected to discuss the BBI report and other serious issues affecting the region, among them agriculture. The multi-sectoral stakeholders' engagement will bring together governors, senators, MPs, MCAs, elders, clerics, opinion leaders, women, youth, business leaders, small traders and professionals from the region to robustly discuss the report and give views as a region. In Western, Kakamega Governor Wyclife Oparanya said they will discuss the BBI report on January 18 in Bukhungu Stadium. The meeting is being spearheaded by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli. Oparanya said the community wants to make a clear stand on the BBI and what is in it for the Mulembe nation. Leaders from Nyanza have affirmed their unwavering support for the report. Kisii Governor James Ongwae on Friday said the region shares the same aspirations, trading partners and it's on this basis that they elected leaders to champion the conversation on the BBI report. Ongwae, the chairman of the initiative, said the Constitution is clear on citizen participation on any fundamental issues that touch on public decision-making processes. “It is on this basis that we have come together as a region to accord the various stakeholders in the counties the opportunity to discuss, understand and comprehend the recommendations as given in the report,” he said. He was accompanied by governors Anyang' Nyong'o (Kisumu), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay) and Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe. Nyagarama and Awiti reiterated the importance of educating and letting people know what is in the BBI report and get their views. “There is a need for the lake region people to come together and speak in one voice if we are to get national shares together as counties,” Nyagarama said. Awiti said the BBI report is not based only on political issues but on both economic and domestic matters.    