@robertomollo3  A Homa Bay landlord has appealed to Governor Cyprian Awiti to help him get Sh640,000 in accrued rent from Water executive Dickson Nyawinda. Philip Oduogi, a 78-year-old pensioner, on Monday said Nyawinda rented his six bed-roomed bungalow in Homa Bay town but has not paid rent since September 2018. The resident of Magunga in Suba South constituency wants Awiti to force the executive to pay his rent arrears. “We agreed that Nyawinda was to pay me Sh40,000 every month but he has not done so. He only paid me the first four months,” Oduogi told journalists in Homa Bay town on Monday. Nyawinda said he was aware of the debt but attributed it to confusion arising from the previous tenant. Oduogi last year wrote to county commissioner Herman Shambi for his intervention in a letter dated June 18, 2019. “Oduogi has lodged a complaint that a company associated with you has not paid him for 9 months. This is, therefore, to summon you and other company representatives to appear before the county commissioner on June 20, 2019,” Shambi's letter to the executive read. Shambi has since been redeployed. Oduogi said attempts to force Nyawinda to pay him have borne no fruits hence his appeal to the governor. The old man is a retired tutor from the Kenya School of Government. “I am appealing to Governor Awiti to assist me get my pay from Nyawinda who works under him. Rent from the house is my sole source of income after I retired,” Oduogi said. He asked the executive to vacate to pay him up and the house. "I want him to pay me so that someone else can occupy the house.” Nyawinda, however, said he had not refused to pay his landlord as claimed. He said there was confusion that arose from a liability that he inherited from a tenant who had occupied the house before him. “The tenant whom I succeeded repaired the building but the landlord had not paid him the cost of the repair. We agreed that I was supposed to inherit the liability and I have paid the tenant Sh320,000 but the landlord is now denying the agreement,” Nyawinda said. He said he only owes the old man Sh100,000 after paying the inherited liabilities. “I wanted to start a business in the house but I have not started. I’m planning to settle the debt to enable me to begin the process of starting my business,” the county official said.  edited by peter obuya.