A church has called upon leaders to tone down on BBI politics and instead focus on sensitization for the sake of national unity. Archbishop John Mwaura of the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Kenya (AIPCK) said differences of opinion on the Building Bridges Initiative report have resulted in disunity. Politicians should take the report to Kenyans to read and understand, he said. Mwaura spoke at the church's headquarters in Githunguri town, Kiambu, on Friday. "When the BBI report was presented to Kenyans in Bomas, every speaker from across the political divide praised it. But now when it is out here, there are wrangles and yet there are so many Kenyans who have not read it or even seen it. What we are seeing is political supremacy over the report," he said Mwaura. Mwaura said all Kenyans should be given a copy of the BBI report and allowed enough time to read and comprehend it. The government should provide civic education at the grassroots. Mwaura proposed that the government should use churches to distribute the BBI report copies and ask church leaders to sensitize their followers. "I would urge the government to provide BBI report copies to all churches since there are people attending churches every Sunday and they can reach many to get the contents of BBI and make their own decisions," the archbishop said. Mwaura said that there was too much political heat in Mt Kenya region. "There is too much political noise in Mt Kenya and as a church we are not happy. Other regions are watching us in disbelief and we are not the only ones in this country. The country can not be driven by hate politics all the time," he said. George Njuruba, AIPCK national chairman, welcomed the decision to have meetings of BBI sensitization across the country. "Instead of leaders fighting against each other over BBI and Kenyans are yet to be given copies to read for themselves, meetings should be held across the country and people made to understand what the BBI report contains," Njuruba said.