Deputy President William Ruto has rubbished claims that the Jubilee government does not respect the rule of law. Ruto on Sunday, however, said state officers currently acting in contempt of court orders will be held accountable for their actions. Speaking in Olerai, Narok County, Ruto said the foundation of the country is that which is built on the rule of law. He said, as a result, any disobedience to court orders is setting Kenya on the verge of sliding into anarchy and impunity. "Every public officer has their responsibility both individual and collective to ensure that this country is built on that firm foundation of respect to the rule of law," he said. Ruto maintained that every state officer must play their part in ensuring that there is that respect to the same rule of law. "It is the responsibility of every state officer and the government itself to respect the law at all cost. Any public officer who disobeys these court orders we want to categorically state that they will carry their cross individually," the DP said. He added, "They will be held personally responsible for violating the law and orders". Ruto said every Kenyan citizen has a duty to ensure the foundation of the rule of law is not sabotaged by anybody, anywhere. “The slide to anarchy and impunity will begin the day we don’t respect the rule of law and court orders in our country,” he said. Ruto's sentiments come just a day after Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was held behind bars despite court ordering his release. Kuria was arrested on Friday for allegedly assaulting a woman during a show at the Royal Media Services. He was detained at the Kilimani Police station. Kuria was later released on Saturday night after posting a Sh20,000 police bond, authorities having declined to free him on the Sh50,000 cash bail Khaminwa had secured from Milimani Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot. Kuria blamed his detention on people he said they were acting as prefects to curtail his political freedom. "I have no shame... I have no guilt to say that we are going to the elections in two years and we are going to see formations. Yesterday, we saw a formation of Raila Odinga, CS Matiang'i and Anne Waiguru. What happened yesterday was the launch of Raila - Matiang'i - Waiguru presidential campaign," Kuria said. He added; "I belong to the wing where I am in alliance with Deputy President William Ruto. And if that's why you're arresting me, take me back now coz I am not shifting." Addressing President Uhuru Kenyatta, Kuria told him to ensure that Ruto's supporters are not harassed for exercising their rights. Controversial city lawyer Miguna Miguna was last week barred from jetting back to the country despite the courts having directed that Immigration department facilitates his entry to Kenya. The vocal lawyer had set to travel but was later barred after a red alert was issued. His efforts to try board another airline bore no fruits after he was eject from a France Airline minutes after he boarded. His predicaments have elicited public uproar with some quarters saying the government was to blame for frustrating the return of the self-declared general. The government has however maintained it has complied with all court orders allowing Miguna back in the country, only that his passport has expired and he has to apply for a new one. Immediate former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga also took on his social media hitting back at the government for disobeying court orders. Mutunga said what police were doing was "an unacceptable repeat of the inhumanity of the past and present dictatorships". “What’s happening to Miguna and Kuria and many other victims of the disobedience of court orders is the inhuman mischief our Constitution sought to cure and heal,” he wrote on his Twitter account. Mutunga said he was “equally sad that those who opposed it have joined it, thereby strengthening the dictatorship".