The family of a Lugari man who was allegedly castrated by his neighbour on claims he stole a calf has accused police of harassment. Last week, Morris Ndimu, 29, accused the police of refusing to arrest Henry Miwani whom he claims hired three men to castrate him in a forest in June last year. Ndimu said Miwani hired three men who wrestled him to the ground inside Evergrade Forest and crushed his balls using a burdizzo. Ndimu's father, Rodgers Wanyonyi, said on Monday police officers have been harassing his family by telling them to record more statements. They have declined. Wanyonyi said a senior police officer from the area visited their Sipande village home in search of the family, and they had to go into hiding. "We fear for our lives as the suspect is working closely with the police to harass and intimidate us. Our only mistake is seeking justice,” he said. Wanyonyi claimed that the suspect has been threatening him and his family, boasting that “he has spent a lot of money” and there is nothing they can do to have him charged. He said together with Ndimu, he visited the Office of the DPP in Eldoret last week to complain over the refusal by police to arrest and charge Miwani. Wanyonyi said they were surprised to find their case file there, but with the wrong information. "We learnt that the file in Eldoret has a fake P3 Form, fake witness statements and dubious medical reports to exonerate the suspect from any wrongdoing," he said. A senior official at the Eldoret DPP's office, who did not want to be named, told the Star the copies in the file have not been verified to ascertain their authenticity. Police are said to be looking for Ndimu to charge him with cattle theft. He is in hiding. A look at police records indicated that the theft complaint was booked after the castration to divert attention. Kakamega county police commander Bernard Muli yesterday promised to investigate claims or harassment by police officers. "We're going to investigate and if the claims are true, we are going to deal with anyone involved," the police boss said. Muli said the work of the police is to protect life and property by maintaining law and order and not tormenting the very people they should protect. Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) on Tuesday said it had taken over the investigations. 