 Embakasi East MP Babu Owino wants the court to review his Sh10 million bail in a case in which he is charged with the attempted murder of Felix Odhiambo. The MP also wants the court to stop the DPP from commenting on his case. On Monday, Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi directed Babu to deposit Sh2.5 million to be released and pay the remaining cash in installments. In an application filed at the Milimani law courts, Babu says he will struggle to meet the remaining installments as directed. “I have partially complied with the terms as set out and thus I am out on bail but I know that I will have to struggle to meet the remaining installments as directed in the terms of bail and thus would also appreciate an alternative of bond over and above a reduction of the amounts stated,” Babu says. The lawmaker was charged with the attempted murder of Felix Odhiambo, commonly known as DJ Evolve, at B-Club in Kilimani, Nairobi on January 17. The lawmaker accused the court of shifting the burden of proof to the accused person in its determination of whether or not compelling reasons existed. He says the court seems to have arrived at the conclusion that as long as one has had or has cases in court, it becomes a compelling reason to deny bond or bail. “Despite the fact that I had voluntarily started assisting the victim in meeting the medical expenses and had pledged to voluntarily continue doing so, at no point was it to depict an admission of guilt as the court seems to have depicted and thus the same should not be used to render high or punitive bail terms,” Babu says. Babu has asked the court to revise the earlier ruling issued by Andayi in line with the constitutional rights of an accused person. He also wants the review to be in the interest of the right to a fair hearing and the rule of law. The MP wants the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association to be admitted as an interested party in the matter. He says grave concerns have been publicly raised by the state that seek to interfere with the discretion of magistrates and to an extent judges when dealing with such applications thus constituting a direct attack on the independence of the judiciary.  edited by p. obuya