 The rains that have been experienced since the start of the week will end on Thursday with sunny intervals expected from Friday through to Sunday. In its forecast for the days ahead, the weatherman said the warm weather will make a return. Residents of Nairobi and other major towns have faced miserable trips to work due to heavy overnight rains that often disrupt morning traffic. The rains, mostly being experienced in Western Kenya, will end on Thursday, the meteorological department said. “Moderate rainfall is expected over the Southeastern, Coast and Central parts of the country on Wednesday and Thursday,” said Bernard Chanzu, a deputy director at the Kenya Meteorological Department. He added, “Mainly sunny intervals are expected to prevail from Friday to Sunday over most parts of the country.” Temperatures are expected to remain high within this time, hitting an upward of 28 degrees in Nairobi and 33 degrees at the Coast. The warm weather and rains are favourable for locusts infestation, with many farmers concerned. According to the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Climate Prediction Centre in Dagorete, wet weather encourages the spread of insects. "Weather and climate conditions have contributed to the worst locust situation in 25 years. It has affected Ethiopia, Somalia, Djibouti, Eritrea, Sudan and Kenya. The risk of spread to South Sudan and Uganda is very high," Igad said. January is usually a dry month and in the monthly forecast released two weeks ago, the Met said most parts of the country would be generally dry and sunny. But some regions would experience heavy rains, it warned. In that forecast, Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said the rainfall in January will be higher than the long-term average amounts received during the same month in previous years. “The beginning of January is likely to be wet with occasional rainfall which is likely to be more frequent in the afternoons and during the night,” she said. A few areas in Western Kenya and parts of Central Kenya will experience heavy rainfall resulting in flooding. These areas include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. The October-November-December seasonal rainfall onset was early in most parts and the distribution both in time and space, was good throughout the country, the weatherman said. "The generally good rainfall performance in the country was mainly a result of the strong positive Indian Ocean Dipole. This is owing to the prevailing warm sea surface temperatures in the western Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to the East African coast and the cool sea surface temperatures in the eastern Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to Australia."  edited by p. obuya