Until three weeks ago, Cedric Muyobo had never laid eyes on a computer and the only mouse he knew of was the rodent. The 19-year-old  still appeared tickled as he recounted his first real-time experience with the gadget he had only read about in books. “I was very excited but also scared when I was asked to sit on a chair behind a laptop. I just stared with a smile, keeping a safe distance in case I spoilt it,” he said with a smile. Muyobo is one of the students enrolled for a free computer training project offered by Craft Silicon Foundation. The organization offers a 12-week basic information technology training for youths in Nairobi slums. Every Wednesday and Thursday mornings, a white bus arrives at Kangemi and is parked at the chief's camp. The classes are held in the mobile solar-powered bus fixed with 12 computers inside. Two students share a computer, guided by a tutor and one technical person. Muyobo told us he attends the early morning class which begins at 9am and goes for two hours. There are two other classes, one at 11am and the other at 2pm. When the bus leaves, it goes to Mathare slums where it offers classes for two days before going to Kawangware. If Muyobo performs well and considers pursuing a career in IT, he could be selected to continue to an advanced programme for four months. In this class, they move from basic computer packages and internet training to more complex topics like web design, programming, networking and graphic design. However, Muyobo does not intend to pursue IT as a career but knows he will need it in the tourism sector he so much wishes to join. “I loved Geography so much in high school. I know many places in theory, just like I knew the computer. That is why I want a career in tourism so I can travel to these places,” he said. Craft Silicon, an international organization that deals with software development for financial institutions, started a digital literacy program to give back to society. Priya Budhabhatti, the foundation CEO, said the project targets the marginalized and less fortunate youths in the community and has been running since 2011. The programme had previously been offered in Kibera and Mukuru slums in the city. She said they place a special focus on girls who are perceived to be less techno-savvy. Budhabhatti said giving digital education to children and youth will spur innovation at an early age thereby bridging the digital divide in the country. “The kids will have an opportunity to learn latest ICT trends and access information on the internet," she said. Even though the organisation said they get their targeted groups from youth groups, churches and the local administration, most students we spoke to said they were referred by people who had benefitted from the training. “I had been staying with my grandmother in Kakamega before I came to Nairobi in December last year. That is when a neighbour told me about the Craft Silicon project. Luckily, I got enrolled and started my classes on January 7,” said Muyobo. Muyobo already feels a step closer to realizing his dream of joining the tourism sector. He knows that technology cannot be avoided in the field. Currently, the project which has been ongoing for nine years runs in Kangemi, Mathare and Kawangware slums in Nairobi with at least 200 students in each area. Similar programmes are in Uganda and India. Since 2011, about 16,800 students have benefited from this foundation with some securing internship positions to affiliate companies while others setting up their own businesses related to the programme. According to the local administration in the area, the project plays a pivotal role in reducing crime. Inspector Tamooh Sanaet told the Star incidents such as drugs, muggings and assault have since dropped due to the emergence of the digital empowerment program. "We have seen the impact of this project already. Petty theft and drug abuse are the major crimes here, especially from the youth. Fewer cases are being reported nowadays," he said. Budhabhatti noted that Africa  still experiences low and slow absorption of technology particularly among the low-income earners and the marginalized areas and urged stakeholders in the sector to provide last mile access to technology. “We plan to invest more in solar-powered computer buses and spread our wings to Tanzania, Ghana, and India as part of our empowerment program for the youth, women, children and communities with digital knowledge and services,” she explained.