 Only six per cent of hospitals have sufficient physical infrastructure and basic amenities essential for quality healthcare services, a report released on Wednesday shows. The Kenya Harmonised Health Facility Assessment 2018-2019 Report says 94 per cent of hospitals do not have a reliable source of power, improved water source, a room with privacy, adequate sanitation facilities, communication equipment, access to computer with internet and emergency transportation means. The survey was aimed at providing essential information at national and county levels to facilitate decision making on investments needed to deliver the necessary health package towards universal healthcare and fill critical data gaps in health service availability and readiness. Data collection for the survey was conducted in November and December 2018 by a team of supervisors and research assistants drawn from both the national and county governments. The data was collected in 2,927 health facilities out of the targeted 2,980. It was released in Nairobi by the division of monitoring and evaluation head Hellen Kiarie. On average health facilities had just 55 per cent of basic amenities on the day of the survey, the report says. Among the basic amenities, health facilities are least likely to have an ambulance. Eighty-six per cent of the facilities had both improved water source and a consultation room, 71 per cent had a reliable power source, and 50 per cent had communication equipment while just 42 per cent had access to sanitation facilities. Nairobi county has the highest mean availability of basic amenities at 73 per cent  followed by Mombasa with 71 per cent and Laikipia at 69 per cent. Counties with the lowest availability of basic amenities are Wajir with 26 per cent, Turkana with 35 per cent and Tana River with 38 per cent. “The results of the assessment have outlined some critical gaps such as availability of services for chronic diseases such as cancer and mental health, as well as comprehensive services for maternal health. Our concerted efforts are indeed needed for UHC to become a reality,” Health CS Sicily Kariuki said in a speech read on her behalf by acting director-general Patrick Amoth. In terms of management, government facilities scored 47 per cent behind both NGO/FBO facilities and private hospitals that scored 63 and 62 per cent respectively. While 67 per cent of facilities in urban areas had the basic amenities, those in rural areas had just 47 per cent availability of basic necessities. “Our focus in implementing UHC is pivoted on a strengthened primary healthcare system, where we have put in place deliberate interventions to promote health and prevent diseases,” Kariuki said. The report says only 24 per cent of hospitals had all the basic equipment. Ninety-four per cent had a stethoscope and blood pressure apparatus, 90 per cent had a thermometer, 87 per cent had an adult scale, 52 per cent had a child scale while just 44 per cent had a light source. “Focus on maternal and reproductive health will go a long way in ensuring we attain UHC goal. What we have to do is to address the key gaps in human resources, supplies and infrastructure,” said Dan Okoro from the United Nations Fund for Populations. The report was a collective effort of health partners including USAID, GAVI, WHO, UNICEF, the Global Fund, World Bank, CDC and UNFPA.  edited by p. obuya