The second half of 2019 was characterised by a series of weekly protests in Mombasa by those opposed to the SGR freight monopoly. The government had sought to assure residents that the directive will not paralyse the region's economy. However, organisers of the demos say they will continue the ‘Black Mondays’ from January 6 following a pause in December when a Senate committee ruled in favour of protesters. As demonstrators took to the streets last year, apparently the solidarity of elected leaders from the region has come under a cloud of scepticism by a section of the affected sector players. During a meeting on December 30 by the Fast Action Movement (FAM) called by the organisers, this perception came into sharp focus, forcing the parliamentarians in attendance to defend themselves. While some Mombasa MPs appeared in some of the protests, it seems stakeholders were not satisfied with their level of support. They want more from them. During the general meeting, FAM chairperson Salim Karama expressed their disappointment at the politicians' lack of consistency in the fight to ‘save’ the economy of the region. “We are sad because our leaders have abandoned us. Only a few have been joining us in the streets,” he said. Karama urged the three parliamentarians in attendance to publicly pledge their full commitment., “We want you to declare your full commitment on this matter and to take the responsibility of mobilising all your colleagues to stand with the people of the Coast,” he said. Other speakers also criticised politicians for being silent. “This region has governors and many other leaders who were elected to represent the people. But we don’t see them defending our interests on a matter like this, which affects thousands of their people,” said Thabit, a FAM activist. The directive requiring interior-bound cargo arriving at the port to be ferried by train to Nairobi’s Inland Container Depot has been seen by many at the Coast as an attempt to take away logistics business from the port city. The worst-hit businesses include road transporters, clearing agents and container storage facilities. A spill-over effect has also hit hard services linked to the logistics industry. Attempts by politicians to engage the government has also been undermined by a seeming deception by the authorities. This served to ruin the image of some politicians. In early October 2019, Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo was harassed by protest organisers when he asked them to cease the demos. At the time, politicians, led by Governor Hassan Joho, had met with Transport CS James Macharia in Nairobi and a suspension of the order was announced. Days later, critics claimed nothing had changed. However, the three parliamentarians at FAMs meeting dismissed perceptions that they had grown lukewarm. They said all legislators from the region were united and working tirelessly to unlock the barrier. “Every now and then, we, Coast leaders, discuss this issue. But the government has already taken a position and now we have to explore other ways of finding solutions,” Lunga Lunga's Khatib Mwashetani said. On the accusation that they are not turning up for street demos, Mwashetani stated that as legislators they first need to exhaust all ways in opposing the directive from inside the National Assembly. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir dismissed claims that some leaders have been forced into silence by their political parties. “I am the chairperson of the Public Investment Committee and I have spoken about these issues inside and outside Parliament. My party leaders Raila Odinga and Hassan Joho have never asked me to stop,” he said. “I have also participated in many of the protests. So if I have done all this and have not been silenced, how could any other leader be silenced?”. Senator Mohamed Faki pointed to the issues he raised in the Senate. “Personally, I moved three petitions in the Senate and it was these efforts that produced a number of Senate committees to look into the matter, including the Road and Transport committee where the Cabinet secretary appeared,” he said. With the recent launch of the SGR line extension to Naivasha, Faki also suggested expanding the demos to towns such as Eldoret and Nakuru, which, he said, will face the same challenges experienced by Mombasa.