Farmers in Kisumu county have demanded a probe into the alleged burning of sugar cane in Muhoroni subcounty. The Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association secretary-general Richard Ogendo said farmers are incurring huge losses caused by the ongoing torching of farms. Some of the affected areas include Chemelil, Kowawa, Godabuoro and Muhoroni scheme. About 640 acres of canes have been burnt. Ogendo called on the subcounty security team to work closely with farmers from the affected cane growing areas to arrest the arsonists. “We suspect that a local sugar miller could be involved in these arson attacks and we ask the security agencies to investigate,” he said on phone on Tuesday Muhoroni deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said the matter has not been reported. “I will come back to you once I get tangible information on the issue. My chiefs are on the ground,” Wanyonyi said. He said they are investigating the arson claims as they have also heard that some millers are scrambling for sugar cane. Ogendo also asked the management of Chemelil Sugar Company to start operations. “We want to see the factory opened and receiving sugar cane for crushing instead of selling sugar cane in their nucleus to their competitors,” Ogendo said. He said that there was more than enough cane and it makes no sense for the factory to be shut when farmers are ready to support its operations. Chemelil Sugar managing director Gabriel Nyangweso denied selling sugar cane. "It is not true that we are selling cane to anyone. In cases where our cane gets burnt accidentally, we give it to our neighbouring mills," Nyangweso said. In March last year, the company suspended milling operations after farmers withdrew supply of cane citing accumulated arrears. Nyangweso said for the last six years, they have experienced declining sugarcane supply, depressing ex-factory sugar prices and high cost of production. He also attributed unpaid salaries to liquidity challenges, machine inefficiency and high cost of production. Chemelil branch workers union secretary-general Paul Menya said they are unable to pay school fees and feed their families. Ogendo asked the government to ensure all their dues and those of staff are cleared. Currently, Chemelil owes farmers Sh61 million in arrears for cane delivered. By last year, Chemelil owed staff more than Sh844 million- Sh438 million for net salary arrears, Sh152 million in retirement benefits and terminal dues for 175 former employees as of July 31. Some Sh253.9 million out of the Sh844 million is for unremitted statutory and other deductions. The amount of outstanding statutory and other deductions is expected to grow by Sh20 million to Sh273 million by September 2019. The company has 600 permanent employees and 469 contracted workers. (edited by O. Owino)