Defending champion Omar Sahib will take a break from this year’s national autocross championships. The back-to-back 4WD turbo champion and the fastest driver last season hopes to come back next season. “I am taking a break from autocross due to personal reasons. I will be racing all the four events in the Hill-Climb series which is on the KMSF calendar this season,” he said. Meanwhile, the 2017 champion Rehan Shah retuned from a one year sabattical in Sahib’s Championship winning Subaru GC8. “I am happy with the result after coming from a long sabbatical. I decided to use Sahib’s GC8 as my N10 car had ECU issues. I will be doing the whole season this year and we shall probably be together with my nephew Sahib next year. I will revamp my car and use it on the next race,” he said. He said he felt a bit rusty in practice and first loop. “The track was muddy and slippery and took the car everywhere. It was like fighting with the car. The track dried out in the afternoon session and the conditions improved quite a bit,” Rehan said. “We want to keep the 4WD Turbo title in Ray Racing so hopefully,  I can fill the void left behind by Sahib,” Rehan said. Sahib was at Jamhuri Park Racetrack Sunday to support his uncle Rehan. In the meantime, Shaz Esmail won the opening round of the 2020 KCB National Autocross Championship at Jamhuri Park Racetrack in Nairobi. The Izmir Racing’ driver emerged the winner in the 2WD Turbo Class after posting a cumulative total time of 8.03.11minutes.  He also savoured two championship bonus points with the Fastest Time of the Day (FTD) in class. “I am chuffed with the performance. This is indeed my first win in 10 years and it couldn’t have come at a better time when I am going flat out for the  championship,” Shaz remarked. Shaz delivered the FTD after clearing the fourth heat in 2.21.70 minutes. He beat youngster and teammate Azaad Manji to second position. Undaunted by muddy and slippery conditions, Shaz held on to the lead all through with a brilliant drive that would see him set equivalent times to much powerful cars in the 4WD Turbo category. Defending champion Zameer Verjee started off his defence on a high note, setting the fastest overall time of the day in the fourth heat (2.14.42 minutes). His Rage Buggy was a cut above the rest.