Three-time Kenya Hockey Union Premier League champions Strathmore University Gladiators will hold trials this week in a bid to beef up their squad ahead of the new season that kicks off on February 29. Gladiators languished in the tail end of the table for the better part of last season and were at one-time relegation candidates but redeemed themselves in the last three games of the campaign. Coach Meshack Senge wants to reinforce his defence and goalkeeping department to counter last season's inadequacies and as well replace the up to five players who have left the team. The students finished eighth in the ten-team league. Senge, who has been with the team for a decade, said: "We will hold trials to get players who can deservedly for this team because our policy does not allow us to sign players from other clubs or teams." "We have to reshuffle the backline to be a combative team. Some of our players will be moving to Greensharks, Sikh Union and probably Kenyatta University and replacing them is a must." The national team coach believes his side has matured and a second-place finish will not be far-fetched. He pointed out that the playing unit needs composure and being clinical in decision-making if they are to meet their objectives. "I am happy with last season's team because we've gotten a bit of experience. 80 per cent were first-timers and the transition was a big challenge but going forward, we could be able to match the best teams in the country," added Senge. Senge, who doubles up as Strathmore University Scorpions coach was happy to retain the services of star striker and captain Festus Onyango but remains unsure if the team's talisman will still be at the team beyond this season. Onyango, a Kenya international, has been outstanding in the last three seasons. Senge also wants the team to translate their possession-based style into results. "Our contentment is that Onyango is staying with us, at least for the coming season. We need to be diligent, efficient and be agile to better our results," he added. 