There is hope in sight for the leadership of Nariobi county after the assembly gave a go ahead for the vetting of Governor Mike Sonko’s Deputy Governor nominee Anne Mwenda. During Wednesday’s special sitting, county assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi directed that Mwenda's name be committed to the assembly’s Appointments committee for vetting. Thereafter, the committee is to report back to the House for the MCAs to debate on whether to approve or reject the nominee. Elachi had gazetted the sitting upon the request of Majority Leader Charles Thuo in order to deliberate on the nomination of the DG “According to our procedures, whenever an appointment by the governor requires approval of the county assembly, the name of the nominee is always submitted to the relevant committee for vetting and reporting,” Elachi said. “As such, I hereby commit the name of Anne Mwenda to the select committee on Appointments for consideration." The speaker also directed that the committee establish whether the nominee meets requirements set by the Supreme Court and IEBC in filling a vacancy in the position of the deputy governor. However, a section of ODM MCAs, led by its leadership, walked out before the House could commit the DG nominee’s name to the appointments committee, arguing that the process was an illegality. Minority Leader David Mberia and Minority Whip Peter Imwatok said they would not take part in the debate, terming it as subjudice. “There are two matters before court on the nominee and Standing Order number 94 does not allow discussing matters before court. And as ODM, a party which follows the law, we will not be part of an illegality,” Mberia said. His Deputy Patrick Musili, who was among the NASA MCAs who remained in the chambers, said that as the opposition, they are guided by the law and there was not illegality in the matter. The sitting resumed and during the debate, both Jubilee MCAs and a section from ODM said that they will approve the name once the report gets back to the assembly. Nominated MCA Silvia Museiya said that they intended to have a government which was functioning by approving the name . “We intend to have a functioning government and therefore we assure the governor that we shall pass the name when it is brought before us,” she said. South B ward rep Waithera Chege insisted that if the name will not be approved, gender equality must prevail. “ Incase the nominee is rejected , as a women in the assembly we insist that the governor nominates another woman to that position which. And the governor who is the only one mandated to nominate a deputy had said he will be deputised by a woman,” she said. Nominated MCA Millicent Jagero emphasized that the committee will look into the all the legal requirements relating to persons eligible to hold the position.