A section of traders in Machakos Town are counting losses after a fire razed down their property on Saturday mid-morning. Property of unknown value was destroyed in a midnight fire that broke out in a building which housed a Bata store near Syokimau Avenue at Machakos Bus Park Machakos County. The incident was reported to the fire disaster team by a resident who spotted it at around midnight. County Disaster Managing Director David Mwongela said the fire had already burnt several items by the moment they arrived at the scene. He added that they had to call the Kenya Power Lighting Company Machakos Branch to disconnect the power lines which were spreading the fire to the adjacent shops, but delayed and forced the Machakos police OCS to intervene for them to respond. "KPLC team delayed we wanted power disconnected but they delayed for one hour which could have been poor co-ordination. The police was forced to command them to speed and disconnect the power," he said. Mwongela said they had to seek help from Mavako fire brigade to put off the fire at around 8 in the morning after taking more than seven hours. He however called on Machakos residents to always ensure that all their appliances are off before going home to avoid a similar situation. Machakos County Public Health and Emergency Chief Officer Lucas Mwove, speaking to The Star said they had challenges putting off the fire due to explosive items in a gasoline store which exploded an hour later after they had put off the first fire from the Bata store. "Our emergency crew was informed and they responded quickly and battled the fire out. Even though it was heavy because of the plastics and also the building is in between other buildings it also increased the intensity of the fire", he said. He added "after partially putting off the fire, an explosion took place within the shop and ignited the fire. It then spread to the adjacent shop which houses the gasoline products and spread to a nearby garage which linked up the fire". The CEO for Emergency estimated the loss value to be beyond Sh10 million but it’s yet to be established. He appealed to the residents to keep off the place until investigations are over to unearth the cause of the fire. "We are appealing to the resident to provide access routes to all the buildings because that’s a requirement. We are now going to inspect all the buildings especially within town to ensure all access routes are provided for and where we shall find obstructions, we shall force occupants to remove the obstructions", he confirmed. The most affected shops were a Bata shoe outlet, housing both leather and plastic products, liquor joints, hardware, and timber store among other businesses near a petrol station. There were no casualties as the fire broke out before workers reported to work. Machakos Police have launched investigations.