DCI detectives from Machakos in collaboration with officers from the Crime Prevention Unit from Nairobi have managed to arrest three suspects alleged for stealing and slaughtering cattle in Machakos County on Friday. The suspects among them a prominent businessman of meat at Burma Market in Nairobi are linked to a syndicate of cattle theft in different parts of the country. Confirming the incident, Machakos County Police Commander John Karanja Muiruri said officers from the DCI have been monitoring activities at the Burma Market for the last two weeks where the rich businessman was caught with meat alleged to be from stolen cattle in Matungulu subcounty on Friday. “The suspects managed to steal four bulls at around 4.00 am in the morning and slaughtered three before running away with the meat when morning light dawned on them,” confirmed Karanja. He said undercover police laid an ambush at the Burma market and at around 3 am vehicles and boda bodas came in ferrying suspected meat. “Our undercover team camped at Burma Market day and night and with the name of the suspect, trailed his movements before managing to arrest him with suspected stolen meat,” said Karanja. The commander said the suspect by the name James Mung'ai alias Mama from Embu County Riakanau location and has been in the retail meat industry since 1970. Police were led to the suspect by two other suspects they arrested. The incident led furious residents to protest against rampant cattle theft in the area. They dumped carcasses and burnt tyres blocking the busy Nairobi-Kangundo, Tala- Machakos Road. Police were forced to use teargas to dispatch the demonstrators, who blamed the law enforcers for hesitance in dealing with the menace. Karanja defended his officers, saying that it has been established that the suspects have been collaborating with some of the family members where these cattle have been stolen. "We have arrested three people in connection with the theft and are in custody. Finally, we have been able to crack the stock theft syndicate," said Muiruri. He said the suspects have been stealing cattle and slaughtering them and transport the meat to be sold in the said slaughterhouse. The farmer Surphas Mumo Muia, whose cattle were stolen said the incident has left him poor because he has been depending on the animals to pay school fees for his children. “A bull could cost Sh40,000 each and it’s a big loss to me. Family members and neighbours have also been depending on me for milk. I ask for government intervention,” Muia said. “I have one child, a fourth-year student at the University, another form two child at secondary school and I had not sold the cows waiting to use them pay schools fees." Muia asked police to ensure security to all residents and completely bring to an end the rampant theft. The suspects are being held at the KBC police station waiting for arraignment in court.