A section of Nairobi leaders has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to begin the process of suspending the county because of a deepening leadership crisis. Led by former Dagoretti South MP Denis Waweru and educationist Janet Ouko, the leaders said the President should appoint a commission to inquire whether the county should be dissolved. The Constitution's Article 192 and Section 124 of the County Government Act provide for the formation of the commission. “We call upon the President to save Nairobians and Kenyans at large by taking decisive action on the situation prevailing in Nairobi which is within his constitutional powers,” Ouko said. Article 192 states that the president may suspend a county government in an emergency arising out of internal conflict or war or in any other exceptional circumstances. The commission formed to dissolve the county thereafter reports to the President and the Senate who both must authorise the suspension. During a suspension under Article 192, arrangements shall be made for the performance of the functions of a county government in accordance with an Act of Parliament. Yesterday, Ouko called on Nairobi MCAs to move swiftly and sort out their personal differences and show leadership. “We are in a serious crisis and as such, serious steps must be taken as well because Nairobi county yearns for true and strategic leadership now than ever before,” Ouko told a press conference in Nairobi. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is facing corruption charges and was barred from office. He is accused of misappropriating Sh381 million. The county has been operating without a deputy governor following the resignation of Polycarp Igathe in January 2018. There is also the crisis at the assembly where MCAs fight often. In the meantime, the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission has started investigations into the procedure that was used to nominate Anne Mwenda as deputy governor. Sonko nominated Mwenda on January 6. A petitioner's application to block Mwenda's vetting was deferred by Justice Mumbi Ngugi. The parties will go back to the High Court next month for the case. Waweru said businesses are bearing the brunt of the leadership crisis in Nairobi. “Nairobi county lags behind in attracting investments from within and from abroad. We have seen other counties hold international investments fairs and send delegations out to woo investors,” he said. Fwamba Fwamba said nominating and vetting Mwenda does not resolve the issues facing the county. “The nominee could be the governor’s proxy and she might run the county the way the governor wants,” he said. Ouko, the ex-Education CEC said that there have been eight official reshuffles, many suspensions or terminations involving senior county officers within two years. “This has made service delivery and visionary leadership almost impossible,” she said. She said that most officers are unable to execute duties due to fear of transfers. “Additionally, we are aware that over 500 workers have been suspended or fired since the same rudderless leadership took office,” she said.