Activists have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare violence against women, a national emergency. Kenya Fight Alliance led the 'Usawa' march on Friday to deliver a 10 point demand to Uhuru on fighting inequality. The alliance said it is starting the decade by calling an end to greed and providing people-oriented solutions. "We are already giving the government a ‘cheat sheet’ on how they can effectively fight inequality in Kenya. Budget cuts and lack of basic social services will only add to people’s misery," said Antonia Musunga, the alliance national coordinator. "We have the solutions and the only thing President Kenyatta needs to do is to follow out 10-point demands." Last year, data from Counting Dead Women Kenya shows 108 women and girls were the murder victims of sexual and gender-based violence. A report by the National Gender and Equality commission shows about 39 per cent and girls in Kenya aged above 15 have experienced physical violence. Additionally, one in four experience such violence yearly. A report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime shows women are far more likely to be killed by someone they know. The demands also include the allocation of resources to protect the poorest Kenyans from the effects of climate change, negotiate concessions from China, and end harmful tax incentives. Others include taxing the rich multinationals and property-owners and consider broad debt rescheduling to boost spending on basic services and impose corporate taxes on capital gains. “People are joining together to tackle the problem by its roots, and that is inequality. We are starting the decade by calling out the elites in Davos who exploit us, and the governments who are failing us,” said Jenny Ricks, global convenor for Fight Inequality Alliance. “In a just and fair economic system, billionaires would not exist. Now must be the decade of the 99 per cent. " A study by Oxfam Kenya on Inequality in 2017 estimated that nearly 2.6 million people fall into poverty or remain poor due to ill health each year. In the financial year, 2018-2019 Kenya allocated less than a third of the budget to direct social service delivery such as education, health and water.