Most Kenyans are unbothered how the Kenya Army officers' uniforms evolved. In the 1960s and 198os, the uniform was not the normal red tunic that we see. The Army uniform is a standardised dress code that creates a sense of identity and acts as a symbol of authority. The category of dress to be worn is dictated by ceremonies and operations to be conducted. The uniform itself has gone through major changes over the years. Below are some of the evolutions of the Kenya Army uniform. From the 1900s to mid-1960s the KAR personnel officers wore shorts, belts and stockings that reached their knees accompanied by long shirts. The uniform worn by officers and service members included a maroon fez made of animal skin with royal cipher and crown. This gave way to blue, black, green and red berets made from wool with distinctive unit insignia. Over time, the Army has introduced diverse dress codes to complement the combat dress code that has also metamorphosed in colour and texture. The various dress codes are worn with either high ankle boots or shoes depending on the activity. The Kenya Army attires are decorated with aiguillette, lanyards, medals and a variety of belts depending on an individual's unit and rank. COMBAT DRESS Jungle camouflage dress is the Army's main wear that is worn basically in the barracks in Kenya. This is the same attire that they don during training and operations.  Its fabric is designed to withstand the rigours of military service. The jungle cap and beret are worn in peace-time while during operations and training, the officers don combat dress with body armour and ballistic helmet. Combat dress code may be worn as battle order or full-scale marching order which entails an extra pair of combat uniform and boots, navigation equipment, cutlery and a mess tin set, seven days ration toiletries and a sleeping bag. STATIC LINE FULL GEAR This is worn by special operations forces during airborne operations. Night vision on the helmet makes it possible for troops to operate at night. The main parachute, which weighs 18kg, incorporates five major components – harness assembly fitted on the paratrooper, riser assembly, deployment bag, pack tray and the canopy. Other components of the gear include a ballistic helmet, eye protection goggles all-purpose lightweight carrying equipment bag, laptop rifle with seven loaded magazines, pistol, spare uniform, seven days ration, rappel rope, survival knife and body armour. Static line equipment weighs 60.5kg STATIC LINE OVERHEAD ASSAULT SUIT This is worn by special operations forces during covert operations. The suit provides ballistic protection and identifies friendly forces operating deep in enemy territory. Mounted on the ballistic helmet is a multi-functional thermal imager that enhances visibility in various conditions including darkness, dusty and smoky surroundings. The suit and the equipment weigh 32kg. PD JUMPING FREE FALL SUIT Special operations forces wear this for covert insertion. It comprises free fall square parachute, helmet, eye protection goggles, radio and headset, pistol, rifle mounted with a double laser beam and combat optical gunsight shooting scope, gloves and an altimeter. The suit and equipment weigh 17kg FLYING GEAR This is worn by army pilots and technicians while flying. When flying over water, the crew wears life preserver units designed to deploy automatically to keep an injured or unconscious crew member's head above the water. BATTLE PHYSICAL TRAINING This is worn by service personnel across all ranks during physical training. The dress is composed of boots and camouflage trousers worn with either red or white vest. It may be worn with a pullover or not dependent on the training being undertaken. NO. I DRESS This is worn by military personnel during ceremonies such as national day parades, pass outs, inspections and regimental days. This dress is worn with a poplin shirt and a tie. During military burials, this dress is worn with a black arm-band on the left. When required, commissioned officers where sam brown belt with a sword. In addition, general officers wear aiguillettes. Instead of the brown belts, service members wear a nylon white belt. When in this dress military personnel wear designated forage caps and medals. NO, 2 DRESS, BUSH JACKET This maybe worn by officers on working days or specified occasions in peacetime. This jacket is worn with a regimental lanyard and service dress cap as headgear. it is worn with black shoes and ribbons instead of medals. WORKING DRESS This may be worn by officers in peacetime in the office. It can be worn with nylon green or stable belt accompanied by a matching lanyard. MESS KIT – (FOR OFFICERS) This is worn by officers during the annual ball, dinner night. It is worn with miniature medals. RED TUNIC This is won by officers and service members taking part in ceremonial parades during military wedding ceremonies. It is won with different accessories depending on the rank RED TUNIC (band) This is worn by members of the Kenya Army during ceremonies. It is worn with a forage cap or synthetic fibre.