Agoro Sare High School rugby coach Kistus Onditi is targeting a return to the national championships with the Sevens team. Speaking after his 10’s team lost 13-5 to Agoro Alumni in the final of the annual Agoro Sare Open Tournament, Onditi was also confident that his 15’s team will reach the regional finals. “We have only trained for two weeks but I’m impressed by the boys. The final was a bit challenging because it was my former students against the current. We want to go for the regional title this year,” said Oditi. Last year, the 7’s team reached the national championships while the 15's side played at the regional stage. In the weekend final, Polycarp Manyara scored a try with Austine Ochieng adding the extras. Ochieng added two drop goals for the former students while Patrick Odongo scored Agoro Sare’s lone try. In basketball, Nyanza region champions Agoro Sare, coached by Paul Odock, lifted the title without erecting to the pitch after their Nyanchwa Boys failed to honour the game. In the semis, Odock’s boys thrashed Spartans 65-31 while Nyanchwa edged Homa Bay Boys 22-21 in a closely contested game. “We are improving and these tournaments will help us identify the weaknesses in our team. At the moment, we are at 60 per cent, we want to reach 100 per cent by the time we get to regionals,” said Odock. Oyugis Club narrowly defeated Nyanza region champions Homa Bay High 1-0 to lift the football title. Emmanuel Onyach scored the lone goal. Kanyawanga retained the handball title after a 27-17 win over Kisii County champions Tabaka High School. Separately, Kakamega High School narrowly defeated rivals St Peter’s Mumias 3-0 to win the Yala Invitational Tournament rugby 15’s title at St Mary’s School, Yala. In the semis, Kakamega High edged Kabianga 6-3 while St Peter’s Mumias defeated Kisii County’s Nduru Boys 3-0. Vihiga High School lifted the 7’s title after edging Friends College Kaimosi 15-10 in the final. Kisii School clinched the basketball title after seeing off hosts Yala 31-20 in an entertaining final. In the semis, Kisii overcame Yala Alumni 32-19 while Yala saw off Butula High 28-18. Friends College Kaimosi won the hockey title after a hard-fought 4-3 penalty flicks win over hosts Yala. In the semis, Friends College Kaimosi edged Vihiga 1-0 while St Mary’s Yala beat Siaya Club 8-7 in dramatic post-match flicks. Kakamega A lifted the soccer title after beating Ebwali 1-0 in the finals. En route to the final, Kakamega A defeated Kakamega B 4-2 on post-match penalties while Ebwali beat Barding 4-3 also on post-match penalties. Hosts Yala dominated badminton, table tennis and lawn tennis.