The burial of Kabuchai MP Lusweti Mukwe is likely to be the scene of Ford Kenya supremecy battles in front of mourners. Mukwe, 54, is to be buried on Saturday. He died on December 5. He was a close ally of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula. Mukwe and Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga were the only elected Bungoma lawmakers who stood by Wetang'ula and opposed the attempted coup to remove him. The coup is said to  have been staged by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi, Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati who also hails from Kabuchai constituency. Analysts say rivalry and supremacy wars are likely to play out at Mukwe's burial. “Both Wetang’ula and others who have been struggling to oust him will want to use the opportunity of the burial to show who is political supremo,” commentator  Erick Wekesa said. He said Wetang'ula, the former Senate minority leader, is likely to fight a fierce battle to retain his party leadership. The by-election to replace Mukwa is likely to see ODM leader Raila Odinga face off with DP William Ruto who seems to have gained ground in Bungoma. Bungoma has nine constituencies. Wetang'ula has the support of six Jubilee MPs who are aligned to Ruto after he broke ranks with Raila after 2017. Wetang'ula was removed as Senate minority leader. A section of Bungoma MCAs will play a big role in determining the winner of the by-election. The poll will also set the stage for the 2022 race for Bungoma governor. Wetangula enjoys the support of a majority of the MCAs who are in Ford Kenya. Mukwe, a second-term lawmaker, will be remembered for his oratorical skills in his Bukusu dialect. He was so eloquent that many politicians quoted him. “There is no doubt Mukwe was a master of Bukusu dialect and his words resonated with residents. No doubt most of us learned phrases from him," Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said. Prior to active politics, Mukwe was an accounts clerk at the Kenya Posts and Telecommunication Corporation from 1987 to 1992. Edited by Kiilu Damaris