In a record baby boom, the black rhino population has increased by 10 per cent in the past year in the Lewa-Borana Conservancy in Samburu county. Thirty-five calves were born; 10 per cent is a major increase. At least 214 black and white rhinos now roam the area. In his 2019-20 report, conservancy CEO Mike Watson said 2020 began on a high note with a record number of rhino births. Tuqa Jimo, conservancy CEO, told the Star there was a baby boom of black rhino calves due to favourable weather. "There has been enough rain for two or three consecutive years. This means the food is enough. Thirty-five calves were born, the highest ever - 10 per cent," he said. The conservancy said tens of thousands of rhinos once roamed Africa, however, humans have pushed the species to the brink of extinction since the early 20th century. In the 1960s, Kenya was home to about 20,000 black rhinos. Two decades later the population was less than 300. About 600 black rhinos live in Africa today, thanks to conservation efforts. The black rhino remains critically endangered and survival depends on long-term solutions involving local communities, security their habitat and reducing demand for rhino horn. The horn is made of keratin, the protein in hair, skin and fingernails, but it is believed to have medicinal properties in traditional Asian medicine. It is also a status symbol for wealthy East Asians. It has no proven medicinal value but is worth more than its weight in gold. The Covid-19 pandemic hampered conservation. “Nobody could have predicted what then happened in March, and we felt the impact of the global pandemic immediately,” Watson said. Lewa Wildlife Conservancy is part of the Unesco Mt Kenya World Heritage site. It is recognised for excellence in protected area management. Watson said the conservancy suffered the devastating impact of the pandemic. “Tourism screeched to a halt, schools were closed, thousands of workers in Northern Kenya lost their livelihoods and many feared that the threat of poaching would increase," he said. Watson praised his team for moving quickly to reduce costs while ensuring core programmes were not compromised. “Detailed planning and careful stewardship of funds allowed Lewa to support partners and operate scaled-back programmes in security and anti-poaching, healthcare, women’s micro finance, sustainable agriculture and education, he said. The conservancy said 49,327 people received basic healthcare through Lewa-supported clinics and health outreach programmes. Some 6,182 households gained access to clean water. Watson said they were for the first time forced to cancel the Lewa marathon that takes place every June. In its place, a virtual marathon was held with more than 1,500 participants from over 20 countries. Watson said conservancy employees who had voluntarily gone on unpaid leave in April resumed work in August. “The year 2020 has undoubtedly been one of our toughest ever," he said. “As difficult as this year has been, the world is learning to adapt, innovate and survive in the face of challenges," Tourism CS Najib Balala said. He said it will take time for international travel and tourism to resume to pre-pandemic levels. He said 2020 presented domestic tourism opportunities. “We cannot overstate the extent to which local investment has saved the day,” Balala said. In August, Kenya was the first country to be awarded the Safer Tourism Resilience Seal, an honour bestowed by rebuilding travel. It is awarded by a global consortium of tourism boards, ministers of tourism professional associations and industry stakeholders. (Edited by V. Graham) 