Senator Boniface Kabaka’s death is a terrible loss to the senate, his colleagues say, dedicate Monday to eulogise him. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, while communicating the former Machakos senator’s demise to the members on the floor on Wednesday morning, said the house has lost a great leader, an articulate debater and a principled legislator. Lusaka described the late senator as a distinguished man who passionately served not just the people of Machakos county but Kenya in general. “Kabaka relentlessly advocated for the needs of his constituents and actively participated in community projects aimed at improving the lives and livelihoods of the people of Machakos,” Lusaka said. He announced that there will be a special sitting on Monday next week to allow all members eulogise their departed colleague. Kabarak died last Friday at the Nairobi Hospital where he had been admitted for one week. He served as the vice chairman of Delegated Legislation committee. He was also a member of Agriculture and Devolution committees. “He will be fondly remembered as an ardent supporter of devolution who upheld the rule of law and constitutionalism and put the country before himself,” the speaker said. Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula eulogized Kabaka as an active and articulate, principled and committed debater who was friendly to everybody. “As a first termer, senator Kabaka has definitely performed beyond expectations. He has had a smile to each and every one of us,” the lawmaker said. He added, “His sudden demise is a terrible loss to his family, people of Machakos and particularly to this Senate.” On his part, Nandi senator Samson Cherargei said Kabaka was a sharp and brilliant legal mind. “He was a man who was always smiling, he was generous at heart. He was somebody who did not look down upon people. He was a greatest defender of devolution,” he said. Nominated senator Beatrice Kwamboka said the house has lost a champion, an active and jovial member. “We are going to miss him. We are going to miss his participation in this house,” he reckoned.