More than 100 murder cases are being settled through plea bargaining  in the Eldoret High Court to hasten justice. It also reduces prison crowding in the region where many people are held in remand. The accused plead guilty in exchange for a more lenient sentence. Judges Stephen Githinji and John Mativo, who are handling the cases, had by Friday last week completed handling about 50 of them. Last week was plea bargaining week when many cases were dispensed with. Justice Mativo said plea bargaining was useful as it saves time. It also involves all parties, including the accused, the victims and the prosecution. “It save time for the judiciary, ensuring quick dispensation of justice, hence, decongesting courts and prisons," Mativo said. The cases had been identified through the involvement of the accused, victims, lawyers, the probation department, prisons, the prosecution and other stakeholders. Their input helps establish the kinds of cases that should be handled through plea bargaining. “The suspects made the requests [for plea bargaining] themselves and the files were processed with probation reports, leading us to handle cases through the system," Githinji said. The victims are fully involved, Mativo emphasised. “We have noted that by involving the victims most of them indicate  they had forgotten and forgiven the accused.  leading to the suspect being readmitted back to their families and society," he said. Mativo said when the accused returns to society after plea bargaining, he is usually accepted more readily than if he is released after a regular trial. Agreements between both sides are signed before the courts come in to handle the final aspects. Many cases involve members of the same families or communities. The Law Society of Kenya North Rift branch was involved in ensuring the system works effectively. In some cases, mediators are involved so both sides agree on their own. Mativo said the Judiciary was encouraging Kenyans to use alternative means of dispute resolution to settle most of the cases pending for a long time. (Edited by V. Graham) 