The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has worn a case over a piece of land belonging to the Kenya School of Law. The commission had received a report alleging that Leonard Njagi, a former Principal at KSL acted in concert with directors of Rockville Limited to fraudulently acquire public land and buildings on L.R. No. 209/6238 IR 74856 located along Bishops Road, Nairobi. Upon investigations, the commission established that the property measuring 0.96 Acres was reserved by the government as the official residence of the Principal, KSL. The land was a subdivision of L. R. No. 209/298, which was allocated to the East African Common Services Authority (formerly East Africa High Commission) and Grant issued in 1962. EACC also found out that despite the property having already been allocated to East African Common Services Authority, a survey was conducted in 1997, letters of allotment issued, and title in respect of parcel L.R. No. 209/6238 illegally processed in favour of Rockville Limited. The current open market value for L.R. No. 209/6238 is Sh700 Million. On December 8, 2020, Ebosso J, sitting in the Environment and Land Division of the High Court concurred with EACC that the land was initially allocated to KSL. The judge ruled that a letter of allotment dated November 3, 1997, is null and void and the same is cancelled. The grant issued to Rockville Limited was also null and void and cancelled. He also declared that the transfer by Rockville Limited and subsequent charge to Standard Assurance Kenya Limited is null and void and is cancelled, that an order is made cancelling and revoking the letter of allotment and grant no. IR No.74856. The judge also ruled that an order be made cancelling and revoking the documents issued to the 2nd and 3rd Defendant in respect of land parcel LR No. 209/6238. The Chief Lands Registrar was also ordered to cancel the said entries and register the suit property in the name of the PS National Treasury and a permanent injunction is issued restraining the Defendants, their servants, and/or agents from interfering with the LR. No.209/6238. Following the ruling, EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak said the commission is inviting others in a similar position to voluntarily surrender land in their possession that was set aside for public utility.