Kandara MP Alice Wahome has asked Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe to stop issuing threats to striking medics and instead engage them in dialogue. The MP has said medics working at the front-line of the Covid-19 pandemic are constantly exposed to the virus which in turn exposes their families. This, she said, is despite the fact that their salaries are meagre and some are without comprehensive medical covers. Wahome said it is unfortunate that the CS has been grandstanding and threatening to sack the medics who are only fighting for their rights. “Give medics Personal Protective Equipment. Don’t say their demands are unreasonable because we know the salary they are being paid. We know those employed on contracts have not been paid and we also know they are working very hard and are exposed,” she said. "Seeing the medics cry and beg for extra allowances is saddening yet they spend a lot of time with Covid-19 patients which puts their lives at risk." She cited the case of Dr Stephen Mogusu who died after contracting the virus and had not been paid for five months. "The CS should instead engage health workers in a civil way and humbly ask them to return to work because the government seems unwilling to pay them," she noted. “If we are unable to pay doctors, what are we doing allocating money for Building Bridges Initiative? Schools re-open in a few days yet there are no plans to provide masks. Our country is headed in the wrong direction.” Speaking at Kiawambutu primary school while commissioning a new block of classrooms on Tuesday, Wahome said Kagwe is known to be a humble leader and wondered why he has suddenly started issuing threats. She said the grandstanding between the government and the medics is causing countless deaths of Kenyans and that the situation should be remedied with urgency. She appealed to Mutahi to draft a proposal that will enable him to acquire the funds required to resolve medics’ issues so that health services can continue. “But he cannot be chest-thumping because he is just a custodian in a government made of the Kenyan people,” she said. She said training one doctor costs too much and that losing 30 of them has dealt the government a huge blow. "All resources available should be marshalled towards the fight against Covid-19 that continues to claim the lives of Kenyans," she pointed out. “Other nations are doing that. Soon, we will start administering Covid-19 vaccines and if we cannot afford to pay doctors, how will we afford it?” She said the referendum can wait and that the funds allocated for the process should be put to other use, and that all efforts should now be focused on the pandemic. “I heard the CS say that doctors can go on strike if they so wish. I think that is an unfortunate statement and would personally ask for an apology to the medical fraternity,” she added. Health workers, she said, should have their lives and health secured before they can secure the lives of the public.