The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has said the Msambweni by-election on Tuesday will be free and fair. This is after the conclusion of aggressive campaigns in the area by rival political heavyweights as voters get ready for the ballot. The campaign period ended on Saturday at midnight. The constituency in Kwale county has 69,003 registered voters. Msambweni IEBC returning officer Yusuf Abubakar said appropriate mechanisms had been put in place to conduct the poll fairly. He said over 1,000 IEBC officials will be deployed in various parts of the sub-county to boost surveillance. "I can assure you no votes will be stolen as we have enough officers on the ground ready to do the job," he said. A total of 60 polling centres and 129 polling stations will be used in all the four Msambweni wards of Gombato/Bongwe, Ukunda, Kinondo and Ramisi. The main tallying centre has been set up at Dr Babla Secondary School in Ukunda. The voting is expected to start at 6am and end at 5pm. Abubakar said special clerks are going to be at each polling station to ensure voters abide by public health directives to mitigate the spread of Covid-19. He said enough sanitiser and disinfecting stations will be placed in all voting centres. "We will give our officers masks and gloves and whoever comes for voting should have them and we will provide washing materials," he said. On Monday, IEBC was getting ready to distribute the voting equipment and materials. ODM and Jubilee have expressed confidence in winning as hundreds of followers vowed to vote in large numbers. Jubilee has no candidate and is supporting ODM's Omar Boga. The campaigns ended peacefully across the constituency. ODM concluded their campaigns at Maasai. Governor Salim Mvurya led the campaigns for independent candidate Feisal Bader who has the support of Deputy President William Ruto. He was flanked by Ruto’s allies led by Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, former Mombasa and Machakos senators Hassan Omar and Johnston Muthama and Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani. Mombasa Governor Ali Joho, ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and several Jubilee leaders campaigned for Boga in Diani and Ukunda. Mvurya called for peace and warned political leaders against incitement. He faulted the National Cohesion Integration Commission for being reluctant to take action against those spreading hate speech and used offensive language in the two-month campaign period. He complained that he and his deputy Fatuma Achani have been constantly abused by opponents. “The insults are very alarming and I wonder what’s the work of the NCIC because the attacks can’t be perceived as politics,” Mvurya said. The governor said any leader was free to move around the county but should practice politics that unites people, not divides them. Omar and Muthama asked Msambweni voters to elect Bader to honour the memory of the late Suleiman Dori who stood by them in times of difficulties. Dori succumbed to cancer in March. Bader said he was sure of winning because of his good manifesto. Joho slammed the Tangatanga team, saying the poll will prove to them that Msambweni is an ODM stronghold. He accused Ruto of using his foot soldiers to disunite the coastal people through propaganda. “People spend the whole day gossiping and giving fake promises because their boss has sent them to split the locals,” Joho said. Sifuna said Boga was the handshake candidate and asked the residents to vote for him. The ODM secretary-general said Jubilee had no candidate, saying the right person was Boga as he had government support. The two teams accused each other of plotting to rig the votes. They promised to protect their votes under all circumstances. Boga said he was confident that by Tuesday midnight he would be announced the next Msambweni MP. Both aspirants promised to create more employment opportunities and end poverty. Eight candidates will be battling out for the parliamentary seat. They are Boga of ODM, Charles Bilali (independent), Feisal Badar (independent), Hamisi Mwakaonje (United Green Movement), Marere Wamwachai (National Vision), Mansury Kumaka (independent), Ali Hassan Mwakulonda (Party of Economic Democracy), Shee Mahmoud (Wiper) and Mariam Sharlet (independent). Sharlet, however, withdrew from the race to support Boga. In the campaigns, Bader promised to continue with Dori's development agenda of creating employment opportunities, spearheading education through issuing bursaries and empowering youth and women. Boga said he will revive the tourism sector using the blue economy, offer equal job opportunities to young men and women and empower them to do business.