 Presidential aspirant Alfred Mutua has told off the Deputy President over his proposals to have the referendum held together with the general elections. Speaking in Murang’a county while campaigning for John Muchoki Mbuthia who is vying for the Gaturi MCA seat through his Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) party, he said Ruto and his team are only trying to defeat the Building Bridges Initiative process by presenting outrageous proposals. The seat fell vacant after MCA Kiiru Mwangi passed away following a long illness in September this year. “Proposing that we hold a multi-choice referendum when there are more than 10 issues being proposed means each voter will have over 15 ballots during the general elections,” he said. He said that many Kenyans especially in the rural areas struggle to cast to fill the eight ballots provided in the general elections and that adding more ballots would only make it more difficult. Mutua said it is insincere for Ruto and his team to make such a proposal when he knows that it is unattainable. He however said that if passed the BBI will ensure that more funds are channeled to the counties and service delivery enhanced. The seven years’ tax break for youths that is proposed in the report is an economic empowerment strategy that has never again been seen in the African continent, he noted. “More youths will also get major positions through the structure of the National Youth Council. We have so many reasons to support the BBI process and the main one is the provision of more funds. Devolution has worked this far and will work much better if it is successful,” Mutua said. He said anyone opposing the process is opposing the allocation of more resources to counties yet they are themselves swimming in riches. The country has been facing major challenges including post polls chaos that can only be resolved through the referendum. The challenges have slowed the economy down and have the country overtaken by others that were far behind decades ago. He said the referendum is not here to change the constitution but to review a few sections that will make it better. Mutua underscored the need for Kenyans to be educated on the document to counter the propaganda that is being spread by a section of politicians. The deputy President on Wednesday held a meeting with his allies after which he called for consensus on the contested issues. Ruto also said that holding the referendum together with the 2022 elections will incur no extra cost and that Kenyans should be allowed to vote on the individual questions. Mutua further pledged to support his candidate effect development projects that will better the lives of locals. He said he will support him to sink several boreholes to address the issue of water scarcity in the ward and help him procure at least one ambulance.   Edited Kiilu Damaris