Schools will next week break for the Christmas holiday as they prepare for a full-scale reopening in January. Head teachers say that for schools operations to fully resume, the government and parents will need to ensure funds availability. Indimuli Kahi, Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairperson, said without funding, activities are threatened and Covid-19 could jeopardise learners' safety. Also sought are interventions to help identify and return learners who might have dropped out during the long period they have been out of class. The heads also seek training for both teachers and learners in coronavirus prevention strategies. The training, Kahi says, should be backed by continuous psychosocial support for learners as they continue to adjust back in school. Solving the problem of classroom congestion in most public schools must be done. They also want an outline on how teaching and learning will take place. In their proposal, the heads want a high premium placed on outdoor classes and remedial for upper classes allowed. Outdoor classes, Kahi argues, will utilise the available space in institutions and ensure safe distancing. "Schools could look at cost-effective sheds for outdoor classes such as tents to help to learn," Kahi said. The reopening comes at a delicate time when the Health ministry has indicated that the country is going through the second wave of the coronavirus. Nicholas Gathemia, the Kenya Primary School Heads Association chairperson, said that during the first phase of reopening, schools faced a hard task complying with measures set to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Education CS George Magoha had admitted that social distancing remained a big challenge. He said the government will bank on the use of masks as the main preventive measure to put the virus at bay. Gathemia argued that for this to effectively work, the government should reconsider providing masks to all learners. For day schools, Mutheu Kasanga, the chairperson of the Kenya Private Schools Association, said care should be taken to ensure adherence to transport protocols. While the Education ministry requires that the school vans and buses conform to the regulations to stem the spread of the coronavirus in public service vehicles, the institutions are finding it hard to comply. This occasioned by the huge number of learners to be ferried compared to the availability and capacity of vans/buses. “It is almost impossible to have learners sit like in the PSVs… Each school has operational routes that school vans follow while picking up and dropping off learners and such regulations mean the bus will have to make more than 10 trips to ferry learners instead of what would usually be one trip,” Kasanga said. She said that will be too expensive for the schools and parents. Mixed reactions cloud the hygiene protocols, with some institutions doing a great job in implementation as others face challenges. Gathemia said some learners deliberately have no regard for the protocols and that leads to some of them ignoring the hand hygiene regulations and even share masks. Also in limbo is how schools will protect learners and staff with underlying medical conditions. The Teachers Service Commission had ordered that those with underlying conditions remain at home, but that results in staff shortage. Kahi and Gathemia want the TSC to hire more teachers to bridge the possible gap. Lessons from abroad Reopening strategies from South Africa, Finland and Israel reveal familiar patterns. Together, they suggest a combination of keeping student groups small, use of masks and social distancing to keep schools and communities safe. South Africa adopted changes to schools’ daily routines. This included attending classes in shifts. Schools in the Netherlands cut class sizes by half but didn’t enforce distancing among learners aged under 12 when they reopened in April. Denmark, the first country in Europe to reopen schools, assigned children to small groups that could congregate at recess in groups with as much space and fresh air as possible. Some classes in Belgium met in churches to keep students spread out. Finland has kept normal class sizes but prevents classes from mixing with one another.