The National Cereals and Produce Board has said Sh 1.8 billion was paid for 30,000 metric tonnes of CAN and DAP fertiliser delivered in 2012 and not Sh 4.2 billion. This is after claims were presented before the National Assembly Agriculture Committee that Export Trading Company was paid Sh4.2 billion to supply the same quantity of fertiliser under the government's subsidy programme in 2012. The MPs questioned how Export Trading Company was awarded the tender and the amount paid for the supply and delivery of DAP and CAN fertiliser. In his submission to the committee, NCPB managing director Joseph Kimote said the agency advertised a tender for CAN and DAP fertiliser for the 2012 long rains planting season. According to documents filed in Parliament, the cereals board advertised the tender on November 23, 2011 for the supply and delivery of 30,000 metric tonnes of DAP and CAN fertiliser. NCPB received response from 11 companies, including MEA Limited, Yara Switzerland, Export Trading Company, Afri Ventures FZE, Pabari Distributors, Holbund, Euroworld Commodities, Saudi Industrial Export, Helicon Corporations Inc, Stradilor and Farmers World Limpompo. MEA Limited, Afri Ventures FZE, Pabari Distributors and Export Trading Company qualified to proceed to the technical evaluation stage. Only Afri Ventures FZE qualified to the financial evaluation after attaining 77 score. The evaluation committee determined that the tender was non-responsive and lacked competitiveness as per the Public Procurement Laws and Regulations 2005. The committee terminated the tender and instead went for direct procurement in January 2012 to ensure farmers had fertiliser for the long rains planting season in February. NCPB documents showed Export Trading Company was considered because it had indicated it was to deliver within 10 days. It had also quoted a better price of $625 per metric tonne. This was equivalent to about Sh1.8 billion for the 30, 000 metric tonnes. Other companies had indicated they would deliver within one to six months, which would interfere with the planting season. But MEA Limited filed an appeal at the Public Procurement and Regulatory Authority objecting the direct procurement method. It argued that the procuring entity invented its own method of procurement by inviting direct negotiations with identified suppliers. NCPB says the Attorney General did not give an option in regard to the procurement of the fertiliser. But while the Public Procurement and Regulatory Authority allowed procurement to proceed, it directed investigations to be undertaken and if any irregularities were established, the accounting officer would be held responsible.