The country seems to be on the right path to flattening the coronavirus curve after the positivity rate dropped to 6.8 per cent. This is the lowest since the onset of the second wave that saw the curve go to a positivity rate of as high as 20 per cent, a situation that prompted President Uhuru Kenyatta to call for strict compliance with some of the containment measures that had been relaxed. The World Health Organization requires a country to have a positivity rate of less than five per cent for a consistent period of 14 days to be said as having flattened the curve. The government last week, however, warned of a spike in cases should Kenyans drop their guard during the festive season. On Wednesday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said 394 more people had tested positive for the virus from a sample size of 5,752, raising the country’s caseload to 92,853. Nairobi continues to lead in the number of confirmed cases after recording 167 new cases on Wednesday. The county has been leading in infection in the past two months in what has been blamed on the abuse and flouting of the containment measures issued by the Health Ministry to combat the virus. Mombasa, which has also seen a steady increase in numbers, recorded 59 new cases, coming second after Nairobi. “Sadly, 10 patients have succumbed to the disease, bringing the cumulative fatalities to 1,614. Our condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their loved ones,” Kagwe said. The CS further announced that 810 patients were hospitalised countrywide, with 6,172 being in home-based isolation and care. Similarly, 46 patients are in intensive care units, 23 of whom are on ventilatory support and 16 on supplemental oxygen. Seven more were on observation. “Another 47 patients are separately on supplemental oxygen, out of whom 36 are in the general wards while 11 are in the high dependency unit,” he added. Some 424 patients recovered, raising the number of recoveries to 74,403. From the number, 303 were from the home-based care programme, while 121 were discharged from hospitals. Other counties that recorded new cases include Taita Taveta with 32, Kwale 21, Kilifi 20, Nyeri 13, Kiambu 12, Nandi and Kakamega seven each, while Siaya, Kajiado and Bungoma had six cases each. Nakuru, Meru, Nyamira and Migori recorded five cases each; Kisii four; Kisumu three; Turkana, Murang’a and Machakos two each; while Narok, Mandera, Vihiga, Homa Bay and Lamu each had one case. 