There is panic at a village in Wajir County after the head of an assistant chief who was kidnapped on Friday by al-Shabaab militants was found on the roadside. The torso of Assistant Chief of Gumarey Sub Location Omar Adan Buul was missing when the head was found. Buul was abducted from the village on Friday when a gang of militants raided there and lectured the locals. The head was found placed on the roadside between Khorof Harar and Konton by herders on Monday. They then went with the administrator for unclear reasons. The herders called police who picked up the head. Police said they are still looking for the body. Al-Shabaab militants have been roaming the area in the past two weeks threatening large scale attacks. They on Friday attacked a communication mast in Mandera county. They also attacked the same area two ago and destroyed a police station before escaping. Security agencies are on alert in the border area following reports the terrorists are planning an attack. There are fears of more such attacks after dozens of the militants crossed from Somalia to Kenya in Garissa border. The gang was in three groups when they crossed into Kenya with an intention of attacks on security officials. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from the militants who are at times aided by locals. Somalia has not had a stable government after the fall of Siad Barre in 1991. The area is near the Somalia border and the militants usually cross at will and stage attacks before escaping back. Al-Shabaab terrorists have been attacking places in the region especially in Mandera and Garissa counties after breaching security zones, which left dozens of civilians and security officials dead and wounded. The terrorists have been planting explosives on the routes used by the security agencies attacking them. More personnel have since been sent to the area and operations by the Border Patrol Unit heightened to tame the surge. Kenyan troops are in Somalia to pursue and suppress the activities of the terror group.