MPs have unanimously voted to reverse April tax cuts introduced to cushion Kenyans from the economic effects of Covid-19 pandemic. They raised Value Added Tax from the current 14 per cent to 16 per cent by January next year and returned income tax (Pay As You Earn) to 30 per cent, revoking the 5 per cent relief. The tax measures were estimated to cost the exchequer Sh172 billion in revenue in one financial year. Between July and September 2020, the government’s revenue collection hit Sh378.7 billion against a target of Sh428.9 billion. The Sh50.2 billion under-collection was largely blamed on the underperformance in PAYE, VAT, excise and import duty. On Tuesday, MPs approved the Tax Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 sponsored by the National Assembly Finance and National Planning Committee chairperson Gladys Wanga. Kenyans go back to the pre-Covid tax regime following the decision. While supporting the reversal, MPs claimed that some of the tax reliefs did not benefit poor Kenyans but businessmen. Majority Leader Amos Kimunya described the passage of the Bill a win-win for the country. “What we have passed today is a win-win for Treasury and people of Kenya,” Kimunya said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said the reversal of tax measures is the only way to turnaround the ailing economy. “It is a day when we have to make a very difficult choice. The economy is in ICU. How you bring it to HDU is by passing this Bill,” the former House Majority leader said. Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba said corporates after getting the tax relief went ahead to fire workers instead of cushioning them, beating the very purpose of the cuts. “The people who benefited from corporate tax did nothing to the workers, instead they went ahead to fire the same workers,” Milemba said. According to the Finance Committee’s estimates, the reversal of VAT and PAYE will bring to the exchequer an additional Sh28 billion. The Wanga-led committee in its report tabled before the House said the measures have affected the implementation of government priority areas especially the Big Four agenda. “On the one hand, the lowered tax rates for personal incomes and personal relief have had a positive impact in increased disposable income. However, a critical review of the VAT rate reduction from 16 to 14 per cent shows that consumers have not benefitted through commensurate reduction in the cost of services,” the report said. The report further said the relaxation of the Covid-19 containment measures like inter-county travel and reopening of the borders increased economic activities and brought to life most businesses. Edited by Henry Makori