Turkana county health workers are on strike to demand promotions and job designations. Many workers, who began their walkout on Monday, marched to the county Public Service Board on Tuesday. They demanded their grievances be met on Tuesday and said some people have worked for six or seven years without promotions or change of job designations. They had issued a 14-day strike notice. Health workers led by Joseph Chebii, the chairman of Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, said the Turkana government has failed to promote health workers who toil tirelessly to save lives. “We are protesting lack of promotions and designations. The county has failed to promote health workers who have worked for more than six and seven years. We have them a notice of 14 days to respond to our grievances but they haven't done so," he said. Chebii said more than 1,000 health workers qualify for promotion letters and designations. He said board officials promised them promotion letters. John Ngasike, chairman of PSB, addressed the workers and said they would receive promotion letters on Tuesday afternoon. “Today I have received assistance from the Health executive on how to unlock the delay in promotions," he said. "I have assigned a team of resource officer who will commence the process of printing promotion letters and designations because it is possible," he said. Health workers were skeptical, saying it could be a move to divide-and-rule and only a few health workers may be given promotions. Chebii said no one would return to work until their grievances are met. The Turkana Health department reported that at least 61 health workers have contracted Covid-19 and one of them has died. The county said the total caseload since March is 744. Turkana West had 449 cases, followed by Turkana Central with 273 cases. Kibish, Turkana East and Loima have not recorded any cases. The total for Turkana South and North is 22 or 2.9 per cent. Males accounted for 458 cases, women for 286. (Edited by V. Graham) 