Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) has been named Private Sector winner of the 2020 SDGs Kenya Awards. This was during the National Sustainable Development Stakeholders Conference held in Mombasa. KBL was recognised by the Sustainable Development Goals Forum in Kenya for mainstreaming the SDGs in their business model. This is by putting in deliberate measures for leaving no one behind on their value chains with a focus on gender equality, persons with a disability, and the youth. These include their efforts in forging partnerships and collaborations, supporting other value chain players to prioritise and implement the SDGs. While receiving the award, KBL’s Head of Sustainability and Engagement Arnolda Shiundu said that the company was committed to continuously improve operations and create shared value to the entire operating eco-system. “Our sustainability agenda goes beyond compliance with government regulations; it is a commitment from every function in our business to be a responsible corporate citizen and hold ourselves accountable to the communities we operate in," Shiundu said. She added that "We have made huge strides in aligning our business operations to the Sustainable Development Goals and are honored to be recognised by the Sustainable Development Goals Forum in Kenya for our efforts." Shiundu further said that: "Our approach to sustainability is unique in the sense that it is focused on growing value in our communities, and ensuring that our products and operations do not cause harm. These efforts are anchored on 3 pillars which promote responsible drinking; champion inclusion and diversity and drives more sustainable sourcing, production, packaging, and distribution process." Sustainable Development Goals Forum in Kenya is an inclusive membership platform on the 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that provides space for structured and coordinated Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) engagement with (national and subnational) governments, citizens, the private sector, media, academia and development partners KBL was recently recognised by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) Report of Sustainability 2020, for commitments, best practices, and innovative efforts around the implementation of SDGs in Kenya. KBL’s sustainability initiatives include operational efficiencies in the production processes, environmental conservation, vocational training programmes, diversity and inclusion, local sourcing, employee health and safety.