Chiefs and their assistants in Kisii county have been told to ensure all learners go back to school on Monday. County commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa urged the fellow administrators to work closely with education officials to ensure no child is left out. Jaldesa said his office and the Education Ministry will be monitoring the progress in schools, adding that action will be taken against parents who will not take their responsibility seriously. “Chiefs and their assistants are advised to ensure that no child will be left out during school opening. They know better the number of children in their jurisdictions." A number of principals and school heads are concerned bout how to ensure learners keep Covid-19 at bay through social distancing, considering congestion due to high enrolment. Many parents and guardians whose children were in private schools are rushing to public primary and secondary schools to secure chances for them after their former schools increased fees to buy materials that would help them comply with Covid-19 protocols. Schools, especially public ones, will be overwhelmed given their inadequate classrooms, space and desks to accommodate more learners. Britom Academy director Beatrice Ayinda said her institution has stopped admitting more pupils because of adequate classrooms and space. “I will be forced to but tents to accommodate 15 pupils per class to comply with the government’s directive on physical distance,” Ayienda said. The school's management has drawn a time table so learning takes place in shifts to protect pupils and improve standards. At Hope Academy, director Samwel Mirieri said private schools will face a financial crisis because, unlike their public counterparts, they are not funded by the national government to improve infrastructure. Mirieri said Covid-19 is a national crisis and thus appealed to the national government to fund private schools to improve infrastructure and complement their effort to promote quality education. “Private institutions will admit a few children and therefore, they will not generate adequate funds for their operations and pay staff,” he said. At Emenwa Mixed Secondary School, principal Ibrahim Gekonde said they have 900 students and are thus is in a dilemma on how they will be accommodated in limited classrooms. It will be difficult to social-distance. "Schools with high enrolment will be forced to buy tents and use them as alternative classrooms to comply with Covid-19 protocols,” Gekonde said. Kari Public Primary head Abed Maseno said the school has 1,200 pupils but already those in Grade 4 and Standard 8 have occupied 16 of their 24 classrooms. Maseno said they require 40 classrooms for all the pupils once the schools reopen, meaning they have a shortfall of 16. A parent, Fred Nyakundi, has, however, donated 40 iron sheets for building temporary classrooms. He said some parents are transferring pupils from private schools to the school, overstretching their facilities further. Daraja Mbili Day Mixed Secondary School principal Luciah Gwaro and her Nyakongo Boys High School counterpart Samson Gitamo said they have installed water points and are ready for the reopening despite a myriad of challenges. “We have stuck Covid-19 posters at various places in the school to remind learners to wear masks, wash hands and keep social distance to curb the spread of the disease,” Gwaro said. The school, whose catchment is Daraja Mbili slums, has learners from families that cannot afford soap to enhance the culture of handwashing. “A number of parents are poor. We allow them to supply firewood and dried maize and beans as part of fees,” Gwaro said. She appealed to well-wishers to support the school with soap and sanitiser to benefit learners from impoverished families as they strive to curb the spread of the virus. Makori urged the Teachers’ Service Commission to employ youthful teachers with high immunity to Covid-19 to replace teachers aged above 58 who are more vulnerable.