A resident of Kihingo village in Kitisuru on Tuesday told the court how he was assaulted by four unidentified men outside his house in July last year. Kumar Dhanji, a director of a mining company, told magistrate Martha Mutuku that the assault happened as he renovated his house, which he had bought for Sh58 million. “I wrote a letter to Kihingo village requesting three things. One was to install a pergola roof, cover a small area with glass and increase the car parking lot,” Dhanji said. He was granted permission to carry out the work on January 9, 2019 and engaged the services of a contractor on June 18. On July 2, as works were continuing at 3:45pm, he  saw four unidentified persons coming to his garden and started speaking to the contractors. “The four men told me to stop the work. They hustled me to the ground. My right shoulder was hurt in the process. My sweater worth Sh1,500 was torn. But my lawyer, George Wajakoyah, walked in to stop the commotion,” he said. Dhanji on Tuesday identified three out of the four men who allegedly assaulted him. His torn sweater was produced in court as an exhibit. Frankline Mutegi, Josiah Otimo and Kennedy Ochieng were his alleged assaulters. James Ndungu Gethenji (former Tetu MP), Chacha Mabanga, Mutegi, Otimo, Godfrey Okello, Ochieng and Ouma Ogonji are accused of creating a disturbance on July 2, 2019 at Kihingo Village in Kitusuru, Nairobi county. They are said to have interfered and stopped the renovation of a house belonging to Dhanji. Mutegi, Otimo, Okello, Ochieng' and Ouma are also accused of assaulting Wajakoyah and Dhanji, occasioning them bodily harm. Dhanji told the court that his lawyer advised him to report the matter to the station. Gethenji at that time was the chairman of Waridi Gardens Management company that provides services such as security and gardening.  It is the same company that approved the renovations. Dhanji, however, said Gethenji and Mabanga were not at any given time present in his house. He also said that on July 22, Waridi Gardens Management company wrote a letter advising him to stop renovations. The letter indicated that the unauthorised works are outside the footprints. “After receiving the letter, I stopped the work outside the footprints but still proceeded inside the house,” he said. The case proceeds on Wednesday.