When the government launched the human papillomavirus vaccine on October 18 last year, the target was to reach 800,000 girls within a year. But the Star has learnt that one year later, only 360,000 girls have so far received the lifesaving jab. Head of Immunisation Programmes Dr Collins Tabu attributed the low numbers to the onset of Covid-19. The national immunisation programme was affected due to severe health system constraints and physical distancing measures. “It is largely because much as the vaccine is being offered in every health facility, the other aspect is that the targeted outreaches for the vaccine were to be conducted jointly with schools but schools were closed due to the pandemic,” Tabu said. The vaccine is administered on 10-year-old girls in two doses, six months apart, to prevent cervical cancer. Apart from cervical cancer, the vaccine also prevents anal warts and cancer of the vulva. About 9,000 public, private and faith-based facilities countrywide were targeted in the drive. The vaccine is administered free of charge. The country has 1.3 million doses of the vaccine in stock, acquired for Sh800 million. The fear of contracting Covid-19 has made some parents give health facilities a wide berth, hence missing out on routine immunisation for their children, including the HPV vaccine. "We are behind schedule but again just like the other vaccines, plans are underway to catch up with the vaccination,” Tabu said. In Kenya, cancer of the cervix is the second most common in girls and women aged between 15 and 44 years. Breast cancer is the first. It kills nine women every day, about 3,000 every year. The cost of treatment remains the greatest impediment towards early screening in Kenya. Screening costs at least Sh3,000. According to the National Cancer Control Programme, treatment is costly. Charges range between Sh172,000 and Sh759,000 to treat cervical cancer without surgery and Sh672,000 to Sh1.2 million if an operation is carried out. The World Health Organization recommends vaccination of all girls and screening at least once every year for older women to reduce the risk of cancer. African countries have been slow to roll out the HPV vaccine to their populations, despite the continent having a high incidence of cervical cancer, which the vaccine helps to prevent. Currently, only 10 African governments offer the HPV vaccine in their national immunisation packages, according to the WHO and Gavi, the vaccine's alliance. These are Botswana, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Uganda, Tanzania, Senegal, Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Benda Kithaka, co-founder Women 4 Cancer NGO, said although some countries vaccinate boys, it was cost-effective for Kenya to begin with girls. "Boys may be affected by penile or anal cancer but 99 per cent of cancers caused by HPV affect the cervix, so for a public health approach and to ensure safety, we are focusing on women and girls," she said. A recent report shows that the availability of pap smear stands at just seven per cent in health facilities nationally. Pap smear enables doctors to detect lesions or abnormal cells in the cervix that can be treated before they turn cancerous. Kenya has yet to come up with screening guidelines, but most countries recommend that women have their first cervical cancer test at the age of 21. With schools scheduled to fully reopen in January, the hope is that the uptake of the vaccine will receive a boost as targeted girls are easily reached. 