A police constable who assaulted an inspector and broke his hand while enforcing curfew was charged on Friday with causing grievous harm. The charge sheet said Evans Mithika seriously injured Benard Mochama on May 26 at Chokaa area in Njiru within Nairobi. He was charged with a colleague not before the court. Mithika denied the charges before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku. He pleaded for lenient bond terms. He was released on cash bail of Sh100,000 or bond of Sh300,000. Mithika is based at Mawe Mbili police post in Ruai. Mithika was arrested on Thursday and his colleague, who is yet to be arrested, were found to have assaulted Inspector Mochama as he was proceeding home from duty. Mochama is attached to the Critical Infrastructure Police Unit (CIPU) His hand was severely broken and surgeons used plates to hold the bones in place. He reported the case to Ruai police station but documents indicated the station commander did not inform his seniors or investigate the attack. Investigations were taken over by detectives from the Internal Affairs Unit. They forwarded the probe file to the DPP's office. The conduct of OCS Ruai was also investigated. Last week Police IG Hillary Mutyambai directed disciplinary action be taken against the station commander. Constable Mithika was detained at the Capitol Hill police station. His arrest comes just a day after two other constables were arrested in separate incidents. Under Section 234 of the Penal Code, anyone who unlawfully causes grievous bodily harm is guilty of a felony and is liable to life imprisonment. On March 30, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya issued a joint statement saying some police officers violated standards while enforcing curfew. Reports indicate rogue officers assaulted innocent people and vulnerable people such as pregnant women, and even beat providers of exempted services, such as journalists. The case will be mentioned on December 14. (Edited by V. Graham) 