Embu residents have praised Senator Gideon Moi for helping Governor Martin Wambora during the impeachment six years ago. A section of residents and Kanu chairman Ben Muriria Muriria said the people of Embu County will always remember Moi for standing with them Wambora also thanked Moi for being courageous and standing with Embu people when senators unsuccessfully voted to impeach the governor. The Baringo senator was the only senator who voted No, opposing the impeachment in 2014 when Wambora became the first governor in the country to face impeachment twice. The impeachment was overturned by courts, who found no evidence of abuse of office, or violation of the Procurement Act among others. Wambora said Moi solely and courageously defended him after all the other senators turned against him and crucified him and confirmed his impeachment. “I will always thank you for standing with me during the trying time I was punished for mistakes I had not done and this shows that you are a honest and a real friend,” said Wambora. “Embu people will always remember you for the great act you did for our governor because of the very good action you did as he had not done anything wrong and people were with him,” said Muriria Moi, who visited Embu last week, said he moved to save Wambora because he has always known him to be honest. Moi said he had better remain alone but stand with the truth, adding that Wambora was vindicated after the Supreme Court ruled in his favor and reinstated him. Muriria said Embu people were grateful that he helped the governor in spite of everybody else turning against him, adding that this shows how truthful the senator is. Muriria called on Moi to intervene and facilitate in repossessing a prime plot belonging to the party, which was irregularly sold off to a private developer. Moi dismissed deputy President Dr William Ruto over his wavering stand on BBI referendum arguing one cannot be "a little bit" pregnant. He told Ruto to either support the referendum or reject it, instead of taking people in circles and giving conditions on the issue. “Let me explain it well. You cannot be a little bit pregnant.  You can either be pregnant or not. You  can only say yes or no. Let the ballot box decide,” he said. Moi was accompanied by County Commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo, Tiaty MP Willliam Kamket and nominated senator Abshiro Halake. Wambora said Embu people should support the referendum since the BBI report will ensure the county is well represented after addition of an extra constituency.