Fourteen students and staff of Kizurini Secondary School in Kilifi have tested positive for Covid-19. They include seven teachers, five learners and two support staff. All teachers, students and support staff were tested following the death of deputy headteacher Naomi Sanguli on November 21. Kaloleni deputy county commissioner Josephat Biwot and Kaloleni MP Paul Katana on Thursday said the five students have been put in isolation while the  teachers and support staff are under home-based care. “Residents are now beginning to realise that this thing is real,” Biwot told the Star on the phone. Katana said samples from 37 other students who are currently on quarantine were on Wednesday taken for more tests. “A decision has been made that the school will not be closed,” the MP said. KCSE candidates are continuing with their preparations for the exam next year but under heightened Covid-19 protocols. “We are on top of things. We have been stressing the importance of taking individual responsibility. This is the time self-discipline should be at its peak,” Katana said. Biwot said the Health ministry protocols are the simplest to follow and will save lives. “As patriotic Kenyans, no one should wait for police to appear before wearing their masks or sanitising their hands,” the administrator said. Katana said Covid-19 cases in Kaloleni are on the rise. The culture of responsibility should be enhanced, he urged. “My biggest fear is that when this disease gets to the rural areas of Kaloleni, there will be a real crisis. We are trying our best to ensure it does not get to that point,” he said. “Do not wait for leaders, the police or any other person to tell you to wear a mask. It should be your personal responsibility.” He said the time had come to put aside some traditional practices for the sake saving lives. Kaloleni is known for brewing of traditional palm wine popularly known as mnazi. ‘Mangwes’, which are traditional palm wine drinking dens, are always full of revellers, in complete disregard of the Covid-19 safety protocols. The MP said locals share traditional drinking straws known as ‘mbokos’ at the dens “It is dangerous for two or more people to share the mbokos because droplets, where the virus are found can easily be transmitted from one person to the other,” he warned. Kaloleni constituency has recorded more 50 Covid-19 cases, including eight health workers, six police officers and four inmates. Four people have died from the disease. Mariakani and Kaloleni wards which are in urban areas are the most affected. The MP warned rogue police officers using the pandemic to extort money that their days were numbered. “We have received reports that some bad apples in the police service are using the pandemic to extort money from citizens. This is not the time to make a kill. It is time to unite and fight this common unseen enemy,” Katana said. He said arresting people for misdemeanours and then bundling them in one vehicle only worsens the situation.  Edited by P.O