Chiefs in Eastern have been directed to trace all girls who got pregnant during schools' closure over Covid-19 to resume learning in January. Regional commissioner Isaiah Nakoru instructed chiefs in all the region’s eight counties to mobilise all schoolgirls who got pregnant or gave birth between March and December. Speaking in his office in Embu, Nakoru said despite the disappointing incidents of pregnancies of girls through defilement by irresponsible men during the long stay at home, the girls have a right to pursue their education to the end. He said all the girls who got children during the period should be supported to resume learning to realise their dreams. Nakoru said the girls should leave their babies with their parents to look after them. The administrator asked schools to accept them without stigma and support them to learn. He told parents to support their children who gave birth to continue learning. He expressed disappointment that some parents do not protect their children enough, leading to pregnancies. He urged all parents to take proper responsibility for their children during the Christmas holidays. The regional commissioner said some parents leave most of the responsibilities of protection of children to teachers. Nakoru at the same time thanked Marsabit and Isiolo residents who have surrendered illegal firearms to the police after the government asked them to do so. He said so far 357 firearms which were illegally in the hands of residents and over 2,000 rounds of ammunition have been returned to the police. Those who surrendered them were not punished. He said anybody who will be found with an illegal firearm will be dealt with accordingly. “The residents do not have to arm themselves since we have enough security personnel to protect them,” Nakoru said. Nakoru further called on residents to stop theft or any other behaviour that might cause insecurity in the area during the Christmas holidays. He asked public service vehicle operators not to hike fares and to drive carefully to protect lives.  Edited by Henry Makori