BY BRIAN OTIENO @Yobramos4   A victim of the October 25 attack in Bangal in Bura, Tana River county has appealed for help from the government and well-wishers. Ahmed Barre is one of the 24 livestock traders who were attacked by unknown people. He said he lost close to a million shillings to the attackers. “They broke my leg and I was admitted at Garissa General Hospital for 25 days,” Ahmed told the Star on Wednesday. The attackers were armed with guns and crude weapons. They waylaid a group of traders who were on their way to the market. They then forced them to lie down before beating them senseless. Those who resisted were shot and wounded. Victims said they lost about Sh5 million. The attack sparked fears among residents and Ahmed says he fears for his life. Bura sub-county police commander Benedict Mwangangi said four people were arrested in connection with the attack and charged. “We are on top of things now and there is no cause for alarm,” Mwangangi told the Star on phone on Wednesday. The police boss said they have strengthened security in the area and nothing is left to chance. “We have special units deployed in strategic places to escort traders to the market and ensure their safety,” Mwangangi said. Ahmed said since the attack, he has not been able to walk and this has affected his business. “I have no job now. I am only just starting to walk again and things are tough for me. My life has changed completely,” the camel trader said. He wants Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to ensure safety of traders in Tana River and the neighbouring Garissa counties is guaranteed. Mwangangi said security in the area has been enhanced and no major incidents have occurred since the attack. “I would like to urge residents to also help the police secure them by providing information on any suspicious characters or activities,” he said. He said a good working relationship between the police officers and the public will guarantee security. Ahmed said the government should consider compensating the victims, some of whom were maimed. “People like me, who lost almost everything should be helped so we can restart our lives. Those maimed have to get some support from the government because it is the one that failed to protect lives and property as they should,” Ahmed said. Bura residents blamed the top security agents in the county for the October incident saying many are insensitive to the plight of the residents. Residents said inaction by security officers and political leaders over such attacks usually trigger inter-communal clashes. But Mwangangi said there are mechanisms that the security officers use so as to ensure intercommunal clashes do not occur. So far, there has been relative peace, he said. But Ahmed said some of the attackers are known people who are still at large. “A security exercise to mop up all the illegal guns in the hands of civilians must be done so we can rest assured of peace,” Ahmed said. He said he has been moving from one government office to another seeking help with no success. “I almost gave up but my family gave me strength,” he said Ahmed. 