Private universities will lose thousands of government-sponsored students they enrol every year if a proposal by Treasury is adopted. Treasury Principal Secretary Julius Muia on Wednesday asked Parliament to revert the decision to send students to private universities unless it is on courses that are not available in public institutions. The system was introduced in 2016 and has so far seen private universities accommodate 61,237 students. In some private universities, 50 per cent of the student population is currently government-sponsored. If the request adopted, the institutions will lose crucial revenue streams that they have enjoyed for the last four years. The programme was introduced after the government revised its policy to sponsor all students with university entry grades of C+ and above. However, in presentations to the National Assembly committee on education, public universities vice-chancellors questioned why the government was supporting private universities at the expense of public institutions. Geoffrey Muluvi of the vice-chancellors committee, on Wednesday said they detest the policy and called for its review. "We are proposing that KUCCPS should only admit government-sponsored students to private universities to pursue programmes that are not available in public universities," Muluvi said. However, the private universities have fought the proposal noting it is unfair for the institutions. Prof Kisau Mumo, chairman of the Kenya Association of Private Universities,  noted that the number of students sponsored by the government to private universities has been increasing but the budget to cater for the growth has remained stagnant. Currently, there are slightly more than 61,000 State-sponsored students in private universities since the first intake in 2016. He noted that the institutions need at least Sh5.6 billion to support the students. “Money to support the students has not increased although the number of students has increased," he said. “These students have benefitted, they’ve benefitted from private public partnership where these private partners have developed infrastructure, they have supported the students. But now it is important that they are supported,” Mumo said. He fingered public counterparts for being malicious in seeking that they be excluded from government placement. "Public universities are looking to become private universities that us why they do not want students to be placed in the institutions, then the cut-off is raised so that there are more students register as parallel students," Mumo noted. In the programme, both public and private universities declare capacity of the accredited courses they offer to the Kenya University and Colleges Placement Services for placement. Subsequently, students with C+ (Plus) and above are enrolled based on the declared capacity and courses of their choice. Private universities first admitted government-sponsored students in 2016 and took 6,312 students. At the time, the government said it was a strategic intervention to address the inadequacy of capacity by public universities. In 2017, they admitted 12,275 while in 2018 they took 11,239, another 10,276 students were placed in 2019 and 27,447 in 2020. Just like in public universities, the government funds the students based on the courses they take. The formula is called the Differentiated Unit Cost. Under the formula, science-oriented courses get relatively higher funding compared to the arts and business courses.