The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has launched a toll-free hotline for reporting cases as it enhances its war on crime. Kenyans can now anonymously report crime to the DCI using the hotline, 0800722203. Callers are able to tip the police with information for action. DCI boss George Kinoti said the line will be housed and managed at a modern call centre within the directorate’s headquarters in Nairobi in partnership with the UK National Crime Agency (NCA). Kinoti said the call centre will be manned on a 24-hour basis by vetted and approved DCI personnel from different fields. The personnel are people trained in customer relations and who can speak several languages, including Somali, French, German, Spanish, Arabic, Chinese and Italian. This is the first-ever toll-free and call centre at the DCI headquarters. Kinoti launched the line last week on Thursday while accompanied by James Duddridge, the minister for Africa at the UK’s Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office. Also present was UK Ambassador to Kenya Jane Mariot and John Gachomo, the head of the Anti-Terror Police Unit. Kinoti said all the information received will be analysed and acted upon in real-time. “The information given will form a prima facie ground upon which appropriate operations will be planned and executed after the information has been analysed by the appropriate units,” he said. The centre has a capacity to receive 100 calls simultaneously. It is expected to play a complementary role in preventing, disrupting and deterring serious crimes in the country and beyond the borders. Officials said it will also assist the directorate in forming a sustainable intelligence database that will help in the formulation of strategies that help manage crime. It is primarily meant to shield, insulate and protect the identity of the informers who will be confiding with the police on aggravated serious crimes anonymously. This is a great milestone and a blessing to the DCI and the National Police Service and entire country, Kinoti said. “The identity of the caller is completely encrypted so as to shield, insulate and protect the informer.” The public is encouraged to give information, particularly on some of the most concealed crimes such as gender-based violence, female genital mutilation, child marriages, sexual exploitation of children, sexual assault, sexual abuse, child cyberbullying, online stalking, children servitude, among many others. Kinoti said such crimes are concealed due to intimidation, compromise, fear, shame, blackmail, stigmatisation and rejection. Duddridge said similar hotlines established in the UK and elsewhere have been successful. “I look forward to seeing the results from this important work and continuing the excellent cooperation between the UK and Kenya in tackling serious and organised crime. It is important to note that the DCI will not try to trace your call and you can call this number in full confidence,” he said. Other crimes that Kenyans have been encouraged to report on are human trafficking, including theft of children, and conspiracy to steal children mostly in hospitals and at children’s homes. Illegal adoptions, drug trafficking and abuse, terrorism, terrorism financing, known sleeper cells, known terrorist sympathisers, money laundering, crimes against the public such as corruption, bribery and any other transnational-organised crimes are also on the list of those to be reported. Kinoti said the realisation of the call centre is part of the grand transformation path that the DCI has been undertaking to give the agency a human face. "I wish to reiterate that the DCI remains committed to working as a team player in the multi-agency approach to crime management in the country by delivering professional service without fear or favour.” The DCI has one of the most vibrant and active Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Protection Unit courtesy of the UK Government, Kinoti said. "The NCA has helped us build modern offices both in Nairobi and Mombasa. These offices are fully equipped with state-of-the-art logistical equipment, field vehicles, mobile forensic laboratory, an online child exploitation monitoring unit which has assisted greatly in apprehension of child sexual offenders,” he said. 