Rift Valley elders have criticised DCI chief George Kinoti for his recent attempt to revive PEV cases, saying it was a setback to cementing peace and reconciliation. They said on Wednesday they had not heard of any threats to individuals or wider threats to peace and stability, as Kinoti claimed. They were led by Uasin Gishu Interfaith Council chairman Bishop Geoffrey Songok and county Kalenjin Council of Elders chairman Alex Mursi. “We have always told our people to be united. We don’t want to be reminded of 2007-08. We know how we suffered as residents of this county and we want peace, unity and harmony," Sangok said. Kinoti's comments created  a storm, he backtracked and said cases would not be reopened, though reports of threats had been received. President Uhuru Kenyatta chastised Kinoti in public and said cases would not be opened. He said he was not aware of any fresh investigation. The elders from the Kalenjin, Kikuyu, Luhya, Gusii, Luo and other communities said there were mechanisms to ensure peace prevails and threats are reported. Last week, the elders met Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and other county political leaders to discuss Kinoti’s meeting in Nairobi with some alleged PEV victims. Kinoti said he was investigating fresh threats they had reported. Mandago's meeting with elders included Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno, assembly Speaker David Kiplagat, Majority leader Josphat Lowoi, clergy and elders from various communities. Mandago has said Kinoti’s move was political and aimed at undermining peace. He said the county was peaceful and there have been no problems related to the 2007-08 violence. "Elders assured me they have not heard of anything that would disrupt peace, so whatever Kinoti said is his own," the governor said. Chemno said for eight years he has never been made aware of complaints by PEV victims. He warned the DCI against playing politics with the lives and property of Kenyans, using the past events that he claimed had been forgotten. The elders said they would work with counties to ensure peace prevails in the region before, during and after the 2022 polls. (Edited by V. Graham) 