Tusker are optimistic that goalkeeper Robert Mboya will return to the team after resuming training on Tuesday. The Harambee Stars trialist was carried off and immediately rushed to the Agha Khan Hospital after colliding with a teammate during last weekend’s match against Vihiga United at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Mboya, who was making his bow in the new season, bore the brunt of the first half collision and was replaced by Rwandese custodian Emery Mvuyekure, whose superb saves saw Tusker hold onto a 1-0 win, their third of the season. Tusker chairman Daniel Aduda confirmed that Mboya took part in light training sessions on Tuesday and was hopeful that the towering gloveman will be fully fit before they take on their next opponent on January 2. “He was concussed while trying to save a goal-bound ball in our box. He was rushed to hospital, treated and discharged on the same day. He attended the team’s last training session on Tuesday and we hope he will recover fully before the next match. The team will proceed for a short Christmas break and will, probably, resume training on Sunday,” said Aduda. Aduda’s sentiments were echoed by the experienced club doctor, Wycliffe Makanga, who said Mboya had recovered ahead of schedule. Meanwhile, Tusker head coach Robert Matano highlighted the significance of veteran midfielder Humphrey Mieno in their chase for a 12th league title. Despite starting from the bench in the past rounds, Mieno has proved that class in permanent and Matano believes it is just a matter of time before he makes his way back to the starting lineup. He said the former Stars midfielder, who was loaned to Oman’s Al Ittihad in January, has shown traits of influencing the team to get positive results from the playing time given this season. “He is an experienced player whom we are happy to have in the team going forward after missing the past season. We have been using him as an impact player since he was not ready and his confidence is slowly building again. He can change the game anytime and influences the team to get positive results,” said Matano.