NCIC has condemned the reckless utterances made by ODM SG Edwin Sifuna and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa during Msambweni by-election campaigns. Jumwa and Sifuna are claimed to have made the statements on December 11, 2020, during campaigns that attracted eight contestants. " The Commission has commenced investigations. We urge Kenyans to exercise tolerance and allow the law to take its cause," NCIC said via a statement on Tuesday. NCIC chair Samuel Kobia said that the two have already been summoned to appear before the commission to answer for their utterances. "The use of such political rhetoric and vulgar language is wrong, unethical and shameful, the fact that any leader, especially those of the stature of MP and secretary general, can even consider using such language is a low point for them and this nation," Kobia said. Kobia added that such remarks might mutate to hate speech, thus disturbing the peaceful coexistence among Kenyans especially their followers. The chairperson has further said that the commission is working closely with the registrar of political parties to ensure that politicians who fail to meet chapter 6 requirements in the eye of the commission, the EACC, and the registrar of political parties to be barred from political office forthwith. "Indeed as a commission, we are committed to ensuring that there is a legal, societal, and political consequence for bad behavior. We urge all Kenyans to keep being vigilant and continue calling out bad behavior and statements wherever they occur." During the campaigns, Deputy President allies campaigned for the independent candidate Feisal Abdallah. Jumwa, who is a close ally to Ruto is among the leaders who campaigned for Feisal. ODM candidate Omar Boga equally received big support from a section of ODM leaders, including party leader Raila Odinga, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho,  Sifuna among others. Other contestants are ; Charles Bilali (Independent) Mansury Kumaka (Independent), Ali Hassan Mwakulonda (Party of Economic Democracy), Marere Wamwachai (National Vision Party), Sheikh Mahmoud (Wiper Party) and Khamis Mwakaonje Liganje (United Green Movement). Msambweni residents are currently voting, in an exercise that is marred by voter bribery, intimidation and chaos. The supporters from all the sides have accused each other of undermining free, fair, and credible elections. The claims saw former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama being arrested on in a polling station. Muthama was arrested by the police officers at Jomo Kenyatta primary school. He was among other leaders who were monitoring the ongoing voting exercise in various parts.