The National Police Service has dismissed claims that members of the public were harassed and assaulted by police as they enforced curfew 9orders. Inspector General of police Hillary Mutyambai on Monday said the said incident had nothing to do with enforcement of the curfew orders. He said preliminary reports indicate that certain individuals were attending a night party within a residential estate causing disturbance to neighbors who reported the matter to the police for action. On Saturday virals photos and videos showed people being roughed up by police within an estate in Nairobi's Kileleshwa. Police had raided a residence where they claimed occupants were engaging in a house party in full contravention of COVID protocols. As arrests were made, some sustained injuries as a result of beatings. "They were held in Muthangari police station and later released at 4 am and directed to report at the station later in the day. But Mutyambai said, "Police responded appropriately in order to address the issue and in the course of police addressing the complaint, some individuals got injured while trying to escape arrest". The IG said those aggrieved by the incident should make formal complaints at the nearest police station. "The National Police Service upholds the rule of law and does not condone any form of police excesses. I promise that the matter will be thoroughly investigated and appropriate action taken against those found culpable. Mutyambai further appealed to the members of the public to take due caution and observe law and order while being kind to their neighbors during the festive season. "The National Police service will work closely with the public to ensure maximum safety and security for all Kenyans," Mutyambai said. This is however not the first time police have been accused of brutality during the implementation of the curfew directives. As a result, six police officers will face trial with murder and assault, for their direct involvement in shootings while enforcing the restrictions. The report by IPOA indicated the highest number of incidents relating to excessive use of force by police were documented in Nairobi. The IG has however maintained that he never ordered any police officer implementing the ongoing curfew to terrorise Kenyans. In an affidavit filed in court, the IG said the police are supposed to implement the curfew within the confines of the law.