A senior government official who hails from Rift Valley is in trouble. The man who married into a prominent family has been battering his wife up until three weeks ago when she had enough and reported the violence to the police. The wife presented medical reports from hospitals she has been visiting whenever the man beat her. Pictures of her wounds shocked the cops. The OCS summoned the man to record a statement but he told the OCS he was too junior for him to appear before him. The file has been forwarded to DCI headquarters (pictured)  for action. The wife has left their matrimonial home and is living with her children in a rented house. The senior official has been flying from one holiday destination to another with a new lady friend. It remains to be seen whether the law will stop the party for new love birds this Christmas. *** The speaker of a county assembly in Nyanza is facing ejection from office by the majority of MCAs who have mobilised more than two-thirds against him. The speaker, who has previously witnessed first hand the wrath of MCAs in the assembly, is reported to be remaining with only three MCAs allied to him. Since Friday and throughout the weekend, the besieged speaker made frantic telephone calls reaching out to allies-turned-foes and a political supremo to save him from the jaws of lawmakers. Insiders blame the speaker for running assembly affairs like a personal kiosk. *** A member of a state outfit undertaking a crucial assignment was booted out for biting off more than he could chew. He was kicked out after it emerged the man in an influential position has been pocketing cash under the guise of organising critical meetings. Financiers were perplexed by the poor turnout and indifferent audiences. Further scrutiny revealed the official was amassing a war chest to either contest for a gubernatorial seat or wrest back a lost seat. It remains to be seen if he has been completely rejected or will be accommodated in a cold corner. *** A presidential hopeful left a lot of resentment after he reneged on the payment promised to youth to hold the ground for him. The party leader is said to have promised youth Sh500 to cease hostilities and allow an event to proceed in peace. The youth got a rude awakening after the person directed to give them money could not be reached. His aides arrogantly told them off for being layabouts in the village. The blunder further undermines the credentials of the man gunning for the top seat as rejection is palpable in his backyard.  