Kenya is amongst the top ranked countries of origin, departure and transit of trafficking of narcotic and psychotropic drugs. This is despite The Narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances (Control) act No. 4 of 1994 which provides the framework for combating abuse of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Kenya. The law clearly provides the parameters on the control, possession, transportation, trafficking and the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The law also outlines the punishments for the illicit use, possession and trafficking of narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances. Narcotics drugs and psychotropic substance abuse in Kenya remains a huge menace and is a major challenge with negative impacts on social, economic, governance and criminal justice sector. In 2004, 1000 Kilograms of cocaine was seized in Kenya making it one of the biggest drug seizures in Africa. According to the Word Drug Report 2018, Kenya was one of the main countries that heroine was trafficked along the Southern route to the Western and Central Europe during that period. In 2018, 1.5 Tonnes of heroine was seized in Kenya making it one of the countries with the largest seizure of heroine. In 2014, H.E President Uhuru Kenyatta oversaw the State Department of Interior and Coordination of national Governance detonate drugs yatch 'Baby Iris' which was intercepted with narcotics into Kenya worth Kshs. 22 Million. The President in his 2015 Report on measures taken and Progress Achieved in the Realization of National Values and Principles of Governance (NVPG) cited drug trafficking and drug and psychotropic substance abuse as one of emerging security challenges that undermines Kenya's efforts toward realizing national identity and exercise of sovereign power. The National Survey on Alcohol and Drug abuse among Secondary School students in Kenya (2016) by the National Authority for campaign against Alcohol and Drugs (NACADA) revealed that although heroine, mandrax, rohypnol and cocaine are illegal, they are nonetheless available to school going children with cocaine being the most abused. According to NACADA, the most commonly mentioned source of substance abuse is from friends, home and from other students. NACADA'S data shows that drugs and substance abuse are more likely to be used during school holidays, on students' way to home. According to the institute of Security Studies, criminal groups and gangs work hand in hand with drug traffickers to maintain drug trade and criminal network alive. The Sentencing of Baktash Akasha who built a big drug trafficking operations in East Africa for 25 years imprisonment disrupted the top-tier of the drug trade. However the lower criminal activities around drug trafficking still remain active. In 2019, there were increasing gang attacks in the Coastal region of Kenya which the National Police Service attributed to links with the drug cartels. Regrettably, these increasing criminal attacks have had an adverse impact on the tourism sector and somewhat dent Kenya's image in terms of safety and security. Has the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Control) Act. No 4 of 1994 been effective in combating Drug and Substance abuse? Even though the bill has the legal framework in place, it has gaps and challenges which have made these efforts difficult in several ways which include; Fortunately the fight against Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance abuse is not all lost as there has been a growing recognition by various actors to address these gaps and challenges under the law. To curb the menace that is Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substance Abuse in Kenya, The National Committee on Criminal Justice under the auspices of the Judiciary of Kenya has recommended for the amendment of the Narcotics Drug and Psychotropic Substance (Control) Act No. 4 of 1994 to enable effective enforcement of the Act and to streamline criminal justice system. The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Control)(Amendment) Bill, 2020, is timely as it responds to governance, social, economic, and criminal justice sector. The Bill recommends the following harsher penalties: Recent research shows that the public feels that the amendments on penalties are unfairly targeting the end users. From the numerous interactions with those interviewed, it is important to highlight the following: There is involvement of medical experts during court processes to determine if offenders are users or otherwise. NACADA has been in the forefront in fighting this menace and has used substantial resources towards rehabilitation of persons abusing drugs and alcohol.  Catherine Ngina is a freelance writer and a commentator on social issues ccngina@gmail.com