Wazito will be hoping to redeem themselves from the humiliating 4-0 defeat they suffered at the hands of Kariobangi Sharks in their Premier League opening fixture when they play returnees Vihiga United at Narok Stadium on Friday. The moneybags are eager to prove a point to their president, Ricardo Badoer, who invested heavily on players in the last transfer window. Anything short of a win might claim the scalp of coach Francis Kimanzi and put the future of his players in jeopardy, given Badoer's history of firing coaches and dropping players at whim over non-performance. Kimanzi, however, got a lifeline after he received affirmation from Badoer who took to his Twitter account to offer him some reassurance. "Let's give it time and have coach Kimanzi get us where we need to be," tweeted the Swedish businessman following the defeat to Sharks. Meanwhile, KCB have a tough task ahead as they come up against another returning side, Nairobi City Stars in a tricky fixture that could go either way. The Bankers opened their campaign impressively, drubbing Posta Rangers 3-0 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday but may not find the going easy against a side that collected maximum points against the more seasoned and experienced Nzoia Sugar in 2-0 win at Narok on Sunday. Kariobangi Sharks will be seeking to replicate the exemplary performance they exhibited against Wazito when they visit Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma on Saturday. However, it is the match between Tusker and Bandari that takes centre stage as the top tier veterans flex muscles at Moi Stadium on Saturday. The Brewers are still smarting from a 1-2 lose to AFC Leopards and will hope to squeeze some critical points from the Dockers who come to the match hot on the heels of a slim 1-0 triumph over Sofapaka at Mbaraki Sports Club last weekend. AFC Leopards will be eyeing another win over newbies Bidco United to extend their tally to six points when the two sides meet at Kasarani on Sunday. In other matches, Kakamega Homeboyz will square it out with Posta Rangers at Bukhungu as Sofapaka honour their date with Western Stima at Wundanyi Stadium in Taita.  Friday (3 pm) Wazito vs Vihiga United KCB vs City Stars FC  Saturday (3 pm) Nzoia Sugar vs Kariobangi Sharks Tusker vs Bandari  Sunday (3 pm) Bidco United vs AFC Leopards Homeboyz vs Posta Rangers Sofapaka FC vs Western Stima