Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and ODM leader Raila Odinga on Friday mourned  Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama who succumbed to Covid-19 related complications aged 74. Speaking at Lee Funeral Home, Matiang’i said he was devastated by the news of the governor’s death. He eulogised him as a decent man who was a father and elder to all. “I wish to send a message of condolences to the family of the governor and the people of Nyamira. Leaders and family are regrouping to start burial arrangements,” the CS said. “He was a gentle and kind soul. He was a real mzee in the community who defended the rights of his people.” Raila said Nyagarama has been an extraordinary partner in strengthening devolution. “I am deeply saddened to learn of Governor John Nyagarama’s death. My sympathies to his family and the people of Nyamira as we mourn his death and reflect on his life. I will forever cherish moments with him on duty and as personal friends.” Kisii Governor James Ongwae said, “It’s not easy coming to terms with the passing on of my brother, schoolmate, friend, and colleague. He was a humble character.” Speaking from the US, Nyamira Sports Legends director Alfred Momanyi eulogised Nyagarama as a humble politician who preached peace and never raised his voice even during campaigns. Homa Bay Woman representative Gladys Wanga said, “Death is truly a cruel reaper! Governor Nyagarama was a humble man who carried power with grace. My condolences to his family and the people of Nyamira county.” Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said, “It is a sad morning for the country as we mourn the tragic loss of the Governor of Nyamira county, John Nyagarama. My sincere condolences and deepest sympathies to his family and the people of Nyamira county. May the Almighty assuage your grief.” Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences to the family of the late Nyamira Governor, John Nyangarama and the People of Nyamira.  The people of Kisumu county stand with the entire Gusii region at this time of sorrow. John was not only a colleague but a close friend.    