Impala, Kabras, Quins and Nakuru were the biggest beneficiaries in the transfer window that closed yesterday. The Sarries signed KCB playmaker Ken Moseti, Martin Juma (USIU), Teddy Ratemo (Nakuru), Albert Obura (Strathmore) while Nesta Okoth (KCB) extended his loan after impressing last season for the Ngong Road giants. Impala released Samuel Motari and Kanyiri Kariuki to Nondies, Kenya under-20 player Ian Masheti joined Strathmore Leos on a scholarship deal while utility back Xavier Kipngetich joined neighbours Quins. Impala head coach Mitch Ocholla expressed delight with the signing as the Sarries a target a top-three place in the new season, even though it is shrouded with uncertainty due to Covid-19 restrictions on contact sports. "Most of the players we have signed expressed a desire to come and play for us and they will give us options. We now have a good squad to choose from once rugby returns, hopefully in the new year,” said Ocholla. Enterprise Cup champions Kabras signed six players including the highly-rated Western Bulls duo of Derrick Ashiundu and Teddy Akala, Mean Machine winger Alfred Orege, Citam Kisumu's Emmanuel Oduor and Kisumu RFC's Edwin Ochieng. Chairman Philip Jalang'o said they moved to add depth in certain positions and ensure the sugar miller are firing on all cylinders when the season starts. "We want to challenge on all fronts and ensure our squad is competitive and that the standards we have had for the past three seasons are maintained," said Jalang'o. Kabras had earlier signed South African Ntokozo Vidima and Aphiwe Stemaz. Quins were also busy as they look at qualifying for the playoffs. The Ngong road outfit signed Kenyan internationals Joshua Chisanga, Emmanuel Mavala, Phillip Ikambili and Evin Asena from Homeboyz, Isaac Wafula from Western Bulls and Bryan Oyando from Administration Police Former champions Nakuru also bolstered their roster by signing Gideon Mbithi from Nakuru as well as Oilers trio of Gilbert Ochieng, Mike Mare and Rogers Audi.