Is there a political scheme by allies of Deputy President William Ruto to capture a key Kieleweke member from Mt Kenya into the Tangatanga squad? There are reports that the MP, who was initially critical of the DP, could have slowed down his verbal attacks on him lately following the deal that is in the offing. The MP is seeking to oust a governor in Central Kenya in the 2022 General Election but believes that the DP’s influence could offer him much more political support at the grassroots than leaning towards Kieleweke faction of Jubilee. It remains to be seen when the Tangatanga brigade will unveil the politician seen as a front-runner in the race for governor. Just who made the ‘strange call’ that reportedly turned the tables on ex-Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s fortunes in the Senate last Thursday? Senators who were against Sonko’s ouster could be heard protesting the call, with others loudly saying they will not be intimidated. They trooped out of the chamber and converged in small groups, chatting in low tones in the corridors and restaurants. Some of the lawmakers, who had converged at Parliament restaurant as the trial proceeded, were heard saying that the call had ruined their plans that they said were otherwise well-executed and promising to save the former governor. An outcry has greeted the unbecoming conduct of liquor enforcement officers in Nairobi. The officers are said to be harassing and intimidating small business people in the city. They move around from one liquor joint to another inspecting the establishments’ compliance to Covid-19 rules. Last week, they threatened to close an establishment because the sanitiser they were using was not ‘smelling alcohol.’ In another place, the enforcement officers demanded that only five revellers remain in order to maintain social distance. Shockingly, they backed down their demands soon after palm-greasing. The traders are now protesting against the habit of the officers and pleading with the authorities to intervene. A former MP from Nyanza known for his deep pockets and philanthropy has provoked his successor. The ex-legislator is on a door-to-door distribution of Christmas goodies to the constituents. This came just months after he gave the residents food and non-food items to help them during the Covid-19 pandemic. The kind acts provoked his successor and removed him from his comfort zone. The man was fast losing the ground after he ‘forgot’ his destitute constituents at their hour of need. Last weekend, the current MP mobilised more than 1,000 residents and gave them food items and Sh500 each ahead of Christmas. Moles intimated that his advisors informed him that the ground was fast shifting and the sooner he moved in the better.