President Uhuru Kenyatta has eulogised Mama Hannah Atsianzale Mudavadi as a true family matriarch that brought up a close-knit family. Hannah, the mother of ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, died on Monday at the Nairobi Hospital aged 92. In his message of condolence and comfort to the Mudavadi family, Uhuru said Hannah was generous and helped many poor Kenyans access education. “Mama Hannah was the cornerstone of the Mudavadi family, a wise woman of few words on whose broad shoulders many people were raised to become great Kenyans. "Mrs Mudavadi was a gracious and loving mother, a true matriarch who loved and took care of all people, especially those in need, without any reservation," the President said. Hannah was the widow of Cabinet Minister Moses Mudamba Mudavadi. Uhuru described her as a devoted, generous and humble matriarch who raised a close-knit family and contributed immensely to the progress of her community. He said she will especially be remembered for her love for education and how she assisted many bright children from poor families access quality education. Uhuru wished Mudavadi and his family God's solace as they come to terms with her demise. “We will forever be grateful for her charitable work and acts of love. To my brother Musalia Mudavadi, may God comfort you and the family, and guide you at this difficult time of mourning,” President said, assuring the family of his support and praying to God to rest her soul in eternal glory. Deputy President William Ruto described Mama Hannah as a tireless, humble and persistent figure who modelled a generation of illustrious leaders. "We honour the marvellous life Mama Atsianzale led and the indelible legacy that she leaves behind," the DP tweeted. He said Hannah was a devoutly religious, respected and responsible woman who raised upright, hardworking and diligent children. ODM leader Raila Odinga termed Hannah's death devastating and painful and urged the family to be strong during these difficult moments. "The loss of a mother devastates for a long time. Deep condolences to my friend Musalia Mudavadi and his family. The pillar may be gone, but you must soldier on. My prayers are with you," he said.