Healthcare workers staged a demonstration outside Afya House in Nairobi on Monday in an effort to have their grievances addressed. The nurses and clinical officers have been on strike since last week to protest among others, lack of standard and quality personal protective equipment and comprehensive medical insurance cover. This comes ahead of another conciliatory meeting scheduled for Wednesday between the unions and the government's multi-agency teams among them officials from the Labour Ministry, the Federation of Kenya Employers, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Council of Governors. So far, nine clinical officers and 13 doctors have died of Covid-19 since the virus struck the country in March, with the number of nurses who have succumbed hitting 29 after one more passed away in Trans Nzoia on Friday. "We are here to demand that we be given personal protective equipment. We don't want to infect our friends and relatives and that is why we are out of hospitals," Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary-general George Gibore said. "If we won't get paid the risk allowance, then those assuming there is no risk should go do the work," he said. The clinicians maintained they won't go back to work until all their grievances are addressed. They will bury their colleague who died in Nandi county on Tuesday. The medics further dismissed reports that the country has enough ICU beds, saying their colleagues passed on while in private hospitals because they had failed to secure a bed in public facilities. "We are here to see the CS [Mutahi Kagwe]. We are here because he is not in touch with the ground. We have heard him say that we have enough PPE so we are here to get the PPE," KUCO chairman Peterson Wachira said. The healthcare workers who camped at the Ministry's entrance for several hours, however, left without anybody addressing them and proceeded to Parliament. National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako acknowledged the willingness by the National Assembly and the Senate to find a lasting solution to the problem. “We believe that if the seriousness we have seen the last week continues, by Friday we might have a solution that will be in place for four years,” Panyako said. With the nurses and clinical officers’ strike entering the second week on Tuesday, patients continue to suffer in hospitals and at home. Most patients who had been admitted at various county general hospitals were cleared and asked to seek treatment elsewhere, save for those who were in critical condition. The crisis might, however, be worsened should the talks between doctors and the government fail to bear fruits. The doctors had suspended their strike for 14 days to give time for negotiations. The suspension lapses on December 21.