Upcoming athletes have been warned against following in the footsteps of role models who do not uphold professionalism in their careers. Veteran junior coach Robert Ngisirei said some young athletes are following in the footsteps of senior athletes who engage in unbecoming behaviours that set a bad example in the society. "There are many senior athletes who are not good role models for junior athletes," said Ngisirei. "Some of them depend on food supplements which can be detrimental to the career of youngsters if they get tempted to follow suit," Ngisirei said. Ngisirei urged young athletes to focus on nutritious diet rather than take shortcuts through food supplements, some of which may contain banned substances. "Whatever you are looking for in food supplements is already available in vegetables and fruits. I would encourage you to include these two in your diet. Add training and you are good to go," he said. Ngisirei was speaking at the close of a week-long seminar on anti-doping and character development targeting athletes aged 20 years and below. The virtual seminar — a collaboration between AK and Athletics Integrity Unit — targeted over 100 athletes from Kericho, Trans Nzioa, Uasin Gishu and Nairobi counties. The last round of the seminar was held on Monday in Nairobi. Ngisirei cautioned the athletes against seeking medical attention from any healthcare professional without consulting the World Anti-Doping Agency's list of prohibited substances. "Medications for chest infections are usually the worst because some of them contain these substances. So it is best to be careful when seeking medical care and to inform a physician that you are an athlete," he said. Speaking at the same seminar, AK Youth Development Committee chairman Barnaba Korir said young athletes are more teachable than senior athletes who become blinded by their successes. "In the past, we have organised such seminars for senior athletes but we have not been seeing any change, especially in terms of anti-doping violations. That is why we changed tact to focus on the younger ones and inculcate good values in the infancy of their careers," Korir said. He said that AK will organise more seminars at the grassroots in collaboration with other stakeholders, such as parents and teachers. 