Partnerships between Kenya and Morocco will see a boost in the agriculture and security sectors as the two countries seek to strengthen ties. While Kenya receives rains twice a year, food security remains a hard goal to achieve due to poor water management. Morocco — a desert country — on the other hand, leads the North Africa region in water control and management and has risen to become a food security reference in Africa. Morocco Ambassador to Kenya El Mokhtar Ghambou said plans are underway to train Kenyan farmers on water management, maximising on irrigation, skills and technology transfer to boost food production. Already, Kenyan farmers are benefiting from price competitive fertiliser from OCP group, which is 95 per cent Moroccan state-owned business and the world’s largest phosphate exporter. “Morocco is committed to boosting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four, especially in the areas of affordable housing, food processing and manufacturing,” Ghambou said during an interview at his office on Saturday. There is a partnership in place between Mandera county and Dakhla city on how to maximise on livestock rearing. The envoy said virtual meetings of players between the two regions about the partnerships have started and exchange visits will start next year when Covid-19 pandemic is contained. Other issues on Mandera-Dakhla in-tray are harnessing solar energy, religious affairs and border security. Kenya’s agricultural exports to Morocco include tea, nuts, vegetable and fruits. In 2018, the total trade between the two countries was at Sh40.1 billion, with the balance of trade in favour of Morocco at Sh39.8 billion in imports against Sh415.1 million worth of Kenya’s exports. With Kenya battling terrorism seen to stem from homegrown radicalisation, Morocco is training Kenyan Imams on moderate interpretation of the Quran. Radical Muslim Imams have been blamed for brainwashing youths who later join terrorism groups and return to launch attacks in the country. “Morocco has shown a unique example of tolerance in the region so we want to send Kenyan Imams there so they can come back with a better understanding of the Quran,” he said. The training of imams targets all Muslim counties in Kenya. Nairobi hosts Mohammed VI Foundation For African Ulema Kenya chapter, an institution founded by Morocco's King Mohammed VI to teach values of Islamic tolerance and moderation to promote peace. With Kenya being the economic giant of East Africa, Gambou said more partnerships will see both countries benefit from each other. 