Kenya will get Sh1.7 trillion from the United Kingdom to help fight climate change over the next five years. British High Commissioner Jane Marriott said Friday that her country is doubling its commitment to help reverse the impacts of climate change in Kenya. She made the announcement during a visit to Lake Baringo. During the visit, Marriott met with businesses, schools and community leaders affected by the rise of Lake Baringo. The lake has risen by over 42 inches since May, impacting jobs, education and health services. The impacts of climate change are being felt all over Kenya, especially by communities worst hit as shown by Lake Baringo. Marriott also launched a photography contest showcasing how climate change is affecting the country. She said photographs can portray the very real challenges people face in Kenya. Submissions will be classified under nature-based solutions to climate change, climate technology and innovation, and adapting to climate change in the community. The contest is partly sponsored by Globeleq. The competition is open from Friday and will close at midnight Sunday, January 31, 2021. Winners will be notified on Wangari Maathai Day on March 3, 2021 Three Kenyans will win Sh200,000 each and get a chance to visit and photograph the Globeleq Malindi Solar project once in operation. “Vulnerable communities that rely on their natural environment for survival are most at risk, least able to prepare and hardest hit,” Marriot said. The envoy said the UK will provide a platform for Kenyan voices and experiences in the run-up to the climate change conference next year in the UK, to build a brighter, greener, future. Wanjira Mathai said without support to locally-led measures to adapt to climate impacts and increase the resilience of economic activities, communities will sink further into poverty and hopelessness. Matahi is the Vice-President of the World Resources Institute and Friend of COP26. “The need for urgent climate action is clear. We need to re-set our relationship with nature and through our collective action reverse the damage we have done to mother earth,” Mathai said. Edouard Wenseleers, Globeleq’s business development director for East Africa, said the company’s mission is to power Africa’s growth. He said Globeleq is committed to growing its business in a sustainable manner that is respectful of the environment and the communities. "Our Malindi solar project in Kenya is a testimony of that commitment and we are delighted to sponsor the ‘Climate Changemakers Photography Competition’ launched by the British High Commission in Nairobi.” Last month, the UK announced a Sh1.2 billion (£8m) package of UK initiatives to support climate action in Kenya and Africa. The UK is also backing pioneering satellite projects that will apply British expertise to tackling development problems in Kenya. UK academics will work on data solutions to manage natural resources and protecting wildlife. In Kenya, these projects will protect biodiversity, and increase climate change resilience: Sat4Wildlife - to protect wildlife habitats in Kenya, using innovative sensing and monitoring technologies to boost the capacity of conservationists, including Ol Pejeta Conservancy to tackle threats to people and wildlife. 