The Kisumu county government has demolished more illegal structures at Kibuye open-air market to pave way for the upgrade of the facility. Acting city manager Abala Wanga said some people had grabbed land and built rental houses and offices on market land. “We are committed to building a habitable market for traders. Those who built the structures in Kibuye had been given a notice to leave,” he said. Traders' stalls were brought down in June as the county fenced off the market for construction. Wanga said the market was behind schedule because cartels who had grabbed part of Kibuye land were derailing the project. “The real traders had moved out but only brokers were using ping pong games to block the construction of the market,” he said. The groundbreaking for Kibuye market was presided over by Governor Anyang Nyong’o last month. Owners of structures on Friday and Saturday salvaged their materials after the bulldozers descended on them. Wanga said phase one of the complex will cost Sh315 million. “Phase one which will have four ablution blocks, a boundary wall (masonry and steel grating), roads, walkways, foul water drainage, offloading and customer front parking, is expected to be ready in the next six months,” Nyong’o said. He said other expected facilities will include sheds and warehouses for the wholesale market and stormwater drainage. Other facilities will include an elevated water storage tank and reticulation, floodlights and street lighting 630 KVA transformer and electricity connection. The county also reclaimed a parking lot for the Mama Grace Hall, formerly Kisumu Social Hall, which had been grabbed by a private developer. Wanga said those who have grabbed the county's property should surrender them before forcible repossession. These include parking lots, playing grounds, recreational parks and city houses. Wanga said they have embarked on a rigorous process of repossessing all the county property. He said they are going to start first with influential persons who have grabbed public property in the city. Those who have grabbed public land and built houses on them will not be spared. “We have compiled the list of grabbed property, with repossession in progress,” Wanga said. The city manager warned those who have erected permanent or make-shift structures in spaces marked for demolition to vacate immediately. Structures at Patel flats were razed down, with owners of those along Ngumi road told to vacate ahead of the demolition. The development comes as town service vehicles are barred from accessing Kisumu CBD. Wanga said vehicles are required to end their trip at Kisumu Boys roundabout. He also blocked trucks from entering the City’s CBD. They have been directed to use the Kachok bypass and join Busia road at the Golf Club roundabout. The directive, Wanga said, takes effect on Monday. Vehicles from Siaya-Kisumu and Bondo-Kisumu routes have also been blocked from entering CBD and are required to turn at Patel flats roundabout. He said they want to make Kisumu clean and restore order. Currently, Wanga said, they are constructing a modern Nyamasaria Satellite Bus park at Sh99.8 million. The new bus park will have parking bays, matatu Sacco offices, passenger lounges, waste management systems, modern restaurants, water hydrants, and disaster management systems. Upon completion, PSVs plying Nairobi-Kisumu, Mombasa-Kisumu, Kisii-Kisumu, Migori to Kisumu and Homa Bay to Kisumu will not be allowed in the city’s CBD.  