The FAO is seeking about Sh4 billion ($40 million) to intensify locusts surveillance and control activities. The money will fund activities in Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen in 2021. A map provided by the Food and Agriculture Organization shows the locusts steadily marching into Kenya through Ethiopia and Somalia, having already infested the Coast, Northeastern and large swathes of the Rift Valley. "Surveillance will go far and wide to control the hatchlings. We have a lot of work on our hands. It will be a busy Christmas for us, but we are prepared to fight the upsurge,” Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said. The principal secretary last week said the government would be training teams in Kwale, Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Makueini and Kajiado to monitor the movement of the swarms. “We expect the volume of the swarms to be bigger in this second invasion as older and mature swarms are already in the country. By the end of this week, younger swarms, which are more ferocious in terms of feeding and mobility, will start coming,” he said. FAO said with international support and an unprecedented large-scale response campaign, more than 1.3 million hectares of locust infestations have been treated in 10 countries since January. However, favourable weather conditions and widespread seasonal rains have caused extensive breeding in eastern Ethiopia and Somalia. "We have achieved much, but the battle against this relentless pest is not yet over," FAO director-general QU Dongyu said. "We must not waver. Locusts keep growing day and night and risks are exacerbating food insecurity for vulnerable families across the affected region." FAO is assisting governments and other partners with surveillance and coordination, technical advice and the procurement of supplies and equipment, but operations must be further scaled up to safeguard food production and prevent worsening food insecurity in the affected countries. Donors and partners have so far provided nearly $200 million (about Sh20 billion) to finance control efforts, allowing the FAO and governments to rapidly scale up response capacity. More than 1,500 ground survey and control personnel have been trained, while 110 vehicle-mounted ground sprayers and 20 aircraft are now in action. Edited by F'Orieny