National administration officers have been instructed to ensure all learners return to school come next month. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi on Monday said chiefs and their assistants have the mandate to ensure no child fails to report back to school when learning resumes on January 4. Matiangi said his ministry and that of education have put all modalities in place to ensure learning in schools is conducted smoothly and in a conducive atmosphere. “Chiefs and assistants chiefs whose jurisdictions are very small must ensure they comb-out all children in their areas to return to school,” Matiangi said. Matiangi spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony for Ida Odinga Library, Research, Innovation and Resource centre at Ogande Girls High School in Homa Bay. Present were Education CS George Magoha, governors Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Anyang Nyongo (Kisumu) and MPs Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Zachery Onyonka (Kitutu Chache), Lillian Gogo( Rangwe) Gladys Wanga(Homa Bay) and Senator Moses Kajwang among others. During the ceremony, Matiangi expressed concerns that parents have neglected their responsibilities by not giving the required attention to their children. The CS said some 7,200 girls in Homa Bay have been impregnated a clear indication that many will be teenage mothers when learning resumes. “People give a number of excuses about their children after they fail to give proper parenting. We as parents we cannot succeed if we don’t give attention to what our children do,” he said. Mogaha in his remarks directed all education officials to work closely with security officers to ensure all learners return to school regardless of their status. He said the government will provide face masks to identified poor and vulnerable learners. “All girls are required in school on the opening day even if one is pregnant. You’ll be allowed to go and deliver and return to school at the appropriate time,” Magoha said. The education CS told people who were contracted to make desks for learning in schools to deliver them before reopening day. He said the government had allocated adequate funds which are more than Sh1.9 billion to enable students to undertake their studies in schools without a hitch. “Let all the desks are in schools before learning resumes in January. Education officers and headteachers should ensure that is done,” he added.