A Kenyan ecopreneur is among seven world winners of this year's United Nations Young Champions of the Earth prize. Nzambi Matee, 29, is the founder of Nairobi-based Gjenge Makers, a social enterprise that tackles waste pollution. She collects waste — mainly plastic bottles — from households and institutions and upcycles it into paving and building blocks. In a press statement on Wednesday, the United Nation Environment Programme said Matee, a materials engineer, emerged the winner in Africa. The annual award targets seven entrepreneurs under the age of 30. This years' winners offer solutions on how to harvest water from the air, recycle plastics into paving slabs and motivate fishermen to haul tonnes of plastic out of the ocean. “These change-makers show how innovative ideas, coupled with ambitious action, can help solve some of the world’s most pressing environmental challenges,” Unep executive director Inger Andersen said. “Globally, young people are leading the way in calling for meaningful and immediate solutions to the triple planetary crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution – we must listen.” The winners were selected by a global jury of experts following a competitive public nomination. The experts aim to engage the youth in tackling the world's most pressing environmental challenges. Matee, from her workshop, developed a chock-a-block with metal pipes and cogs machine that turns discarded plastic into paving stones. The machine can create 1,500 plastic pavers for schools and homeowners; they are durable and affordable. “It is absurd that we still have this problem of providing decent shelter — a basic human need. Plastic is a material that is misused and misunderstood. The potential is enormous, but its afterlife can be disastrous,” Matee said. She said the Gjenge pavers are fully certified by the Kenyan Bureau of Standards. They have a melting point over 350°C and are much stronger than their concrete equivalents. Matee studied material science and worked as an engineer in the oil industry. She was inspired to launch her business after routinely coming across plastic bags strewn on Nairobi’s streets. In 2017, she quit her job as a data analyst and set up a small lab in her mother’s backyard. There, she began creating and testing pavers, a combination of plastic and sand. Their neighbours complained about the noisy machine she was using, so Matee pleaded for one year’s grace period to develop the right ratios for her paving bricks. "I shut down my social life for a year and put all my savings into this,” she said. "My friends were worried."