2020 is one year we will all never forget. The one year you had no option but tpo follow the rules and directives set by the government. Covid-19 hit different countries and was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Coronavirus has killed many, leaving others fighting for their lives in health facilities. It has affected the world in a wide range of ways. It has been a rollercoaster surviving 2020 but the year is almost over. But how did Covid-19 affect Kenyans and what measures were taken? 1. Curfew When the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Kenya, most people did not take it seriously as many did not even exercise social distancing or wearing of masks. This was until the government gave strict directives. Every Kenyan is supposed to wear a mask, practice social distancing, wash hands with soap and water and also practice sanitizing. This curfew period saw Kenyans rushing up and down to get all the supplies they would need at home because after 7pm, no one was allowed to leave the house and if found outside, you were bound to face the wrath of the authorities Then came the curfew. In March, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced targeted interventions aimed at cushioning Kenyans from further spread of Covid-19. As a result, Uhuru initially imposed a dusk to dawn curfew that ran from 7 pm to 5 am. Kenyans risked a fine of Sh10,000, three-month imprisonment, or both if arrested by security officers for violating the curfew order. Then came the 9pm-4am curfew set by the president, which saw Kenyans have extra time to get back home safely. Late September, the national curfew was then extended by 60 days by the president. The curfew hours were extended from 11pm to 4am. This move gave Kenyans a few more hours to rush and finish any left errands they might have been undertaking. Well, it was embraced and still is but there are a couple of humans who still think time should have been extended, lol. 2. Bars and restaurants Many Kenyans like the bottle and December is usually marked by many drink-filled festivities. However, the government has warned Kenyans to be careful and take the necessary precautions. Last month, Uhuru, in his 13th address to the nation about the virus, said that the country's positivity rate had risen. He directed that all bars and  restaurants to be closed by 9pm, an hour before the new curfew started. At the same time, the president said the curfew hours had been revised to start from 10pm to 4am, and will be observed up to January 3, 2021. It was a tough time for those who enjoy drinking, because they found it hard to not go for a few beers. 3. Social gatherings If 2020 is not the year that made you feel like you have no social life, then you are among the few exceptions. We all know that Kenyans never sleep especially when it comes to the party life; you know, late nights and drowning in alcohol. But coronavirus shifted habits. Part of the directives given by the government was exercising social distancing where by you had to be 1.5 metres away from the other persons, ways meant to curb the spread of the virus. Hugging, kissing or even high fiving were discouraged as a way to avoid the spread of the virus. Parents have had to teach their children to keep their masks on. But what we need to understand is that this is not a punishment, but rather a measure to save our lives. Just wear your mask at all times when you are in public. Protect yourself and those around you. You might be saving someone else's life without knowing. So are you practicing social distancing right now or are you playing around with your health or those of others? 4. Opening and closing of schools If you are a parent, you must have felt a pinch when the government announced that children in the fourth grade, eighth grade or in Form Four had to return back to school. It was a decision that caught many parents and guardians off guard. In October, Education CS George Magoha flagged the reopening of schools for Grade Four, Class Eight and Form Four. Parents and guardians had to adjust to the new rules so as to make sure that their children are not left behind. 5. Travelling When we say this year has been quite crazy and hectic, no one is joking about it. Coronavirus forced the government to lockdown the country. Leaving or entering the country was unaccepted and no flights were coming in or going out of the country. The Nairobi Metropolitan was closed and no one was allowed to enter NMS after curfew hours, which saw people sneak in and out after curfew hours. It has been a crazy year for all of us. We have lost loved ones and we have celebrated after our own recovered from the virus. We are all looking forward to a better 2021, and by God's grace we will emerge victorious after this fight. All in all, let's stay safe, for our own sake. We have nothing to loose by following the directives and measures placed by the government and WHO. 