The voice of women in the news is still minimal, a recent report commissioned by the Bill  and Melinda Gates Foundation has revealed. This has been attributed to organisations remaining decisively biased towards men’s perspectives. "The Missing Perspectives of Women in News" report shows only less than one per cent of news stories in 2019 covered gender-equality issues in local newsrooms. “Coverage of gender equality issues is virtually absent from the news,” the report said. Similarly, the study concluded that women are up to six times less likely to be quoted in news as experts, protagonists or sources compared to men. “Women expert voices remain significantly muted in high-profile news genres such as politics where men’s share of the voice is up to seven times higher than that of women and the economy where men’s share is up to 31 times higher,” the report said. It thus called for newsrooms to set targets for women protagonists in the political and government news genre. Natalie Africa, the senior adviser to the Africa Director at the foundation, said men were given a voice even in issues of gender and gender inequality - a problematic habit. “Overall, men's voices are the ones always reflected. If it was a level field environment, it would be okay for men to comment but we have an unequal environment as it stands. Men's voices are given importance in gender issues,” she said. The study also showed that men are the majority in positions of news leadership and ownership, despite presence of gender parity among graduates of journalism schools in the country. Similar trends were noted in five other countries, including the UK and the US. The report aims at raising awareness and helping newsrooms "turn the lens inwards". Researchers analysed news content and academic articles to create a database, and used Google trends and surveys to collect data. Some 2,000 plus articles and three case studies were considered. The content of nearly 12,000 publications and more than 56 million stories were analysed. The researchers found that women have the best coverage in lifestyle stories, where their voices are captured more than in news linked to policymaking or current affairs. Generally, researchers found that the more rooted the patriarchal norms, the bigger the barrier to gender equality. “Evidence from five of the six countries suggests that the more biased towards men a society is in its expressed social norms, the smaller women’s share of quoted voice in the news is,” the report said. It thus recommended that newsrooms increase the proportion of women protagonists in agenda-setting news beats. “This is a call to action for journalists to produce news which empowers girls and women to believe that their voice is of value,” the report said.