Leaders in Kilifi county have appealed for the national government’s intervention to help contain desert locusts that invaded the area five days ago. Magarini MP Michael Kingi said there is urgent need to spray the locusts to prevent them from destroying crops, thus leading to famine. The locusts are reportedly in their hatching stage. Speaking during an emergency meeting with Magarini subcounty leaders, Kingi said there is urgent need for aerial and ground spraying of the locusts to prevent them from breeding. He said there is no need for locals to panic now as the locusts are not disastrous, but warned if action is not taken, they could bring harm particularly to farmers who have crops on their farms. ''Already there are teams on the ground that were dispatched on December 3 from national and county government,'' he said. He said the multi-agency team issued a report and they expect to see action, including aerial spray, to prevent the locusts from hatching. ''I thank the national and county government teams for the swift action and seriousness of the invasion of locusts and I believe by Tuesday or Wednesday action will be taken,'' he said. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi urged residents to stop eating the desert locusts that invaded the area on December 2 as they could be having traces of chemicals from previous sprays. Governor Kingi said residents should also not chase away the locusts as the move could spread the risks of invasion. Desert locusts have so far invaded five subcounties in Kilifi - Magarini, Malindi, Ganze, Kaloleni and Kilifi South. In a press statement the governor asked residents not to panic as the situation was under control and gave out numbers in all seven sub counties for the public to call for assistance. The Numbers are 0722440831, 0721598517 for county headquarters, 0720829157 Ganze, 0727507900 Magarini, 0722470561 Kaloleni, 0723206092 Kilifi South, 0722493952 Kilifi North, 0726393081 Rabai and 0729870652 Malindi. ''Experts have determined that the swarms of locusts are not aggressively feeding at the moment as they are more intent on breeding. This explains the minimal damage done to the crops and vegetation so far,'' he said. Kingi said they are consulting with FAO and Ministry of Agriculture teams with a view to conducting aerial surveillance. He said given the nature of migration of the desert locusts, they are consulting with the neighbouring counties on surveillance. The governor said the team is making arrangements to commence ground and aerial spraying within 10 days. ''We will keep you and the entire county updated on the progress of containment measures and invasion threat levels when the need arises. Magarini deputy county commissioner Peter Thiong'o said the problem started from Marereni before the swarms moved to Kasikini, Bungale and then spread to other subcounties.