Mozzart Bet Kenya has been operating in Kenya for three years and is honored to stand in solidarity with Kenyans and provide support to communities. Recently, the company made donations in Imbo, Kothidha, Homabay County presenting a life-changing Christmas gift to the community. "We are very proud to be able to launch our first Water Project in this great county of Homabay." said Mr. Frank Ochieng from Mozzart Bet. "The people of Imbo are the first beneficiaries of our new socially responsible initiative that we call 'Clean drinking water for our communities'" he continued. "Through this Water Project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to the communities. We hope that this will make a difference here", remarked Mr. Frank Ochieng This year has been a huge challenge to most countries in the world due to the Covid-19 Pandemic. To offer support to healthcare facilities in Kenya during these uncertain times, Mozzart has invested sh.10M worth of medical equipment to help fight Corona Virus in 10 hospitals across the country. Healthcare facilities in Nakuru, Siaya, Kisii, Embu, Nyandarua, Baringo, Bomet, Kisumu, Kakamega and Kitui have all received donations. These included PPEs for frontline professionals and other assorted medical equipment. However, it hasn't stopped there. The company is now even more committed to giving back to the society. Through the initiative named 'Supporting our health care facilities', they delivered Intensive Care Unit facilities to needy hospitals especially in hard-to-reach areas. Through the initiative, Mozzart has so far donated ICU beds, Patient Monitors, Oxygen Concentrators and other critical intensive medical care equipment to the Ngara Health Centre Nairobi, and to Chemolingot Sub County Hospital in Tiaty, East Pokot. Sadly, the companies from this industry that have been continuously supporting communities now seem to be undesirable for some individuals in Kenya.  The companies that annually pay more than US$60 million to the state and local government budgets and provide employment to 55,000 people are again target of local powerful people who are trying to take primacy in an illegal and primitive way by connecting successful and recognized foreign companies with illegal activities.