All the 416 Members of Parliament will each reimburse the state Sh2.8 million they awarded themselves as house allowances and illegally pocketed. The High Court on Thursday agreed with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and ruled that the Sh250,000 monthly allowance they awarded themselves in 2018 was illegal. A three-judge bench directed the clerks of the Senate and National Assembly to recover in full Sh1.2 billion from the salaries and allowances of the MPs within a year. The SRC and activist Okiya Omtatah had challenged the house allowance that the MPs approved to be paid by the Parliamentary Service Commission. In June last year, the SRC obtained orders stopping the PSC from paying any further house allowance to the MPs, pending the determination of the case. On Thursday, Justices Weldon Korir, Pauline Nyamweya and John Mativo unanimously ruled the SRC acted within the law to stop the PSC from paying the allowances. “Our conclusion was that the SRC acted within its mandate by directing the clerks of Parliament not to pay the impugned allowance, and did not in any manner interfere with the constitutional independence and functions of Parliament and the PSC,” the judges held. The court also ruled the Constitution and statutes do not give the PSC any function to set the salaries and allowances of MPs and parliamentary staff. “We note that the only financial functions allocated to the PSC by the Constitution are budgetary,” they said. The judges said that PSC had not demonstrated that MPs were discriminated against because the SRC proved they are paid a house allowance in their consolidated pay. The court further ruled the SRC had provided an objective and a rational justification for why some state officers are entitled to and are given a housing benefit. However, the PSC did not demonstrate that they undertake functions similar to this category of state officers. “Other than the decision in the CoG v SRC case relied upon which we have distinguished, the PSC did not provide sufficient evidence to support its allegations on differentiated pay between the MPs and Judges, Magistrates and other civil servants "Nor did it demonstrate that the criteria applied by the SRC in setting the different pay structures were unfair,” the judges ruled. The bench ruled that the SRC had provided an objective and a rational justification of why a certain category of state officers are entitled to and are given a housing benefit. The judges also declined an application by the MPs to remove them from the case because they had been wrongly sued. “It was, however, our view that in the circumstances of this case, each MP was correctly enjoined as a party in the consolidated petitions, for the reason that the MPs are the beneficiaries of the impugned payments set and facilitated by the PSC, and will be directly affected by the decision of this court on the said payment, particularly if it has adverse effects,” the court ruled. (edited by o. owino)