The Kikuyu Council of Elders wants Deputy President William Ruto to resign for opposing the BBI being championed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The elders said Ruto ought to resign since he had become an inconvenience to his boss, President Kenyatta. MPs allied to Ruto however defended him, saying he is not fighting the President but was only interested in finding consensus in the Building Bridges Initiative proposals. Soy MP Caleb Kositany and his Kimilili counterpart Didmus Barasa said the elders should fight for consensus instead of asking Ruto to resign. Kikuyu Council of Elders secretary general Peter Munga censured Ruto for issuing demands for him to support the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020. “He should just make up his mind and resign and then lead the No campaign. Just resign. Do not bring confusion in the process,” Munga said. He said the DP needed to quit for him to effectively lead the No camp from outside government. “He is being insincere to his boss and even his followers. He should just be straightforward,” Munga said. A statement by the Deputy President on Wednesday appeared to tear into the BBI process. Ruto pointed out that BBI was intended to promote unity and settle the problems of exclusion, divisive and often violent electoral competition, and ensure equity in resource distribution in Kenya. “Along the way, the BBI became the focal point for constitutional changes,” he stated. He added that the journey was marked by exclusion in ownership of the process and therefore suspicion and hostilities emerged. Barasa said a constitutional amendment through the popular initiative is a process that should be owned by the people. “It is therefore wrong for President Uhuru Kenyatta to think that whatever decision his government makes, everybody must follow. We are all leaders representing different parts of the country and we lead people. We do not lead ourselves,” Barasa said. He added, “What the DP is doing is to assist the President to make the document better and the interest of the Kenyan people is what is guiding him.” Kositany said any serious elder would be calling for consensus and not backing anything that would divide the country. “Businessmen should stop calling themselves elders and let serious elders discuss the affairs of the country,” Kositany said. The elders chairman Wachira Kiago said Ruto, as the principal assistant to the President, should be supporting the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020. “You cannot oppose your boss and still remain in that office. You will be better off opposing when you have resigned,” Kiago said. The chairman sa thide DP has the right to his opinion "but he should exercise it in the right manner." “It does not look proper if the Deputy President appears to be fighting with the President,” Kiago said. Ruto on Wednesday proposed that the planned referendum be held alongside the 2022 General Election. He also wants Kenyans to be presented with multiple-choice questions in the referendum as opposed to a single-question plebiscite.