A human rights lobby has written to the electoral agency to declare how much the Building Bridges Initiative will cost to avoid speculation. The agency had said the process could cost Sh14 billion but BBI proponent and ODM chief Raila Odinga said it should be not more than Sh2 billion. Muslims for Human Rights said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has an obligation to Kenyans because the initiative will affect their lives. “Changing the Constitution is not the prerogative of the President or the former Prime Minister. It is that of the people of Kenya. They have a right to know,” Muhuri chair Khelef Khalifa said. In a letter dated December 15, Muhuri wrote to IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati seeking information on the cost of the BBI process, including signature verification and the referendum itself. The BBI proponents have presented 4.4 million signatures collected from Kenyans to kick-start the referendum process. The law requires that at least one million signatures be collected to show popular support for any referendum process. Khalifa also sought to know and be issued with, if any, copies of governing rules or guidelines to verify signatures by the IEBC. This is to ensure that Muhuri monitors every step of the process despite maintaining that the whole process is illegal. “The whole issue is against the law. They did not follow the due process to initiate this BBI thing. We are still trying to establish how it was started and why, which law they used, who authorised the money used and where the money used came from,” Khalifa said. Muhuri also has reservations on how the BBI secretariat was selected. Muhuri also seeks to know whether the IEBC has sought any authorisation from the National Treasury or any other government agency to incur costs in regard to the referendum process and whether the expenditure has been approved. Khalifa asked Chebukati to reveal to Kenyans whether they have and maintain a database of specimen signatures of all registered voters for the verification process. “When is the last date that IEBC conducted the national continuous registration of voters required under Article 88(4)(a)? “When is the last date that IEBC conducted the regular revision of the voters’ roll at the national level required by Article 88(4)(b)?” Khalifa asked in the letter. The IEBC has a week to respond to Muhuri’s letter after which, Khalifa said, Muhuri’s lawyers will issue a reminder should the IEBC fail to respond. “If they will not have responded by December 28, then we will move to court in January,” Khalifa said. 