The Kisumu county government has opened the Sh35 million Kombewa modern market that will accommodate over 200 traders. Nyong'o said the Kombewa retail market in Central Seme ward is one of the key projects of his manifesto that prioritises the construction of modern infrastructure to help improve business. Most traders have been subjected to the harsh weather conditions of scorching sun and rain, insecurity, fewer trading hours and inability to access credit facilities to expand their businesses. The tender for the market was awarded in the financial year 2015-2016. "This facility has 133 stalls fitted with lockable shelters, a modern toilet with water connection, wall fence, three access gates and electricity services," the governor said. He noted that through this initiative together with the essential services, security is guaranteed to traders with extended trading hours. The market was opened at a time the county government is upgrading five urban centres into towns and Kombewa is one of them. The county has so far unveiled Maseno and Ahero and posted administrators in the two new towns. Kombewa, Katito and Muhoroni are next. "With this modern market and town status, Kombewa will never be the same again," Nyong'o said. His manifesto singles out poor business environment and a lack of access to financing as a hindrance to the growth of micro and small enterprises. The governor noted that small-scale enterprises will be able to access financial services from the financial institutions, the national government and county government of Kisumu. "My government shall continue to provide commercial infrastructure to give an edge to our micro and small enterprises as we create more job opportunities and improve our livelihoods," he said. However, Nyong'o said, they recognise that infrastructure alone is insufficient to build successful businesses, hence the need for an integrated approach that is preceded by capacity building, training and linkages to the ecosystem to offer a sustainable solution that will foster the resilience of SMEs. In a bid to improve the trading environment for the small business people, he stated that the county government had constructed nine market sheds at Koru in Muhoroni subcounty, Oboch in Nyalenda “B” in Kisumu Central subcounty, Sigoti, Kodong’a, Apoko, Omwonyo Lee and Kobongo Ndori in Nyakach subcounty, Jua Kali – Nyuki, Railways ward in Kisumu Central and Angola markets in Kisumu East subcounty. "Not only were the sheds constructed but the general physical outlook of the markets was also improved by murraming and fencing. These physical infrastructural developments have greatly improved the business environment at these markets," the governor stated. Besides Kombewa modern retail market, Nyong'o said they have Awasi market that was built through collaboration with Kenya National Highways Authority with a capacity of 88 stalls. "We hope to complete Pap Onditi modern retail market in Central Nyakach ward in Nyakach subcounty and Korowe modern retail market in this financial year 2020-2021". Edited by Henry Makori