Feisal Abdallah Bader is the name the Msambweni MP-elect was given by his parents. He is a descendant of the well-known Dori family in Gazi village. Despite the fame his family is linked with, they come from a very humble background. Bader went to Gazi Primary School, then to Msambweni Secondary, and later joined college to pursue a business course, according to Ramadhan Dori, his uncle. Bader is married and has a daughter. He has a passion for sports, mostly football. The family started to get recognition because of Bader's grandfather's popularity as a public bus driver. He worked for KBS and Coast bus companies and used to traverse the Milalani-Kikoneni-Majoreni routes back in the 1970s. Political journey Though Bader's political ambition was sparked by the death of his uncle Suleiman Dori in March 2020, he was introduced to the office of the MP much earlier. Between 2013- 19, Bader served as a personal assistant in the constituency office managed by his uncle Dori. At the time, Bader's uncle said he decided to work with him because of his management skills, decision-making ability and a good heart to serve the people. At the start of his campaign, Bader went looking for votes as an ODM candidate. He later decided to go independent after party members favoured Boga and gave him the party ticket. This was despite ODM leader Raila Odinga’s promises of conducting free and fair nominations. The party had said it would use an opinion poll to pick a candidate for the nominations to enhance fairness by listening to the voices of the Msambweni people. It had a second option of going for nominations. However, Raila urged the aspirants to engage in dialogue and agree among themselves on whom to back for the seat. Bader knew he was not going to make it as the party preferred candidate because he wasn’t popular. He knew the opinion polls would have worked for Boga and decided to jump ship. He was rescued by Deputy President William Ruto. As the campaign became tougher, Bader started getting the support of many residents. During Tuesday's by-election, Bader won the parliamentary seat with 15,251 votes against ODM's Omar Boga’s 10,444. Boga conceded defeat on Wednesday, wishing Bader well. Bader is an introvert and like a low profile, but he is very approachable. Most people came to know him after he announced his wish to succeed his uncle as Msambweni MP. “No one forced me to vie for this seat, but I think I can fill in the space left and deliver effectively,” he once told the Star during an interview. Bader used his politeness to get support from voters. The MP-elect is faced with a huge responsibility of fulfiling the promises he made to the Msambweni people. Ramadhan said Bader has helped many of his colleagues find jobs. “Truth be told, he assisted the family find a market for the home business, networked with other people and linked them with his jobless friends for employment purposes,” his uncle said.   