Meetings are still going on to decide the date and place of burial of former Cabinet minister and presidential aspirant Joe Nyagah who died on Friday. His brother Norman told the Star on the phone that the family, relatives and friends are meeting to arrange a befitting burial. Some of the meetings are being held at Norman's home in Gachoka in Mbeere South subcounty. Norman said they are working in consultation with the church to come up with a day for the funeral. At the same time, Embu leaders led by Governor Martin Wambora and Kanu branch chairman Ben Muriria have called upon politicians to put aside their wrangles in honour of Nyagah. The leaders condoled with Nyagah’s family and called for unity to achieve socio-economic development for the benefit of residents as Nyagah always wanted. Former Embu gubernatorial aspirant Kithinji Kiragu, Manyatta legislator John Muchiri and others said Nyagah, the former Gachoka MP, hoped to see all the Embu leaders united and working together for the residents. Wambora said Nyaga was an astute leader who fearlessly fought for the interest of the people of Embu and the country at all times. He said Embu people and the country will always remember him for his unwavering commitment to public service as MP for Gachoka and a Cabinet minister. Nyagah always condemned tribalism and disunity among Embu residents, Wambora said. Muriria said Nyaga will be remembered for his great efforts to bring local leaders together during heightened political squabbles immediately after the start of devolution and the impeachment of Wambora. The Kanu boss said as one of the local leaders, he will strive to pursue Nyagah’s dream by bringing the leaders together. He said the former Cooperatives minister urged local cooperative societies to remain united when they were fighting to break into small units, telling them they would never benefit economically when they were in that status. He persuaded them to merge to become bigger. Muriria said Nyaga fought for better prices of farm produce from Embu county including coffee, tea and macadamia. Kiragu said he knew Nyagah since he was a young man and a senior bank manger in Chicago, noting that he would listen to one very attentively and was sociable and very accommodative of other people’s ideas. He asked Embu leaders to sustain his spirit of openness, inclusivity, solidarity and be proud of their heritage. Those were some of the values Nyagah stood for, he said. Others who condoled with the family and called for unity included Manyatta MP Muchiri, former Senate aspirant Joshua Kanake  and Hindu religious leader who is the director of Kirimara Optical Limited Vimal Chadha. Edited by Henry Makori