Kenya women’s national volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, walk the African continent like a colossus. With a record nine continental titles to their name – the latest one being its African Volleyball Championship win in 2015 in Nairobi – the team deserves its position on the African throne as the queens of volleyball on the continent. In January this year, Malkia Strikers confirmed that all other teams are pretenders to the throne when they emerged supreme at the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in Yaounde, Cameroon. On the road to securing its third ever appearance at the Olympics, the queens whitewashed hosts Cameroon, Botswana, Nigeria and their bitter rivals Egypt. It was an achievement that meant a lot for the team members as aptly captured by middle blocker Triza Atuka. "Qualifying was a great achievement for many of us who have never gone to the Olympics. We have missed out for so many years and to make a comeback is a great opportunity to showcase our skills on a global stage," Atuka says. With continental dominance now established, focus shifts to the rescheduled Tokyo Summer Olympics where the girls will be hoping to buck the trend of dismal showing in their previous two appearances at this global showpiece. It is a Herculean task considering that they are pitted against the crème-de-la-crème of global volleyball. Pool 'A' matches against Olympics holders Serbia, Dominican Republic, hosts Japan, Korea and Brazil will stretch the ladies’ mental and physical wits, which have thus far spurred them to the pinnacle of African volleyball. It is an issue that preoccupies the mind of head coach Paul Bitok each day as he puts his charges through the paces in preparation for the big stage. The Covid-19 pandemic has put paid to the elaborate plans he had drawn up to sharpen and equip the ladies for the battles ahead. Part of these plans was an overseas training camp in Turkey and Slovenia. “The whole of June we had planned to train in Europe. We had also planned another three-week camp in one of the towns in Japan to prepare the team for these assignments. However, we have not yet received a sponsor for these camps,” Bitok says. Training — residentially and non-residentially — has also been strained by the health regulations necessitated by the pandemic, which have consequently hampered efficient training. “We have been mostly training away from each other for a whole year. Furthermore, the suspension of the national leagues has really affected the fitness of many players, including from the national team,” he says. Bitok bemoans the fact that most of Kenya's opponents are in the thick and thin of their training, which has been supplemented by their respective national leagues that are up and running. Optimism amidst gloom Despite the challenges that Malkia Strikers find themselves in, coach Bitok will not revise his initial target of winning at least two games in Tokyo. He believes that the queens are up to the task at hand on the strength of their talents alone. "If we receive enough support from the required stakeholders to prepare well, then I believe that our target is still achievable. We were in a rich vein of form during and after the qualifiers and it is this form that we had wanted to build upon before the pandemic struck," he says. Considering his illustrious playing and coaching career, Bitok's words should undoubtedly calm the worried hearts of volleyball players and fans alike. He was re-appointed the national head coach in 2019 after a decade-long stint in Rwanda where his vision of establishing centres of excellence countrywide fished a bountiful of young talents. Before that, he had established himself as one of top volleyball tutors in the country and continentally courtesy of his work at Kenya Commercial Bank men's volleyball team and the national women's team. As a player, he had successful stints with KCB and Posta, which earned him moves to Tunisia and Croatia. This puts him in a vantage position to circumvent the present hardships and leverage on the positives to make a huge splash in their tough 'pool' in Tokyo. One of the positives that Bitok can count upon even as he plans ahead is the potential return of Atuka who has been rehabilitating from a knee injury that has kept her sidelined for over a year. Atuka has been working with a strength and conditioning coach from the National Olympic Committee-Kenya and looks forward to coming back stronger and better than before. "The trainer has done a great job thus far and I look forward to getting back stronger and better. I want to work hard on my form before the Olympics so that I can help the team achieve its objective," she says. The Kenya Pipeline player admits that it has not been easy dealing with the injury especially with the uncertainty of knowing when next she would be able to compete. "Dealing with an injury is not easy physically and mentally. I am grateful to all those who have supported me, including my family and my team. I accepted the injury and decided to focus on recovering rather than mourning about it," she says. The way forward Bitok is planning a two-week training session in January next year for the team during which he will assess everyone's fitness levels. "As per now, it is difficult to pinpoint any area of weakness that we want to work on. We have been out of action for a long time and some of the players may have gained weight hence affecting their fitness levels," he says. Afterwards, the team will break camp so that the relevant players will be able to participate in the African Volleyball Club Championship in March/April. Thereafter, the final phase of the preparations will commence, possibly with an overseas training camp for the Strikers. "We had an invitation to a training camp in Brazil but the Brazilians are yet to confirm the same," Bitok says. He adds that all these plans can only come to fruition only if all stakeholders come on board to support the ladies in every way. Atuka shares the same thoughts noting that the team has the capability to even surpass its own targets. "I cannot point out any particular team and say that they are beatable compared to the other ones in our group. If we prepare well, we will be able to succeed and possibly surprise even the tougher ones," she says. Her perception of proper support include provision of modern training equipment, early preparations and elaborate training plan, post-Covid. Regardless of what happens between now and July next year, Malkia Strikers are assured of  millions of unwavering support from Kenyans who will be glued to their screens as their countrywomen do duty in Tokyo. It is the hope of every Kenyan that the team's performances will mirror Atuka's recovery from her long injury layoff by providing exemplary performances on the court against seasoned teams. Then, the current hardships that the team are facing in preparing for the big stage will be long forgotten. 