National and county governments have been accused of ignoring National Council for Population and Development data when launching and implementing projects. This has resulted in programmes that are not beneficial to the people they are intended for, NCPD director general Mohamed Sheikh said on Monday. Sheikh said that soon after devolution, many counties embarked on massive projects, disregarding data and information from the council. “During our tour of counties we realised that many good projects are idle because the originators did not take into account the needs and aspirations of the people,” he said. He gave the example of one county that decided to build several maternity facilities only to realise that women in need of facilities were not enough. Other counties built and equipped technical colleges but had no students to use the facilities, he said. Sheikh spoke during a one-day forum at the Government Guest House in Garissa town. The forum was seeking views from stakeholders for use in the review of Population Policy for National Development, Sessional Paper No. 3 of 2012. He emphasised the importance of both the national and county governments consulting widely to avoid wastage of resources. He said priority should be given to projects and programmes that benefit the mwananchi. “This consultative meeting is timely as it provides an opportunity for stakeholders to discuss pertinent population issues that have increasingly been recognised as fundamental in development planning at both national and county level,” Mohamed said. The director general said that the government has since Independence recognised that population management is key in the realisation of sustained socio-economic development with emphasis on meeting the expanding needs of population. He said several policies have been developed aimed at improving the well-being of a large and growing population. He noted that the quality of life has improved as evidenced by declining death rates and birth rates. “Population issues are multi-sectoral in nature and cut across all the sectors of our economy. This calls for the participation by all stakeholders at national, county and community levels in the design and implementation of the population policy to ensure that policy is responsive to their aspirations and needs.”