Nairobi governor Mike Sonko on Thursday treated Kenyans to theatrics as he used his phone's spotlight to read documents presented before him. As we all know the spotlights are used when it is dark, for Sonko, he was not seeing the papers clearly. Sonko was seen using his spotlight to read the sentences in the white pieces of paper in front of him. This prompted the speaker of the assembly Ken Lusaka to ask him if it was dark. Lusaka: Is it getting darker governor? But this was not all, Sonko and the Lead Counsel Nairobi County Assembly Ndegwa Njiru had a back and forth during the cross-examination process. Here are some excerpts; Ndegwa: Governor, you will answer. If you want to be acquitted by this House you will answer these questions. You'll not choose to say and what to do, you're a witness. Let's go to Cecil Mila. What documents were we asking for? Sonko: Those are your colleagues, you could have written to them directly instead of asking me those questions. I'm not supposed to be answering these questions, just deal with my impeachment. Ndegwa: What are we asking Governor? Sonko: on pre-qualification? Ndegwa: What other document were we seeking? Sonko: Letter of instruction for the case. Ndegwa: yes, what else? Sonko: Fee note. Ndegwa: We're limiting ourselves to the documents that I have, these are not documents before the Senate. When was he paid? Sonko: He was paid on 16th July 2019 and he's talking about funds being diverted for 2020. Ndegwa: When was Kwanga Mboya paid that amount? Sonko: I've got the voucher here with me. Even I've got the bank receipts let me just check. Just give me a minute for that, I'll answer right now. Sonko: The money was paid from the county account on 16th July to Kwanga Mboya's account. The same day after one hour Kwanga remitted the money to beneficiary, Okoth & Kiplagat and Company Advocates who were the vendor's lawyers Ndegwa: And Cecil Mila. How much was he paid? Sonko: Let me finish counsel. Ndegwa: Governor it's me leading Lusaka: Counsel, let him answer. Sonko: Enda polepole wacha speedy. Mimi sipelekwangi mbio my friend I'm a fan of cases. Ndegwa: Would you explain to this Senate... Sonko: I've not finished talking about the legal payment. Let me finish reading the invoice Ndegwa: You've answered the question and I'm satisfied with that answer. Sonko: I'm not satisfied with my answer. Sonko: The invoice being payment of legal fees in respect of petition 218 of 2018, Musa Yego vs Nairobi County Government. The invoice for his fees was Sh 5 million. Ndegwa: Sh 5 million, thank you.