The global use of chemicals has increased fivefold since 1950 leading to a rapid decline in the insect population, a report says. 'The Insect Atlas 2020' released by Heinrich Böll Foundation and Friends of the Earth has revealed that over four million tons of chemicals are sprayed on crops every year. The report indicates that intensive farming, mono-cropping and over-reliance on pesticides poses one of the biggest challenges to the world of insects. The global insect population of 1.4 billion is rapidly declining due to increased use of pesticides. Some of the insects that face the threat of extinction include butterflies, bees, beetles, dragonflies, wasps and moths. The report further showed that as a result, both their diversity and their absolute numbers are declining especially in agricultural areas, and this is threatening food security. In Kenya, experts have warned of the decline in the population of bees due to heavy use of pesticides to reduce the fall armyworm, which was first reported in March 2017 in Trans Nzoia, Busia and Bungoma Counties. By the end of the year, the pest had been confirmed in 42 counties including the major seed maize production areas of Rift valley, Coastal and Western regions. Eliud Kireger, the Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation director-general, recently confirmed that the population of bees especially in Baringo county is decreasing due to the use of pesticides to control the fall armyworm. Fathyia Khamis, an integrated pest management expert at the International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology, said persistent use of synthetic toxic pesticides threatens food safety, human health, the environment and biodiversity. Speaking during a media virtual roundtable organized by the Route to Food Initiative, she said methods such as the IPM that is equally effective in curbing the negative impacts of insects need to be embraced to protect the environment. “This is an ecosystem-based strategy that focuses on long-term prevention of pests through a combination of strategies such as deploying biological control tools, habitat management, modification of farmers cultural practices, use of resistant cultivars, and use of bio-pesticides,” she said. Faith Toroitich, an entomology lecturer at the Egerton University, said it is not possible to talk about food security without highlighting the role insects play in agriculture and food production. “It is true that some insects impact agriculture by damaging crops and harvest. However, provision of food, silk, medicines, maintaining soil fertility, seed dispersal, and decomposing dead plant and animal materials, are just some of the reasons why we need insects”‚ she said. Toroitich said there is need to employ policies that shun the use of toxic pesticides to avoid their extinction.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris