Acting Nairobi Governor Benson Mutura on Monday gave the green light for the implementation of the county budget, ending a stalemate that had disrupted services. Mutura was sworn in as the acting governor for 60 days following the impeachment of Mike Sonko last week. The county has been technically grounded since October following former Governor Sonko's refusal to sign the warrant that blocked any form of cash flow in the county. In the financial year 2020-21, Nairobi Metropolitan Services was allocated Sh27.1 billion, City Hall Sh8.4 billion and the assembly Sh2 billion. The signing of the warrant paves the way for the pending bills to be paid. “It is sad that as we close the year, there are Kenyans who did legitimate business with the county government but have never been paid for the services or goods they supplied,” Mutura said. “Their only mistake was to honour their contracts. This is a matter that must come to an end. We must always procure for what we can pay to avoid many pending bills leading to the suffering of innocent men and women." Nairobi becomes the first county to invoke the provisions of Article 182(5) of the Constitution following the vacancy that arose in the office of the governor. “We gather here today to breathe life into the provisions of Article 182(5) of the Constitution. It, therefore, feels unique but necessary,” Mutura said after taking the oath. Justice Jairus Ngaah presided over the swearing-in event at KICC grounds. Mutura noted it was a humbling moment for him considering that he had been elected as the third county assembly speaker only three months ago. “A couple of months ago, no one could have accurately predicted the events of today. I therefore with humility thank the almighty God for making this possible,” he said. Mutura said despite his assumption of office being temporary, he would work with all to ensure operation of the county government. He expressed his gratitude to the leadership of the county assembly led by the Leader of the Majority Abdi Hassan and the Leader of the Minority Michael Ogada for rising to the occasion to restore sanity in the county. "My time in this office is borrowed but the fact that I'm acting governor means that things in Nairobi are not working and we must fix them," he said. "I want to assure you that in the next 60 days I will be at the helm of this country and will provide the required leadership to ensure a smooth transition."  Noting that impeachment processes are acrimonious and lead to fallouts especially among MCAs , the acting governor pledged to undertake all endeavours to unite people. Mutura  gave his assurance that no one would be victimised regarding the position they took in the ouster process. "As I assume office, I promise to bring together all the leaders whether you supported the impeachment or not. The  choice was your democratic right guaranteed by the Constitution and therefore no one should be victimised for making a choice," he said. "No matter where we each stand, together we can look upon the same sun, the same moon and the same sky, so we are forever one family." He called on the county executive members, chief officers and directors to work together. As acting governor, Mutura cannot demote or appoint  new  staff but will chair cabinet meetings among other ceremonial functions. The CECs will be under his leadership until the next substantive governor comes in. Mutura thanked former Governor Sonko for the work he had done within his tenure of 36 months. "My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family, and I ask you to remember them as well. We shall forever remain grateful for his contribution and I wish him well in his future endeavours,” Mutura added. Edited by Henry Makori