Malindi Resident Judge Reuben Nyakundi and his family celebrated this year's Christmas with 51 orphans at the Mama Anakuja children's home. The Judge donated foodstuff to the vulnerable children and also spent time playing with them a move that excited them on a special day. He personally distributed sweets, milk, soda, meat, cooking oil, maize, and wheat flour among other items. The excited children sang a Christmas song for the guests and danced before the Judge interacted with them by playing games. Speaking to journalists he said he was glad to be able to support the needy children after a year which has had many challenges due to the Covid 19 pandemic. He said the move was aimed at supporting the needy which is the spirit of God in ensuring that people give to the less fortunate during such a special day. Quoting the bible he said those who understand the word of God are aware that children's hearts are pure. ''These children have a special place in the kingdom of God, that's why today when I got a chance though it is a holiday my family visited me I had planned for this to ensure we support these vulnerable children,'' he said. Nyakundi said out of the children there are President, Judges, teachers, senators, Members of Parliament, Members of County Assembly among other leaders who will only achieve their dreams through the efforts of those bringing them up. He said Christmas is a time of sharing and love and promised to continue supporting the children even after the festive. Doreen Nyaguala the home manager at Mama Anakuja appreciated the support from Judge Nyakundi and the family for spending time with the children saying it was the best Christmas gift to the children who need a family and support from well-wishers. ''We are so happy to receive the guests today its really a blessing for us,'' she said. Mama Anaakuja children's home said started in 2004 and they have 51 children but there are others who are still at home due to covid 19. On the other hand, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi spent time with patients at the Kilifi county hospital also donating foodstuff to patients and gave them a word of hope to those who were admitted at the facility during this festive season. Kingi hailed the selflessness of Kilifi County Medical personnel who continued to serve patients during the just concluded doctor’s strike. The governor visited patients at the maternity ward and high dependency unit and promised the medical personnel that his administration will deal with their demands.