Thika Queens centre-back Dorcas Shikobe says she is now fully settled in her new fold and hopes to clinch her first top flight title with the side. The 31-year-old Harambee Starlets skipper, who guided the nation to their  maiden Cecafa trophy in Tanzania last year, has featured in all the two matches Thika have played this season. Despite losing their dependable forward Mwanahalima Jereko Adams, who joined Israeli top flight side Maccabi Holon late November, Thika  kicked off their campaign impressively with a 2-1 win over hard-fighting KWPL newbies Ulinzi Starlets at Utalii grounds a week ago before fighting back from a goal down to see off bitter rivals Gaspo Youth with the same margin in a Thika derby on Saturday. Thika last laid claim to the KWPL title in 2016 and since then, Vihiga Queens have been on the rampage, clinching the trophy at will. Shikobe has now vowed to end Vihiga's dominance. There were reports in September that Shikobe had landed a prestigious deal with Tanzanian premiership side Yanga Princess. However,  the no-nonsense sweeper says although the side had expressed interest and even initiated talks, the deal finally fell through. Shikobe has put the disappointment behind her and says she is now training her eyes on propelling Thika to 2020-2021 title. "I'm happy at Thika Queens because they are more organised and focused compared with Oserian Ladies. I believe we stand a high chance of lifting the title this season," said Shikobe. Shikobe is nonetheless worried that the move by the federation to pool the top tier teams into two zones could compromise the quality of football in the country by reducing competition. Football Kenya Federation embraced the new arrangement to minimise travel expenses for teams that were initially forced to traverse several miles to honour league matches in different parts of the country. "Although I understand the events that informed the decision, I'm not so much for the idea because in my honest opinion, it will only serve to reduce competition," says Shikobe. The KWPL kicked off on November 28 with a total of  16 teams. Zone 'A'  will mainly have teams from the Nairobi region including  Makolanders, Kayole Starlets, Gaspo Youth, Mathare United, Zetech Sparks, Kibera Girls Soccer Academy, Thika Queens and  Ulinzi Starlets. Zone 'B' has SEP Oyugis, Nakuru West Queens,defending champions Vihiga Queens, Wadadia, Oserian Ladies, Kisumu All Starlets, Trans Nzoia Falcons and Eldoret Falcons.          