A project to promote recreational public spaces alongside development in Kibera slum, Nairobi, has been shortlisted for a Sh25 million award. The Kibera Public Space Project (KPSP) was among the 260 projects from around the world that applied for the 2020-21 WRI Ross Centre Prize for Cities. Only five finalists were announced last week, with the winner to be picked in April 2021. The other finalists are initiatives from Rosario, Argentina; Ahmedabad, India; Monterrey, Mexico; and London, UK. The winner will receive the grand prize of $250,000 (about Sh25 million), while the rest will each receive $25,000 (Sh2.5 million). KPSP is  a project of  Kounkuey Design Initiative. It co-creates innovative spaces with residents in a way that not only reduce flood risk but also provide essential services like water and sanitation, and new ways that help businesses to thrive. "It provides a model for sustainable development that addresses a range of objectives in a cohesive way: not only recreational public spaces but also economic development and environmental remediation,” said Regina Opondo, community director at Kounkuey Design Initiative. Kounkuey was founded in 2006 by six students at Harvard Graduate School of Design, one of them Arthur Adeya from Kibera. The WRI Ross Center Prize for Cities is the premier global award celebrating and spotlighting transformative urban change. Through the prize, WRI seeks to inspire urban change makers across the globe by elevating trailblazing initiatives and telling impactful stories of sustainable urban transformation. “In an extraordinarily challenging year, these projects show the resilience and creativity of cities — that partnership between community groups, government and business can lead to significant change with multiple co-benefits,” said Ani Dasgupta, global director at WRI Ross Center for Sustainable Cities. “As cities seek new solutions to jumpstart their economies and become more resilient, these projects show how we can build cities that work better for people and the planet.” The competition aims to showcase how cities can address both climate change and inequality together. From curbing transport emissions to urban agriculture and flood protection in slums, each of the finalists takes a different approach. But they all show that cities can be more sustainable and more productive for more residents through empowering, participatory and climate-smart changes, the organisers said.  Edited by F'Orieny