The government has started the construction of Manguo Primary School in Kiuu ward, Ruiru subcounty, to decongest several overstretched learning institutions in the area. The beneficiaries include Mwiki, Kimbo and Kwa Ng’ethe primary schools. The new school will accommodate 1,500 learners. Ruiru MP Simon King’ara said on Tuesday that of the three, Mwiki would be the biggest beneficiary. He said Mwiki Primary School sits on an 84m by 86m piece of land, which is less than an acre and has 3,600 pupils and 72 teachers. “Despite the huge number of learners, the school has only 41 classrooms and 1,077 desks.  The school is overstretched to the point where a single classroom accommodates 130 learners against the Ministry of Education guidelines of 40 pupils per classroom. This is the problem we want to bring to an end,” King'ara said. He was speaking to journalists during a groundbreaking ceremony on the three acres the government has acquired in Manguo, Githurai 45, to build the new school. The lawmaker said the government has injected Sh7 million into the project. The project is expected to be completed in three months. “This project is a reprieve to parents and children in this highly populated area who have been trekking for many kilometres to other schools nearby. We are running against time to complete it as scheduled given that schools are reopening on January 4, 2021,” he said. The MP said the contractor had been instructed to complete the project swiftly. “We want to give our children and teachers an environment conducive to learning and working from as well as ensure we improve education status in Ruiru constituency,” he said. The MP said another primary school being constructed in Mutuya, Mwihoko ward, would be completed in February. It will also help to decongest overstretched institutions. He reiterated his calls to have all public primary schools be issued with title deeds to ward off land grabbers. King’ara said lack of ownership documents has created a leeway for grabbers to encroach and perpetrate their crimes. “Land parcels meant for the expansion of learning institutions are in the hands of corrupt individuals. My bill will ensure that all title deeds processed for the public lands are revoked and the parcels given back to the institutions,” the MP said. “We must protect all public spaces because we wouldn’t have gotten the new school if we had given land grabbers a chance to take this land.” Parents who spoke to journalists expressed their delight, terming the new project a godsend. Mercy Wanjiku said once complete, the new school will end the long walk their children have been taking to school. “Our children have been suffering a lot, especially during rainy seasons, since this place is prone to floods and is rendered inaccessible. With a school in the vicinity, the suffering will be a thing of the past. We plead for its swift completion,” Wanjiku said. Edited by A.N