Athletes and coaches have welcomed the move by World Athletics to re-introduce 5,000m and 3,000m steeplechase at the Wanda Diamond League series. On Wednesday, Wanda Diamond League released a full 2021 schedule after some, including disciplines that had been omitted from the 2020 calendar. According to the list, the series will have 32 disciplines in 13 meetings that start in Rabat, Morocco and not the usual Doha meeting —then end with the traditional grand finale in Zurich. Former Commonwealth Games 5,000m champion Mercy Cherono said change of mind is God-sent for athletes who compete in the events, which are favourites for many Kenyan runners. “This is a good move by race organisers who thought well about athletes who compete in these events. This will be a great opportunity for athletes preparing for the Olympic Games,” said Cherono. Commonwealth Games 3,000m steeplechase silver medalist Abraham Kibiwot was one disappointed man after his discipline was omitted from the 2020 calendar. As a way of mitigating the situation, he had opted for road running like 5km, 10km as well as half marathons. “I was so disappointed and changed my mind to compete in road races, which is not good at all. But reversing their decision makes us happy and we will reverse too,” said Kibiwot. Africa cross country junior champion Nicholas Kimeli, who has dominated the 5,000m recently, was of the opinion that changing disciplines would have cost him a lot. “I had a target to compete in road races yet I had plans to bring the 5,000m Olympic title to Kenya. With such, I needed to compete at the international level. With my dream fading away, Wanda has finally thought of us,” said Kimeli, who is hoping to start his season in Rabat. Coach Ian Kiprop, based at the brother Colm O’Connell training camp, pointed out that the removal of the races meant that many athletes were taking to the roads hence killing their careers early. “Majority of middle and long distance runners had opted for road running, which in my opinion, kills their career earlier than expected. With such initiatives, track and life of an athlete will be prolonged,” said Kiprop.