There are still many questions over Australia's opening partnership for the second test against India but one thing is all but certain — Joe Burns will face the new ball at the Melbourne Cricket Ground later this week. Burns came into the first test on an extremely poor run of form — 62 first class runs in nine innings — but scored a half century to drive Australia to victory at Adelaide Oval on Saturday, sealing the win with a six. His innings might be destined to be a footnote in the records of that remarkable test after the Australian bowlers had skittled India for 36, but it clearly did his confidence no harm. "I felt fantastic out there, just to get the job done on a fantastic day for Australian cricket, to back up our bowlers, was a really nice feeling," he told reporters on Monday. "We're the best team in the world, so we're confident against every team in every venue. Our bowlers are unbelievable ... it's a great luxury for our team." Burns took a blow to the elbow from a Jasprit Bumrah delivery during Australia's run chase on Saturday but said he did not anticipate any lasting issues from the injury. "Had scans yesterday and there's no problems, and it's been great today, so hopefully there's no further limitations in preparations for the games coming up," he said. Burns played in Adelaide with makeshift opener Matthew Wade and the Queenslander said he had been given no updates on the fitness of potential partners for Melbourne, David Warner (groin) and Will Pucovski (concussion). The 31-year-old said he had not been bothered by question marks over his selection before the first test and was clear on what he needed to do over the rest of the series. "We've got three very tough test matches," he said. "My job and my goal is to go on and get match-winning hundreds in those games." Meanwhile, Quinton de Kock has accepted the South Africa test captaincy for this international season only as he concedes the selectors have struggled to identify a viable candidate as a long-term solution in the five-day game. De Kock, who leads the side in white-ball cricket, was a surprise pick for the South African summer, only because both he and director of cricket Graeme Smith have previously said the burden of captaincy across all three formats would be too much for the wicketkeeper. But as the team prepares for the start of the two-test home series against Sri Lanka on Boxing Day, and with tests against Pakistan and Australia early next year, De Kock says he is happy in a temporary role. “When they (the selectors) told me the situation, I understood where they are coming from. I didn’t accept it immediately, I did think about it,” he told reporters on Monday. “It’s just for this season. When somebody else puts up their hand, they will take over. But I am happy to do it for now.” Sri Lanka became the first side from Asia to win a test series in South Africa when they claimed a shock 2-0 win last year. But those were on coastal wickets in Durban and Port Elizabeth, and De Kock is expecting much more pace and bounce this time round on the Highveld with the first test in Pretoria and the second in Johannesburg. “We want to play clever test cricket, we want to be more streetwise in how we go about things. We want to be aggressive,” he said. “We want to be able to throw the first punch. We do have young players, guys that need to learn fast. Especially where our team is compared to the rest of test cricket.”