Business came to a standstill in Kabarnet town, Baringo county, on Saturday after a 10-foot-long rock python was offloaded from a matatu. The snake is believed to have been killed by members of the public after it allegedly attacked someone in Chesirimion, a remote village in Tiaty subcounty. The serpent has allegedly been terrorising residents by biting, killing and swallowing their goats, sheep and calves. A driver, who took it to Kabarnet town, said he was ferrying passengers along Chemolingot-Marigat-Kabarnet highway when he saw a huge snake lying on the side of the road. At first, he thought it was alive, but upon taking a closer look, he realised it was dead. “We had to load and carry it all the way so that people in Marigat, Kabarnet and Kabartonjo towns can see that indeed huge snakes exist in Baringo,” the matatu driver said. “We tied it with a rope, put it in a sack and carried it on the matatu luggage carrier to Kabarnet town.” On reaching Kabarnet town, it was tied to a boda boda and dragged through the streets of the town for people to see. Afterwards, it was taken to Kabartonjo town in Baringo North subcounty, where residents burned it. “We thought if we left it that way, then it might lay eggs,” a Kabartonjo resident said. Wildlife expert Gilbert Kiptalam condemned the killing of the reptile, saying those behind the act should be arrested and charged. “It must have been driven by thirst to venture close to people’s homes,” he said. Kiptalam said a rock python is not poisonous, and it kills its prey by strangling and swallowing. Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) Baringo warden Peter Lekeren said investigations have been launched to arrest and prosecute those behind the killing of the snake. “I have instructed my officers to look for those who killed the snake and the driver who transported it and caused unnecessary commotion in towns,” he said. Lekeren called upon members of the public to report to KWS if they see stray wild animals. Witchcraft It is believed some people rear snakes for use in witchcraft. Since 2013, almost 1o cases have been reported of people ferrying snakes in public and private vehicles to Kabarnet town. The latest case was in January this year when a snake slithered out of a vehicle belonging to an ex-chief at a petrol station in Kabarnet town. Kabarnet town matatu sacco manager Peter Chepsom warned matatu drivers against carrying any wild animal in their vehicles. 