Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has urged motorists using Waiyaki Way to endure traffic jams caused by construction works, especially between James Gichuru Road junction and Rironi. Motorists struggle to reach estates in Kabete, Kikuyu and Limuru as they leave the capital city. They take time to join the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. This has worsened given the increased number of people travelling for Christmas festivities upcountry. The highway is being expanded up to the Rironi area. "A lot of people are going upcountry to celebrate Christmas with family members and are looking for shortcuts in our villages. This is because the highway is under construction,” Mwathi said on Monday. He said the road has been constructed slowly owing to challenges of dealing with people’s property. It has shallow paths that all motorists struggle to pass. However, once the construction of the road will be completed, it will ease the movement of people and goods. “We know movement will be easy, no traffic jam, trading will be done easily owing to the smooth and fast movement of traders and all other road users,” the lawmaker said. “It will also impact immediate villages, estates and other roads near the highway, as some roads that join it are also being tarmacked.” Speaking in Limuru town, Mwathi said this is one of the major highways that will be President Uhuru Kenyatta's legacy as they will serve so many people and transform lives for generations to come. The highway is being expanded by the China Wu Yi Construction Company for Sh16.4 billion. The project has faced challenges from landowners who have been threatening to stop it over delayed compensation. Rironi resident Simon Kimani said some roads such as Makutano-Chunga Mali, Zambezi-Kabuku and Kabuku-Site will be beneficial to residents as they all join the major highways. “These roads have never been tarmacked, but today they are all tarmacked. They will help traders, people moving from those villages and others, to move easily” Kimani said.