The Sports Disputes Tribunal has issued orders barring the current Kenya Taekwondo Federation officials from engaging in any activities until a suit filed by a rival group is heard and determined. Affected are secretary general George Wasonga, president Suleiman Sumba and treasurer Gerald Marangu who have been spearheading the activities of the federation. "Conservatory orders be and are hereby issued restraining the 1st , 2nd and 3rd Respondents, their agents and/or anybody authorised by them from recruiting new members to the Kenya Taekwondo Federation, holding any elections, committing and/or utilising the funds of KTF in any other manner whatsoever and/or in any other Taekwondo activity like tournaments, seminars and representation generally," the ruling by SDT chairperson John Ohaga states. The rival group — Jane Kitala, Herbert Ocholi and Eliud Mutali — argues that they are the rightful holders of office as per elections held on November 17, 2012. "The respondents have since the issuance of a registration certificate no 94 to KTF refused and/or failed to allow the legitimate office holders take charge and/or assume office and fulfill the sports registrar conditions in the registration certificate," the group argues in its suit filed on November 24. Moreover, Kitala and Co. accuse Wasonga, Sumba and Marangu of failure to comply with Sports Act no 25 of 2013. However, Wasonga described the trio's actions as suspect considering the Tokyo Olympics is around the corner. "Why now when the Olympics is around the corner? They are trying to instigate a coup using the SDT so that they can muscle themselves into our preparations," Wasonga said. He expressed confidence they will carry the day when they file their responses at SDT on January 4 next year. "Everyone will be surprised when we file our responses. These guys filed a similar suit two years ago and still lost," he said. Unperturbed, the federation has been streamlining its activities through a registration drive — in addition to upping preparations for Faith Ogallo, who will be the second female taekwondo athlete to represent the country at the Olympics. "The registration of new members ended in October this year and we now have approximately 1600 members who have fully registered. You cannot stop people from enlisting into a public entity," he said. 