The electoral commission has accused the Interior ministry of not cooperating to resolve raging boundary disputes across the country ahead of the 2022 General Elections. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission warned that protracted administrative and boundary disputes are "ticking time bombs" if not addressed before the high-stakes poll. Both commissions' chairmen on Wednesday addressed senators looking into boundary disputes. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati placed the blame squarely on the Interior ministry for failing to respond to his letters to team up and harmonise contested boundaries. The Interior CS is 'super minister' Fred Matiang'i, who was invited by senators but did not attend. “We have written to the Interior Ministry several times but we have not received any response,” Chebukati told a joint Senate committee. He appeared before the joint committees of Justice and Legal affairs and National Security to explain the steps his agency has taken to resolve boundary disputes countrywide. The committees are co-chaired by Senators Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira) and Fred Outa (Kisumu). The lawmakers termed the situation worrying, adding that it poses a security nightmare for the country ahead of the high stakes polls. The unresolved boundary disputes may complicate the push by BBI proponents to create 70 additional constituencies, given that the administrative and electoral units have not been streamlined. The Ministry of Interior is responsible for the administrative units. In some cases two units overlap, leading to disputes that in some areas have degenerated into inter-community conflicts. Chebukati told lawmakers the IEBC was trying to resolve political boundaries in the upcoming delimitation. He said that alone may not resolve problems if harmonisation is not carried out. “We must work together to harmonise political and administrative boundaries,” the chairman said. He was pressed by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja to explain if the commission had made any efforts to harmonise boundaries. Matiang'i, Lands CS Farida Karony and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa had been invited to the meeting. They did not attend, angering lawmakers. Omogeni and Outa warned the no-show Cabinet Secretaries they risk sanctions and fines if they fail to show up at the next meeting. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia told senators serious boundary disputes involve at least 20 counties. He warned they may trigger violence if not sorted well before 2022. Kobia said in some areas, a location or sublocation has two different names with two chiefs or assistant chiefs serving the same locality. In others, residents are administratively managed from one county but politically belong to another county. “With 22 months to the next General Election, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission is concerned that if not resolved promptly, disputes over boundaries are a ticking time bombs,” Kobia said. The chairman said the commission is focused on nine key boundary disputes that require immediate intervention for peaceful co-existence, especially ahead the polls. They include Isiolo and Meru; West Pokot, Turkana, Baringo and Samburu; Garissa and Wajir and Kisumu and Kericho. Others are Kisumu, Vihiga and Siaya;  Taita Taveta, Makueni and Kwale and the Nandi-Kakamega boundary. The conflicts have been sparked by political incitement, a scramble for resources and other factors. Kobia said large infrastructure projects such as Lappset and the SGR have become the new causes of boundary conflicts. "Around these projects, the value of land goes up and people tend to scramble, triggering conflicts,” he said. Need to collect more revenue has also triggered inter-county conflicts, he said, citing Taita Taveta and Kwale. "Stakeholders need to join hands to guard the already frail Kenyan ethnic fabric, especially as the country heads towards the 2022 General Elections,” Kobia concluded. Taita Taveta Senator Johanness Mwaruma said that KWS ward, which is in a disputed area in Mtito Andei, is politically in Makueni and administered in Taita Taveta. He is among the senators who have petitioned the House to sort out the conflicts between his county and Makueni. Similar concerns were raised by Senators Judith Pareno (nominated) who cited conflicts between  Makueni and Kajiado. Senator Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo) cited killings at the Garissa-Isiolo border over a boundary dispute. (Edited by V. Graham)