A son of former chief spymaster James Kanyotu wants a judge handling a dispute involving a Sh10 billion property in Thika linked to Goldenberg architect Kamlesh Pattni to recuse herself from hearing the matter. In his application, Willy Kihara said Justice Lucy Gacheru has handled three other matters touching on the same land. "All the cases, the judge has ruled against the estate of Kanyotu," Kihara said. Kihara said the ruling in favour of Trendsetters Investments Ltd and Marriot Africa International Ltd has facilitated the sale of the 500-acre parcel in Ruiru, to their detriment. Kihara said he is apprehensive the judge will not give them a fair hearing. “Further to the foregoing, the applicant has noticed a trend where the plaintiff herein (Marriot), its affiliate companies or agents abandon the suits mentioned after obtaining favourable interim orders from the presiding judge and continue disposing off the suit property,” he said in an affidavit. At the same time, Kihara further reveals that sometimes last December, Pattni approached him through a proxy for an out-of-court settlement. He says the proxy told him Pattni was willing to return 150 acres and pay him Sh700 million The Kanyotu family is fighting to reclaim the multi-billion property in Ruiru arguing that the sale to Marriot was illegal. The land is owned by Marriot, having bought it from Trendsetters Investments ltd in 2012. Trendsetters, on its part, says it purchased the land from Kangaita Coffee Estate, belonging to Kanyotu for Sh700 million in 2011. Kihara further reveals that Marriot Africa International and Trendsetters Investments are one and the same entity, owned and controlled by Pattni. Kihara said copies of CR12 from the Registrar of Companies showed the two companies share the same physical and postal address, which he says he personally knows belongs to Pattni. Marriot moved to court last year after part of the Kanyotu family placed caveats on the land, cautioning third parties from purchasing the expansive farm. The company sought to block Kanyotu's family from reclaiming the land and named Margaret Nyakinyua Murigu, Mary Wanjiku Kanyotu, Kihara and Kangaita Coffee Estate as respondents in the case. Kihara and other beneficiaries of Kanyotu’s estate have disputed the sale to Trendsetters, saying the land, measuring approximately 205 hectares, is subject to a succession case pending before the High Court. The family has disputed the sale saying Kangaita Coffee Estate has bank accounts into which proceeds from the sale of any property belonging to the estate ought to be deposited. But in the case of the land in Thika, no money were deposited into any of the accounts for distribution to the beneficiaries or settlement of estate debts. “That the family of the late James Kanyotu did not approve any of the sales and or transfers and the same have been done illegally under the nose of this honourable court,” he said.