An MP from South Rift has supported Deputy President William Ruto’s calls for the country to have a multiple question referendum. Sotik MP Dominic Kosgey said multiple questions will give opportunity to every Kenyan to choose what they wants and reject what they do not want. He made the remarks at a house warming ceremony for John Kosgei at Ndanai trading centre on Saturday. “Multi-choice referendum is the best way for Kenya as it will give people choices rather than endorsing the document wholesome which at the end of the day will give Kenyans a raw deal,” said Kosgey. The legislator dismissed leaders who are opposing a multiple question format saying that Kenyans handle it without any problem. “If Kenyans have been handling the six ballots in the last two generals elections, even this one they can handle well without any difficulties,” he said. The legislator said if proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) will not heed calls from Tangatanga, then the country risks getting bad laws. “The whole process of constitutional change should be all inclusive and all the views and recommendations should be factored in before going out to whether to vote for or vote against,” said the lawmaker. The MP added that the move by some leaders to criticise Tangatanga stand on BBI is clear indication that they are using the document as a campaign tool for 2022 polls. “They should differentiate between constitutional change and politics by coming out clearly because if their interests in politics, then they should know we are more than ready and our candidate is the DP trounced them all,” said Kosgey. He also said that it is the duty of every elected leader in the country to pursue the interests of millions of Kenyans. “Every leader given mandate by Kenyans, should first ensure the interests of Kenyans are looked into before they are own because we are the people servants and not the other way round,” he remarked. Three days, DP Ruto reiterated that Kenyans need a multi-choice referendum saying it was the best way it can fashion the referendum.