The Kenya Volleyball Federation national league will commence on January 23 next year after its cancellation in June due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Eight women's teams and 13 men's sides have so far registered for the league, which will follow the International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) format. "We have not met the format as far as the number of teams required to participate is concerned. However, whatever teams we have will participate in the league in a accordance to FIVB's format. This means the league will take a shorter time to conclude," Isaac Tirop, KVF's media liaison, said. The women's teams that have so far confirmed participation are—Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Army, Kenya Prisons, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Prison Nairobi, Nairobi Water, KCB and Kenya Pipeline. In the men's category, defending champions GSU will battle it out against KDF, Forest Rangers, Kenya Prisons, Prisons Nairobi, Western Rangers, Equity, Rift Valley Prison, Vihiga, Kenya Army, Administration Police, Kenya Ports Authority and Prisons Mombasa. According to the FIVB format, 16 teams are required to participate in a round-robin preliminary round in which teams are pooled into four teams in each pool. The top five leading teams will, thereafter, join another team hosting the final round of matches in which they will be pooled in two groups of three teams each in another round-robin format. Tirop said KVF is still exploring possible venues to hold the league matches especially after the National Olympic Committee-Kenya booked Moi Stadium, Kasarani for Team Kenya's preparations for the Tokyo Olympics. "We are looking at the African Nazarene University and the Bomas of Kenya as possible venues. This time round, all the games will be indoors and everyone will be required to adhere to Covid-19 protocols," Tirop said. Although fans will be allowed to attend matches, Tirop added that the federation will be strict on social distancing at the venues to prevent a possible spread of Covid-19.  "Everyone attending the matches will have their temperatures taken at the entrance, among other Covid-19 protocols. There will be restricted physical contact and no hugging of players," he said. Volleyball was one of the low-risk contact sports that were allowed to resume activities as per the latest directives from the Ministry of Sports on November 23.