Thirdway Alliance has unveiled Angela Mwikali as lawyer Miguna Miguna’s running mate for the upcoming Nairobi governor by-election. The National Elections Nomination Board assured residents of Nairobi that the two will be on the ballot come February 18 and urged supporters to ignore remarks by ousted party leader Ekuru Aukot. Chair of the board, Cripus Wathimba on Thursday said Miguna will be in the country soon to campaign for his candidature. “Do not ask me when or how Miguna will come but he will be in the country soon. We expect the government to obey court orders that were issued allowing him to return,” he said. Miguna, a Kenyan-Canadian lawyer, was deported on March 26, 2018 after he swore in opposition leader Raila Odinga as the “People’s President” after the 2017 presidential elections. Mwikali, a PhD graduate from University of Nairobi, said residents of Nairobi now have an opportunity of correcting the mistakes they made during the 2013 and 2017 elections. “Miguna and I have the competence to fight cartels and gangs that have derailed development in Nairobi,” she said. Addressing the media at a hotel in Nairobi, Mwikali added that she has been holding virtual discussions with Miguna, who resides in Canada. “We have been planning and strategising virtually but he will soon be in the country to join me in the campaign trail. The general will be back home to clean up Nairobi,” she said. She asked the government to obey court orders and allow Miguna back to the country. Mwikali unsuccessfully contested for the Embakasi South Parliamentary seat during the April 5, 2019 by-election. Aukot has disputed the party’s endorsement of Miguna as the candidate for the by-election. He termed the nomination as fake and a move engineered by rent-seekers within the party. Aukot is involved in a legal battle in efforts to retain his seat after the party’s governing council expelled him. The party’s National Chairperson Miruru Waweru however said Miguna shares the party’s belief that Nairobi cannot be entrusted to the hands of cartels and criminal enterprises. Aukot was ousted by the Party in September due to what the National Executive Committee termed as financial impropriety, lack of civility, and transparency to party members, and failure to attend disciplinary hearings. Secretary general Fredrick Okango said party supporters have indicated that they will fund Miguna’s campaign. “We have thousands of supporters who have said they are willing to contribute the little they have to fund Miguna’s campaigns,” he stated. He asked supporters to ignore sentiments by Aukot saying Miguna’s candidature was overwhelmingly endorsed by the National Executive Committee and the National Elections Nomination Board. “We have the NEC and NENB here as we speak. Do not listen to those speaking from the periphery,” he added.