Thirteen people accused of grabbing 70 acres from a Nakuru family have challenged a move to compel the DPP to prosecute them over the disputed property. It's worth an estimated Sh140 million. The family of Joseph Mwago (deceased) filed a case seeking to compel the office of the DPP to prefer charges against the 13 whom they claim grabbed the land. They were identified as estate administrators. Before his death in January this year, Mwago had filed a complaint about the alleged grabbing of his land. The DPP ordered the arrest and prosecution of the 13 persons but in March the prosecution dropped plans to charge them. In their response, the 13 through their lawyer Danstan Omari claim the Solai Ndungiri Block 9/1 was never grabbed. In an affidavit sworn by Francis Njuguna, he tells the court the disputed land belonged to his father Njuguna Mbogo (deceased), and not the Mwago family as they had claimed. Njuguna said when his mother died, the land was left to him and that’s when he sold it and subdivided it among the other 10 people. The other 12 people accused of grabbing the land include Joseph Nyamamba, Peter Kuria, Hebert Musimba, Miriam Said, Simon Wanyoike, Ruth Wanjiru, Samuel Gichanga, Gerald Mwaniki, Ruth Kimani, Benjamin Kinara and Harriet Kimani “At no point did I transfer any of my parcels of land to the late Joseph Gaitho Mwago and consequently the claim that has been brought before court by his purported beneficiaries is unfounded, untrue, baseless and a lie designed to unjustly enrich his beneficiaries,” court papers read. Omari argued it is bewildering the Mwago family would wish to compel the DPP to criminally prosecute his clients in their capacity as the administrators of Mwago's estate. This despite the fact that they cannot testify or give evidence in a criminal trial on behalf of the deceased. “The entire substantive motion is vehemently opposed to the extent that it is aimed at achieving an unjust outcome by awakening the criminal prosecution of the interested parties nine months after the DPP resolved not to arrest and charge them for the alleged offences,” Omari argues. He further argues Mwago’s family has an option of commencing private prosecution or seeking alternative remedies in the Environment and Land Court if they have any legitimate claim against his clients. “To the best of our knowledge and understanding, there is no fresh evidence that has since been uncovered or discovered to warrant the fresh commitment by the Respondent or to arrest, charge and prosecute the interested parties herein,” court papers read. In their opinion, had the Mwago family been diligent, they would long have taken action and not waited for the interested parties to go on with their normal lives only now to have their liberty unreasonably threatened. The Mwago family has also claimed ownership of the land and argued that until his death in January, Joseph was the owner of the land. Through lawyer Paul Nyamodi the family argues that the decision by the DPP to cease prosecution was wrong and the new development was never communicated to the family. “The parcels of land stolen by the interest parties and the subject matter of the investigations are at a great risk of being transferred to third parties to put them out of the reach of the applicants and this can happen any time,” Nyamodi said. The case will be heard on February 3. (Edited by V. Graham) 