Senators are contemplating changing the law to introduce punitive penalties for medical negligence as they investigate the "resurrection" of a patient at a mortuary in Kericho and his death days later. The lawmakers say there have been alarming cases of negligence among medics, leading to deaths that would have otherwise been avoided. Nominated Senator Falhada Iman wants thorough investigations into the circumstances that led to the medical officers at Kapkatet sub-county hospital in Bureti, Kericho, to declare Peter Kigen dead. “The (Senate Health) committee should explain the circumstances that led medics at Kapkatet subcounty hospital to declare Mr Peter Kigen, a resident of Bureti constituency, dead and thereafter transferring his body to the hospital’s mortuary for  preservation only for the patient to be found still alive during embalming,” Iman says in a petition. The Senate Health committee has been calling for the enactment of laws to guide the provision of emergency health services and tame rogue and money-first medics and facilities. Already, the committee has recommended sanctions against the MP Shah Hospital for negligence that caused the death of a patient. The panel investigated the death of Virginia Asaph at the facility on May 26. Iman’s statement comes barely two weeks after shocking revelations that Kigen woke up three hours after he was declared dead by the medics. Kigen's family had taken him to the hospital after he complained of stomach pain and collapsed. A nurse pronounced the 32-year-old man dead on arrival at the casualty department. The ‘body’ was transferred to the mortuary for preservation and embalmment. One of the morgue workers is said to have made an incision on the right leg to infuse chemicals. Kigen suddenly regained consciousness and began wailing in pain. He died days later. Iman cited the incident as pure medical negligence and sought to know if action had been taken against the medical staff who erroneously declared him dead. “The committee should spell out measures put in place by the Ministry of Health and medical professional bodies to stem medical negligence and malpractice and ensure culprits are brought to book,” the senator says. She wants the committee to advise the House whether there is a need to review penalties associated with medical negligence and malpractice with a view of making them tougher as a deterrent against the increase of such cases. Iman told the Star she wants the committee, to which the statement was committed, to revisit all reported cases of medical negligence and make appropriate recommendations. “The statement was the umbrella of the whole thing. But there is some other negligence regarding other hospitals. I asked the committee to wholesomely address the concerns,” she said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula described the Kericho incident as "distressful and frightening". “It is really distressful to hear or get to know that a person who is alive is freighted to a mortuary with an inscription that he is dead,” he said. "Perhaps the hospital does not have equipment to tell whether someone is alive or dead. This is part of the problem of the medical profession in this country.” Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga claimed some medical practitioners are very ignorant and can't tell a dead person from one who is alive. “You can imagine waking up 'dead' in a morgue and the next moment you are breathing. Action must be taken against whoever declared that patient dead when he was still alive,” she said.