Mathare United chairman Bob Munro is convinced that the financial troubles of the Kenyan Premier League side are now over after Italian firm Triple5Bet came to their rescue with a whopping Sh20 million sponsorship deal. Speaking on Tuesday while unveiling their new sponsors in Nairobi, Munro said the players had endured a lot and the funds pumped in by Triple5Bet would alleviate their troubles. "We are celebrating a new partner. Through you, we intend to make a lot of people happy. It's a sense of relief because we've been through a very difficult period. The players are now going to get full salaries in the months to come," said Munro. The deal is a huge relief for the Slum Boys, coming at a time Kenyan clubs are grappling with the financial implications of the coronavirus pandemic. Although Mathare are currently locked up in a stalemate with Football Kenya Federation over a broadcast deal the federation has struck with StarTimes, Munro said his charges have their eyes firmly set on the title, adding that the funds will definitely turn around the club's fortunes. Triple5Bet director Paulo Abenevoli said their decision to partner with the Kenyan outfit was informed by the desire to reach out to the community. "We want to help the community grow. Our aim is to work with Mathare United for the next one year and explore the possibility of extending the contract for another five years. We are here to promote sports. Sports is important because it keeps young people busy," said Abenevoli. Mathare United CEO George Nange termed the deal as a huge step in the right direction and thanked the players for remaining committed to the cause in the face of adversity. "The current partnership will lead to better pay for players and the technical team," said Nange. Nange said the 2008 champion had produced many football luminaries including former Kenyan international Dennis Oliech, adding that Crispin Oduor was a perfect example of youths who had benefited through the programs offered by Mathare Youth Sports Association. Oduor holds a Masters Degree in Biochemistry. Mathare rose from the dusty fields of one of Kenya's biggest slums to qualify for Kenya's top tier in 1998 and then went ahead to represent the country in the continental showpiece after clinching the Moi Golden Cup in 2020. They capped off their glittering journey after successfully challenging for the Kenyan Premier League title in 2008.