Tension was high at the Migori assembly on Tuesday after the arrest of Speaker Boaz Okoth and Deputy Speaker Mathews Chacha by anti-corruption police on Tuesday. About 15 people were arrested in the swoop, including several other assembly officials. “They have been transferred to EACC headquarters for interrogation after they recorded a statement at Migori police station,” a senior EACC detective said on condition of anonymity. EACC spokesperson Yassin Amaro confirmed the arrests and said the agency will "issue a comprehensive statement is due course”. “They were picked by our officers from Nairobi. We will issue a comprehensive statement once they arrive at the headquarters,” Yassin said. On Friday, while having a prayer meeting at his home in Nyatike, Boaz denied allegations of graft. In addition to Okoth and Chacha, the EACC also arrested members of the Migori County Assembly Service Board - Roland Asiga, Nicholas Rioba, Clifford Jobando and Meressa  Akello. Acting assembly clerk Emanuel Kingwara, suspended clerk Tom Onyango and supply chain manager were also arrested in the morning swoop at the assembly premises. Kachieng MC Brian Osodo and several contractors were also held. The detectives have been trailing about 15 people including directors and former directors of various companies. Migori county KTN journalist James Nduati is a former company director. Lucy Wanje is a director and current operations manager of Pamawe Construction Company, Lucy Wanja is another official. Others are Willis Gor, director at Travel Time Leaders Company, Joan Owuor, a signatory of Travel Time and and Pius Okello, a director at Guumba Contractors Limited. In a letter dated November 5, the DPP told police the suspects should be apprehended “forthwith and arraigned on charges of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption”. It followed the end of investigations over file number 98/2020. The letter was signed by Victor Mule and proposed six corruption- related charges. (Edited by V. Graham) 