Officers at the State Department of Maritime and Shipping expended Sh2 million to repair a grounded car. The department, headed by Principal Secretary Nancy Karigithu, claimed the monies were expended on the vehicle in the year to June 2019. The car has been grounded since July 2018. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has cast doubt on whether the repairs on the vehicle registration number GKA 665V were undertaken in the first place. In her report on the department's accounts for the year ending June 2019, the auditor said there was no proof the repairs were undertaken. She said there was no pre- and post-repairs report by the engineer or mechanical and transport fund detailing the nature of the repairs to be undertaken and the confirmation of work done. “Consequently, the accuracy of the expenditure on use of goods and services of Sh86 million for the year ended June 30, 2019 cannot be ascertained,” Gathungu said. The auditor further flagged a cleaning and sanitary as well as security services contract of Sh3.3 million and Sh1.8 million respectively for its offices at NSSF Annex Building. The contracts were executed without performance security from the service providers, contrary to the conditions of the contract. Contractors were required to within 30 days of receipt of notification of contract award, furnish the Maritime department with performance security where applicable, in the amounts specified in the special conditions of the contract. “To this extent, the state department is in breach of the law,” the auditor said in a report tabled in Parliament. Also flagged were Sh674,800 pending bills carried forward to 2019 from the previous year. Gathungu said failure to settle bills during the year in which they relate distorts the financial statements for that year and adversely affects provisions of the subsequent year to which they have to be charged. The department is also on the spot for failing to properly account for some Sh1.2 billion it expended during the period under review. Documents presented by the department for audit and the Integrated Financial Management Information System (Ifmis) had variances of Sh1.26 billion. Whereas the accounting officer reported Sh8.3 million as cash balance, Ifmis reported Sh434 million. The department reported zero debts and prepayments yet its Ifmis account reflected a balance of Sh52 million. Also flagged is the balance of Sh5 million in respect of balances in the current account, for which Ifmis reported a Sh341 million balance. The department further reported that it had received Sh247 million from the National Treasury, while Ifmis records show it received Sh699 million. Gathungu said the management has not provided any explanation or reconciliation for the variances. “This casts doubt on the accuracy and completeness of the financial statements for the year ended June 2019,” the auditor said. The department reported activities, among them the finalisation of the Kenya National Shipping Line strategic plans, development of the seafarers wage council and preparation of draft National Maritime Spatial Plan. Others are draft Maritime transport policy and the graduation of 62 seafarers who were later recruited by the Mediterranean Shipping Company and operationalisation of the Bandari Academy.