When searching for famous people on Google it is easy to find information about well-known personalities, their names and you will often find knowledge panels that organize information about them from trusted sources in an easy-to-digest format. It is hard to find a person who is not famous and information about them since they are many people who share the same name. Google has come up with a feature that will help solve that called the People Cards. It is a feature that makes people more discoverable on Google Search. It allows people to create their presence on search in the form of a card, which is similar to a Google search knowledge panel that includes all the details they want other people to have about them. It is like a virtual visiting card where you can highlight your existing website or social profiles you want people to visit, plus other information about yourself that you want others to know. Anyone with a Google Account can create a People’s Card by simply searching for their name and tapping the add me to search prompt. This will lead them through a simple process to add a photo, description, links to social profiles and other information about themselves that they would like others to know about them. Google’s goal with the search is to always make sure people find helpful and reliable information so that they have a variety of protections and controls in place to maintain the quality of information on people cards. Only one People Card is allowed per Google Account and a phone number is required to authenticate the account. They have a number of mechanisms to protect against abusive or spammy content. If anyone comes across low-quality information or a card that they believe was created by an impersonator, they can tap the feedback link to notify Google. If you are trying to find someone on Search, these new cards make it quick and easy to find the right person. When you search for someone’s name and there is a car available, you will see their module with the name, profession and location, which you can tap to see their card. For people who have the same names, you will see multiple modules and the information can help you distinguish between the different individuals to find who you are looking for. Google has recently introduced several locally relevant features within Search. The Job Search, for instance, helps people find jobs through search while the Health Symptom search makes it easier for users to explore health conditions related to symptoms. It has also introduced other features that make it easy to find information on everyday interests like Sports, Recipes, Movies and Lyrics. With this new feature, we hope that we will be able to find some of the influencers, entrepreneurs, prospective employees, self-employed individuals and freelancers who want to be discovered.