A female MP is said to be depressed since the onset of Christmas holidays two weeks ago. Reason? According to a source in the know, her fears are traced to reports and photos that have filtered out and gone viral of how she snatched a husband from a businesswoman. The straight-talking politician is said to already have a child with the man who hails from one of the Mt Kenya counties but has a home in a Coast the Coast. It is only a matter of time before the politician is exposed as it is reported the family of the businesswoman already has evidence, including photos of the two in compromising situations. Stay tuned for further developments from the 'August' House of Parliament (pictured). *** Senior staff at a county in Western Kenya are said to be in a panic mode after the governor wrote show cause letters to several chief officers over misuse of public funds. A little bird whispers to Corridors that also in distressed are officials who might have colluded with the chief officers to misplace funds. The letters have sparked speculation of a looming reshuffle in the cabinet and other county departments. There is fear among staff that the governor might invite the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe misuse of funds with a view to taking to court officials who will be found culpable. *** Are the glad tidings falling for a once-popular woman leader? Well, times seem to be changing fast for the abrasive politician in the wake of the numerous incidents in which she has been turned away by locals. The politician could be headed to a tough new year in her quest for a top county seat if the scenes of rejection persist. So sour are the sentiments on the ground that locals have coined an unflattering nickname for her ambitions. Maybe she is hoping against hope for a party ticket, which  has proved unreliable of late. *** Police officers in one of notorious police stations in Nairobi's Eastlands area are at it again. The officers in full uniform on Wednesday afternoon are said to have descended on a liquor joint where they terrorised the owner and his workers. A small bird whispers to Corridors of Power that the owner has been an easy target for the officers who are keen to have their palms greased to allow his operations to continue. However, on Wednesday, the owner declined to part with something small, prompting the law enforcers to destroy the counter of the premises in the name of upholding the law. And as if that were not enough, they carted away several crates of liquor for the holidays. 