The Olympic flame will still visit all of Japan’s 47 prefectures during the torch relay starting on March 25, organisers said on Tuesday, sticking to the original plan before the Games were postponed until next year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Days before the torch relay was due to begin in March this year, the International Olympic Committee and the Japanese government took the unprecedented decision to postpone the Games. Despite Covid-19 restrictions and rising cases in Japan, organisers announced on Tuesday that the 121-day tour, which starts in Fukushima and ends in Tokyo’s National Stadium during the Games opening ceremony on July 23, will go ahead. To mark 100 days until the start of the tour, Tokyo Skytree, the tallest tower in the world and an iconic part of the Japanese capital’s skyline, was illuminated on Tuesday in the pinkish gold hue of Tokyo’s Olympic torch. Organisers said the full relay route would be announced in February. Meanwhile, a third of Japanese residents want the Tokyo Olympics to be scrapped amid fears that an influx of foreign arrivals may cause a further spike in Covid-19 cases, a poll by public broadcaster NHK showed on Tuesday. The Japanese government and International Olympic Committee (IOC) decided in March to postpone the 2020 Olympics by a year due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, with the global showpiece now slated to take place from July 23-August 8. But as Japan grapples with a third wave of infections, the NHK poll, conducted between December 11 and 13, showed 32 per cent of respondents wanted the Summer Games to be cancelled entirely. Only 27 per cent said they should go ahead as scheduled while 31 per cent favoured another delay. According to an NHK poll in October, 40 per cent said the Olympics should be held as planned with only 23 per cent favouring cancellation and 25 per cent preferring further postponement. While Japan has avoided the vast number of infections and deaths seen in many other countries across the world, a recent resurgence in cases has forced the government to re-introduce steps such as requesting bars and restaurants to close early. Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Monday suspended a much-criticised travel subsidy programme to help contain mounting case numbers as his approval rating plummets over his handling of the pandemic.