A Bomet assembly committee wants the EACC to investigate the alleged illegal recruitment of more than 200 employees  in 2017-18. The staff earned Sh11,114, 517 a month or Sh132 million a year, as evidenced in the payroll, the assembly budget, investment and accounts committee said. In a report tabled in the assembly, the committee said the positions had not been advertised by the county Public Service Board as required. Committee chairman Haron Kirui, who is the Embomos MCA, said the hiring was a breach of the County Governments Act. County Finance executive Andrew Sigei told the committee that particular staff had been hired on contract terms to provide essential services. He said the current administration took office in 2017 when the contracts of most employees hired since 2013 were lapsing and had not been renewed. He said the employees were health workers and security enforcement officers. “The contracts were, however, terminated via a circular from the county secretary to all chief officers dated November 6, 2017,” the CEC said. The committee was not persuaded by his response and said recruitment outside the legal framework contributes to the ever-ballooning wage bill. That's money that could have been invested in development, members said. The enquiry by the assembly resulted from an Auditor General's report covering July 2017 to June 2018. The committee said all future recruitment must be in line with the County Government's Act. The report will be forwarded to the assembly's committee on implementation. It is expected to invite the EACC and DCI to investigate and take legal action as needed. The committee urged the Executive to expedite payment of bills so they are not carried forward to the next financial year. An audit has shown the county had Sh296 million pending but supporting documents were not supplied. The committee raised concerns over the validity and authenticity of bills, saying supply, contracted amounts, amounts paid and outstanding balances could not be confirmed. (Edited by V. Graham)