Two Lamu police officers have been recognised for their dedication to fighting defilement and gender violence in the county. Chief inspector Sammy Kwamwara and sergeant Juma Maloba were hailed for investigating reported cases and ensuring perpetrators are brought to book. Kwamwara is also the police boss for Hindi division, an area where cases of defilement and gender violence have spiked. Child protection volunteers, World Vision and Lamu-based human rights activists organised the event held at Hindi police station. World Vision’s education and child protection officer for Lamu Schollar Mghoi said the two officers had also educated residents on the rights of children. Mghoi said many perpetrators of defilement and gender violence have been prosecuted because of the dedicated efforts of the two and their teams. The officers received trophies for their distinguished service to the community. “The two were selected from a list of five names. Their work has stood out and we know because we are always interacting with them. We are proud of these officers and what they have achieved,” Mghoi said. The officers are also part of the Hindi Area Advisory Council Committee that agitates for community welfare and child protection. Lamu community child protection volunteer Nancy Owira said recognition of police work is a good motivation for the officers, given the nature of their work and the perceptions of the public. She urged the public to continue cooperating with security agencies in the region to ensure the rights of children and other citizens are safeguarded. Owira criticised community members who rush to resolve defilement and gender violence cases at home. “Let us be a community that looks out for the rights of everyone. If an incident is reported, let the law take its course. Let’s not deny defilement and GBV victims their right to justice by choosing to resolve such matters at the community level,” Owira said. A report by the Director of Public Prosecutions’ Office in Lamu showed that Hindi division has been leading in defilement cases since 2015. Hindi has also recorded the highest cases of incest.  (edited by o. owino)