Water supply along Mombasa Road will be interrupted for two days from Thursday due to construction of the Nairobi Expressway. Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company said it will shut the water supply pipeline along the road. Estates and major companies will go without water for two days due to the ongoing construction of the Sh62 billion Nairobi Expressway. “Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company Limited will shut down water supply pipeline along Mombasa Road starting 6am Thursday, December 17, 2020, to 6am Friday, December 18, 2020,” said a notice published in local dailies. Managing director Nahashon Muguna said Nairobi Water will shut down the main water pipeline in order to facilitate interconnection of the new and old water pipelines at Lang’ata Road and Mombasa Road junction. Estates and institutions along Mombasa Road to be affected are South B, South C, Nairobi West, Mukuru, Imara Daima and  Embakasi, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Standard Gauge Railway, Athi River Export Processing Zone and Mater Hospital. Industrial Area will also be affected together with some estates along Jogoo Road including Buru Buru, Hamza and Makadara. Affected residents have been urged to bear with the situation and advised to use available water sparingly. The water shortage in Nairobi has persisted for many years. Water is rationed, with most households receiving their supplies at least twice a week. The NWSC says the rationing will significantly ease in 2023 when most of the ongoing projects will be completed. Currently, the water demand in Nairobi is at 810 million litres a day against an installed production capacity of 550 million litres, leaving a daily deficit of 260 million litres. Nairobi gets its daily water supply from Ndakaini Dam and Ng’ethu (480 million litres), Ruiru 1 Dam and Kikuyu Springs (26.8 million litres) and Sasumua Dam (59 million litres). President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the construction of the Nairobi expressway on October 16, which is expected to be part of the plan to decongest the Central Business District. The project, implemented by KeNHA, is a four-lane dual carriageway that connects the Nairobi-Mombasa section and the Nairobi-Nakuru highway section terminating at Waiyaki Way. It is expected to be completed in December 2022 by the China Road and Bridge Corporation. The expressway will have 10 interchanges, including the SGR terminus at JKIA, Eastern Bypass, Southern Bypass and Enterprise Road. Others are at Capital Centre, Haile Selassie Avenue, Thika Road, The Mall in Westlands, Sarit Centre and James Gichuru Road. Edited by Henry Makori