The Willie Kimani murder trial has stalled again - this time only for a day - as defence lawyer Cliff Ombeta's positive Covid-19 results were presented. On Monday the court learned that Ombeta had tested positive and would be in self-quarantine for 15 days. Justice Jessie Lessit directed him to present his official test results, which were delivered. Lawyer Katwa Kigen was supposed to proceed with cross-examining Witness 44 on Tuesday because Ombeta was indisposed. Katwa told the court he had spoken to Ombeta who agreed to have him take over cross-examination. Four AP officers and an informant are on trial for murder. Rights lawyer Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri went missing from the Mavoko law courts on  June 23, 2016. Their bodies were discovered floating in River Ol Donyo Sabuk on June 30, 2016. Kimani was representing a client who refused to drop a case against one of the officers on trial. When the court adjourned last month, Ombeta was cross-examining AP officer Nicholas Olesena and he was expected to continue but was unable to due so. Katwa said a full day would be required to complete the cross-examination and said he was ready and willing to carry on. Assistant DPP Nicholas Mutuku said they were ready to proceed. He said although he sympathised with Ombeta, it was important in the future for lawyers to have people holding their brief to avoid delays. Katwa was holding brief for all the other three defence lawyers. Judge Jessie Lessit directed that trial to proceed on Wednesday with Katwa in Ombeta's place. In October, Ombeta’s client and second accused tested positive for the virus at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. The court has heard from 41 witnesses; two are remaining to conclude the prosecution's case. In July, the High Court adjourned the case after the judge raised concerns on the lack of a court large enough to accommodate all parties. Justice Lessit said the small tent provided by the Judiciary could not hold everyone, as the court adheres to Health ministry directives on social distancing. She said she had asked for a 100-person capacity tent but only recived a smaller one. She apologised for the inconvenience. Administration Police officers Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Mwangi and police informer Peter Ngugi are accused of committing the murders. (Edited by V. Graham)   