The family of the late Joe Nyagah has appealed to all Kenyans to do what they can to protect their loved ones from Covid-19. Led by the firstborn son Mwaniki Nyagah, the family said they never took the disease with the seriousness it deserved until it hit their father. "Coronavirus is real, we never took it seriously but we have seen it with our own eyes. My father was physically strong and walked 10 km every morning but covid took him in 4 weeks," Mwaniki said. He added, The CS Kagwe has been telling us but maybe we were not listening. I want to urge all my agemates to do everything in their power to protect their loved ones". Mwaniki said his father was a good man who had instilled good values in all of his children. He taught us valuable lessons that we have transferred to our children," he said. While cracking a joke, Mwaniki said his father grew up dreaming to be a military man but his dream never came true. "This is the reason my father at 69 years he vied for the presidency because he knew the only way he could join the military at that age was to be the commander in chief of this republic," Mwaniki said leaving mourners in stitches. He said their father would always brag of how he was number three in that election. "He could always say forget about the votes I got, what matters is that I was number three," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Nyagah's brother Norman who said the late succumbed to the disease because 97 per cent of his lungs had been eaten up by the disease. "I was called and told that Joe was extremely sick and he had been taken to hospital. When I asked what had taken him ill, I was told it is this animal called Covid. Anyway it happened and the rest is history," he said. Norman said Nyagah was admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital but when his condition worsed, he was transferred to Nairobi Hospital where he made a good recovery in a span of two weeks. "We got a team of good doctors but Joe suffered several cardiac arrests all lasting between 4 and 5 minutes," Norman said. "When the doctors called us informing us that we needed to be at the hospital to make a decision we knew it was time to bid him farewell," he said. He said the family was to decide whether Nyagah was to stay on the ventilators or otherwise. Deputy President William Ruto and National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi are among dignitaries attending the burial. Others are ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and CSs Mutahi Kagwe, Sicil Kariuki and Najib Balala. The burial ceremony is currently underway at the former presidential candidate's rural home in Mbeti North Ward in Embu County. Other top leaders attending the burial ceremony are Governors Martin Wambora (Embu) and Anyang Ngongo (Kisumu). Senators Amos Wako (Busia), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu) as well as Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege and Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe. Nyagah died at the Nairobi Hospital while receiving treatment last week Friday.