Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has said that he holds the key to leadership in Western. Atwoli asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to ensure he is part of the ongoing alignments ahead of the 2022 General Election. “I have told Mudavadi to start looking for the State House password, he must get aggressive. Raila Odinga has not abandoned his course but he is looking for the password just like others,”Atwoli said. He said that Luhyas must be part of the next government to know and influence how the national cake is shared. Atwoli spoke on Friday during the burial service for Priscah Ondiso, mother of former Nominated MCA Ben Ombima in at Ebwiranyi village in Emuhaya subcounty. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, MP Chris Omulele and Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi were present. Atwoli reiterated that he will hold Bukhungu II to unveil the names of all candidates in 2022. In December 2016, Atwoli funded research identifying Mudavadi as the most popular Luhya leader and declared him the Luhya spokesman. He later disowned Mudavadi, calling him a coward. In May, the Cotu boss named Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa as Luhya point men during a meeting with a section of Luhya leaders at his Kajiado residence. He later said Mudavadi remained the Luhya spokesman. Atwoli told mourners they should not bother to read the BBI Bill because it has been read for them by their leaders. He said Western, Nyanza and Kisii must unite and work together to create a large team that can negotiate with other blocs for power in 2022. He said the BBI referendum will clear the way for Western to have its leaders in government. Oparanya said that Western has been in opposition for too many years and BBI proposals will guarantee the region a place in government. "We must work together as Luhyas leaders to benefit from the government," he said. Atwoli asked MPs to work towards disbanding the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for wanting to cut allowances for MPs and reduce the  bloated wage bill On Thursday, the High Court directed the PSC to recover Sh2.7 billion MPs earned as house allowances within one year. It said they were improperly awarded and were already part of lawmakers' pay. “MPs must join hands and throw out the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, we don’t want BBI issues to be mixed with SRC,” Atwoli said. (Edited by V. Graham)