The Employment and Labour Relations Court has halted the launch of the National Land Commission’s five-year strategic plan. This is after Justice Nzioki wa Makau on Monday ordered for inter-parties hearing on December 16 before any judge in a case filed by one of the NLC directors. This means NLC will not launch the plan until after December 16. Under certificate of urgency, Leonard Omullo, an employee with the commission, told the court that the move to abolish or restructure directorates within NLC was illegal and irregular. Omullo said NLC is set to launch its new strategic plan 2020-25 “any time in the week starting November 30, 2020." “The strategic plan seeks to restructure and abolish a number of offices/ directorates currently in place with an overall effect of reducing them from thirteen to seven,” Omullo said in court documents. Omullo said the move is illegal and irregular as it will result in redundancies, rendering affected directors jobless in total contravention of employment laws. He said there have been no meetings and consultations between him and NLC together with other directors whose offices are sought to be abolished. Omullo, who works in the directorate of Natural Resources, said their views have not been taken into consideration. “The respondent has not sought to redeploy the petitioners and other affected directors to other offices. The process has not regarded the petitioner’s qualifications, skills, performance and experience,” Omullo said through his lawyer Kelly Malenya. “Unless this court intervenes and maintains the status quo in relation to the directorates, the petitioner together with persons holding the positions of the affected directorates stand to suffer irreparable damage as they will lose employment while the orders of this court and pending proceedings at the Court of Appeal will be rendered mere academic exercise,” he states. There are pending proceedings in the Court of Appeal relating to two directorates sought to be abolished in the strategic plan. These are Directorate of of Research occupied by Fibian Lukalo and that of Natural Resources.