The government is putting in place surveillance mechanisms ahead of the full reopening of schools to ensure any Covid-19 cases are quickly picked. Health director-general Patrick Amoth said they are working to shield vulnerable pupils, students, teachers and auxiliary staff from getting the disease. The full reopening of schools is expected to take place on January 4, but the final decision will depend on the Covid-19 situation. The Health ministry has hinted at settling for the Oxford vaccine as the best option. So far, three vaccines have shown to be more than 90 per cent effective. Clinical trials for the AstraZeneca vaccine are still ongoing in the country. The Kemri Wellcome Trust has said initial results are promising. “We are in discussions with other countries including China and any other potential vaccine will be analysed for the safety of the vaccine, the ability of the vaccine to trigger an immune response and its efficacy,” Amoth said. Already, a steering committee has been formed to give guidance on which vaccine will be used, the coordination, the kind of infrastructure platform required and what kind of risk communication to be undertaken in the country, he said. “Our platform for vaccine delivery has only been for children while we are talking about delivering a vaccine to close to 50 million people. It is an enormous task and therefore requires a lot of planning,” Amoth said. The ministries of Health and Education have already put in place guidelines and protocols to ensure the transmission of the virus in schools is minimised. Amoth said that schools are safe for children in the wake of the pandemic, adding that the risk of death among the age group of 10 to 19 is very low. “From our first reopening of schools, it has worked quite well. We have had cases of outbreaks or reported cases in particular schools but the Ministry of Education has worked well to be able to quarantine and isolate those students to ensure learning continues uninterrupted,” Amoth said. On Tuesday, 551 more positive cases were reported by the Health CAS Rashid Aman from a sample size of 4,675 tests conducted in 24 hours. Five more patients died, raising deaths to 1,474. Some 266 patients recovered from the virus, 206 from the home-based care programme and 60 from hospitals. The total number of recoveries is 18,146. “A total of 1,275 patients are admitted in various health facilities countrywide while 8,070 are on the home-based isolation and care. Seventy-one patients are in the intensive care unit,  36 of whom are on ventilator support and 35 on supplemental oxygen,” Aman said. “Another 88 patients are separately on supplemental oxygen out of whom 70 are in the general wards while 18 are in the high dependency unit.” Nairobi recorded the highest number of cases with 212 new cases. Kilifi had 39, Mombasa 35, Nyeri 33, Embu 30, Nandi 25, Machakos 22, Siaya 21, Kajiado 19, Kiambu 18, Lamu 16, Nyandarua 14 and Turkana 11 cases. Uasin Gishu recorded eight cases. Taita Taveta and Kisumu had seven cases each. Meru had six, Garissa six, Kwale and Samburu five cases each, Murang’a three, Mandera and Nakuru two cases each while Busia, Lakipia, Kakamega, Wajir and Tharaka Nithi each had a case.