Alfred Obengo has always been "anti-status quo" and a fighter. That's why he's president of the 30,000-member National Nurses Association of Kenya. That's also why the 49-year-old nurse – the son of a nurse and husband of a nurse – has been nominated as a Star Person of the Year. The nurses are now on strike and Obengo told the Star in an interview, "How can this happen in a civilised society? You keep saying you appreciate health workers but you don't pay them for five months and expect them to work." These days he counsels, by phone, nurses who are in Covid-19 quarantine and isolation, some of them terrified. By December 15, the virus had killed 29 nurses. Sometimes Obengo must call hospitals to ensure the release of colleagues who contracted Covid-19 in the line of duty – and have been detained over unpaid bills. “I get calls from those detained. Sometimes the bodies of my colleagues are not released because of unpaid bills. "You start making phone calls, which you should not be doing because this should be straight forward. No health worker or Kenyan citizen should be made to pay their bills for Covid-19 treatment," he said. Sometimes patients and bodies are released after his personal intervention and calls to the Health ministry and NHIF. Sometimes there are fundraisers for nurses, clinicians and doctors. Obengo has arranged for the association to provide PPEs to nurses in isolation facilities when the government fails to do so. "I've always been anti-status quo," Obengo told the Star in his offices at KNH. In 2015, he staged a coup at a meeting of members from around the country outside the KNH gate. They elected new officials. There was a court battle. "My vision was to make the association more vibrant so it becomes pro-people and not pro-system," the association leader said. He often crossed swords with the former association leadership and with the government. Born in Nyahururu, Obengo is the son of a nurse, his father, and he always admired how his dad helped people. He wanted to do the same. His father was frequently transferred so Obengo kept moving from one primary school to another in Nairobi, Kakamega and Gigil. He attended high school in Nairobi. “In school I was very noisy so I couldn't be prefect. You had to be a law-abiding citizen. When students voted for me as prefect, the headmaster refused, saying I would turn the school upside down," he recalled. When students elected him, he laughed, "I was so happy, not because I knew I was going to get it but because I knew I was going to be rejected. I had seen it coming ." Even then, he was anti-system. Though his family could take care of his needs, Obengo wanted to earn his own money. “I like being independent so I did some odd jobs. I have painted, I have done koroga, and mjengo, I have been a bus conductor, I was an untrained teacher at my rural home in Kendu Bay, Homa Bay," he said. Still aiming for nursing, Obengo was admitted to the Kenya Medical Training College in 1990 before joining KNH. RISE TO LEADERSHIP His leadership journey started at KMTC where he was elected secretary of the students’ association. He was also captain and coach of the football team. The young nurse joined Kenyatta National Hospital. He said the nurses' professional association was too weak and pro-government. He felt the urge to make a change. He started by attending meetings. He sat at the back, listened and politely gave his opinions and suggestions. “One day the secretary didn’t come and people told me to take the minutes. From that day, I became the branch secretary." Obengo started by recruiting more members and the KNH branch soon became the most vibrant within NNAK. He was branch leader for six years but it wasn't easy. He was constantly at odds with the leadership of the national office, which he said was accused of misspending funds and poor leadership. In 2015, he staged a coup in a meeting he organised outside the KNH gate. Members from all over the country attended. They elected new officials and took the results to the Registrar of Associations. There ensued a push and pull with the old officials for almost two years. The Court of Appeal ordered joint leadership for three months before elections. “When I did the coup, I was the secretary and someone else was the chair so when the court ordered elections through universal suffrage I went for the chairmanship." He won a landslide victory at the Kasarani Sports Grounds. The association will hold an election in October next year. Obengo said he hasn't decided whether to run or not but members still want his leadership. He still wants to help nurses. COUNSELS NURSES After the Covid-19 pandemic struck, Obengo has been busier than ever. From the moment the first Covid-19 case was confirmed on March 13, Obengo knew it would take a toll on everyone, including health workers who would lose their lives. He wakes up as early as 4.30am to and spends 30 to 45 minutes on the phone, answering messages from colleagues and partners.  A quick shower, then he rushes to work. There's a flurry of business. He organises trainings and attends web meets that run as late as 9pm. He attends to calls from distraught members. “Some phone calls are from nurses in isolation centres where they have not been given food, others have tested positive and are so stressed they cannot express themselves. “Even I get tired from running up and down all day in meetings, fighting with the government, reminding them of what they should do and they are not doing. "It has been a tough journey but I thank God for the little we have been able to help our people.” The association mobilised resources to complement government work. It got Konza Technopolis as a partner through the ICT ministry. Konza provided the hardware and software for a call centre with toll-free lines for healthcare workers. Equity started the Covid-19 fund and paid staff in the call centre. “Healthcare workers are not immune, they need a call centre to express their distress and for their mental wellness," Obengo said. "It may look like a drop in the ocean but it has really helped fill the gap and complement government efforts," he said. For the government to protect Kenyans, it must ensure healthcare workers are first protected, the association boss said. if health workers are exposed to Covid at work, they will spread the virus on public transport, in shopping malls and eateries and infect families and friends. “Going out of our way to provide PPEs is not our duty. It's the employer's duty to protect employees, including by providing PPEs and a safe work environment," Obengo said. He urged the government to invest more in healthcare, especially by ensuring lower level facilities are fully equipped and have proper infrastructure. “One thing I have learned in leadership, Obengo said, is that if you are not a problem solver then don’t even dream of becoming a leader because you will worsen people’s lives." Obengo's wife, Mary Oduor, is a nurse. His children are 21, 18 and 16. A son and a daughter want to be nurses like their father, mother and grandfather. "I won't decide what they become in life," he said. "That's their choice."