A section of students drawn from a variety of campuses in the country has called upon the government through the Ministry of Education to develop mechanisms to bring to an end sexual harassment in universities and colleges. The student-led Pan-African movement dubbed CampusMeToo said on Thursday in a press conference that the Ministry of Education has gone silent on sexual harassment, even after handing over a petition to them in 2019. In December 2019, the group handed over a petition to Charles Obiero, Deputy Director, Directorate of Higher Education. The petition was created by the students and circulated throughout the country in which 11,000 signatures were appended to their demands. They now want all newly enrolled students to be facilitated to watch an educational resource on sexual harassment, and make sexual harassment a topic in every induction for newly enrolled students. They also want the ministry to conduct a yearly training for all staff on sexual harassment and that at the end of the training, all staff must sign a standardised code of conduct and ethics. The students said that a Gender Officer should be appointed with the obligation to facilitate training and outreach; provide resources and support to victims; develop, implement and review relevant policies on sexual harassment. “Establish an investigative committee that students can approach when they have received unfair or missing marks due to instances of sexual harassment from university lecturers or staff.” They want the ministry to respond to their petition demands. Sexual harassment from staff is a widespread issue in higher learning institutions. In 2019, a survey by ActionAid of 1,015 students revealed that 49 per cent of women and 24 per cent of men had experienced sexual harassment from a staff member. Lecturers are the largest perpetrators at 66 per cent, followed by service staff at 24 per cent, and management at 23 per cent. The others are unwanted physical contact and approaches (6 per cent), and persistent requests for dinner or drinks despite saying ‘No’ (16 per cent).