From midnight, a new tier four will be introduced in areas including London, Kent, Essex and Bedfordshire. For the rest of the country, the three household mixing limit has been cut from five days to just Christmas Day. Those in tier four cannot mix indoors with anyone not from their household. The whole of Wales will also be placed under lockdown from midnight with Christmas plans cancelled for all but one day. First Minister Mark Drakeford made the announcement after urgent talks over the new variant of coronavirus. Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the changes for England at a Downing Street briefing after scientists said a new coronavirus variant is spreading more rapidly. Tier four restrictions will apply in all tier three areas in the South East, covering Kent, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Surrey (excluding Waverley), Gosport, Havant, Portsmouth, Rother and Hastings. It will also apply in London (all 32 boroughs and the City of London) and the East of England (Bedford, Central Bedford, Milton Keynes, Luton, Peterborough, Hertfordshire, Essex (excluding Colchester, Uttlesford and Tendring). A stay-at-home order will be issued to residents in tier four, with exemptions for those who have to travel to work or for education. Social mixing will be cut to meeting one person in an open public space. In tier four areas, all non-essential retail will have to close, along with hairdressers, nail bars, indoor gyms and leisure facilities. People will be advised not to travel into a tier four area. The restrictions will last for two weeks, with the first review due on December 30 . Political correspondent Nick Eardley said a tightening of restrictions was expected to be announced in some other parts of the UK too. The decision follows information presented to Prime Minister Boris Johnson about the new variant of coronavirus, which has been identified and is known as VUI. Johnson told the Downing Street briefing: "I know how disappointing this will be, but we have said throughout this pandemic that we must and we will be guided by the science. "When the science changes, we must change our response. When the virus changes its methods of attack we must change our method of defence and as your prime minister I sincerely believe there is no alternative open to me."