Radio presenter Neville and content creator Chebet Ronoh have joined the Homeboyz radio team and will be hosting the breakfast show 'The Lift off' with G Money. Speaking to Word Is on Friday, Ronoh described her excitement. "I have been on radio for a year and took a break, but I'm back. I am excited because I have exciting co-hosts," she said. "I am bringing a whole new fresh young vibe. I feel like I have a very young audience and a lot of young people will join my buzz and my very young vibe. I am bringing a lot of comedy to the show as well." The 20-year-old, who is well known for her digital content, will also be having her own segment that entails pouring her heart out to the audience in the most honest way. "There won't be so much different. Who I am on the show is who I am on the Internet, cause there will also be a segment called Ronoh's Rant. I am excited about this segment because it will be very authentic. I have a lot to offer. I am going to make your morning," she said. Neville, on the other hand, is making his comeback on Homeboyz radio, where it all started. "I have come back home," he said. "The fans are in for a treat. You wouldn’t want to be the person being told a story, experience it for yourself. G-Money is the founding father and I am representing the people from mtaa. And Ronoh is young and will give us the young perspective." So what should fans expect? "Apart from Homeboyz having incredible music, we have firsthand interaction with the new generation of music. We are growing up when its also growing and we have the best perspective on it," Neville said. "I am ready, all I want to do is go on air. It is a good way to start your December. "All I have to do is be myself. With my life and what I'm going through, I have the perspective that most young people are going through. If you are listening to me, you are going to grow with me." The two radio presenters have one thing in common that they have learnt in the past. "Read your contracts," they said. The show will be going down every week day from 6am to 10am.