Leaders from Gusii region and beyond have promised to ensure they support the governor designate Amos Nyaribo to deliver his departed boss projects after his burial. Council of governors chairman and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the council is ready to help Nyaribo achieve Governor Nyagarama promises that he had pledged to the people of Nyamira The leaders spoke during the funeral of Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama at the Nyamira primary grounds where a number of leaders have arrived to mourn the county boss. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i led dignitaries and government officials in mourning governor Nyagarama. Among other leaders who are present include ODM leader Raila Odinga, Council of governors chairman and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Anyan'g Nyongo (Kisumu) Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay)Kisii County boss James Ongwae and his deputy Joash Maangi, Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Wilberforce Otichilo, Members of parliament led by West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi, Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba)Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South)Ben Momanyi (Borabu)and a number of MCA's from both Nyamira and Kisii County. However, President Kenyatta, who was expected to lead mourners, did not come but was represented by CS Matiang'i. Matiang'i said the county has lost a great leader who believed in unity across all the areas where he had worked before even as the governor. "This county has lost man who was a key pillar to unity. I call upon all the leaders in the county to embrace his leadership so that we can move as a community," he said. In his speech read by Interior CS Matiang'i, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Nyagarama was a visionary leader who had a lot in mind as much as the people of Nyamira and the entire country were concerned. ODM leader Raila Odinga said he has lost a brave warrior who never disappointed him in the party. "We have moved miles with governor Nyagarama and I can truly say I have lost a man whom I had trust in. The transition he has made in the county since he took over can still be felt," Raila said. Raila called upon the deputy governor Amos Nyaribo who will take over to go by steps of Nyagarama in ensuring the county moves forward. "The projects that Nyagarama left, we wish that as you take up the mantle of leadership, ensure the projects are competed since you and Nyagarama knew what the people of Nyamira wanted," said Raila. Governor Nyagarama died last week at the Nairobi Hospital where he had been admitted. Interdenominational prayers were held on Wednesday where leaders mourned Nyagarama as a true leader who was dedicated in serving the residents of Nyamira and Kenyans at large. After his burial today, Deputy governor Amos Nyaribo is expected to be sworn in early next week to take over from the departed governor.