Despite beating Wadadia 2-0 at Mumias Complex, Vihiga Queens have to be more clinical in front of goal if the team is to retain their title, coach Alexis Alumira has said. Queens are the Kenya Women Premier League defending champions and Alumira observed that only perfect performances going forward can guarantee a fourth title on the trot. Alumira rued their wastefulness in front of goal but was still happy with the three points. Terry Engesha and Topista Situma scored in either half. “We can’t complain because we took all the three points but I am concerned with the lack of match fitness in my forwards. The team created six clear cut chances and about 10 overall but we couldn’t convert half of that. The team need to be dangerous on one-on-one situations,” said Alumira. His Wadadia counterpart Rashid Sumba lauded his team’s fighting spirit despite going down. He said the players will have to work on their endurance for better results. “The girls played according to instructions but we were punished for a lapse in concentration. We lost rhythm towards the end and the players looked a bit tired. We have to improve on our gas pedal,” Sumba said. Thika Queens beat newbies Ulinzi Starlets 2-1, a perfect morale booster ahead of their encounter against Gaspo Women team this weekend. Two defensive blunders by Starlets gifted Thika Queens all the three points with of goals from Omar Phauzia and Sarah Idza at Utalii grounds. Thika assistant coach Duncan Njoroge was relieved to see a dream start from the team and hopes they will rectify their minor defensive mistakes against Gaspo. “It’s the kind of start every coach would have liked. It’s hard to predict the outcome because we’ve been out of action for around seven months but the girls responded in style. The team conceded a soft contentious penalty and we need to be defensively solid going forward.” Makolanders drew 1-1 with Kibera Girls Soccer Academy with both goals scored from the penalty spot. Liam Adhiambo scored for  Makolanders as Zenab Khamis got on the scoresheet for Kibera. It was two points lost for Makolanders whose coach, Mike Okanga, bemoaned lack of a cutting edge in the final third. “We didn’t do much of shooting and had few shots on target,” said Okanga. Kibera coach Ramadan Vijago noted: “Makolanders goalkeeper pulled out some great saves to deny us maximum points. We are back to the drawing board and our fitness is also wanting.” Elsewhere, Gaspo Women were left disappointed after their match against Zetech Sparks at Ruiru grounds was postponed.  The stadium does not meet the set Covid-19 containment measures with lack of water and sanitisers a major problem.