Some residents of Rift Valley seem to doubt the voluntary nature of the 5.2 million signatures that the Building Bridges Initiative referendum drive reportedly has garnered. Were they all acquired legitimately reflecting voters' conviction? Some people were heard complaining that some of the signatures were acquired through unorthodox means. They claimed that those caught during the curfew hours in Uasin Gishu, for instance, were told to sign the booklets to secure their freedom. Afraid to be taken to court, they said, people signed in droves. The rivalry between a Cabinet Secretary and a Principal Secretary in one of the ministries is getting out of hand. It’s not clear if the appointing authority, President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured), is aware of the infighting that could badly derail services. Sources whisper to Corridors that the PS has been using his connections in government to undermine his boss. The PS is said to have the backing of a powerful government bureaucrat and a CS in a different ministry. It's whispered the PS has been lobbying to take over his boss’s job. However, the CS is said to be aware of the machinations and has threatened to unleash a scandal that could bring down big names. Trouble is brewing at one of the critical independent commissions. Some insiders claim that one of the commissioners and the chief executive officer have formed an unholy alliance. The two are said to be close friends and running the commission as if it were a private enterprise. The contrary opinions of everybody else are immaterial and often quickly trashed to the dustbin. It's suspected that the relationship could involve financial dealings.  However, several complaints to the chairperson have come to naught. Distraught officials say they will hatch a scheme to have the CEO sacked. A Jubilee insider known to have no time for Deputy President William Ruto seems to have had a road to Damascus moment. Close political observers say the man has toned down his hard-hitting stance against the DP. It’s not clear if it’s because of a recent controversy in which his name featured prominently. The man publicly declared recently that President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and his deputy, William Ruto, are exempted from any disciplinary action by the Party. This is contrary to what Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju announced to the nation not long ago. Tuju said the party’s National Management Committee had recommended the removal of Ruto as the deputy party leader and barred him from using the party headquarters to advance his political ambitions.