Former 100m and 200m sprinter Lydia Stephens believes the country can improve its fortunes in the sprints by empowering coaches with the technical know-how. Stephens said that technically-proficient coaches will be able to tap talent at a young age and nurture it to perfection. "Sprints are more technical unlike long distance races. Maybe we need to equip coaches with the technical knowledge. For us, we were lucky to have John Velzian who was good at identifying talent and helping us to reach our potential," Stephens said. She also urged Athletics Kenya to consider working with former sprinters to pass down the craft to the current and upcoming generation. "These old sprinters can be trainers of trainers or even train the athletes themselves. I had proposed to the late Julius Sang' before he passed on about starting a sprinters' training camp but unfortunately it did not come to pass," Stephens said. She bemoaned many promising sprinters at the grassroots who are going to waste due to lack of opportunities in their surroundings. "We need to build up on these talents while they are still young. I started running at the age of five. I was lucky to be living in Mombasa where there were many opportunities to showcase this talent," she said. She identified North Nyanza and Coastal region as areas that are full of talented sprinters waiting to be unearthed. Apart from Stephens, the Coastal region produced Seraphino Antao who was the first Kenyan sprinter to win gold in the 100m and 200m at the 1962 Commonwealth Games in Australia. North Nyanza produced Alice Adala who set a national record in the 100m and 200m as a schoolgirl. Stephens was one of the first female Olympians to represent Kenya at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City — the other two being Tecla Chemabwai and Elizabeth Chesire. "It is only when I moved to study at Alliance Girls that I was finally selected for the national championships. In Mombasa, I would always make it to the provincials but never made it to the national stage," Stephens recounted of her rise to national stardom. The trio were among those feted by AK during Tuesday's 70th anniversary celebrations at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. AK have long spoken of their desire to provide specialised training for aspiring sprinters in an effort to gain more medals in this race category. Their latest plan is a specialised training camp in Nairobi for young athletes who were selected from the recent World Athletics under-20 Championships pre-trials that were staged at Nyayo Stadium in November.