Hardly a month after unveiling Tomas Trucha as their new head coach for the next two years, AFC Leopards could be looking for his replacement. The Czech is understood to have tendered his resignation letter against the wish of his bosses on Wednesday following the new unrests reported at the club. Trucha was appointed to take over from former Kenyan international Anthony Kimani, who served on an interim basis from December last year after his Rwandese boss Andre Mbungo threw in the towel citing non-payment of salary. On Wednesday, Leopards' chairman Dan Shikanda acknowledged that trouble at the den had escalated after Trucha, alongside his Nigerian agent —identified as Prince Channiss — received threats from people he alleged to be hangers-on at the club. Shikanda revealed that the Fifa UEFA Pro Licence holder had confided his worries over his safety and was considering to write statements with the police. Trucha, who prior to joining Ingwe plied his trade with Botswana's Township Rollers, had on Tuesday threatened to resign alleging interference from officials. "There are people who are masquerading as our fans and members who are out to reverse the gains we have made so far. They have been threatening the coach and his agent and it's an issue we will involve the police in solving," said Shikanda. "They labelled him a tourist and further alleged that he did not have the requisite papers to lead the club but were ashamed after we shared his credentials with Football Kenya Federation. Trucha has expressed concerns over his safety and we will soon make a decision over his future at the club." While Shikanda conceded that the dark forces had nearly succeeded in destabilising the club, he refuted claims that officials influenced Trucha to field certain players in their season-opening match with Tusker, against his wish. "He had a free hand to name his starting team and the substitutions. No official forced him to select players for the match," said Shikanda. Meanwhile, Shikanda cleared the air on the allegations that the club had signed seven foreigners contrary to regulations, which require a club to have five. Initial reports from the club had indicated that there were seven foreigners at the den but only five were registered with the remaining two drawing salaries but could not be summoned for duty on match days. "We only have the required number of foreigners at the club. However, there are agents who are working overnight to taint the image of the cub after we rejected their players," he stated. At the same time, Shikanda exonerated the Executive Committee from blame following concerns raised over their huge spending in the transfer window in relation to their budget. He said the committee was justified to splash Sh7 million to beef up their squad for the new season. "Last year, a few like-minded individuals and myself spent in excess of Sh 56 million to run the club and no one complained. Where is the problem if we spend Sh 7 million to sign players?" he posed.